
    
      OBJECTIVES

        -  Primary Objective

           o Measure the quality-adjusted life years (QALY) gained at 3 months (using EuroQoL's
           EQ-5D) & AVVQ by patients randomised to treatment in the One Stop Vein Clinic with
           patients randomised to treatment in the normal care pathway

        -  Secondary Objective

             -  Patient satisfaction with the service provided using the Picker patient experience
                questionnaire both post-operatively and at the 3 months follow-up (One Stop Vein
                Clinic versus Normal Care Pathway)

             -  Measure and compare the quality of life scores using CIVIQ at 0 and 3 months in
                patients randomised to treatment in the One Stop Vein Clinic with patients
                randomised to the Normal Care Pathway

             -  Record the time from referral to treatment (RTT)

             -  Assess the cost-effectiveness of the One Stop Vein clinic compared to the normal
                care pathway

             -  Record the time to return to normal activities and to work

             -  Assess the estimated societal costs

      BACKGROUND Varicose veins are very common conditions, affecting approximately 25% of the
      population. Over 35,000 varicose vein procedures are currently carried out in the UK.
      However, with the new 2013 NICE guidelines, the Department of Health has estimated that this
      is set to increase to 50,000 per year. Waiting for varicose vein interventions has been shown
      to be detrimental to the severity of the condition and the quality of life of patients.
      Progression of varicose veins can also lead to complications such as leg ulcerations and can
      be costly to the health service. Over the past decade, new endovenous techniques have been
      introduced and these are felt to be cost-effective, especially, when performed in an
      outpatient or 'office-based' setting. At present, patients referred to the Vascular unit for
      consideration of management of their varicose veins have to attend the outpatient clinic at
      least twice prior to be listed for their procedure.

      At present, patients referred to the Vascular Outpatient Clinics for consideration for
      varicose vein management have an initial appointment where the severity of the venous
      insufficiency is assessed clinically and, subsequently, have a venous Duplex scan to evaluate
      the extent and cause of any venous incompetence. If any treatable lesion is found, they are
      then added to the waiting list to come for the eventual varicose vein procedure. This means,
      they have to attend at least two outpatient appointments and attend another appointment for
      their venous scans, before actually attending for their varicose vein procedure. Waiting for
      varicose vein interventions has been shown to lead to worsening of their conditions both
      clinically and radiologically. In addition, the quality of life of patients waiting for
      elective surgery is adversely affected.

      In order to evaluate patients' ideas and expectations with respect to the provision of
      varicose vein service in the investigator's unit, they conducted a survey of patients
      attending the Vascular Outpatient Clinic between March and June 2014. One hundred and six
      patients completed the anonymous questionnaire. Most were females (62.4%) with a mean age of
      51 ± 15 years. More than 90% of patients stated that the waiting time between a Vascular
      appointment and a venous scan should be no more than 1 month and 85% of patients believed
      varicose vein procedures should be received within 1 month of their Vascular clinic
      appointment. Ninety percent of patients were agreeable to attend a 'one-stop' vein clinic
      offering same day diagnosis and treatment. Patients were generally accepting of the fact that
      most procedures would be carried out under local anaesthetic (89%).

      Hence, it appears that patients in this unit have a preference for a one stop clinic. This
      concept is not new and has been piloted in other specialities with good success - a one-stop
      carpal tunnel clinic as well as a one stop cataract clinic was shown to be feasible with good
      patient satisfaction. Both laparoscopic and open inguinal hernia repairs, where patients
      received a general anaesthetic, have been carried out successfully using a one stop model
      offering same day diagnosis and treatment. There is currently already a 'see and treat'
      service for skin lumps operating at many NHS Trusts and there is already a one stop carpal
      tunnel service being provided at the Imperial College NHS Trust. It would appear that these
      one stop clinics have the advantage of reducing the number of unnecessary hospital visits as
      well as possibly leading to cost savings to the health service.

      As a result, the investigators intend to evaluate the one stop model within their own
      varicose vein service. They will assess the feasibility of having a one-stop vein clinic,
      where patients will be assessed, have their venous Duplex scans and, depending on the lesions
      shown, have their venous treatment on the same day.

      The hypothetical benefits of such a stratagem are an improvement in patient satisfaction, a
      reduction in the number of appointments, the abolition of any waiting times as well as cost
      savings to the health savings.

      METHODS GP referrals will be screened and patients meeting the inclusion criteria will be
      invited to take part in the trial .

      They will be sent an information pack containing:

        1. Information leaflet about the trial

        2. Information about varicose veins, their treatments and a telephone number as a helpline

        3. The Aberdeen Varicose Vein Questionnaire (AVVQ), the Chronic Venous Disease Quality of
           Life Questionnaire (CIVIQ) and EuroQoL's quality of life questionnaire (EQ-5D)

        4. Consent form to participate in the study

      Patients agreeing to be part of the trial will be consented and randomised either to:

        1. The One Stop Vein Clinic (offering same day diagnosis and treatment); or

        2. The normal care pathway

      Once patients indicate their consent to participate, their General Practitioners (GP) will be
      sent a letter informing them of the patient's participation in this study.

      Patients declining to partake in the randomised part of the study, but agreeable to complete
      study questionnaires while continuing down the normal care pathway, will also be consented.
      Further information will be provided to them when they attend for their clinic appointment
      and the consenting process will take place when they attend for their subsequent procedure

      One Stop Vein Clinic Pathway

      Patients attending the One Stop Vein Clinic will be reviewed by the Vascular Surgeon, who
      will confirm the patient's consent in the trial, then assess the degree of venous disease and
      fill in the Clinical-Etiology-Anatomy-Pathophysiology (CEAP) classification and Varicose
      Clinical Severity Score (VCSS). If the patient's symptoms are deemed secondary to venous
      disease, they will be sent to have a Duplex scan to confirm the presence of the venous
      disease. The results will be reviewed by the Vascular Surgeons, and if the patients are
      suitable for endovenous ablation +/- avulsions or UGFS, they will be informed of the findings
      of the scan and proposed treatment. If they are happy to go ahead with the proposed
      intervention, they will be consented and transferred to the waiting area to wait for their
      intervention. If, however, they decline same day treatment, they will be put onto the
      conventional care pathway.

      Another Vascular Surgeon will be carrying out the interventions in an 'office-based'
      environment under local anaesthetic. Once done, the patients will be asked to fill the Picker
      patient experience questionnaire. They will subsequently be discharged, similar to current
      practice, and will be given a diary card to fill for when they return to their normal
      activities and work.

      Three (3) months post-operatively, they will be asked to fill the AVVQ, CIVIQ, EQ-5D and
      Picker patient experience questionnaires once more. This will be done by sending them the
      questionnaires by post.

      The Normal Care Pathway (NCP)

      In the normal care pathway, patients referred by their GP are seen in the outpatient clinic
      and, if their symptoms are suggestive of varicose vein disease, they are sent to have a
      venous duplex scan. This usually happens on a different day. Afterwards, they are seen back
      in the clinic (again on a different day) and, if the scan result suggests venous incompetence
      amenable to day case treatment, they are added to the waiting list. The eventual procedure
      takes place some time later (within 18 weeks from referral to treatment). After their
      procedure, they will be asked to fill a Picker patient experience questionnaire. On
      discharge, they will be given a diary card to fill for when they return to their normal
      activities and work.

      At 3 months post intervention, patients randomised to the normal care pathway will be sent
      the QoL questionnaires again and asked to fill the AVVQ, CIVIQ, EQ-5D and Picker patient
      experience questionnaires. As there will be an inherent delay in the NCP pathway, the time
      from randomisation cannot be used as many patients will not have received their
      interventional treatment by then.

      Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria

      The inclusion criteria are:

        1. Adults over the age of 18 years

        2. Unilateral lower limb symptoms suggestive of venous disease on the referral letter

      The exclusion criteria are:

        1. Recurrent varicose veins

        2. Known arterial disease or ABPI<0.8

        3. Current deep vein thrombosis

        4. Patients who withdraw their consent

        5. Inability to complete the questionnaire or attend follow up appointments

        6. Currently enrolled in other venous study

      PATIENT SELECTION This is a pilot randomised controlled study and patients will be selected
      following screening of the GP referral letter.

      CONSENT As part of the consenting process, patients will be given three options.

        1. Patients wishing to attend the One Stop Vein Clinic and participate in the study will be
           asked to indicate their consent by signing a consent form and filling in a reply slip.
           Patients will be randomised either to the One Stop Vein Clinic group or to the Normal
           Care Pathway (NCP) group.

        2. Patients not wishing to attend the One Stop Vein Clinic and participate in the study
           will be asked to indicate this by filling in a reply slip. They will instead attend the
           normal care pathway. They will, however, be asked, if agreeable to complete the QoL and
           Picker patient experience forms.

        3. Patients declining either the trial or simple service evaluation will be offered the
           NCP.

      TREATMENT ALLOCATION Treatment received will depend on the findings on the venous Duplex
      scan. All treatments are minimally invasive with endovenous ablation procedures (either
      radio-frequency ablation, endovenous laser ablation or mechano-chemical ablation), avulsions
      or ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy. All procedures will be carried out under local
      anaesthetic and patients will be discharged home later that day, as is the current standard
      of care.

      MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES

      Primary Outcome

      • Measure the quality-adjusted life years (QALY) gained at 3 months (by patients randomised
      to treatment in the One Stop Vein Clinic with patients randomised to treatment in the Normal
      Care Pathway)

      Secondary Outcome

        -  Patient satisfaction with the service provided using the Picker patient experience
           questionnaire both post-operatively and at the 3 months follow-up (One Stop Vein Clinic
           versus Normal Care Pathway)

        -  Measure and compare the quality of life scores using EQ-5D, AVVQ and CIVIQ at 0 and 3
           months in patients randomised to treatment in the One Stop Vein Clinic with patients
           randomised to the Normal Care Pathway

        -  Time from referral to treatment

        -  Assess the cost-effectiveness of the One Stop Vein clinic compared to the normal care
           pathway

        -  Record the time to return to normal activities and to work

        -  Assess the estimated societal costs

      STUDY DURATION & SAMPLE SIZE Following screening of their GP referral letter, patients with
      varicose vein disease will be invited to participate in the study. It is estimated that 12-14
      patients will be invited on a weekly basis to participate in the study following screening.
      Out of those, only 8 patients is expected to agree to be randomised to the One Stop Vein
      Clinic or Normal Care Pathway. If the clinic is held weekly, approximately 416 patients could
      be recruited over the course of the year (8 patients X 52 weeks).

      Statistical analysis suggests that the sample size of 208 patients per group would be able to
      power a potential phase 3 multicentre randomised controlled trial. Compared to a previous
      study conducted in the investigators' unit which involved 317 patients in total and looked at
      different quality of life scores and their responsiveness11, the coefficient of variation
      (ratio of standard deviation to mean) was found to increase at the follow-up period and to
      vary among the different scores used. With a larger sample size as in this pilot study, this
      variability would be reduced and result in a smaller coefficient of variation when looking at
      the follow-up scores. Hopefully, this will enable us to identify the QoL score with the least
      variability and use it as the primary outcome measure in a future Phase 3 study. A primary
      outcome measure with little variability would provide us with enough information to estimate
      an adequate sample size for any future randomised controlled trials.

      For example, with a sample size of 208 patients and coefficient of variation of 0.5, a 15%
      reduction in the geometric mean (a measure of central tendency, similar to median) would be
      required compared to 25% from the Shepherd et al. study. With power at 85%, this would allow
      us to determine an adequate sample size.

      Participants will be followed-up post-procedure for 3 months, including for patients
      randomised to the Normal Care Pathway (with potentially longer waiting time from referral to
      treatment). This means that the study period will be about 18 months. With 3 months for study
      start-up and 3 months to write the study up, the study will last for 24 months. Approximately
      1,000 patients undergo varicose vein procedures at the Imperial College NHS Trust every year.

      COST BENEFIT OF PROJECT The hypothesis is that along with improved patient satisfaction and
      improved waiting times for outpatient appointment, there will be cost savings derived from
      the One Stop Vein Clinic. On average, 1,000 patients are treated every year in the Imperial
      College NHS Trust and the cost of an outpatient attendance is approximately £93. Savings
      could be made if patients are seen and treated at their first appointment rather than having
      to attend another two appointments.

      The potential cost saving is estimated to be in the order of £186,000 annually (£93 x 1,000 X
      2).

      Estimated societal costs. Data will be collected on time off from work and carer's duties
      (child/relative/friend). Additionally, data on income, cost of attending clinic and impact on
      family and colleagues will be assessed to estimate the societal cost of the two pathways.
    
  