
    
      You will come to M. D. Anderson for an initial meeting. You will complete several
      questionnaires asking about mood, quality of life, and other things like sleep, fatigue,
      anxiety, and coping skills. You will also have an electrocardiogram (ECG - a test to measure
      the electrical activity of your heart). Both the questionnaires and the ECG test should take
      about 60 minutes, total, to complete.

      You will also wear an actigraph (a watch-like instrument that records arm movements) for 7
      days. The actigraph records information about your physical activity, rest, and sleep. You
      will be asked to complete daily sleep diary forms that ask about some behaviors, your sleep,
      and sleep quality for the 7 days. At the end of the 7 days, you will return the actigraph and
      sleep diaries to the research staff, or a member of the research staff can go to your home to
      pick them up.

      If you are assigned to the yoga group, you will take part in 4 weekly sessions of Tibetan
      yoga. If you are not able to attend 4 weekly sessions, you can attend 1 session every 3
      weeks, for a total of 4 sessions over 12 weeks, of Tibetan yoga. You will be asked to
      complete a brief form at the start of each session that will take 1-2 minutes to complete.
      During the yoga sessions, you will be asked to do deep breathing exercises and perform
      different stretching and movement exercises. You will be able to move through the exercises
      at your own pace. Sessions occurring weekly will last 90 minutes. Sessions occurring once
      every 3 weeks will last 90 minutes. All sessions will be provided free of charge. One or more
      of these yoga sessions may be videotaped by the study staff for quality assurance purposes.
      Only the study staff will be able to view this videotape.

      If you are assigned to the stretching group, you will take part in 4 weekly sessions in which
      you will be asked to do simple stretching exercises. If you are not able to attend 4 weekly
      sessions, you can attend 1 session every 3 weeks, for a total of 4 sessions over 12 weeks.
      Sessions occurring weekly will last 90 minutes. Sessions occurring once every 3 weeks will
      last 90 minutes. All sessions will be provided free of charge. None of the movements are
      difficult. You will be able to follow this program at your own pace.

      If you are assigned to the yoga or stretching group, you will take part in 3 "booster"
      sessions consisting of a review and practice of the entire program. If you are in the 4
      weekly sessions, your booster sessions will take place 1 and 2 months after your last yoga or
      stretch class and again around the time of your 6-month assessment. If you are in the classes
      that meet every 3 weeks over a 12-week period, your booster sessions will take place 3 and 6
      weeks after your last yoga or stretch class and again around the time of your 6-month
      assessment.

      If a need for counseling/therapy arises, your primary care physician will be notified and can
      refer you to the Section of Psychiatry, Department of Neuro-Oncology.

      One week, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months after the end of the yoga or stretching sessions
      (or similar time for the usual care group), you will be asked to return to the clinic. You
      will fill out a packet of questionnaires and complete an ECG evaluation again. The
      questionnaires and tests should take about 60 minutes to complete. You will also be asked to
      wear the actigraph and complete daily sleep diary forms for another 7 days. At the end of the
      7 days, you will return the actigraph and sleep diaries to the research staff, or a member of
      the research staff can go to your home to pick them up. This will be your last participation
      in the study.

      After the study is over, if you took part in the stretching or were in the usual care group,
      you will be given the option to take the yoga classes.
    
  