
    
      Cancer patients often experience anemia due to the disease itself, chemotherapy, or both.
      Quality of life is also affected, due in part to the tiredness associated with anemia.
      Previous studies with epoetin alfa have suggested that epoetin alfa increases hemoglobin and
      reduces the incidence of red blood cell transfusions and that achieving a higher hemoglobin
      level may improve quality of life. This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study that
      evaluates the effects of early treatment with epoetin alfa compared with standard anemia care
      alone to determine its impact on the need for blood transfusions, tumor response, anemia and
      quality of life, as well as on the safety of epoetin alfa when used in the prevention of
      anemia during chemotherapy in adult patients with cancer. Patients will receive epoetin alfa
      injections (10,000 units) under the skin 3 times a week until 4 weeks after the last day of
      the last chemotherapy cycle, in addition to best standard care, or best standard care alone.
      Best standard care during chemotherapy may include red blood cell transfusions, white cell
      growth factors, and iron supplementation, as needed. The dose of epoetin alfa may be adjusted
      up (to 20,000 units) or down (to 75% of the last dose) based on hemoglobin level.

      The primary measure of effectiveness will be determined by the number of patients who receive
      an allogenic red blood cell transfusion during the study and during each chemotherapy cycle.
      Additional measures of effectiveness include: the average number of units transfused during
      each cycle, change in quality of life (feeling of well-being, as assessed by responses to 3
      different patient questionnaires), change in hemoglobin level, relationship between change in
      hemoglobin and quality of life, tumor response, and the number of patients surviving up to 12
      months after the end of treatment. Safety evaluations (incidence of adverse events, clinical
      laboratory tests, vital signs, and physical examinations) will be performed throughout the
      study. The study hypothesis is that treatment with epoetin alfa will reduce the need for red
      blood cell transfusions, increase hemoglobin levels, improve quality of life, and result in a
      positive tumor response in patients with cancer who are receiving chemotherapy. This study
      will be conducted in the Netherlands and will only enroll European patients. Patients will
      receive epoetin alfa injections (10,000 units) under the skin 3 times a week until 4 weeks
      after the last day of the last chemotherapy cycle, or best standard care. Dose may be
      adjusted up (to 20,000 units) or down (to 75% of the last dose) based on hemoglobin level.
    
  