
    
      A single institution phase I/Ib (dose escalation plus expansion) clinical trial of PBF-509
      and combination treatment of PDR001 plus PBF-509 in Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG)
      0-1 patients with immunotherapy naïve and pretreated, advanced or metastatic NSCLC will be
      conducted to evaluate the safety, tolerability and preliminary efficacy of the combination.

      The main objectives of the proposed Phase I trial will be:

      Phase I Dose Escalation:

        -  To determine the safety and tolerability of PBF-509 during a phase I dose escalation
           trial

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetic profile of PBF-509

        -  Determine the safety profile of PBF-509

      Phase 1 Dose Expansion:

      • To further determine safety and tolerability of PBF-509 at the recommended phase II dose
      (RP2D)

      Phase Ib Dose Escalation:

        -  To determine the dose limiting toxicities (DLT), maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and
           recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of PBF-509 in combination with PDR001

        -  To determine the pharmacokinetics (PK) of PBF-509 in combination with PDR001

      Phase Ib Expansion:

        -  To determine the safety and tolerability of PBF-509 in combination with PDR001, at the
           RP2D, in both immunotherapy naïve and pretreated advanced NSCLC

        -  To evaluate the response rate (ORR) of PBF-509 in combination with PDR001, at the RP2D,
           in both immunotherapy naïve and pretreated advanced NSCLC

        -  To evaluate the progression free (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of PBF-509 in
           combination with PDR001, at the RP2D, in both immunotherapy naïve and pretreated
           advanced NSCLC

        -  To determine the pharmacokinetics (PK) of PBF-509 in combination with PDR001

      Correlative (Exploratory) Studies:

        -  To evaluate the biological activity of PBF-509 alone and in combination with PDR001 by
           assessment of potential pharmacodynamic (PD) biomarkers in tumor biopsy specimens of
           patients with advanced NSCLC

        -  To determine association of pre- or on-treatment expression of other immune checkpoints
           genes with resistance to single agent PBF-509 and dual immune inhibitory (PDR001+
           PBF-509) treatment.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of PDR001 in combination with PBF-509

      The phase I and phase Ib dose escalations will be conducted utilizing the standard 3+3 dose
      escalation method. Pharmacokinetic (PK) data will be obtained for PBF-509 and PDR001.

      The phase Ib dose expansion will consist of 2 independent groups of immunotherapy naïve and
      pretreated (previous immune checkpoint inhibitors; anti-CTLA-4, anti-PD-1, anti-PD-L1 and/or
      combinations) patients. Pharmacodynamic (PD) data will be obtained for potential biomarker
      analysis with pre-treatment and on-treatment tumor biopsies.

      Number of Patients:

      Phase I Dose escalation and safety expansion: 15-18 patients will be treated with single
      agent PBF-509 in escalation and up to 20 patients may be treated at the RP2D as a safety
      expansion group.

      Phase Ib Dose escalation: 15-24 patients will be treated

      The specific number of patients enrolled will vary depending on whether additional patients
      could be required during the escalation period if dose de-escalation cohorts or intermediate
      doses are enrolled, or when a dose-escalation cohort is expanded.

      Phase Ib Dose Expansion: 20 patients per group will be enrolled for a total of 40 patients.
      Assuming 10-15% eligibility/screen failures, a maximum 50 patients will be enrolled.

      Safety Assessments:

      The maximun tolerated dose (MTD) evaluation will be based on the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT)
      Evaluable Population which includes all patients enrolled in the dose-escalation portion of
      the trial, who receive the protocol-assigned treatment with PDR001 and PBF-509 and complete
      the safety follow-up through the DLT evaluation period, or experience a DLT during the DLT
      evaluation period.

      The safety evaluation will be based on the treated Population, which includes all patients
      who receive any dose of investigational product, and will include adverse events (AEs),
      serious adverse event (SAEs), laboratory evaluations and electrocardiogram (ECG) results.

      AEs will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for
      Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v4.03 and described by system organ class and preferred tem using
      the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA). Clinically relevant Laboratory
      abnormalities with toxicity grades according to the NCI CTCAE v4.03 will be derived and
      summarized.

      Efficacy Assessments:

      The efficacy analysis will be based on the treated Population which includes all patients who
      receive any dose of either investigational product. The following efficacy endpoints will be
      analyzed:

        1. Objective Response Rate (ORR) is defined as confirmed complete response (CR) or partial
           response (PR) based on modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST)
           v1.1. Disease control rate (DCR) is defined as CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) based on
           modified RECIST v1.1.

        2. Duration of response (DoR) is defined as the duration from the first documentation of
           Objective response (OR) to the first documented disease progression or death due to any
           cause, whichever occurs first.

        3. Progression-free survival (PFS) will be measured from the start of treatment until the
           documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first.

        4. Overall survival (OS) will be determined as the time from the start of treatment with
           PDR001 and PBF-509 until death due to any cause
    
  