
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the efficacy of pembrolizumab in improving overall survival at 6 months (OS-6)
      in combination with multimodal therapy involving standard chemo-radiotherapy in anaplastic
      thyroid cancer (ATC) in comparison to a historical cohort.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine safety and tolerance of pembrolizumab with chemoradiotherapy.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate locoregional control. II. To evaluate progression of distant metastases. III.
      To evaluate the evolution of the immune profile of circulating immune cells in response to
      therapy in ATC patents, and to assess potential correlations with outcomes on an exploratory
      basis.

      IV. To evaluate PD-1 and PD-L1 staining in tumor cells and tumor stroma as candidate
      biomarkers for outcomes.

      V. To determine if pre-therapy circulating tumor cell load is associated with outcomes.

      VI. To examine associations between outcomes and somatic mutational status as assessed by
      foundation medicine analysis (for example: presence of BRAF, RAS, P53 and TERT promoter
      mutations).

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

      COHORT A: Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1.
      Treatment with pembrolizumab repeats every 21 days for up to 17 courses after chemoradiation
      if no residual disease is found or for up to 35 courses after chemoradiation if residual
      disease is found. After 3 days, patients undergo surgery. Within 42 days of surgery, patients
      also receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour once weekly (Q1W) and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV Q1W,
      and undergo intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) once daily 5 days per week for 6.5
      weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      COHORT B: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment with
      pembrolizumab repeats every 21 days for up to 17 courses after chemoradiation if no residual
      disease is found or for up to 35 courses after chemoradiation if residual disease is found.
      After 3 days, patients also receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour Q1W and doxorubicin
      hydrochloride IV Q1W, and undergo IMRT once daily 5 days per week for 6.5 weeks in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months until
      progressive disease and then every 6 months for up to 5 years.
    
  