
    
      The study will be a non-randomised, non-blinded, clinical diagnostic trial describing and
      comparing performance that will be conducted in two phases: (i) calibration of the devices,
      (ii) testing of Click-MUAC prototypes against "gold standard" classification.

      The study will take place at designated health facilities within Isiolo County that already
      have an IMAM programme running. The investigators expect that the health facilities with the
      highest number of acute malnutrition admissions will be selected as study sites in order to
      be able to test the prototypes on a large number of attending Severe Acute Malnutrition
      (SAM)/Moderate Acute Malnutrition (MAM) children.

      The first phase of work will concentrate on the calibration of Click-MUAC prototypes. The
      performance of the Click-MUAC prototypes with regard to accuracy of classification will be
      assessed in children with a measured MUAC at or close to the 115 mm and 125 mm case-defining
      thresholds. This phase of work is required as prior testing of the Click-MUAC prototypes will
      only have been performed on semi-rigid testing tubes.

      The second phase of work will test the Click-MUAC prototypes. Three sets of
      measurements/classifications will be taken during the Click-MUAC testing trial: (i)
      Mother/caregiver MUAC classification performed by the mother/primary caregiver on their own
      child, using each of the three Click-MUAC prototypes and a regular MUAC tape; (ii) IMAM staff
      MUAC classification performed by the Integrated Management of Acute malnutrition (IMAM) staff
      on the same child, using each of the three Click-MUAC prototypes and a regular MUAC tape;
      (iii) Gold standard MUAC measurement performed by the study coordinator and/or data
      collection team members trained in the measurement of MUAC and selected for their accuracy
      (i.e. against the study supervisor) and precision of measurement, following a validation
      exercise using the Habicht method, on the same child. In addition, mothers/caregivers and
      IMAM staff will also be asked to state their preference of Click-MUAC prototype and asked to
      give reasons for their preference.

      The Click-MUAC devices are screening/diagnostic devices. Appropriate measures of agreement
      between the different measurer groups (mothers/primary caregivers, IMAM staff, gold standard)
      can be calculated from two-by-two contingency tables. The following appropriate measures of
      agreement will be calculated from these tables: sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, Cohen' s
      Kappa, Younden's J. The analysis (i.e. two-by-two contingency table and estimation of
      appropriate measures of agreement) will be performed for each prototype Click-MUAC device. A
      discordancy analysis will also be performed. The aim of the discordancy analysis is to
      describe misclassifications in terms of the range, interquartile range, and median MUAC at
      each type of discordancy. This analysis provides further calibration information that may
      inform design changes that avoid/minimize gross misclassifications and to minimize the
      frequency of errors made at or close to class boundaries.
    
  