
    
      Investigators propose a pilot study in 20 patients over age 70 who have type 2 diabetes and
      are being treated with insulin. These patients will be enrolled from the elderly diabetes
      clinic at Vancouver General Hospital. Patients will be asked to come to the Gerontology
      research laboratory in the Research Pavilion at Vancouver General Hospital. A trained
      research nurse will instrument each patient with an iPro2 glucose sensor (Medtronic Canada).
      These sensors reliably and continuously measure blood glucose for periods of up to 7 days.
      Briefly, the skin will be swabbed with a disinfectant and a small catheter will be inserted
      subcutaneously. This needle will be attached to a glucose sensor. Patients will wear this
      sensor for 6 days. Patients will measure their glucose using a glucometer 4 times each day
      during this period and will also be given a log book to keep track of glucose values.
      Patients will also be asked to record any symptoms of hypoglycemia. At the end of 6 days the
      sensor will be removed.

      At the same time the glucose sensor is started, a trained research nurse will connect the
      patient to a single use CardioSTAT ECG recorder. The archived ECG waveforms will be
      downloaded for QT and T-wave alternans analysis. The heart rate and QT interval will be
      measured at baseline and the end of each interval from the digitized ECG.

      Patients and relevant family will be provided with in person education regarding the function
      and use of the monitor, implications for bathing and sleep, and contact information for
      troubleshooting. Patients will be asked to change the leads at home twice during the 6 days
      of the study. Patients will be asked to keep a log book of any cardiac symptoms during the 6
      days of the study, as well as their activities. The glucose and CardioSTAT monitor will
      undergo time synchronization to ensure ability to do correlative analysis.

      This is a feasibility pilot to establish preliminary data for analysis. The CardioSTAT
      monitor will allow assessment of cardiac arrhythmias, myocardial ischemia and cardiovascular
      autonomic function. The results from the glucose sensor and the CardioSTAT monitor will be
      correlated and compared to each other to determine if hypoglycemia has an adverse effect on
      heart function. Hypoglycemia is likely to induce autonomic responses captured on the
      CardioSTAT monitor and concordant ischemic S-T segment changes if coronary disease is
      present. It may also detect any resultant arrhythmias, although ischemic arrhythmias are
      uncommon in 6 days of monitoring. If investigators determine that hypoglycemia has negative
      effects on cardiac function, investigators may able to design treatments that would prevent
      these effects from happening in the future.
    
  