
    
      Primary Objective

      • Estimate the rate of pathologic complete response (pCR) in patients with triple negative
      breast cancer and FASN expression treated with standard neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) in
      combination with high dose omeprazole.

      Secondary Objectives

        -  Quantify the number of patients with newly diagnosed TNBC with tumors that express FASN.

        -  Estimate the rate of pCR in patients with triple negative breast cancer (irrespective of
           FASN status) treated with standard NAC in combination with high dose omeprazole.

        -  Describe the safety of incorporating high dose omeprazole with standard NAC.

        -  Estimate the biologic activity of high dose omeprazole in modulating FASN expression and
           activity.

      This is a single arm Phase II study. Patients should begin therapy within 7 working days of
      study entry. Patients will be treated with omeprazole 80 mg orally twice a day (BID)
      beginning 4-7 days prior to chemotherapy and continuing until surgery. After the brief period
      of omeprazole monotherapy, patients will begin standard neoadjuvant chemotherapy with
      doxorubicin (60 mg/m2) and cyclophosphamide (600 mg/m2) for 4 cycles followed by paclitaxel
      (80 mg/m2) weekly x 12. Doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (AC) may be administered on a
      classical every 3 week or dose dense every 2 week (with growth factor support) schedule at
      the treating physician's discretion. Routine incorporation of carboplatin is not recommended,
      however use of carboplatin (AUC 6 on week 1, 4, 7, and 10) with paclitaxel is allowed at the
      treating investigator's discretion. Chemotherapy will be adjusted based on toxicity according
      to standard treatment guidelines. Patients with overt disease progression during AC should
      move immediately to paclitaxel therapy. Patients with disease progression during paclitaxel
      should proceed immediately to surgery.
    
  