
    
      Sepsis is a clinical entity that complicates infections [1]. Without early recognition and
      timely management, it can rapidly progress to severe sepsis, septic shock, and culminate in
      multiple organ dysfunction syndrome. The incidence of severe sepsis is between 300 to 1000
      cases per 100,000 persons [2] and is projected to increase annually due to an aging
      population, increasing burden of chronic disease, and greater use of invasive procedures,
      chemotherapy, and immunosuppressive agents [3]. Severe sepsis is the leading cause of
      mortality in critically ill patients, with healthcare costs exceeding $16 billion annually
      [4]. Despite evolving clinical guidelines for sepsis [5-7], and intense research, only a
      modest reduction in case fatality rates has been documented over the last two decades [8].
      Aside from early administration of antibiotics, there is no effective stand-alone or adjuvant
      pharmacological intervention to improve survival in patients with severe sepsis.

      The degree of immune dysfunction precipitated by an inciting infection is thought to
      correlate with the severity of sepsis. Recently, key cells of the immune system were shown to
      express the vitamin D receptor (VDR) [9]. Additionally, macrophages and neutrophils activated
      through VDR up-regulate expression of endogenous antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) that are
      active against a broad spectrum of infectious agents [10]. AMPs, influenced by vitamin D
      status, likely represent an important first-line of defense against microbial invasion. While
      circulating 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD) is the most abundant vitamin D metabolite [11], under
      normal circumstances, 85-90% of 25OHD is tightly bound to vitamin D binding protein (DBP) and
      is unavailable to activate innate immune responses during acute stress [12]. The remaining
      10-15% is more readily bioavailable (b25OHD), and is composed of the free and albumin-bound
      components of 25OHD. Fluid loading, albumin wasting, and increased DBP expression during
      critical illness may affect 25OHD homeostasis [13].

      Low vitamin D status (25OHD <20ng/mL) is associated with increased mortality in critical
      illness [14]. Forty to 70% of septic patients have low vitamin D status [15-17], yet little
      is known about the impact of vitamin D3 (vitD3) supplementation in this patient population.
      As such, the investigators propose a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial to
      test the hypothesis that early, rapid correction of low vitamin D status, as an adjunct to
      established treatment guidelines, will improve clinical outcomes and measurably alter immune
      profile in patients with severe sepsis. Patients will be assigned to a single dose of vitD3
      (400,000 IU) or placebo (n=300/arm) within 24 hours of new-onset severe sepsis, followed by
      weekly doses of vitD3 (25,000 IU) or placebo, respectively, up to 90 days to assess clinical
      outcomes and key biomarkers.

      AIM 1: To determine if early administration of vitD3 (vs placebo) improves clinical outcomes
      in patients with low vitamin D status and severe sepsis. Hypothesis 1a: Early vitD3 decreases
      90-day mortality after onset of severe sepsis (Primary Outcome). Hypothesis 1b: Early vitD3
      decreases sequential organ failure assessment scores in the first 5 days after onset of
      severe sepsis. Hypothesis 1c: Early vitD3 decreases non-home discharge rate in those who
      survive severe sepsis.

      AIM 2: To determine if early administration of vitD3 (vs placebo) modulates b25OHD, AMPs, and
      key cytokines in patients with low vitamin D status and severe sepsis. Hypothesis 2a: Early
      vitD3 increases b25OHD in the first 5 days after the onset of severe sepsis. Hypothesis 2b:
      Early vitD3 increases expression of AMPs, cathelicidin (LL-37) and β-defensin (hBD-2).
      Hypothesis 2c: Early vitD3 decreases pro-inflammatory cytokine (IL-1β, IL-6) and increases
      anti-immunoparalytic cytokine (IL-10, IFN-γ) expression.

      Severe sepsis is a significant public health problem with limited treatment options. A 2010
      NIH workshop on sepsis identified deep gaps in understanding innate host immune responses in
      sepsis and emphasized the need for novel therapies [18]. The proposed trial is well powered
      to investigate whether immunomodulation with vitD3 improves survival after severe sepsis. By
      optimizing endogenous host responses to infection, the investigators anticipate that vitD3
      supplementation will augment the life-saving impact of current therapies for severe sepsis.
      Moreover, the investigators will investigate several vitamin D-related biomarkers, which may
      identify future therapeutic targets. The trial will be performed by a highly-experienced team
      that includes experts in vitamin D, sepsis, critical care, and clinical trials; they have
      successfully carried out several clinical studies of vitamin D in critically ill patients.
    
  