
    
      The dose of Terameprocol (EM-1421) will be escalated in successive cohorts of 3 patients.
      Patients will be entered sequentially on each dose level. If none of the first 3 patients at
      a dose level experience first cycle drug related dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), new patients
      may be entered at the next higher dose level. If 1 of 3 patients experience first cycle DLT,
      up to 3 more patients are started at that same dose level. If 2 or more experience first
      cycle DLT, no further patients are started at that dose. The MTD is the highest dose level in
      which <2 patients of 6 develop a first cycle DLT. New dose levels may begin accrual only if
      all patients at the current dose level have been observed for a minimum of 3 weeks after the
      last infusion of Terameprocol (EM-1421). The recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) will be the MTD
      unless significant clinical activity is seen below the MTD.

      During the observation period of 3 weeks, additional accrual to a previously assessed lower
      dose level, with no documented DLTs, will be allowed with sponsor approval.

      Patients will be treated three times a week, with at least one day in between infusions, for
      two weeks followed by one week of rest. The dose for new cohorts will be escalated from 1000,
      to 1500 and 2200 mg or de-escalated to 500 mg if 1000 mg exceeds the MTD. The principal
      investigator will consult with the sponsor to determine the appropriate dose level for a new
      patient. At the MTD, up to 10 additional patients may be accrued in that dose cohort to
      further define the toxicities and response of the agent. If the initial dose level exceeds
      the MTD, a fallback dose level of 500 mg will be implemented.

      Patients are allowed to be treated with subsequent cycles of Terameprocol (EM-1421) until
      disease progression or until severe toxicities occur and side effects do not outweigh the
      benefit of study drug administration in the assessment of the treating physician.

      Intrapatient dose escalation Intrapatient dose escalation by one dose level may be permitted,
      but only if at least 3 patients in the next higher dose level have been treated and have been
      followed for 21 days without experiencing DLT. Decisions for intrapatient dose escalation
      will be made jointly by the Study Sponsor, treating physician and Principal Investigator.

      Terameprocol (EM-1421) as a single agent given intravenously over 6 hours three times a week
      for two weeks followed by one week rest (two weeks on, one week off)in the following dose
      cohorts starting with 1000 mg dose cohort.

      Dose Level -1: 500 mg

      Dose Level 1: 1000 mg

      Dose Level 2: 1500 mg

      Dose Level 3: 2200 mg
    
  