
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare the sequential chemotherapy with doxorubicin, paclitaxel and
      cyclophosphamide to combined doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide followed by paclitaxel for
      disease free and overall survival in women with node positive stage II or IIIA breast cancer.
      II. Determine whether increasing the dose density of adjuvant chemotherapy will improve
      disease free and overall survival. III. Compare the toxicity in patients treated with these
      regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are randomized into one of four arms
      (sequential chemotherapy every 2 weeks vs every 3 weeks vs concurrent chemotherapy followed
      by paclitaxel every 2 weeks vs every 3 weeks). All tumor should be removed by either a
      modified radical mastectomy or a segmental mastectomy plus axillary node dissection. Adjuvant
      chemotherapy is started within 84 days following the last surgical procedure. Arm I: Patients
      receive sequential chemotherapy every 3 weeks. Doxorubicin IV is administered once every 3
      weeks for 4 doses. Paclitaxel IV is then administered over 3 hours once every 3 weeks for 4
      doses. Cyclophosphamide IV is administered once every 3 weeks for 4 doses following
      paclitaxel. Arm II: Patients receive sequential chemotherapy every 2 weeks. Doxorubicin IV is
      administered once every 2 weeks for 4 doses. Paclitaxel IV is then administered over 3 hours
      once every 2 weeks for 4 doses. Cyclophosphamide IV is administered once every 2 weeks for 4
      doses following paclitaxel. Filgrastim (G-CSF) is administered by subcutaneous injection on
      days 3-10 after each dose of doxorubicin, paclitaxel, and cyclophosphamide. Arm III: Patients
      receive combination chemotherapy every 3 weeks. Combination doxorubicin IV and
      cyclophosphamide IV is administered once every 3 weeks for 4 doses. Paclitaxel IV is
      administered over 3 hours once every 3 weeks for 4 doses following combination chemotherapy.
      Arm IV: Patients receive combination chemotherapy every 2 weeks. Combination doxorubicin IV
      and cyclophosphamide IV is administered once every 2 weeks for 4 doses. Paclitaxel IV is
      administered over 3 hours once every 2 weeks for 4 doses following combination chemotherapy.
      G-CSF is administered by subcutaneous injection on days 3-10 after each dose of
      doxorubicin/cyclophophamide and after each dose of paclitaxel. After completion of all
      chemotherapy, patients receive tamoxifen orally for 5 years. Patients undergo radiotherapy
      4-6 weeks after the completion of chemotherapy. Patients are followed every 6 months for 5
      years, then annually until death.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 2,000 patients will be accrued for this study within 22 months.
    
  