
    
      Although trichotillomania (TTM), an impulse control disorder characterized by compulsive hair
      pulling, typically results in serious consequences including impaired individual functioning,
      medical problems (e.g., skin infections), and elevated comorbidity with other psychiatric
      disorders, it remains one of the most poorly-understood and inadequately-treated psychiatric
      conditions. There is an urgent need for effective and accessible clinical interventions for
      TTM, especially for young individuals who suffer from a marked lack of adequate treatment
      resources despite the early onset of the condition. One promising therapeutic approach is to
      improve cognitive problems believed to contribute to TTM, using a computerized cognitive
      retraining method. Research has indicated impaired response inhibition (RI; the ability to
      inhibit inappropriate but potent response) as an important cognitive feature underlying TTM.
      Therefore, RI is considered to be an important target of cognitive retraining. Investigators
      have developed a computerized training program that aims to improve RI capabilities in the
      format of an online video game. Fifty children with TTM will be randomly assigned to (a)
      online 8-session RIT (n=25), or (b) 1-month waitlist condition (n = 25), and will be assessed
      at baseline, post-treatment, and 1-month follow-up. The waitlisted participants will also be
      invited to undergo the training program after the 1-month follow-up assessment is completed.
      Investigators hypothesize that the online RIT will show greater improvement in TTM symptoms
      and RI capabilities at post-treatment and 1-month follow-up assessments, compared to the
      waitlist condition. This study is expected to generate important data that will guide the
      development of an accessible, cost-efficient, and effective cognitive intervention for
      individuals suffering from TTM.
    
  