
    
      Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is one of the leading causes of cancer deaths
      worldwide, and it ranks the fourth male cancer-related death in Taiwan. In HNSCC,
      invasiveness and metastasis of cancer cells contribute to the major cause of mortality;
      therefore, elucidation of the mechanism and development of new strategies against metastasis
      is the utmost importance in treating advanced HNSCC. Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)
      is a process by which epithelial cells lose their polarity and are converted to a mesenchymal
      phenotype, and recently is considered as the major mechanism for cancer metastasis. The
      initiation of EMT is hallmarked by suppression of the intercellular junctional protein
      E-cadherin by a variety of transcriptional factors, including Twist1, Snail, Slug, SIP1, Zeb1
      and E47. However, during metastatic evolution, the interplay between different EMT inducers
      has been investigated limitedly. Previously study demonstrated that hypoxia induces EMT of
      HNSCC through induction of Twist1 expression. Additionally showed that Twist1 promotes EMT
      and tumor-initiating capability through upregulation of Bmi1, and co-expression Twist1 and
      Bmi1 predicts a worse prognosis of HNSCC cases. Accumulated evidence suggests that microRNAs
      play essential roles in cancer progression and metastasis. Therefore, we aim to investigate
      the role of microRNA in Twist1-mediated cancer metastasis, and the interplay between Twist1
      and other EMT regulators. Our preliminary data showed that the expression of miR-29 family,
      including miR-29a, b, and c were increased in Twist1-overexpressing HNSCC cells. Furthermore,
      we discovered that SIN3A, a co-repressor of another EMT regulator Snail, is a target of
      miR-29s. We therefore speculate that Twist1 modifies the function of Snail through microRNA
      machinery. In this proposal, we will delineate the regulatory mechanism of the
      Twist1-miR29s-SIN3A axis. We will also investigate the molecular interplay between Twist1 and
      Snail through Twist1-miR29s-SIN3A signal pathway. Furthermore, we will elucidate the
      molecular basis and pathophysiologic significance of Twist1-Snail interaction under hypoxic
      environment. Finally, we will confirm the in vitro finding by in vivo animal study and HNSCC
      samples. These results will provide crucial information for understanding the molecular basis
      of HNSCC metastasis, and will be valuable for developing new therapeutic strategies against
      advanced HNSCC.
    
  