
    
      Long term outcome follow-up of glenoid anchor peg component fixation utilizing autologous
      bone graft in total shoulder arthroplasty. This research will be a case series study to
      evaluate the adequacy of fixation and functional outcome of the glenoid anchor peg following
      autologous bone grafting around the prosthesis at the time of implant. Eligibility criteria
      are subjects,who were treated at the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery at University of
      Nebraska Medical Center and Nebraska Medicine, with a total shoulder replacement using an
      anchor peg glenoid and autologous bone grafting, and who are now at least 9 years out from
      surgery. Each subject will be evaluated and this will include having three plain radiographs
      of the operated shoulder of which 2 will be true anterior-posterior (AP) radiographs of the
      glenohumeral joint, one in internal rotation and the other in external rotation, along with
      axillary lateral films. In addition, the subject will have a computed tomographic (CT) scan,
      without contrast dye, to examine the shoulder. One of the study personnel will use the
      Constant Score and Simple Shoulder Test to obtain specific shoulder functional, motion, and
      strength outcomes as well as pain assessment. A patient completed questionnaire, Rand Short
      Form Health Survey, (Rand SF-36) will be obtained to look at association with general health
      status. Investigators hypothesize that there will be a low incidence of glenoid loosening
      with a TSA (total shoulder arthroplasty) using an anchor peg glenoid and autologous bone
      grafting. In addition, investigators suggest that the absence of radiolucent lines will
      correlate with excellent shoulder function. A study was previously completed at our facility
      on same population at a minimum of 2 year follow up. At that time, and despite more than 10
      years of widespread clinical use, no radiographic or clinical data existed regarding this
      unique component type. The findings from this prior study indicated that total shoulder
      arthroplasty (TSA) utilizing minimal glenoid peripheral peg cement and autologous reamings
      placed between radial fins of the central peg allowed host bone incorporation for the central
      peg and that better bone incorporation imparted fewer overall peg lucencies. The study
      findings were accepted for presentation at The American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons,
      2010, New Orleans. Despite these positive findings, loosening rates could increase farther
      out from surgery, hence the purpose for the current proposed longer follow up study which is
      evaluation at a minimum of 9 years post surgery.
    
  