
    
      This prospective, randomized controlled trial will include 30 adult female patients below 65
      years of age scheduled for surgery for breast cancer. Inclusion criteria will include also
      American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) physical status I-II and unilateral surgery.
      Exclusion criteria will include obesity defined as body mass index > 35 kg/m2), known allergy
      to the study drugs, coagulopathy, skin infection at the site of needle puncture, and recent
      use of opioid drugs.

      Patients will be assessed the day before surgery in a preoperative visit for evaluation of
      their medical status and laboratory investigations. They will be informed about the technique
      of the blocks and written informed consents will be obtained. All patients will be informed
      how to report pain on a numeric rating scale (NRS) ranging from 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst
      imaginable pain). In the pre-anesthetic room, midazolam 0.02 mg/kg IV will be given to the
      patients for sedation after fixation of a 20 G cannula as an IV line. Randomization will be
      done using consecutively numbered opaque sealed envelopes. Patients will be randomized into
      two groups according to the type of analgesia. The first group will receive single-shot ESP
      block (ESP group) and the other group will receive PECs II block (PECs group).

      ESP technique:

      ESP block will be performed in following standardized monitoring, including noninvasive blood
      pressure, electrocardiogram, and pulse oximetry. It will be done unilaterally with the
      patient in the prone position about 20 min before induction of general anesthesia. Skin is
      prepared by 10% povidone iodine. The US probe will be covered with a sterile cover. All
      blocks will be by the same anesthesiologists who are experienced in US-guided nerve blocks.
      An ultrasound machine with a large bandwidth, multifrequency convex probe (1-8 MHz) will be
      used for block performance. A 22G, 50-mm, insulated facet type needle will be used during all
      blocks. The blocks will be performed at the T4 level of the spine using an in-plane approach.
      A convex probe will be placed 2-3 cm laterally to the spine using a sagittal approach. Once
      the erector spinae muscle and the transverse processes is identified, the needle will be
      inserted deep into the muscle. The needle will be directed from a cranial to a caudal
      direction. Following confirmation of the correct position of the needle tip with
      administration of 0.5-1 ml of local anesthetic, 20 ml of 0.25% bupivacaine will be
      administered for block performance. Distribution of local anesthetic will be observed in both
      cranial and caudal directions.

      PECs II block Technique:

      The block will be done unilaterally about 20 min before induction of general anesthesia.
      Under standardized monitoring, the patient is put in the supine position with the ipsilateral
      arm abducted and externally rotated and the elbow flexed 90 degrees. The skin over the
      ipsilateral clavicle and small area below it is done by betadine. The high frequency probe is
      put in the ipsilateral clavipectoral triangle between the clavicle medially and above and the
      shoulder joint laterally. The pectoralis major and minor and the plane between them are
      identified. The probe is tilted caudally to identify the pulsating thoracoacromial artery or
      its pectoral branch. The skin at the point of entry is infiltrated by xylocaine 1% then the
      needle is advanced in an in plane technique targeting the space in which the artery is
      located. Two cm of normal saline is injected to confirm the location and produce dissection.
      Then, 10 ml of bupivacaine 0.25% with epinephrine 2.5 µg/ml is injected. Propofol is given in
      20 mg boluses followed by normal saline flush to produce more sedation just before injecting
      the bupivacaine because dissection is painful. Then the probe is moved laterally and caudally
      towards the anterior axillary fold parallel to the deltopectoral groove till the serratus
      muscle slips appear underneath the pec minor attached to the underlying ribs. The 3rd and 4th
      ribs and the pleura are identified. After infiltration of the skin with xylocaine 1% the
      needle is advanced in plane targeting the plane between pec minor and serratus at the level
      of the third rib. Two ml of normal saline is injected for confirmation of the needle tip then
      20 ml of bupivacaine 0.25% with epinephrine 2.5 µg /ml is injected. A pinprick test is done
      after 15 minutes to assess sensory block compared to the unblocked contralateral side. A
      block is considered unsuccessful and the patient is excluded from the study if the site of
      surgical incision is not blocked after 20 min of LA injection.

      General anesthesia Standard anesthesia monitoring will be applied, and induction of general
      anesthesia will be carried out by using fentanyl (1µg/kg) IV, propofol (2 mg/kg) IV and
      cisatracurium (0.15mg/kg) IV. Paracetamol 1 gm/100 ml IV infusion and ketolac 30 mg IV slowly
      is given before surgical incision. Paracetamol 1 gm/100 ml IV infusion is given every 8 hours
      and ketolac 30 mg every 12 hours. Anesthesia will be maintained by sevoflurane 2% in O2 and
      supplemental doses of cisatracurium (0.03 mg/kg) IV as indicated by peripheral nerve
      stimulator by appearance of the second twitch of the train of four (TOF). Additional bolus
      doses of fentanyl 0.5 µg /kg will be given if the mean arterial blood pressure and/or heart
      rate rise above 20% of baseline. The patients will receive fluids in order to replace their
      fluid deficit, maintenance and losses, and will be mechanically ventilated at appropriate
      setting that keep end-tidal CO2 at 30-35 mmHg. Hypotension will be treated with 0.9% normal
      saline, 6% hetastarch in saline and/or 5mg ephedrine in incremental doses in order to
      maintain mean blood pressure above 70 mmHg. Recovery will be carried out after closure of
      surgical wound by turning off sevoflurane vaporizer and reversal will be given after TOF
      ratio becomes 0.7 and fully awake extubation will be done and then the patient will be
      transferred to post anesthesia care unit (PACU)

      In the PACU, VAS is assessed by a nurse blinded to the intervention done. It will be assessed
      immediately postoperative, and then 1, 2, 6, 12, and 24 hours post-extubation. Patients will
      be given 2 mg morphine slowly IV when VAS > 3, repeated 2 times if required (total 3 boluses)
      to keep VAS ≤ 3, at least 10 minutes between each bolus, then 1 mg morphine is given slowly
      IV if required, at least 15 minutes between each bolus. Nausea and/or vomiting are treated by
      metoclopramide 10 mg/8 hours slowly IV. Incidences of nausea and vomiting, and total morphine
      consumption during the 24-h postoperative period were recorded.

      The primary outcome measure of the study will be total morphine consumption during the first
      24 postoperative hours. The secondary outcome measures will be duration of analgesia,
      postoperative pain scores up to 24 hours postoperative, and occurrence of postoperative
      nausea and vomiting.
    
  