
    
      Objectives Specific Aim #1: Determine whether results obtained in select patients with
      American Joint Commission on Cancer (AJCC) Staging System Stage I or II CCA are transferable
      to select patients with T3 or N1 disease.

      Specific Aim #2: To determine whether success achieved with the only published protocol
      currently in use is directly transferable to the University of Utah's liver transplant
      program.

      Liver Transplant Protocol:

      The surgical protocol will initially be offered to liver transplant candidates with de novo
      hilar CCA or CCA arising in the setting of PSC. Diagnosis of CCA will be established by
      intraluminal brush cytology, intraluminal biopsy, or a carcinoma antigen (CA) 19.9 level
      greater than 100 ng / mL in the setting of a radiographic malignant stricture. Biliary
      aneuploidy demonstrated with DIA and FISH will be considered equivalent to cytology.

      All patients with CCA will be evaluated by the liver transplant team which includes
      experienced hepatobiliary and liver transplant surgeons. Patients will be presented at the
      weekly liver transplant selection conference to assess their candidacy as well as the weekly
      GI Multidisciplinary Tumor Conference at the Huntsman Cancer Institute. Clinical staging
      prior to neoadjuvant therapy will include chest and abdominal computed tomography, liver
      ultrasound, and bone scan. Patients will also undergo endoscopic ultrasound with fine needle
      aspiration of suspicious lymph nodes. Exclusion criteria will include previous chemotherapy
      or radiotherapy, uncontrolled infection, a previous malignance other than non-melanoma skin
      cancer or in situ cervical cancer within the last five years, medical conditions precluding
      transplantation, metastatic disease (including N2 disease), and patients with hilar tumors
      extending below the cystic duct.

      All patients will undergo staging laparoscopy to rule out the presence of peritoneal disease
      followed by staging laparotomy. Patients with extrahepatic metastases, local spread of
      disease to adjacent organs, and N2 nodal disease (metastasis to peripancreatic, periduodenal,
      periportal, celiac, superior mesenteric, and / or posterior pancreaticoduodenal nodes) will
      be excluded as will patients with extension of tumor into the main portal vein. Patients with
      N1 disease (metastasis to lymph nodes within hepatoduodenal ligament) will remain eligible
      for the protocol. Tumor size will not be included in the exclusion criteria. Patients with
      evidence of disease progression beyond study criteria will not be eligible to continue on to
      liver transplantation.
    
  