
    
      Cerebral Palsy (CP) is defined as a permanent but non-progressive disorder group that affects
      the developing fetal or infantile brain, leading to impairment in movement and posture,
      thereby limiting physical activity and participation. The prevalence of CP in society is
      around 0.21%. In a study conducted in Turkey, this ratio of 4.4 / 1000 live births has been
      reported. Motor disorders in CP often are accompanied by sensory, perceptual, cognitive,
      communicative and behavioral problems and secondary musculoskeletal problems.

      Obstetric brachial plexus (OBP) injury is a common peripheral nerve injury in children. Its
      incidence is reported between 0.42 and 5.1 per 1000 live births. As the primary mechanism of
      injury, it is accepted that traction or compression of all or part of the brachial plexus.

      In these patients, weakness in the upper extremity, long-term contractures, and difficulties
      in the use of the extremities occurs due to the damage of nerves. In both diseases, patients
      have difficulty in bimanual activities.

      Many treatment methods focus on increasing the use of upper extremities of patients and
      ensuring their independence in daily life activities. There are many methods for evaluating
      the hand use performance of patients and the effectiveness of different treatment methods.
      However, these clinical evaluation methods often do not reflect the patient's performance at
      home, at school, in their daily living environments.

      The "Hand Use at Home (HUH)" questionnaire, which was created to be evaluated by parents, was
      developed in 2017 for measuring and evaluating the spontaneous use time of unilateral paretic
      children aged 3-10 in the affected hand and arm daily life activities.

      The validity and reliability of the questionnaire were determined in children with obstetric
      brachial plexus paralysis and unilateral SP.

      The purpose of this study; The translation of the HUH questionnaire into Turkish is to
      investigate its cultural adaptation, validity, and test-retest reliability.
    
  