
    
      The research team will adapt the Facing Your Fears (FYF) program, in consultation with
      program developers, Canadian experts (psychologists) and Holland Bloorview's Research Family
      Engagement Committee, to allow for virtual delivery of a traditionally in-person
      intervention. Adaptations will build on preliminary work already piloted by program
      developers to meet the current needs (e.g., group work with individual support, video
      practice for exposures, psychoeducation format).

      Participants will complete one screening phone call and one videoconferencing (Zoom for
      Healthcare) call with the research team, where the delegated research staff will introduce
      the program and obtain consent for interested and eligible participants. Participants will be
      asked to provide consent, then proceed to the second part of the screening to ensure that
      potential participants meet all eligibility criteria. It will be made clear to participants
      that providing consent and assent at this time will not guarantee study enrollment.

      Once eligibility is confirmed, participants will be enrolled in the study and be asked to
      provide the study team with the participant's ASD diagnostic letter via a secure link (using
      Sync), complete pre-intervention questionnaires before the start of the program, and
      post-intervention questionnaires after completing the study intervention.

      The program will be abbreviated from 14 weeks to 12 weeks to maximize the number of families
      served during the study period. Each session will be approximately 60-90 minutes (30-45
      minutes with parents and children; 30-45 minutes with parents alone). There will be two
      check-in calls (approximately 30 mins) with each of the families after weeks 7 and 9 of the
      program. The group facilitators will use the Zoom for Healthcare platform to deliver the
      intervention virtually.
    
  