
    
      Streptococcus pneumoniae frequently colonises the human nasopharynx and most carriers remain
      asymptomatic. However, sometimes the organism may spread locally to cause non-invasive,
      mucosal infections such as sinusitis and otitis media or may invade the bloodstream and cause
      serious infections, including septicaemia, meningitis and pneumonia. In the 2005/06
      epidemiological year, there were 6,391 cases of invasive pneumococcal diseases in England and
      Wales, with the highest incidence in the first year of life. The risk of developing invasive
      disease is dependent on both the susceptibility of the host and the invasiveness of the
      pneumococcus, which is largely determined by the characteristics of its polysaccharide
      capsule. Of the >90 known pneumococcal serotypes, the seven serotypes (4, 6B, 9V, 14, 18C,
      19F and 23F) included in the 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV7) accounted for
      around 75% of childhood IPD cases in England and Wales prior to routine pneumococcal
      vaccination.

      There have been several carriage studies conducted by this group at key points in the
      evolution of the pneumococcal vaccination policy of the UK, before use of any PCV, once the
      PCV7 had been introduced and once the change to PCV13 had been made. Studies have shown that
      conjugate vaccines, of which PCV7 and PCV13 are examples, can affect carriage of the bacteria
      against which the vaccinate. This series of carriage studies is important in understanding
      which pneumococcal strains are in the nose and so are potentially part of the chain of
      transmission as the vaccinations given have changed. For pneumococcus, where there are many
      strains, it is important to understand whether clearing carriage of a strain contained in the
      vaccine creates a niche which can be exploited by a strain of greater virulence or one which
      causes more serious disease. Our last such study suggested there are changes which we should
      continue to monitor, which is why the current study is now happening.

      Nasopharyngeal swabs and saliva swabs will be taken from healthy subjects and any pneumococci
      present will be cultured and serotyped using standard methods, as per our previous studies.
    
  