
    
      Patients with a history of ventricular tachycardia requiring defibrillation or who are at
      risk for developing ventricular tachycardia will undergo placement of an implantable
      cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) for purposes of prevention of sudden cardiac arrest. While
      the ICD is lifesaving, if a patient receives a shock from their ICD it is painful and the
      entire experience is very traumatic. Traditionally, the management of these patients who
      receive a single shock from their ICD is variable because it is not known if the patient will
      continue to experience further shocks or not. Some physicians will initiate antiarrhythmic
      medical therapy after only a single shock, whereas others will wait until the patient has
      recurrent ICD shocks before initiating therapy. All patients should be counseled to not drive
      for 6 months following a shock. Ventricular tachycardia ablation, a procedure involving
      placing catheters from the groin into the chambers of the heart to isolate the source of
      ventricular tachycardia and eliminate these foci through delivery of radiofrequency energy,
      is typically reserved for patients with multiple recurrent cases of ventricular tachycardia.
      While some studies have shown that ventricular tachycardia ablations can be done safely at an
      earlier course of the disease and this procedure has been demonstrated to reduce further ICD
      shocks, this practice is not commonplace.

      Patients who undergo a ventricular tachycardia ablation procedure, will initially have
      catheters placed into the ventricular chambers of the heart and these catheters will be used
      to stimulate the heart in an attempt to induce the ventricular tachycardia, a process known
      as programmed stimulation. One major limitation of a ventricular tachycardia ablation
      procedure is the need to be able to induce the ventricular tachycardia rhythm via programmed
      stimulation. If this rhythm cannot be induced then it is very difficult to perform the
      ventricular tachycardia ablation procedure. Non-invasive programmed stimulation (NIPS) is a
      means of performing programmed stimulation using the patient's own ICD and does not involve
      placing catheters into the heart.

      Aim: The aim of this study is to investigate if non-invasive programmed stimulation (NIPS)
      can be used to risk stratify patients determine if earlier intervention with either
      antiarrhythmic medications or ablation in patients with recurrent ventricular tachycardia
      that received ICD shocks would help decrease further ICD shocks and hospitalizations for
      ventricular arrhythmias.

      Primary hypothesis: Patients receiving a single ICD shock for ventricular tachycardia who
      undergo a non-invasive programmed stimulation (NIPS) that fails to induce any sustained
      ventricular tachycardia, are at low likelihood of experiencing recurrent ICD shocks within
      the next year.

      Secondary hypothesis: For patients receiving a single ICD shock for ventricular tachycardia
      who undergo non-invasive programmed stimulation (NIPS) that induces a sustained, monomorphic
      ventricular tachycardia rhythm, the performance of ventricular tachycardia ablation will
      reduce the incidence of recurrent ICD shocks within the next year, as compared to
      antiarrhythmic therapy alone.
    
  