
    
      Viral infections are normally controlled by T-cell immunity and so are an important cause of
      morbidity and mortality during the period of immune recovery after hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation (HSCT).1 Risk for infection is impacted by the degree of tissue mismatch
      between donor and recipient and the immune status of the donor, including the degree and
      length of immunosuppression following transplantation. Reactivation of latent viruses such as
      cytomegalovirus (CMV) and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) are common and often cause symptomatic
      disease. Respiratory viruses such as adenovirus also frequently cause infection. Antiviral
      pharmacologic agents are only effective against some of these viruses; their use is costly,
      and associated with significant toxicities and the outgrowth of drug-resistant mutants. As
      delay in recovery of virus-specific cellular immune response is clearly associated with viral
      reactivation and disease in these patients, cellular immunotherapy to restore viral-specific
      immunity is an attractive option that has already been successfully used to target some of
      these viruses.

      Multivirus-Specific T Cells

      To broaden the specificity of single CTL lines to include the three most common viral
      pathogens of stem cell recipients, investigators reactivated CMV and adenovirus-specific T
      cells by using mononuclear cells transduced with a recombinant adenoviral vector encoding the
      CMV antigen pp65 (Ad5f35CMVpp65). Subsequent stimulations with EBV-LCL transduced with the
      same vector both reactivated EBV-specific T cells and maintained the expansion of the
      activated adenovirus and CMV-specific T cells. This method reliably produced CTLs with
      cytotoxic function specific for all three viruses, which investigators infused into 14 stem
      cell recipients in a Phase I prophylaxis study. They observed recovery of immunity to CMV and
      EBV in all patients but an increase in adenovirus-specific T cells was only seen in patients
      who had evidence of adenovirus infection pre-infusion. A follow-up study in which the
      frequency of adenovirus-specific T cells was increased in the infused CTLs produced similar
      results, thus highlighting the importance of endogenous antigen to promote the expansion of
      infused T cells in vivo. Nevertheless, all patients in both clinical trials with pre-infusion
      CMV, adenovirus or EBV infection or reactivation were able to clear the infection, including
      one patient with severe adenoviral pneumonia requiring ventilatory support. CTLs recognizing
      multiple antigens can therefore produce clinically relevant effects against all three
      viruses.

      CTLs for HSCT patients with virus na誰ve donors

      All the donor specific T cell strategies discussed so far have utilized products derived from
      donors who are seropositive for the virus of interest. With the increasing use of cord blood
      (CB) grafts there are appreciable numbers of patients who are recipients of virus na誰ve donor
      grafts. CMV reactivation usually occurs from endogenous virus and seropositive recipients
      with seronegative donors remain the highest risk group for developing CMV. The development of
      multivirus specific T cells from recipients of cord blood grafts requires the priming of
      na誰ve T-cells rather than the simple expansion of pre-existing memory T-cells from
      seropositive donors. Using a protocol stimulating CB-derived T-cells with autologous
      CB-derived dendritic cells and EBV-LCL transduced with the Ad5f35CMVpp65 vector in the
      presence of IL-7, 12 and 15, multivirus specific T cells can be primed in vitro from the 20%
      fraction of a cord blood unit. So far, eight patients have received CTL as prophylaxis or
      treatment after CBT without toxicity. No infusion-related toxicities/GvHD have been observed
      and despite receiving only 80% of the CB unit, all patients engrafted neutrophils within 30
      days. Early evidence of efficacy has also been demonstrated with clearance of EBV, CMV and
      adenovirus in two patients and decreasing EBV viral load in a third with the other 5 patients
      remaining virus free. Therefore, these results suggest that transfer of na誰ve T cell
      (CB)-derived virus specific T cells to patients after CBT may be safe and facilitate long
      term reconstitution of virus-specific T-cells in vivo.
    
  