
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the effect of glutamic acid vs placebo, in terms of decreasing neurotoxicity as
           measured by a scored neurologic examination, in young patients undergoing
           vincristine-containing treatment for Wilms' tumor, rhabdomyosarcoma, acute lymphoblastic
           leukemia, or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the frequency and types of neurotoxicity observed in patients treated with
           glutamic acid versus placebo.

        -  Determine if a greater proportion of patients receiving glutamic acid are able to
           receive 100% of their scheduled doses of vincristine versus those not treated with
           glutamic acid.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to disease and duration of planned vincristine-containing treatment
      (Wilms' tumor or rhabdomyosarcoma with treatment planned for ≥ 9 consecutive weeks [stratum
      1] vs acute lymphoblastic leukemia or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma with treatment planned for ≥ 4
      consecutive weeks [stratum 2]). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral glutamic acid 3 times daily beginning prior to the first
           dose of vincristine and continuing through week 5 (stratum 2) for a total of 4 doses of
           vincristine or week 10 (stratum 1) for a total of 9 doses of vincristine.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo 3 times daily beginning prior to the first dose of
           vincristine and continuing through week 5 (stratum 2) for a total of 4 doses of
           vincristine or week 10 (stratum 1) for a total of 9 doses of vincristine.

      All patients undergo neurologic examination at baseline and at 5 weeks. Patients in stratum 1
      also undergo additional neurologic examination at week 10.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 250 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  