
    
      A prospective randomized study will be conducted in Ain Shams University Hospital-Emergency
      Department. Institutional Research Ethics Committee approval will be obtained and written
      informed consent will be obtained from all participants before enrollment. The study included
      forty five polytrauma patients (18-65 years old of both sexes) admitted for emergency
      surgery.

      On admission, ABC protocol will be applied, (GCS) Glasgow coma scale assessment, complete
      laboratory investigations and radiology and complete clinical examination with assessment of
      fasting hours.

      Exclusion criteria are patients with obesity (BMI> 35kg/m2), pregnancy, a history of upper
      gastrointestinal diseases including gastroesophageal reflux disease, hiatus hernia,
      gastroeosphgeal cancer or upper GIT surgery.

      A curved low- frequency (2-5 MHZ) probe and (simens ACUSON x 300) ultrasound system will be
      used. All patient will be first scanned in the supine position, followed by the right lateral
      decubitus (RLD) position. The gastric antrum was identified in a sagittal scanning plane in
      the epigastrium immediately inferior to xiphoid and superior to umbilicus. The liver
      anteriorly and the aorta, inferior vena cava and pancreas posteriorly were used as anatomical
      reference points.

      Fig. (1): Sagittal/parasgittal scanning plane for gastric assessment

      Fig. (2) A Sagittal sonogram of the gastric antrum. A = antrum; L = liver; P = pancreas; SMA
      = superior mesenteric artery; Ao = aorta. B Schematic representation of sagittal sonoanatomy.
      A = antrum; L = liver; P = pancreas; SMA = superior mesenteric artery; Ao = aorta

      The "empty" antrum appeared collapsed and "flat" with the anterior and posterior walls very
      close to each other or round to ovoid in shape resembling a "bull's eye" target.

      The antrum appeared distended with a round shape when filled with a clear fluid. Multiple gas
      "bubbles" appeared as punctuate hyperechoic areas within the hypoechoic fluid, mimicking a
      "starry night" appearance.

      The antrum appeared distended with a contents of mixed echogenicity when filled with a solid
      contents give the antrum "frosted glass" appearance.

      When the stomach contains clear fluid, a volume assessment can help differentiate a
      negligible volume consistent with baseline secretions vs a higher than baseline volume. So,
      the antral cross sectional area (CSA) was calculated after measuring the two dimensions of
      the antrum (D1 an D2) according to the following equation: π (D1 x D2)/4 and the volume of
      clear fluid was calculated using a cross- sectional area CSA of the antrum measured in the
      RLD and a previously published mathematical model: volume (ml)= 27.0+(14.3 x Right - lat
      (CSA) - (1.25 x age). This equation accurately predicts gastric volume up to 500 ml.

      Nasogastric ryle will be inserted (if there is no contraindication) to confirm gastric
      ultrasound volume calculation.

      Additionally, the antrum as classified according to a 3-point grading system (perlas grade
      0-2) that is based on the absence or presence of clear fluid in the supine and RLD positions.
      Grade 0 refers to the absence of gastric content in the antrum in both supine and RLD
      positions. Grade 1 refers to antral clear fluid that is appreciable only in the RLD. Grade 2
      refers to clear fluid that is documented in both the supine and RLD positions.

      Fig.(3): flow chart for interpretation of findings and medical decision- making based on
      gastric point of care ultrasound findings. Used with permission from gastric ultrasound. Org
      The low risk result will suggest that the risk of aspiration is low and it may be safe to
      proceed with surgery with a slowly titrated induction of anesthesia as dictated by the
      patient's cardiac condition using laryngeal mask or E.T.T.

      The high risk result will suggest that the risk of aspiration is high, and this finding would
      support: 1, postponing surgrery, till completion of fasting hours 2 loco-regional anesthesia;
      neuraxial anesthesia, and 3, general anesthesia with rapid sequence induction, up to awake
      fibro-optic intubation.

      We will record the incidence of change in anesthetic technique and change in timing of
      surgical procedure (as a primary outcome) and incidence of perioperative aspiration (as a
      secondary outcome) when we use gastric ultrasound preoperatively in these patients.

      Sample size:

      Using medical program setting alpha error at 5% & power at 90% we calculated our sample size
      based on the result of (sabry et al., 2018) which showed very good correlation between
      gastric volume using ultrasound and volume of aspirated gastric content with an assumed
      (r=0.5). Based on this the needed sample is 45 cases taken in account 10% drop out rate.
    
  