
    
      Patients and Method:

      We designed this study as an assessor blinded, randomized, controlled, parallel group trial.
      The participants will be recruited from general surgery unit of tertiary referral hospital in
      Southern Taiwan. Inclusion criteria will be as follows: (1) patients with first-ever breast
      cancer between 20~80 years old (1 to 6 months post- surgery) (2) able to follow basic orders
      (verbal or gesture) and tolerated music therapy by 1 hour. Individuals will be excluded from
      the study if they (1) are unable to cooperate with music therapy, (2) undergoing
      psychotherapeutic treatment during the study period, using antidepressants during the study
      period, (3) are significantly hearing impaired, not agree to sign the informed consent, or do
      not agree further evaluation, and (4) pregnant women. Randomization in a 1:1 ratio will be
      performed with computer-generated randomization list. All the included patients will be
      categorized into two groups: music therapy (MT) group and control group. Both groups will
      receive comprehensive in-patient education program for 12consecutive weeks, but the MT group
      will receive additional music therapy in the 12 consecutive weeks. The participants in MT
      group will receive neurologic music therapy 1 day per week for 1 hour with total 4 hours in 4
      consecutive weeks after initial enrollment. The primary outcome is anxiety and fatigue. The
      Brief Fatigue Inventory-Taiwan (BFI-T) State anxiety inventory (STAI) and WHOQOL until 12
      weeks after randomization. All health-related parameters will be evaluation prior to
      intervention and after intervention.

      Aim of the study:

      The aim of the study is to explore the impact of music therapy on anxiety and fatigue among
      patients with breast cancer. We aim to investigate whether music therapy is an optimal add-on
      therapeutic model for patients with breast cancer.
    
  