
    
      Background and Rationale:

      Cardiac vasoplegia is a known phenomenon after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) occurring in up
      to 44% of patients. Severe forms of such condition refractory to vasopressors are associated
      with poor outcomes. New agents e.g. ascorbic acid that can alter the systemic vascular
      resistance in cardiac vasoplegia have been suggested as an attempt to avoid or at least
      reduce the use of IV vasopressors and their induced systemic hypo-perfusion.

      Objectives :

        -  Primary objective: to study the effect of vitamin C administration on the amount of
           noradrenaline given post-operatively to patients after CPB

        -  Secondary objectives: to study the effect of vitamin C administration on the time to
           weaning from noradrenaline

      Study population & Sample size :

      Patients undergoing cardiac surgeries with CPB having risk factors for cardiac vasoplegia
      like diabetes mellitus and chronic renal failure.

      50 patients will be needed in each group (treatment and control)

      Study Design :

      A parallel group double-blind, randomized-controlled trial, with 1:1 randomization ratio 2
      groups will be included;

      -Group (A) patients undergoing open heart surgeries who will receive IV ascorbic acid. -Group
      (B) patients undergoing open heart surgeries who will not receive ascorbic acid or will
      receive a placebo (Control Group).

      Methods :

      Each patient will be subjected to the following assessments:

      -Pre-operative patient characteristics: demographic data, co-morbidities, pre-operative echo
      findings,… -Intra-operative details: procedures, time parameters,… the doses of noradrenaline
      given from the end of surgery until weaning or death and hemodynamics in the first 2 hours
      and then at intervals of 6 hours up to 3 days following surgery. -Postoperative data: echo
      parameters, patient outcome, time of discharge,…

      Outcome parameter (s):

      -Primary outcome: the area under the dose-time curve of noradrenaline -Secondary outcome
      measures: the duration of vasopressor (noradrenaline) infusion till weaning up to 3 days
      following surgery.
    
  