
    
      Up to 65% of hospitalized older adults will lose the ability to ambulate independently during
      their hospital stay. Loss of independent ambulation has been identified as a
      hospital-acquired disability and is a critical patient safety concern, resulting in permanent
      loss of function for 50% of older adults one-year post discharge. Functional loss is
      associated with multiple negative outcomes including a 33% increase in new nursing home
      placement, increase in length of hospital stay, need for home health services, falls,
      caregiver burden, decreased quality of life, and increased mortality. Given the rapid
      increase in the elderly population, loss of independent ambulation primarily due to the
      process of care in hospital settings may significantly increase future healthcare costs and
      further exacerbate concerns related to patient care quality.

      Lack of walking during hospitalization has been directly linked to loss of independent
      ambulation in older adults. Nurses are responsible for promoting and maintaining patient
      independent mobility. However, our research has identified multiple personal and
      organizational barriers that prevent nurses from walking patients. We have developed and
      pilot tested a novel systems based multi-component intervention to improve ambulation of
      older adult patients, Mobilizing Older adult patients Via a systems-based INtervention
      (MOVIN). MOVIN is comprised of five components: 1) psychomotor skills training; 2)
      communication tools; 3) ambulation pathways; 4) ambulation resources; and 5) unit ambulation
      culture. Our pilot study of MOVIN demonstrated a statistically significant increase in
      frequency and weekly distance of patient ambulation as well as changes in nursing practice
      and unit culture. Notably, these changes have been sustained for greater than two years after
      completion of the study.

      Our goal is to translate our positive research results into an actionable implementation
      package that can be used to disseminate MOVIN to hospitals nationwide and improve the quality
      of care and functional outcomes for older adult patients. In pursuit of this goal, our
      specific aims are to:

        1. Adapt MOVIN and develop and refine a MOVIN toolkit for implementation in a non-academic
           hospital.

        2. Implement MOVIN in an inpatient adult general medical unit in a non-academic hospital
           with an on-site clinical team leading the intervention and evaluate using the RE-AIM
           framework to collect preliminary data for a future dissemination study.

        3. Assess market demand for the intervention and develop a customer value statement in
           collaboration with the ICTR Dissemination and Implementation Program.
    
  