
    
      As one of the more common hospital-based major interventional procedures, 180,476 CABG
      surgeries were performed in the United States in 2016, according to the Society of Thoracic
      Surgeons Adult Cardiac Surgery Database (STS ACSD). Of these, 23,545 operations also involved
      aortic or mitral valve repair or replacement. The demographic characteristics of patients
      undergoing cardiac surgery have changed over time, with a higher proportion of elderly
      patients undergoing increasingly complex procedures. The number of patients with neurological
      disease prior to surgery has nearly doubled from 1.4% in 2001 to nearly 2.8% as of 2010, and
      is rising as surgical care improves and includes more such patients .

      The recognition of neurological complications associated with cardiac surgery has been
      report-ed widely, and neurological dysfunction can be categorized as type 1 (brain death,
      non-fatal stroke, and new transient ischemic attack) or type 2 (delirium and postoperative
      cognitive dys-function) . The incidence postoperative neurological complications, defined as
      "permanent stroke" by the STS ACSD, was noted in 2016 to be 1.3% following isolated CABG
      operations, but was noted to be higher, between 2-3% in CABG patients also receiving aortic
      or mitral valve surgery as part of their operation. Notably, this statistic does not capture
      POCD, although steps are being taken to better capture this, perhaps as a patient-reported
      outcome (PRO) in the future.

      As early as 1955, POCD was described by Bedford in the Lancet under the designation "adverse
      cerebral effects of anesthesia on old people" . It can affect any age group, but does seem to
      dis-proportionately affect patients age 60 or older, causing difficulty in daily life and
      their ability to return to work . Short-term POCD, up to 6 weeks postoperatively, occurs in
      20-50% of patients undergoing cardiac surgery. Longer-term POCD, defined as a subtle
      deterioration in cognitive function 6 months following surgery, occurs in 10-30% of cardiac
      surgery patients . In a longitudinal study with 8.5 years of follow-up, Steinmetz et al.
      found POCD to be associated with higher mortality (Cox proportional hazard ratio 1.63, 95%
      confidence interval 1.11-2.38; p = 0.01), earlier retirement, and greater utilization of
      social financial assistance . Monk et al. found that the risk of death within one year was
      greater among patients who had POCD when they were discharged from the hospital .

      CABG and valve surgery most commonly use the extracorporeal cardiopulmonary bypass machine to
      perfuse the body during cardiac surgery. The aorta is cross-clamped to allow work and
      suturing in a near bloodless field. The major blood branches to the brain come off the aorta.
      When the aorta is cross-clamped, the brain undergoes a period of ischemia. While the patient
      is on bypass, the body and brain are kept at low temperatures to quell the effects of
      ischemia. Temperature elevation has been proposed to have an all-or-none response with a
      defined threshold beyond which the increased temperature aggravates ischemic injury.
      Hyperthermia leads to physiological and structural changes in the brain which include
      alterations of enzyme activity and damage to cytoskeletal proteins found in the brain. In
      addition, hyperthermia causes a release of excitatory neurotransmitters, the production of
      free radicals, an increase in blood-brain barrier permeability, and increase in intracellular
      acidosis after ischemic reperfusion all of which have all been proposed as mechanisms through
      which hyperthermia leads to brain tissue injury and can exacerbate ischemic brain injury .

      Intraoperative temperature during cardiac surgery has long been thought to have an
      association with postoperative neurological outcomes, and has been well studied. In
      mitigating neuroinflammation and subsequent brain injury, intraoperative hypothermia as
      compared with normothermia has been the subject of much debate, and outcomes have varied
      considerably in various studies. The process of rewarming patients as they gradually
      disengage from cardiopulmonary bypass has been noted as another important process in
      modulating neuroprotection, and has al-so been studied extensively. Nearly all studies have
      associated a slower rate of intraoperative rewarming with a decreased incidence of POCD.

      Postoperative hyperthermia is a much less well-studied phenomenon. It occurs in approximately
      30% of all CABG patients , and one study has associated it with POCD, noting that patients
      with supra-normal temperatures in the first 24-hour postoperative period following CABG have
      poorer cognitive outcomes when compared to those with normal temperatures in this setting .

      At our institution and many others, the current standard of care pertaining to postoperative
      hyperthermia management in cardiac surgery patients involves treatment with acetaminophen and
      room temperature if it rises to greater than or equal to 38.3 degrees.

      The Altrix Precision Temperature Management System, and specifically the Rapr Round® product,
      offers a means by which medical staff may be able to control temperature in cardiac surgery
      patients postoperatively, while preventing fever from occurring and in per our hypothesis,
      may be able to decrease short term POCD and its associated sequelae in this patient
      population. This temperature management system is intended for circulating temperature
      controlled warm or cold water via patient contact thermal transfer devices for the
      application of regulating human body temperature in situations where a physician or clinician
      with prescription privileges determines that temperature therapy is necessary or desirable.

      For this study, the Rapr Round® vest and leg wraps are placed around the torso and legs of
      the patient and adjust body temperature by circulating water through channels in the wrap. In
      this case the wraps will be used to maintain patient temperature in the intervention group at
      36.5 +/- 0.2 degrees Celsius, or normothermia.
    
  