
    
      This is a prospective multicenter study of patients diagnosed with a medium to giant
      incisional hernia (transverse defect >7 cm). Patients referred to the surgical outpatient
      clinic are invited to participate in the study. As a standard, all patients who are examined
      for incisional hernia undergo CT scan according to a hernia protocol, before planning of
      surgical repair (baseline scan). After this CT scan, patients are seen in the out-patient
      clinic once again and either treated conservatively without surgery, or scheduled for
      elective surgical repair of the hernia.

      If surgery is planned, the patients participating in the study undergo an additional CT scan
      in hernia protocol, within two weeks prior to surgery (follow-up scan). In case no baseline
      scan in hernia protocol exists, patients will undergo this scan immediately after inclusion
      in the study. Furthermore, patients will be asked to fill out a questionnaire on physical
      activity (IPAQ) and hernia-related quality of life (HerQLes) at the time of the baseline and
      follow-up scans. IPAQ is a well-validated questionnaire, which assesses patients' physical
      activity within the last 7 days. The outcome is metabolic minutes per week, a numerical value
      which places the responder in one of three categories: Low, moderate or high physical
      activity. HerQLes is a validated questionnaire assessing the hernia-related quality of life.
      This questionnaire has been translated into Danish using a standardized protocol. The outcome
      is a numerical score of 0-100, with 100 being the highest hernia-related quality of life.
      Currently, the time from planning of hernia repair to surgery is approximately 30 weeks.
      Thus, the mean time between the two CT scans should be around 28-32 weeks.

      If a conservative non-surgical approach is chosen, patients can still participate in the
      study and will undergo an additional CT scan after 28-32 weeks.
    
  