
    
      Women (N = 30) who are at least 18 years of age with minimally normal body weight (BMI ≥ 18.5
      kg/m2) and exhibit clinically significant binge eating (BE; ≥ 2 BE episodes/week over the
      previous 3 months) and clinically significant impairment will be eligible to participate.
      Binge eating will be defined as described in the DSM-5: consuming an objectively large amount
      of food in a discrete period of time while experiencing a sense of loss of control over
      eating. The minimum frequency of 2 BE episodes/week will prevent a statistical floor effect
      from making decreases in BE frequency too small to reliably detect. Further, this frequency
      should ensure that a sufficient number of BE events occur during the sampling period. A
      nontreatment-seeking sample is appropriate because the vast majority of individuals with
      eating disorders do not seek treatment (e.g., 6% of individuals with bulimia nervosa receive
      mental health services per year).

      Participants will be recruited from the community using advertisements (e.g., flyers,
      newspaper ads, listservs, social media). Advertisements will inform interested individuals
      that they can complete a brief online or phone-based eligibility screen. Individuals who
      appear eligible on the online screen will be called by a trained research assistant to
      confirm the screening results. Thus, all prospective participants will be screened by a
      trained research assistant over the phone. The eligibility screen is modeled off an existing
      validated tool (i.e., the Eating Disorder Diagnostic Scale) that is modified to assess
      specific inclusion/exclusion criteria.

      Individuals will be excluded for several factors that impact hormone function, weight, or
      appetite or may result in changes in binge eating, including medical conditions and/or
      medication use in the past 6 weeks months and underweight status, or receiving psychotherapy
      or psychotropic medication for the 6 weeks prior to study entry. In addition, individuals for
      whom engaging in the manipulation may be dangerous (e.g., those with diabetes or bipolar
      disorder) will be excluded. Individuals who appear to meet study eligibility based on the
      telephone screening and are interested in participating will be scheduled for their baseline
      appointment.

      Baseline Assessment The baseline appointment will begin by obtaining informed consent.
      Participants will be informed of their rights as research participants, the foreseeable risks
      involved in participation, expected benefits, and other relevant issues (e.g., remuneration
      schedule).Body Mass Index (BMI) will be assessed via height and weight measured with a
      stadiometer and digital scale. Inclusion/exclusion criteria will be confirmed via clinical
      interviews: Eating Disorders Examination (EDE) and Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-5
      Axis I disorders (SCID-I). The EDE will be used to confirm current eating disorder symptoms
      and diagnoses. The SCID-I will be used to assess lifetime history of an eating disorder, and
      current and lifetime presence of other Axis I disorders that frequently co-occur with eating
      disorders. The SCID interview will also be used to assess exclusion criteria (e.g., bipolar
      disorder). Interviews will conducted by doctoral students in clinical psychology who are
      equivalent to master's degree level mental health professionals. They will be trained by the
      PI. Their interviews will be audio recorded to assess interrater reliability. Participants
      will also complete baseline self-report measures at this visit. These include the Clinical
      Impairment Assessment, the Change in Eating Disorder Symptoms scale, the Pittsburgh Sleep
      Quality Index, the Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression scale - Revised, the
      Positive and Negative Affect Schedule, and Subjective Appetite Scales. Prior to leaving this
      baseline appointment, research assistants will train participants on the use of the therapy
      light box, the Actiwatch device, and on the proper collection of saliva samples, and they
      will explain what appointment reminders participants should expect, in addition to querying
      their preferred method of reminder delivery (e.g., phone call, text, or email).

      Ecological Momentary Assessment (EMA) At the first day of the 22-day sampling period, EMA
      data collection will begin to capture daily eating patterns and subjective loss of control
      during eating and negative mood. Signal-contingent ratings will be semi-randomly sampled six
      times per day during waking hours. These will assess the strength of negative mood. These
      ratings will be made when the Actiwatch device alerts participants by vibrating that a rating
      is being requested. These assessments take only a moment to complete using an ordered rating
      scale. Participants will also be asked to complete ratings following eating episodes
      (Event-contingent ratings). They will indicate the extent of loss of control experienced and
      the strength of negative mood. These data will allow the investigators to evaluate daily
      patterns in the timing of eating and rates of dysregulated eating episodes. All ratings
      provided (i.e., regardless of the type of EMA sampling schedule) are time stamped, so that
      reports cannot be retrospectively completed or backdated. Data are saved locally to the
      device and are downloaded when participants return the device to the lab.

      Randomization The covariate adaptive randomization method will be used to accomplish
      randomization of participants to conditions while assuring that participants are equally
      allocated to each of the two conditions (i.e., normal light first or bright light first).

      Normal Light (control) During the normal light phase, participants will be instructed to sit
      with their faces approximately 22 inches away from the therapy light for 30 minutes each day,
      starting 30 minutes after waking. The lights will be preset to deliver ~500lux at this
      distance. This phase will last 10 days. On the 10th day, participants will return the light
      to the lab (and if this was their first light phase, pick up a new light) and complete
      self-report measures. These measures include the the Change in Eating Disorders Symptoms
      scale, the Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression scale - Revised, and subjective
      appetite scales.

      Bright Light Manipulation (active) During the bright light phase, participants will be
      instructed to sit with their faces approximately 22 inches away from the therapy light for 30
      minutes each day, starting 30 minutes after waking. The lights will be preset to deliver
      ~10,000lux at this distance. This phase will last 10 days. On the 10th day, participants will
      return the light to the lab (and if this was their first light phase, pick up a new light)
      and complete self-report measures. These measures include the the Change in Eating Disorders
      Symptoms scale, the Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression scale - Revised, and
      subjective appetite scales.

      Actiwatch Spectrum PRO® The Actiwatch Spectrum PRO® by Philips Respironics is a wrist-worn
      device that quantifies movement using 3-axis accelerometry. The device uses a cantilevered
      piezoelectric beam to measure the direction and intensity of movement. In combination with
      the accompanying software, validated algorithms compute sleep and wake times, sleep
      efficiency, and nighttime awakenings and provide information on daytime activity. Movement
      data are sampled in 1-minute epochs, which the device can store for up to 30 days of
      continuous monitoring without charging or needing to upload data. This epoch length allows
      for a largely uninterrupted view of movement, and therefore precise timing of the sleep
      period. In addition to the accelerometer, this device contains an ambient light monitor,
      which uses a photodiode element with a spectral frequency responsivity that is similar to the
      human eye (i.e., 330 to 720 nanometers), characterizing the brightness of light falling on
      the device from 0.1 to 150,000 lux (+/-2%). The data collected with the light monitor can be
      a useful adjunct to the sleep algorithm, as changes to ambient light are often driven by
      behavioral constraints on the sleep episode. Critically, for this study, the measurement of
      light will allow for quantifying participants' exposure to naturally occurring light during
      the period of manipulation of light in addition to confirming adherence to the light
      manipulation itself. Finally, this device is waterproof at 1 meter for 30 minutes, meaning
      participants can do all normal daily tasks while wearing the device, except swimming/diving.

      Hormone Assessment Saliva samples for cortisol will be collected on six days: the first and
      second days (prior to any light manipulation), the 11th and 12th days (at the end of the
      first light manipulation) and the 21st and 22nd days (at the end of the second light
      manipulation).

      Salivary Cortisol: Cortisol awakening response levels will be collected at home via passive
      drool saliva samples (0.5 ml) at three times: immediately upon waking, 15 minutes after
      waking, and 30 minutes after waking. Cortisol saliva-serum correlations are high (r = .91),
      and saliva is advantageous over serum because collection is less invasive and levels reflect
      the biologically active fraction of the hormone. Standard collection (e.g., no brushing their
      teeth, eating, chewing gum for 1 hour prior) and storage (i.e., immediately freeze at -20 °C)
      procedures will be followed. Samples will be analyzed using commercially available high
      sensitivity enzyme immunoassays kits from Salimetrics, LLC (Carlsbad, CA, USA). Salimetrics
      cortisol assay characteristics are excellent in terms of minimum detection, intra-assay and
      inter-assay coefficients, spike recovery, and linearity, and samples will be run in
      triplicate to ensure reliable results. Samples will be tested according to the testing
      protocol provided by Salimetrics, LLC.
    
  