
    
      First, the effects of the baseline toileting program are assessed. Baseline consists of
      prompting the child to use the bathroom approximately every 90 min (or more frequently if
      they independently request to do so). If the investigators observe low levels of continence,
      appropriate eliminations, and/or independent/self requests, components of the program are
      systematically altered to increase success. The ultimate goal is for the child to remain
      continent throughout the day, independently request (or initiate) toilet use, and
      appropriately eliminate in the toilet once in the bathroom. The following procedural
      modifications are made if high levels of success are not observed in baseline:

      The first modification is to change the child's undergarment type. Specifically, underwear
      will be used, and it's effects will be evaluated to determine what effect (if any) underwear
      has on toileting performance.

      The second modification is to conduct an individualized preference assessment to identify
      types of food and leisure items a given child prefers. This is done by having the child
      select items from an array (items selected based on direct observations of child and
      parent/teacher report) and allowing him/her access to the chosen item for a brief period of
      time. This will generate a list of preferred items/activities ranked in order of relative
      preference. Subsequently, the highest ranked items from the preference assessment will be
      arranged as reinforcers for continence, appropriate eliminations, and self-initiations. A
      third modification is to combine the above modifications to determine whether a combination
      of toilet training procedures enhances toileting performance (as compare to the
      implementation of individual toilet training procedures). This modification will be conducted
      while children wear underwear.
    
  