
    
      A novel coronavirus, now termed Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2),
      arose late in 2019. The first confirmed cases occurred in December in Wuhan, Hubei province,
      China. It now infects people on six continents, spreading person to person. The World Health
      Organization (WHO) classified it as a global pandemic on March 11, 2020. As of April 6, 2020,
      there are more than 1.2 million confirmed cases and more than 70,000 deaths attributed to
      this virus. Every person on Earth, as well as every United States Veteran, is at risk. This
      is the emergent public health threat of our time.

      SARS-CoV-2 is a singled stranded RNA virus related to severe acute respiratory
      syndrome-related coronavirus (SARS-CoV-1). SARS-CoV-2 is thought to be transmissible largely
      by respiratory droplets or direct contact, but might also be transmitted through
      aerosolization. SARS-CoV-2 disease severity ranges from no to minimal symptoms, mildly
      symptomatic with cough and dyspnea, to severe respiratory distress with multi-organ failure
      requiring admission to an intensive care unit and emergent ventilator support. Although data
      are evolving, the severity of illness varies with age, co-existing comorbidities, and
      biological sex, with older age, people with pre-existing cardiovascular disease, and males
      manifesting greater disease severity.

      A worldwide effort is in place to contain and suppress human-to-human transmission. These
      public-health strategies aim to slow the rate of spread and reduce the burden on critical
      care infrastructure. However, there is also a need effective therapeutics. Vaccine trials are
      underway but potential approvals are at least a year away. Development of new drugs de novo
      to treat SARS2-CoV-2 will likely take even longer. Thus, the most expedient therapeutic
      strategy to confront this pandemic will repurpose existing FDA-approved therapeutics. One
      potential strategy targets viral components directly, using existing antivirals and
      anti-infectives currently used for other diseases. Such efforts include trials of
      hydroxychloroquine, remdesivir, and ribavirin. Another strategy involves targeting the human
      proteins, rather than viral proteins, required for SARS CoV-2 entry and replication.
    
  