
    
      Lower respiratory tract infections include hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP) and ventilator-
      associated pneumonia (VAP) with a very high mortality in critically ill patients. Diagnosis
      is difficult with an inherent uncertainty and complicated by comorbidity, lack of routines
      for high-quality airway sampling and low sensitivity of routine microbiological tests. There
      is limited data on the aetiology and burden from HAP and VAP, and to the investigators
      knowledge, no previous prospective HAP and VAP studies has been performed in Norway. In the
      absence of rapid and accurate microbiological diagnosis, seriously ill HAP and VAP patients
      are often provided broad-spectrum antibiotics that have to be active on putative multi-drug
      resistant (MDR) bacteria, as failure to initiate prompt adequate therapy is associated with
      increased mortality. Overuse of broad-spectrum antibiotics promotes the selection and
      dissemination of MDR bacteria.

      HVAPNOR brings together a multidisciplinary research team from Norwegian (Haukeland
      University Hospital (HUS), University of Bergen (UoB), Vestre Viken Hospital Trust (VVHF),
      and international institutions (Denmark, Netherlands and United Kingdom), with a strong
      record in respiratory disease research.

      The overall aims of the HVAPNOR study are to improve diagnostic methods, antibiotic
      stewardship, treatment and management of HAP and VAP. The investigators will in a Norwegian
      context, map the incidence and the aetiology of HAP/VAP infections. During a two-year period,
      adult HAP and VAP patients admitted at HUS and VVHF, will be identified and voluntarily
      included in a prospective descriptive study. The project will strengthen the routines for
      adequate airway sampling and assess if provision of ultra-rapid, high-quality accurate
      molecular diagnostics will provide a more comprehensive microbiological etiological diagnose
      than routine analysis. A direct feedback to the clinician can facilitate pathogen-directed
      usage of antibiotics. We will evaluate the potential of molecular diagnostic platforms for
      the detection of pathogens and antimicrobial markers in HAP and VAP. Furthermore, the
      investigators will identify barriers that inhibit the acceptance of rapid molecular tests;
      and contribute to the optimisation of treatment protocols for HAP and VAP.

      Finally, the study will also evaluate and identify new and clinically relevant diagnostic and
      prognostic biomarkers, including immune biomarkers and transcriptional profiling, in HAP and
      VAP.

      The HVAPNOR study is in line with the objectives of the funding agencies, addresses clinical
      research activities to help to ensure that patients receive high-quality and reliable
      diagnostics and optimized treatment.
    
  