
    
      Plinabulin is a microtubule destabilizing agent (MDA) that inhibits the polymerization of
      tubulin monomers with resultant vascular disrupting properties. Plinabulin inhibits tumor
      growth by targeting both angiogenesis and tumor vasculature as well as directly by inducing
      apoptosis via the Ras-JNK pathway. It also may activate anti-tumor immunity via inducing
      maturation of dendritic cells (DC) and triggering release of pro-inflammatory cytokines.
      Plinabulin could therefore have a synergic anti-tumor effect when combined with
      immune-checkpoint inhibitors. This hypothesis has been confirmed in a murine model bearing
      subcutaneous MC38 colon cancers using other MDAs, including ansamitocin P3, which induces DC
      maturation similar to that of plinabulin. Plinabulin has been tested in a randomized phase 2
      trial in combination of docetaxel and showed similar response rate to that of docetaxel
      alone, but with a significantly longer duration of response.

      Nivolumab is an inhibitor of the programmed cell death receptor-1 checkpoint pathway (PD-1)
      that has superior activity in NSCLC, regardless of tumor histology, comparing to standard of
      care. In this study, we plan to combine nivolumab with escalating doses of plinabulin to
      determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and /or recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) of the
      combination. An expansion cohort will be enrolled at RP2D to further assess toxicities and to
      evaluate preliminary anti-tumor activity.

      This is a single-center, phase 1 dose finding trial of plinabulin, combining with FDA
      approved dose of nivolumab, using a 3+3 design in patients with metastatic NSCLC who
      progressed after chemotherapy, including a platinum-containing regimen. Patients will receive
      plinabulin at escalating doses in combination with nivolumab. Doses of plinabulin and
      nivolumab will be administered as intravenous infusions in 4-week cycles. Patients will
      receive both medications on Days 1 and 15 and additional dose of plinabulin on Day 8.
      Plinabulin will be administered 60 minutes after the completion of nivolumab.
    
  