
    
      Background Fusion of the spine was introduced in 1911 for the management of deformity and is
      currently used to relieve pain and restore function in patients diagnosed with degenerative
      disc disease. Degenerative conditions of the spine resulting in functionally limiting back
      pain or neck, and arm pain with or without extremity pain and dysfunction are a major problem
      in today's world. Recommended treatment for these conditions can vary initially from bed
      rest, exercise, traction, manipulation and drug therapy to eventual surgery.

      One of the most common neck conditions that occurs among people older than 50 years is
      cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM). This may produce symptoms of cervical radiculopathy,
      myelopathy, or both. Over time, the normal wear-and-tear effects of aging can lead to a
      narrowing of the spinal canal. This compresses or squeezes the spinal cord. CSM can cause a
      variety of symptoms, including pain, numbness, and weakness. When patients with degenerative
      cervical disease require surgery, an anterior decompression of the neural elements and
      reconstruction of the anterior column with allograft, bone graft substitutes or autograft is
      common. These types of reconstruction surgery can be referred to as Spinal fusion. The
      objective of spinal fusion is to eliminate motion of the vertebral body and thereby relieve
      pain.

      An anterior cervical corpectomy, fusion and instrumentation, is usually performed for
      patients who have pressure on their nerves or spinal cord in their neck. This pressure can
      lead to pain, weakness or numbness in the arms and occasionally in the legs as well. If
      non-operative treatment such as medications and therapy are ineffective, patients may require
      surgery in order to relieve the pressure off their spinal cord and nerves.

      Anterior cervical corpectomy (ACC) and fusion is performed for patients with symptomatic,
      progressive cervical spinal stenosis and myelopathy. It is performed to remove the large,
      arthritic osteophytes (bone spurs) that are compressing the spinal cord and spinal nerves.
      However, in order to do so generally involves removing nearly the entire vertebral body and
      disc, which must be replaced with a piece of bone graft or bone graft substitute and mended
      (fused) together to maintain stability.

      Neurosurgeons and orthopedic surgeons are performing bone grafting procedures more
      frequently. Surgical applications include treating bone defects, fracture fixation, spinal
      fusion and in the revision of failed total joint arthroplasties. According to data collected
      by the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons, more than 500,000 bone graft procedures are
      performed annually in the United States.

      The most common source of bone graft used to be autograft, the transfer of a small piece of
      the patient's own bone from one site, usually the iliac crest, to another. However, the
      amount that can be harvested safely is limited; it increases surgery time and may be
      complicated by donor site morbidity. The use of allograft, supplying bone graft from other
      patients via bone banks, overcomes these difficulties. However, the demand for allograft now
      exceeds the supply, there is a small but finite risk of disease transmission, and it is
      highly variable in strength. These factors have led to increasing interest in the use of
      synthetic bone graft substitutes.

      This study will assess the fusion rates along with the clinical outcomes for the use of
      Actifuse Synthetic Bone Graft substitutes mixed with bone marrow aspirate and autograft mixed
      with demineralized bone matrix in cervical spine fusion. Actifuse is a synthetic, porous,
      silicate-substituted hydroxyapatite and has shown that this maximizes a favorable bony
      response.

      Study Design This randomized study will be conducted prospectively. The clinical and
      radiological outcomes of subjects undergoing anterior cervical corpectomy will be documented.
      There will be a total of 40 subjects enrolled, 20 in each arm - Actifuse with BMA versus
      autograft with DBM. It is anticipated that the study length will be 42 months this is based
      on a recruitment period of 18 months followed by a 24 month post-operative follow-up period
      for each patient included in the study. Subjects will be randomized 1:1 per arm.
      Randomization will be established at the study site by sealed envelopes accessed at the time
      of surgery. The sample size of 40 patients will allow statistical comparison between the 2
      arms based on a postulated fusion rate of 85 %. Given that this is a single center study with
      recruitment over 18 months, the total of 40 subjects is a reasonable goal.

      Patient Population Subjects enrolled in this study will be identified from the surgeon's
      medical practice and will include subjects who have failed conservative treatment and have
      been identified by their own physician as requiring anterior cervical corpectomy, fusion and
      instrumentation.

      Subjects will be suffering from symptoms with the primary diagnosis of cervical spondylotic
      myelopathy or cervical spinal stenosis in one to four contiguous levels between C3 and T1.

      Data Collection The clinical site's research coordinator or nurse will complete case report
      forms. Data will be collected prospectively, after the patient has agreed to participate in
      the study by signing the consent form. Data will be collected from the patient's medical
      records, departmental based electronic records and radiographic reports to verify
      eligibility. Once the patient is verified eligible for the study, data will be collected from
      the same sources above. Information will be captured on case report forms. The patient will
      also complete questionnaire forms. The information collected will be used for study analysis
      results.

      Parameters To Be Assessed Demographics, medical history, X-ray results, quality of life
      (SF-36), CT Scan results, Concomitant medications, adverse events, pregnancy test, Body Mass
      Index (BMI), Concomitant therapies, diagnosis, comorbidities, fusion rate, visual analogue
      scale (VAS) for pain, Neck Disability Index (NDI) Questionnaire, Neurological examination
      results, clinical assessments and device malfunction, type and duration of surgery, OR room
      time, bone graft details, blood loss, length of hospital stay (LOS),return to work, revision
      surgeries and complications.
    
  