
    
      Prostate brachytherapy is an increasingly popular treatment for clinically localized prostate
      cancer.In properly selected patients, it is highly effective with biochemical (PSA) disease
      free survival rates of 80-87% at 5-10 years.However, the technique is currently limited by
      the inability to localize the cancer within the prostate. The multifocal nature of prostate
      cancer is well established. Because of the inability to know where within the prostate the
      cancer is located, radiation must be delivered throughout the gland. Although this blind
      approach leads to good results, it is clear that there are regions of the prostate and
      surrounding tissue that are overexposed to radiation while others are underexposed relative
      to their true need based on their tumor burden and their proximity to the tumor areas.Feleppa
      et al. at Riverside Research Institute (New York, NY), a non-profit ultrasound research
      center, have developed an ultrasound-based technique to identify cancer-containing areas
      within the prostate. This technique uses current ultrasound equipment already in use for
      prostate brachytherapy guidance. By extracting and processing the radiofrequency signal
      obtained from the ultrasound transducer in ways not done to create the standard B-mode
      ultrasound image, areas of cancer can be identified and displayed overlying the standard
      B-mode ultrasound image.In this study, we propose to obtain these ultrasound-based
      cancer-specific images of the prostate prior to the brachytherapy and use them to direct the
      dosimetry planning.The primary goal of this study is to demonstrate that this imaging
      modality can be incorporated into the treatment planning process for brachytherapy.
      Furthermore, we wish to demonstrate the improved dosimetry of the cancer-identified regions
      while maintaining the urethral dose guidelines noted above. We also wish to compare the
      differences in dose to the other adjacent normal structures (anterior rectum and right and
      left neurovascular bundles). Additionally, we seek to demonstrate, at a minimum, no increased
      toxicity with this approach and similar disease control rates. Of course, ultimately the goal
      will be to demonstrate a superior therapeutic ratio with this technique.
    
  