
    
      This study will be a prospective randomized controlled trial.

      Based on available literature and clinical experience, we expect a twenty percent decrease in
      gastrointestinal disturbances by avoiding intraoperative irrigation at the time of cesarean
      section. With the type 1 error rate set at 0.05 and a power of 0.90; this will require 184
      patients in each arm (irrigation versus no irrigation) to obtain an adequate sample size.
      Paper copies of written consent and any identifying information will be kept in a secured,
      locked file. All data collected will be stored in a password protected computer file that
      will be accessible only to the investigators.

      Patients will be identified at the time of admission to the Labor and Delivery unit. A
      physician will discuss the study with the patient. After time for consideration and having
      had all questions answered the patient will then be consented for the trial. Consent will be
      obtained at the time of admission to the Labor and Delivery unit. If the patient has a
      successful vaginal delivery the patient will not enter the study. If the patient requires a
      cesarean section the patient will be randomized either in to an irrigation or a nonirrigation
      group. Assignment will be performed by pulling sequentially numbered opaque envelopes
      containing computer-randomized individual allocations. This randomization will be carried out
      by research staff before the initiation of the study, and the patients will be blinded to
      treatment once assigned. Information regarding basic demographic data, comorbidities that may
      affect infection rates (diabetes, hypertension, ect), interventions during labor, and post
      partum course will be obtained from the patients' charts.

      The two arms will differ only in intraoperative management of the patient after delivery of
      the baby. Patients in the irrigation arm will receive a cesarean section with irrigation of
      the abdominal cavity with 500-1000mL of warm normal saline after closure of the uterine
      incision but prior to the closure of the abdominal wall. In addition all blood clots and
      other debris will be evacuated from the paracolic gutters, anterior and posterior culdesacs,
      and under the bladder flap. The nonirrigation group will receive Joel-Cohen cesarean section
      without the irrigation with normal saline. This group will also have any large debris
      including blood clots evacuated. Both groups will undergo standard closure of the abdominal
      wall, including reapproximation of the rectus muscles and suturing of the rectus fascia with
      running nonlocking absorbable suture. Prefascial irrigation of the subcutaneous tissues
      superior to the closed fascia will be done in both groups. Staples or absorbable suture will
      be used for skin closure. In addition all patients will receive a standardized dose of 1 gram
      of a first generation cephalosporin or 900mg clindamycin intravenously as antibiotic
      prophylaxis at the time of umbilical cord clamping.

      As per standard of care, the post partum care will include vital signs every 4 hours
      including patient report of pain level and nausea, discontinuation of the foley catheter and
      advancement of the diet on postoperative day one, daily examination of the incision, notation
      of return of gastrointestinal function, early ambulation, and a complete blood count on the
      first postoperative day.

      The primary outcome of measure will be maternal GI disturbance. This will be defined as
      nausea or emesis during the cesarean section as well as any nausea requiring medical
      intervention during her hospitalization. The time to return of bowel function will also be
      recorded. The secondary outcome of measure is the incidence of maternal infectious morbidity,
      defined as endometritis. This will be diagnosed with two or more of the following are
      present: abnormally tender uterus on exam, temperature greater than 100.4°F at any time
      postoperatively, unexplained maternal tachycardia greater than 100 beats per minute. Patients
      will also be monitored for wound infections daily by visual inspection of the incision.
      Diagnosis will be made if any erythema, tenderness, discharge or separation occurs with
      maternal fever. Post operative care providers will be blinded to group assignment to avoid
      any potential bias.

      The investigators will collect the data, perform data entry, and review charts to ensure
      accuracy of information provided by the treating physician. Periodic reviews of the data
      entry will be performed to ensure completeness and accuracy.
    
  