
    
      Breast cancer has been one of the most common malignant tumors with highest morbidity and
      mortality that threatens women's health worldwide. Among US women, there were 250,000 new
      invasive breast cancers and 40,000 breast cancer deaths in 2017. In the US, 12.4% women
      develop breast cancer in their lifetime, and the incidence of breast cancer in women over 50
      years of age has increased significantly. Although the development of molecular typing and
      comprehensive treatments have significantly improved the prognosis of breast cancer patients,
      the recurrence and metastasis of breast cancer is still the main cause of death in breast
      cancer patients.

      TNBC accounts for about 20% of clinical breast cancer. Clinical characteristics include early
      onset, high malignancy and heterogeneity. There is no effective drug target for TNBC,
      resulting in poor outcomes, high relapse rate and distant metastasis. So, further research on
      TNBC pathological features is particularly important.

      Paclitaxel is a natural secondary metabolite isolated and purified from the bark of Taxus
      chinensis. It has been clinically proven to have a good anti-tumor effect. However,
      polyoxyethylene castor oil/ethanol is often used as a solvent for paclitaxel in clinical
      practice, and this solvent-based paclitaxel is prone to causing severe allergic reactions,
      even aggravating myelosuppression and neurotoxicity. In addition, the solvent-based
      paclitaxel can also influence the efficacy of other drugs by inhibiting albumin-mediated drug
      delivery. nab-P is a novel paclitaxel that can compensate for the adverse effects of
      solvent-based paclitaxel and have good efficacy and safety. Compared with the solvent-based
      paclitaxel, nab-P demonstrates a stronger therapeutic effect. With albumin nanoparticles as a
      carrier, nab-P increases the concentration of extra-tumor drugs by passing through the
      albumin receptor (Gp60) transmembrane pathway and the secreted protein acidic and rich in
      cysteine (SPARC) approach that binds to the extracellular matrix of the tumor. Numerous
      clinical trials have found that nab-P is superior to the solvent-based paclitaxel in the
      treatment of breast cancer, especially in breast cancer with poor prognosis. However, the
      current efficacy of nab-P in the treatment of TNBC has not been fully verified. The mechanism
      underlying the killing effect of nab-P on TNBC breast cancer cells remains unclear yet.

      This trial will compare the therapeutic effect of nab-P with solvent-based paclitaxel in TNBC
      patients, and seek for important scientific clues, scientific evidence, and clinical data for
      nab-P in the treatment of TNBC.
    
  