
    
      This will be a randomized controlled trial to assess patient preparedness following a
      preoperative counseling in person visit when compared to a preoperative counseling phone
      call.

      Recruitment & Enrollment: Participants will be recruited and enrolled from the urogynecology
      office during their surgical planning visit. The study will be introduced at this visit and
      participants will have the opportunity to bring the consent home to review and consider their
      participation prior to signing.

      Randomization: Participants will be block randomized in a 1:1 ratio in block size of 2.
      Randomization will be done by REDCap. The participant will not be blinded given the nature of
      the intervention. Additionally, the attending surgeon, fellow and office staff (advanced
      practice providers, research staff, medical assistants) will be aware of the randomization
      group as they will be participating in the preoperative intervention or perioperative
      clinical care.

      Intervention: Both the preoperative counseling visit and preoperative phone call will contain
      the same components of discussion and counseling which include surgical details, risks and
      benefits, preoperative and postoperative instructions and expectations. The visit will take
      place in the urogynecology office and the visits and phone calls will be done by either a
      fellow or advanced practice provider, all of whom have extensive experience with the
      standardized preoperative visit.

      Follow up: A postoperative phone call will be completed either POD#1 or POD#2 to remind the
      participant to complete their daily pain diary. Each participant will follow up for their
      standard postoperative visit approximately 4-6 weeks postoperative. All patients routinely
      receive a call on POD#1 from our nurses to assess how they are doing postoperatively. This
      phone call will continue unchanged for all participants.
    
  