
    
      This study will include two major populations: (1) the Adult Repeat Cross Sectional study
      (ARCS) will involve 125 healthy Kenya-residents male and female aged 18 years and above; and
      (2) the Pediatric Infant Cohort (PIC) will include 300 healthy male and female infants who
      are residents of Kenya. In addition, 20 healthy adult US residents, who have no self-reported
      history of malaria exposure, infection or travel to malaria endemic areas of the world, will
      serve as Malaria Naive Negative Controls (MNNC). The adult (ARCS) study will consist of 6
      venous blood donations to be completed in one year. The primary outcome of the ACRS is to
      determine the stability of Immune responses to MSP-1 who are clinically protected against P.
      falciparum infections and the secondary outcome is to measure the level and stability of
      MSP-1 specific IIA activity, MSP-1 specific T-cell memory phenotypes and immune functions and
      lastly, to determine the MSP-1 genotypes. The PIC study is both home and clinic-based. The
      overall duration of this study will be three years. The subjects will be recruited during
      their routine immunizations visit. The data and sample collections consist of monthly
      home-visits interspersed by clinic-visits every 6 months until the child reaches 3 years old.
      The primary outcome of the PIC study is to evaluate the development of humoral and cellular
      immunity to MSP-1 in healthy children in relation to their history of P. falciparum
      infections, number of episodes of uncomplicated acute malarial infections in the first 3
      years of life and secondary outcome is to measure the acquisition of MSP-1 specific IIA
      activity, shifts in T-cell memory phenotypes and amalaira-specific immunity and their
      association with the history of exposure to P. falciparum MSP-1 alleleic variants. For the
      MNNS study, the primary objective is to optimize molecular and immunologic assays to be used
      in Kenya and to determine background level responses in healthy adult and the secondary
      outcomes aims to measure the level of MSP-1 specific IIA-activity, T-cell memory phenotypes
      and any non-specific immunity to malaria antigens and to provide negative control DNA for P.
      falciparum detection and genotyping studies. The result of these studies will provide insight
      into how the frequency and intensity of prior malaria infection and antigenic polymorphism
      influence the generation and maintenance of T-cell memory and AB responses to merozoite
      surface proteins in humans.
    
  