
    
      Study subjects Men and women at least 18 years of age, receiving HD for at least 3 months,
      with serum P concentrations 45.5 mg/dL at the end of the washout period, and on a stable dose
      of P binder and/or active vitamin D (if prescribed previously) for at least 1 month before
      the study were eligible for study participation. Patients were excluded if they did not
      respond to P binder therapy previously, had a known noncompliance with oral medications
      (e.g., failure to ﬁll a prescription or to take medications as prescribed), severe
      hyperparathyroidism deﬁned as intact-PTH (i-PTH) 4500 pg/mL, were taking any calcium (Ca)-,
      magnesium-, or aluminum-containing antacids or used an investigational agent within 30 days
      of study entry.

      Study design This study was approved by the University of Illinois at Chicago Institutional
      Review Board. Informed consent was obtained from the subjects before any study procedures
      were initiated. One week before the administration of crushed or chewed lanthanum, the
      subjects were in-structed to discontinue their P-binding agents (calcium carbonate, calcium
      acetate, sevelamer hydrochloride, and/or lanthanum carbonate), if prescribed previously. At
      the end of the 1-week washout period, subjects whose serum P exceeded 5.5 mg/dL were
      randomized to receive, in a crossover fashion, lanthanum 1000 mg (Fosrenol, Shire US Inc.,
      Wayne, PA, USA) 3 times daily to be chewed with meals (chewed LAN) or lanthanum 1000 mg
      crushed into a ﬁne powder and taken with meals 3 times daily (crushed LAN), for 4 weeks each.
      The lanthanum tablets were crushed into a ﬁne powder using a mortar and pestle by the
      investigators, individually wrapped in powder packets and dispensed to the subjects on a
      weekly basis. The subjects were instructed to empty the powder into a small plastic cup
      provided, mix with 2 tablespoonfuls of applesauce and take it with meals. After each
      treatment (chewed or crushed LAN), there was a 1-week washout period.

      Throughout the course of the study, the subjects were asked to keep a constant dietary P
      intake. In addition, each subject was provided with a dietary log for recording their daily
      dietary intake.

      Sample collection and study endpoints Blood samples were collected at the end of each washout
      period (baseline) and weekly (weeks 1-4) during lanthanum treatment for the determination of
      serum P, Ca, i-PTH, and albumin (alb) concentrations. Changes in serum P from baseline for
      crushed and chewed lanthanum were compared. In addition, the study subjects were asked to
      complete a questionnaire to assess the presence of any study-related adverse events at the
      end of each treatment arm.

      Statistical considerations Assuming a coefﬁcient variation of 15% to 25% for serum P
      concentrations, a sample size of 11 to 15 was estimated to provide at least 80% power to
      detect a 25% difference in serum P between study treatments, using a 2-sided test and a of
      0.05. Statistical analyses were performed using PASW (SPSS), version 17.0 (Chicago, IL, USA).
      Descriptive statistics were used to report all results. The changes in serum P, Ca, i-PTH,
      and alb were compared between the 2 treatment arms using paired sample t test. A P value
      <0.05 was considered statistically significant.
    
  