
    
      Adults who meet ICSD-3 criteria for Advanced Sleep Wake Phase Disorder or Delayed Sleep Wake
      Phase Disorder will be studied at Brigham and Women's Hospital and Stanford University.

      The outpatient protocol will consist of two segments: clinic visit and in-home saliva sample
      collection. For the first segment, the patient participant will be scheduled for a daytime
      visit to the sleep clinic where they will have blood drawn for protein and monocyte analysis
      after having kept a sleep diary and worn a wrist activity monitor for at least 1 week. The
      patient participant will be provided with an at-home saliva sampling kit and instructed in
      its use, in particular how to maintain appropriate dim light conditions. For the second
      segment, the patient will be instructed to collect the series of saliva samples on that same
      evening, collecting a saliva sample each hour beginning 7 hours before their usual bedtime
      and ending one hour after their usual bedtime. As each sample is collected, the patient
      participant will document the tube number and clock time on a log that the investigators
      provide them, and the patient participant will store each sample in a zip lock bag in their
      home freezer until the next day. After waking the next day, the patient will pack their
      samples in the insulated shipping box they were provided, along with their sample collection
      log and freezer packs they were provided, and then they call a courier to pick up the box,
      which is sent directly to the assay facility.

      Alternatively, patients may be given the opportunity to come for a single extended visit at
      the laboratory or clinic. This visit will include the blood sampling for protein and monocyte
      analysis, followed by 8 hours in which they remain in dim lighting conditions in the lab or
      clinic and provide a saliva sample each hour. The saliva sampling segment will begin 7 hours
      before their usual bedtime and ending one hour after their usual bedtime. After the final
      saliva sample the study will be over and the patient will be allowed to go home.
    
  