
    
      You have had your conjunctival or eyelid tumor surgically removed or it is scheduled to have
      it removed. You will have lymphatic mapping before the tumor is removed. Lymphatic mapping is
      when a small volume of Tc99m-Sulfur colloid is injected by an ophthalmologist after which
      some radiologic images are taken.

      If you are able to become pregnant, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for a pregnancy
      test, within 7 days before the biopsy. To take part in this study, you must not be pregnant.

      You will then go to the operating room and have intraoperative SLN mapping and biopsy. If the
      SLN is positive on permanent section, you will go on to have complete lymph node dissection,
      which involves removal of all the lymph nodes around the positive SLN. Then the disease will
      be restaged and you may require further treatment after consultation with their oncologist.

      Your medical record will be reviewed, and information from your medical record will be
      recorded and reviewed to help researchers better identify those patients who have microscopic
      lymph node disease. The information collected from your medical records will include
      information about your sex, age, what type of cancer that you have, as well as the size of
      the cancer and its location.

      Researchers hope to identify those patients who have microscopic lymph node disease before it
      becomes clinically obvious. With this technique, researchers could potentially identify
      occult metastatic disease which would otherwise go unnoticed until it was too advanced.
      Patients in this study will have to see the ophthalmologist every three months and have the
      usual metastatic workup, which is routine for conjunctival/eyelid melanoma.

      Length of Study:

      Your active participation on this study will be over once the biopsy is over. You will
      continue to be observed on study for 5 years after the biopsy.

      Long-Term Follow-Up:

      Every 3 months for the first year after the biopsy, and every 6 months after that until 5
      years after the biopsy, you will have an eye exam to check the status of the disease.

      Every 6 months for the first year after the biopsy, blood (less than 1 teaspoon) will be
      drawn for liver function tests. You will also have a chest x-ray. You will then have these
      tests 1 time each year for 5 years after the biopsy.

      You will have a head and neck CT or MRI every 6 months for the first year after the biopsy to
      make sure the disease has not come back. The head and neck CT or MRI will be repeated 1 time
      each year for 5 years after the biopsy.

      This is an investigational study. A total of 38 patients will take part in this study. All
      will be enrolled at MD Anderson Cancer Center.
    
  