
    
      After patient consent and REB approval from The University of Western Ontario (REB # 11054)
      we conducted a Randomized Controlled Trial between 2005-2007 of endoscopic vs. conventional
      harvesting of the radial artery in CABG patients at the London Health Sciences Centre. A
      total of 118 patients were randomized to either A) conventional/open harvesting of the radial
      artery, n=59 or B) endoscopic harvesting of the radial artery, n=59. Post-operative study
      objectives measured were arm wound infection rate, assessment of arm pain, arm edema,
      mobilization, patient satisfaction, and histological assessment of the radial artery.
      Objectives were measured during the patients' course in-hospital and at 1week by telephone
      interview. At 6 weeks patient underwent a final clinic assessment post-surgery.

      Our intent is to perform follow-up angiography and MPS-MIBI at the 5 year mark post surgery
      on the 118 patients previously involved in our RCT, to assess open vs. endoscopic radial
      artery graft performance. The study will be divided into three phases: Phase I - Patient
      Recruitment (4 months), Phase II - Patient Assessment with CTA, MPS-MIBI and Questionnaires
      (16 months) and Phase III - Data Analysis and Conclusions (4 months).

      Phase I - Chart Review and Patient Recruitment (4 Months) Charts will be reviewed on all of
      the open and endoscopically harvested radial artery grafts used during CABG surgery from the
      above specified time points. Patient demographics and operative notes, as well as
      perioperative and postoperative complications will be reviewed. Hospital admissions,
      documented cardiac events and any subsequent deaths not previously documented will be
      recorded. Any additional pertinent data from the chart review will be entered into a study
      specific Microsoft Excel file maintained by a single qualified research assistant.

      All living CABG surgery patients will then be contacted and their participation in the study
      requested. Patients will receive an initial request by mail, with an informative letter
      signed by the principal investigator outlining the purpose of the study, what participation
      in the study involves, and the specific aims of the cardiac team at the conclusion of the
      study. A follow-up phone call will be done within 3-weeks of mailing the letter to go over
      the content and answer any questions that patients may have.

      Phase II - Patient Assessment via CTA, MPS-MIBI and Questionnaires (16 Months)

      CABG surgery patients from the previous RCT that agree to be a part of the study will have
      arrangements made for them to travel to LHSC. Patients will undergo a structured half-day
      (approximately 4-6 hours) at the hospital consisting of the following:

        1. Selective coronary artery and radial artery graft check via CTA with a 64 slice CT
           scanner + Rest MPS-MIBI then Stress MPS-MIBI (4-6hrs). The CT scanner along with the
           stress/rest MIBI machine are dedicated "Research only" machines. As such, there are no
           issues with using these research dedicated machines and there is no additional cost to
           OHIP.

        2. Completion of two validated health related quality of life questionnaires

             1. Seattle Angina Questionnaire

             2. 36-Item Short Form Health Survey SELECTIVE CORONARY ARTERY & RADIAL ARTERY GRAFT
                CHECK VIA CTA AND REST & STRESS MPS-MIBI

      Coronary CTA and Rest and Stress MPS-MIBI will be used for evaluating radial artery graft
      patency. Potential risks associated with CTA and both MPS-MIBI tests will be discussed with
      each patient prior to performing the procedure. This discussion will include the following:

      As CTA is an x-ray test, it sends radiation through the body. Although the amount of
      radiation for each scan is small, it can accumulate and damage body cells over time with
      repeated exposure. Contrast material carries a slight risk of causing an allergic reaction to
      the contrast material or dye. During the Rest and Stress MPS-MIBI, a radioactive tracer
      (MIBI) is used to take pictures of the heart. This tracer is injected into the bloodstream
      and travels to the heart muscle through the coronary arteries. Pictures are then taken of the
      heart to determine coronary artery disease and the perfusion images at rest and stress help
      identify regions of myocardial infarction as well as help determine the hemodynamic
      significance of any coronary stenoses. MPS also gives an estimate of the left ventricular
      ejection fraction. Signed consent will be obtained prior to each procedure. Contrast will be
      injected into the coronary arteries and the vein grafts and CTA and MPS-MIBI images obtained.

      EVALUATING RADIAL ARTERY GRAFT PATENCY All coronary artery and radial artery graft CTAs and
      MPS-MIBIs will be performed and graded by Nuclear Medicine physicians. Following the patency
      determination, the patients will be contacted by Dr.Bob Kiaii (cardiac surgeon) and told
      their results.

      Radial artery graft patency will be determined using the grading system of Fitzgibbons and
      associates:

      Grade A Excellent graft with unimpaired run-off, patent graft Grade B Stenosis reducing
      caliber of proximal, distal anastomosis or trunk to <50% of the grafted coronary artery. This
      will be divided into flow limiting and non-flow limiting stenosis Grade O Occlusion

      QUALITY OF LIFE QUESTIONNAIRES To assess quality of life 5 years after undergoing CABG
      surgery and participating in our RCT, each patient will self-administer two validated
      health-related quality of life questionnaires while on site at LHSC. The two questionnaires
      to be used are the Seattle Angina Questionnaire (SAQ) and the 36-Item Short Form Health
      Survey. Licensing and user registration permitting use of these questionnaires will be
      obtained online from Cardiovascular Outcomes Inc. (SAQ) and Quality Metric (SF-36) prior to
      their distribution and use.

      SEATTLE ANGINA QUESTIONNAIRE The SAQ is a 19-item, well standardized self-administered
      questionnaire shown to be a valid measure of quality of life in patients suffering from
      coronary artery disease. The disease-specific questionnaire measures five clinically
      important dimensions of health in coronary artery disease patients: physical limitations,
      angina stability, angina frequency, treatment satisfaction and disease perception. The SAQ
      has shown to be more sensitive to clinical change in coronary artery disease in comparison to
      more generic quality of life questionnaires.

      36-ITEM SHORT FORM HEALTH SURVEY The SF-36 is a 36-item, generic quality of life
      questionnaire for measuring patient's general health status. Also well-standardized and
      self-administered, the SF-36 measures eight health concepts: physical conditioning, role
      limitations due to physical problems, social functioning, bodily pain, and general mental
      health, role limitations due to emotional problems, vitality and general health perceptions.
      It also includes an indication of perceived change in health. The questionnaire has proven
      relevant across age, disease process and treatment group.

      Using a disease-specific questionnaire and a general health questionnaire in combination will
      more aptly categorize the overall impact of the CABG surgery on patient quality of life. The
      effects of CABG surgery both in regards to cardiovascular function as well as outside systems
      will be better understood.
    
  