
    
      Rationale: Uterine fibroids or leiomyomas are common benign tumors that arise from smooth
      muscle cells of the uterus with a prevalence ranging from 20% to 40% in reproductive aged
      women. Invasive treatments, such as hysterectomy and myomectomy, represent the golden
      standard with respect to therapy. Alternatively, uterine artery embolization is offered as a
      less invasive option. However, to date the only non-invasive technique is high intensity
      focused ultrasound (HIFU) ablation. HIFU ablation uses focused ultrasound waves to
      non-invasively heat and thermally ablate tissue. Combined with magnetic resonance guidance
      (MR-HIFU) this allows an entirely non-invasive intervention with anatomical 3D images for the
      planning of the treatment volume, and real-time temperature monitoring for therapeutic
      guidance.

      A limitation of MR-HIFU is that currently not all types of uterine fibroids are treatable.
      With respect to MR-HIFU treatment, uterine fibroids are classified in three classes based on
      the signal intensity of T2-weighted MR images. While MR-HIFU has been shown to result in a
      reliable positive therapeutic outcome in type 1 and type 2 fibroids, the therapeutic success
      in type 3 fibroids has so far been limited. The current clinical consensus is that the high
      perfusion in type 3 fibroids, which causes the heat deposited by the HIFU to be rapidly
      evacuated from the treatment site, results in insufficient temperatures to induce necrosis in
      the fibroids. Therefore, a new treatment strategy is proposed to effectively treat type 3
      fibroids with MR-HIFU.

      Objective: To investigate whether it is possible to manipulate perfusion in type 3 fibroids
      with MR-HIFU.

      Study design: Single-center, single arm, non-randomized trial. Ten patients will be treated.

      Study population: Adult women with a type 3 uterine fibroid who fulfill the in- and exclusion
      criteria.

      Intervention: During the MR-HIFU treatment, the local vascular feeding network will be
      selectively targeted first with high power sonications with the intention to reduce or
      interrupt the perfusion of the entire fibroid volume. Subsequently, the remaining fibroid
      volume will be ablated, similar to the treatment approach of type 1/2 fibroids.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: The fibroid type and the eligibility for MR-HIFU treatment will be determined on
      a clinically obtained MRI scan. The results of the scan and information about this study are
      provided to the patient during a phone call. If the patient is interested, the study
      information is sent by mail. The patient receives a second phone call to ask if she wishes to
      participate. If so, an appointment at the hospital is arranged to give details on the study,
      answer questions, and show the clinical MR scan. If the patient still wants to participate,
      informed consent (IC) is signed. The HIFU treatment will be scheduled in consultation with
      the patient.

      Patients will be sedated during the HIFU intervention, as it is also the case during the
      standard HIFU treatment of type 1/2 fibroids. Compared to the standard HIFU treatment, the
      initial selective ablation of the vascular feeding network with high power sonications will
      be added. The subsequent therapy for the remainder of the fibroid will follow the standard
      therapeutic HIFU treatment of type 1/2 fibroids.

      One week after the treatment the patient will receive a phone call to ask about adverse
      events. Three months after the treatment a follow-up MR scan, including a DCE scan, will be
      performed. In addition, the patient will be asked about any adverse events that might have
      occurred during a phone call.

      Potential adverse effects include skin burns due to heating of the cutaneous and
      sub-cutaneous abdominal fat and risk of abdominal pain due to the occlusion of the vascular
      network. To mitigate the risk of skin burns, a cooling cushion is integrated in the HIFU
      table top and will protect the skin and part of the abdominal fat from overheating.

      If women with a type 3 fibroid do not want to participate in this study, they are not
      eligible for MR-HIFU treatment and are referred by their gynecologist to a more invasive
      treatment option like uterine artery embolization or hysterectomy.
    
  