
    
      Treatment with drugs (chemotherapy) and frequent evaluations by a doctor are standard
      practice to help prevent colon cancer from recurring after surgery. Despite these measures,
      the cancer does recur in a significant number of people, usually within the first 2-3 years
      from diagnosis.

      In this study, researchers hope to identify genetic and environmental factors that may
      contribute to a person developing recurrent colon cancer. To help identify these factors,
      blood and tissue samples will be studied. You also will be asked to provide information about
      your background, lifestyle, and eating habits.

      Participants able to take part in this study have had all of their known colon cancer removed
      by surgery and have agreed to receive chemotherapy to help prevent the cancer from recurring.
      Before you take part in this study, your medical information will be reviewed, and a
      performance status evaluation (how well you perform everyday activities) will be done. This
      will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in the study.

      If you are found to be eligible and you agree to take part in the study, you will be asked to
      fill out 2 questionnaires. One questionnaire asks about your background (age, education,
      etc.), work history, any exposure to toxic substances, medical history, smoking and alcohol
      history, family history of cancer, and your level of physical activity. The second
      questionnaire contains questions about what types of foods you eat, how often you eat them,
      whether you take vitamins and if so, what type(s). It will take about 30 minutes to fill out
      both of these questionnaires.

      If your surgery to remove your colon cancer was not performed at MD Anderson, you will not be
      asked to participate in the tissue portion of this study described below but you will be
      asked to participate in the blood sample analysis and the study evaluations and questionnaire
      portion of this study every 3 months for a maximum of 2 years (starting from the beginning of
      the follow-up period, once all treatment is complete) or until your disease returns, which
      ever occurs first.

      If your surgery was performed at MD Anderson Cancer Center, the samples of your cancer tissue
      will be analyzed, looking for any biologic factors related to colon cancer. Blood samples
      (about 4 teaspoons) for gene analysis (looking for any biologic factors associated with colon
      cancer) will also be collected.

      Once follow-up begins, you will have study evaluations at MD Anderson every 3 months for 2
      years or until your disease returns, which ever occurs first. Blood samples (about 4
      teaspoons) for gene analysis will be collected within 14 days of completion of chemotherapy,
      and then every 3 months for 2 years after you enroll in this study. If your colon cancer
      recurs, a blood sample will be taken at that time also.

      You will be asked to fill out the 2 questionnaires described above at the completion of your
      chemotherapy treatment (if applicable) and 1 and 2 years after your follow-up begins. If your
      colon cancer recurs, you will be asked to fill out the questionnaires at that time.

      If you require surgery for cancer after enrolling in this study, a sample of leftover tissue
      will be collected for genetic analysis if the surgery is performed at MD Anderson Cancer
      Center.

      You will not be informed of any results of the analysis of your blood and tumor samples or
      the questionnaires, as this research is exploratory. Your participation in this study will
      end if your disease returns or 2 years after you begin, whichever occurs first.

      This is an investigational study. Taking part in this study requires that you return
      frequently to MD Anderson. Up to 200 participants will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  