
    
      Recent epidemiological data from an European study suggests that the 30-day postoperative
      mortality rate reaches a rate of about 1 in 50. A similar rate has been observed at
      Barnes-Jewish Hospital (BJH) according to the investigators published and unpublished data
      from the B-Unaware (NCT00281489) and BAG-RECALL (NCT00682825) clinical trials. Many factors
      are associated strongly and independently with postoperative morbidity and mortality;
      including patient age, functional status, comorbid medical conditions, and duration and
      invasiveness of the surgery. It is imperative to identify modifiable factors for possible
      intervention.

      With the advent of electronic intraoperative medical record, intraoperative hemodynamic
      factors can be assessed as a potential contributor to postoperative morbidity and mortality.
      Recent studies have shown that intraoperative hypotension occurs commonly and is associated
      with both early and late postoperative mortality. The investigators goal is to conduct a
      study that might help to clarify whether intraoperative blood pressure management might be
      interdependently associated with postoperative morbidity and mortality. There are two phases
      in this trial: pre-quality improvement phase and post quality improvement phase. Pre-quality
      improvement phase data will be used as a baseline control group. Data from this phase will
      also be used to establish whether there appears to be an independent association between
      intraoperative blood pressure management and postoperative morbidity and mortality. The
      Anesthesiology Departments at Washington University in St. Louis and at the University of
      Michigan are implementing quality improvement initiatives in relation to intraoperative blood
      pressure management. Following implementation of the quality improvement initiatives, the
      investigators plan to determine whether: a) there is an improvement in intraoperative blood
      pressure management; b) whether there is a decrease in postoperative morbidity and mortality.
    
  