
    
      The ability to locate and travel successfully to a destination, known as wayfinding, is a
      significant problem for older adults with cognitive disorders. Relocating to a new residence
      such as independent or assisted living is a time in which older adults with cognitive
      problems are most vulnerable to experiencing wayfinding problems. Often these communities are
      not designed to facilitate wayfinding as they are complex, confusing, and lack
      distinctiveness. Wayfinding problems can cause individuals' worlds to shrink, leading to a
      smaller life space (the spatial extent of travel within the community), decreased engagement,
      and dependence upon others for activities of daily living. The overall goal of the proposed
      project is to assess the contribution of salient visual cues and Spaced Retrieval (SR) on
      wayfinding ability and life space in older adults with wayfinding problems who live in senior
      communities. Salient cues, such as vivid pictures, statues and bright, distinctive signage
      can make senior residential communities more memorable and distinctive. This study has three
      specific aims: a) to examine the effect of salient cues with and without SR on wayfinding
      ability initially and over time in older adults who have wayfinding deficits in senior
      communities; and b) To determine the effects of salient visual cues and SR on life space; and
      c) to determine subject characteristics that are most amenable to the intervention; wand
      which subject characteristics place persons at risk for less responsiveness to the
      intervention so that the intervention can be appropriately targeted. There are three arms to
      the clinical trial to which nine care communities will be randomly assigned, including Arm 1
      (control; no change to the care community); Arm 2 (colorful and familiar objects and signage
      placed within the care community); and Arm 3 (Arm 2 cues plus SR). Participants will be
      individuals within the communities who exhibit problems finding their way. They will be asked
      to find their way repeatedly to specific destinations over a period of a year. Wayfinding
      performance, including how fast the participants find the test location and the errors they
      make compared between study Arms. Life space will also be measured and compared between Arms.
      It is hypothesized that individuals who are in care communities which are enhanced with
      salient cues will improve wayfinding when compared to care communities without salient cues.
      In addition, Spaced Retrieval, which is an evidence-based memory strategy, is hypothesized to
      positively influence subjects' use of the cues and improve wayfinding performance. Finally,
      it is hypothesized that wayfinding ability will correlate with life space. The long term
      goals of this research are to test an evidence based intervention to enhance senior
      residences so that older adults who have wayfinding problems can more easily learn and
      remember their environments so that they can maintain independence.
    
  