
    
      In this study, participants with high-risk hematologic malignancies undergoing hematopoietic
      cell transplantation (HCT), who lack an available suitable human leukocyte antigen (HLA)
      matched related/sibling donor (MSD) or matched unrelated donor (MUD), will receive a
      TCRαβ-depleted haploidentical donor HCT with additional memory cell DLI. One course of
      blinatumomab will be empirically added for patients with CD19+ malignancy.

      Primary Objectives

        -  Determine the maximum effective dose for prophylactic CD45RA-depleted DLI when given in
           the early post-engraftment period.

        -  Assess the efficacy of TCRαβ-depleted progenitor cell graft with additional memory
           T-cell DLI, plus selected use of blinatumomab, in haploidentical donor hematopoietic
           cell transplantation for hematologic malignancies as measured by 1 year EFS (events =
           relapse, death)

      Secondary Objectives

        -  Assess the safety and feasibility of the addition of blinatumomab in the early post-
           engraftment period in patients with CD19+ malignancy

        -  Estimate the incidence of neutrophil and platelet engraftment, malignant
           relapse,event-free survival per disease subgroups (e.g. ALL vs AML), and overall
           survival at one-year post-transplantation.

        -  Estimate incidence and severity of acute and chronic (GVHD).

        -  Estimate the rate of transplant related mortality (TRM) in the first 100 days after
           transplantation.

        -  To measure and describe the pharmacokinetics of rabbit ATG in HCT recipients on this
           study.

      Exploratory Objectives

        -  Record immune reconstitution parameters, including chimerism analysis, quantitative
           lymphocyte subsets, T cell receptor excision circle (TREC) analysis, V-beta
           spectratyping, and lymphocyte phenotype and function.

        -  Describe the use of additional CD45RA-depleted DLI for recipients who have severe viral
           infections, disease recurrence or progression, or poor immune reconstitution. Assess and
           record efficacy of CD45RA-depleted DLI for these conditions, and all adverse events that
           are related to CD45RA-depleted DLI.

      Blinatumomab will be given to patients with a history of CD19+ malignancy as determined by
      St. Jude hematopathologist review of current and historical specimens and reports.
      Blinatumomab dosing will begin no sooner than 1 week after CD45RA-depleted DLI and no later
      than Day +90. There must be no acute GVHD or it must be quiescent. ALT must be less than 5x
      ULN, bili less than or equal to 1.5x ULN, and creatinine less than or equal to 1.5x ULN.

      If more than one family member donor is suitable, then donor selection will be based on
      several factors including: degree of KIR mismatching, donor-recipient matching of CMV
      serology, donor-recipient red blood cell compatibility, degree of HLA matching, size of the
      potential donor, previous use as a donor, presence of donor-specific antibody, and overall
      health and availability of the potential donor.

      A G-CSF mobilized peripheral blood progenitor cell product (identified as HPC,A) is the
      preferred progenitor cell graft source. Our desired target goal will be 5 x 10^6 CD34+
      cells/kg. This number of cells will be necessary to provide an adequate graft, following the
      various ex vivo manipulations, for prompt reconstitution. More than one collection may be
      needed to achieve this goal. Donors will undergo a standard hematopoietic progenitor cell
      mobilization regimen consisting of 5 days of GSF given subcutaneously at 10
      micrograms/kilogram. The graft will be collected by leukapheresis on day 5 (and 6 if needed)
      of G-CSF. The HPC product will typically be collected and infused fresh, however there may be
      patients or logistical situations that require the HPC product to be collected early,
      processed, and stored frozen.
    
  