
    
      As a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic, and after consultation with the appropriate
      research oversight, regulatory and monitoring entities, screening and enrollment has been
      placed on temporary administrative hold as of 03/17/2020. VA ORD has allowed sites to resume
      after a detailed and thorough risk assess for each local VA was completed and sent to ORD for
      approval.

      Once a local site has been approved, the study sponsor will allow for resumption of research
      activities once the local facility/study team deems prepared to being.

      Some sites are on Administrative Hold from ORD due to COVID-19 until further notice while
      others have begun.

      -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is the most frequent cause of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and
      end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in the U.S. and in U.S. Veterans. Control of blood pressure
      and reduction in proteinuria, for instance by blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone
      system (RAAS) with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) or angiotensin-receptors
      blockers (ARBs), have led to some improvement in outcomes in recent years. However, many
      patients continue to progress to ESRD, requiring costly dialysis or transplantation and
      resulting in high mortality. Patients with ESRD on maintenance dialysis also have markedly
      impaired quality of life. Thus, novel treatments are needed for this disease.

      The non-specific phosphodiesterase inhibitor pentoxifylline (PTX) was approved by the FDA in
      1984 for the treatment of peripheral vascular disease. Therefore, this drug has been in
      clinical use for over 3 decades and has been found to have an excellent safety profile.
      Recent experimental and clinical data suggest that PTX, when added to usual care in patients
      with DKD, leads to a reduction in albuminuria and reduced inflammation, as evidenced by lower
      levels of inflammatory cytokines, and may decrease progression of renal disease. The
      available evidence thus suggests the possibility of the use of PTX as a valuable repurposing
      of an old drug in the treatment of DKD. However, a large scale multicenter randomized
      clinical trial is needed to determine whether this agent can reduce hard endpoints such as
      ESRD and death in patients with DKD.

      The objective of this study is to test the hypothesis that PTX, when added to usual care,
      leads to a reduction in the incidence of ESRD and mortality in type 2 diabetic patients with
      DKD when compared to usual care plus placebo.

      The primary endpoint will be time to ESRD or death. ESRD will be defined as need for chronic
      dialysis or renal transplantation.

      Secondary efficacy endpoints will be: (1) quality of life as measured by the Kidney Disease
      Quality of Life Short Form (KDQoL-SF), (2) time until doubling of serum creatinine, (3)
      hospitalization for congestive heart failure (CHF), (4) a three-point MACE (cardiovascular
      death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke), (5) peripheral vascular disease
      (PVD), (6) percentage of participants with 50% reduction in UACR from baseline, (7) Rate of
      change in eGFR per year during the study period. Safety (serious adverse events and adverse
      events possibly or probably related to study drug, discontinuation of study drug) will also
      be analyzed as a secondary safety outcome.

      The design will be simple with only 3 face-to-face visits (randomization, titration and end
      of trial visits). The remaining quarterly contacts can be conducted by telephone collecting
      minimal targeted information. Laboratory testing specifically for the study will be done only
      at randomization, at 6 months and the end of the study, if needed. However, coordinators will
      assure that a serum creatinine will have been measured every 6 months as part of routine
      clinical care or, in rare instances where one has not been done, obtain this measurement.
      Other than randomization to PTX or matched placebo, patient care will be handled by usual
      providers according to recommended standards of care.

      There will be a one-year ramp-up phase which will include 6 VA hospitals. The purpose of the
      ramp-up phase will be to optimize procedures prior to widespread implementation, including
      assessing the recruitment rate to determine whether the expected rate can be achieved and
      assessing the efficacy of central distribution of study drug/placebo. In addition, the
      investigators will refine methods of recruitment, demonstrate that the proposed follow-up
      methods are working as intended, and address unforeseen problems. This will be followed by
      the full study at 40 sites (which includes the 6 ramp-up sites) and will involve 3 years of
      recruitment and 5 years of follow-up.

      Sample size calculation, assuming a 26.6% event rate in the control group and 21.6% event
      rate in PTX group (corresponding to a 19% relative reduction), two-sided alpha = 0.05, 85%
      power, a 3-year enrollment period, a minimum 5-year follow-up period, and one proposed
      interim analysis indicates that 2510 participants will need to be randomized.

      If this study is successful and PTX is found to reduce the incidence of ESRD and/or death,
      this will reduce the personal and financial burden of renal replacement therapy
      (dialysis/transplantation) for Veterans with diabetic kidney disease
    
  