
    
      Neural tube defects (NTD), which is the most common anomaly of the central nervous system,
      which can be diagnosed during antenatal period, brings many problems both in the neonatal
      period and in advanced ages. Open neural tube defects, in particular, progress with
      sensory-motor deficits due to the risk of infection and neural tissue loss from birth, and
      should be followed closely from the neonatal period. Newborns born with a neural tube defect
      should be operated within the first 72 hours postnatal and the defect should be closed.

      In this hospital, newborns with NTD are monitored in neonatal surgery intensive care unit
      before and after surgery. Neonatal specialists, neurosurgeons and other specialists when
      there is an additional anomaly evaluate the baby as multidisciplinary.

      In this project, the short-term follow-up data of babies with NTD who have been followed up
      in neonatal surgery intensive care unit for the last fifteen years will be evaluated
      retrospectively.Information of patients hospitalized with a diagnosis of neural tube defect
      in the neonatal intensive care unit between January 1, 2006 and January 1, 2021 will be
      recorded in the file. In addition to demographic information such as antenatal follow-up data
      of patients, maternal diseases, birth weights, birth weeks, delivery types, neurological
      examinations, laboratory findings, imaging (such as graphy, tomography, ultrasonography),
      surgery notes, additional anomalies from the hospital system retrospectively will be saved.
      Immediately after babies with NTD are born, the defect should be protected in the delivery
      room with a wet sterile sponge and the baby should be placed in a lateral or prone position.
      Since the risk of meningitis is high and the destruction of the neural tissue within the
      pouch will increase within days, the sac repair should be performed within the first 72
      hours. Antibiotics should be initiated empirically in these patients with high risk of
      meningitis. In the postoperative follow-up; The patient should be monitored in terms of wound
      infection of the repaired sac, bosom leakage, fistula formation and hydrocephalus.

      In this study, the short-term follow-up of patients with neural tube defects in the neonatal
      intensive care unit will be evaluated retrospectively. As a result of this data evaluation to
      be made over the hospital information system, "Hacettepe University Neonatal Intensive Care
      Unit patient follow-up with NTD" will contribute to the literature.
    
  