
    
      Barrett's esophagus (BE) is a pre-cancerous condition in the esophagus that results from
      constant acid exposure and is a precursor to esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC). Surprisingly,
      EAC rates continue to rise despite efforts aimed at addressing BE. Patients with dysplastic
      BE are at increased risk for developing EAC and in high grade dysplasia (HGD), this risk can
      be as high as 6% per year. For these reasons, these patients are candidates for ablation
      therapy, either with cryotherapy, endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR), and/or radiofrequency
      ablation (RFA). In patients receiving ablative therapy, 3-5 treatments are typically required
      before there is resolution of all Barrett's epithelium while patients remain on twice daily
      proton pump therapy.

      A recent case study by the current authors demonstrated initial failed response of BE with
      HGD to RFA and subsequently cryotherapy. Only after initiation of a liquid alginate solution
      (Gaviscon Advance - UK formulation) was there a subsequent rapid and complete response to
      therapy. This case suggests that liquid alginate provided additional esophageal protection
      allowing mucosal healing and an overall enhanced response to treatment. This finding is
      mechanistically plausible given existing evidence demonstrating the carcinogenic properties
      of bile acids and injurious activity of pepsin in non-acid refluxate, and liquid alginate's
      unique ability to control these components and inhibit acid reflux. The investigators feel
      further investigation is warranted in studying the role of adjunct liquid alginate solution
      in patients undergoing treatment for BE.

      The ingredient of interest in is alginic acid (alginate), a polysaccharide found in the cell
      walls of brown algae. Alginates are unique in their ability to form a protective layer above
      gastric contents upon exposure to gastric acid, thus limiting exposure of esophageal
      epithelium to gastric acid, bile acid, pepsin, and other parts of the gastric contents.
      Concurrently, the bicarbonate in alginate-based solutions forms carbon dioxide in the
      presence of gastric acid, which converts the gel into foam which floats to the surface of the
      gastric contents. Hence, alginate solutions form "rafts" which provide a physical barrier to
      acid reflux, as well as a pH-neutral substitute which refluxes preferentially over gastric
      acid.
    
  