
    
      Design a double-blind two-group longitudinal experimental study will be conducted to compare
      the Internet-based integrated-management Program with a usual care.

      After receiving informed consents, participants will be randomly assigned to two groups by
      using a web-based system with blocked randomization. The intervention group will receive an
      Internet-based integrated management Program, and control group will receive nurse
      consultations and three times telephone coaching. Outcomes from three self-report
      questionnaires at 1 month, 3 months and 6 months after initiating the intervention will be
      compared to baseline assessments. Outcome measurements include the following parameters:
      28-item Brief COPE, Medication Adherence Rating Scale (MARS), the 3-level version of EuroQol
      five-dimension self-report questionnaire (EQ-5D-3L), and readmission events.

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria: The inclusion criteria are: (1) those who are ≥20 years old
      and AF diagnosed by a cardiology specialist, (2) have clear consciousness, (3) are fluent in
      Mandarin/Taiwanese, (4) are receiving anticoagulant treatment, (5) are able to use mobile
      phone and compute. The exclusion criteria are: (1) diagnosed with any psychiatric disorder,
      (2) are involved in other clinical trials.

      Recruitment Participants will be recruited from a cardiology outpatient clinic of a medical
      center in northern Taiwan. The study design and protocols had been reviewed and approved by
      the institutional review board of the participating hospital. At the content session, all
      assessments and procedures will be fully explained.

      Assessment of eligibility and randomization: Participants will be considered eligible if they
      meet the inclusion criteria. All participants will be informed that they are able to withdraw
      from the study at any time. Before randomization, participants will be asked to answer four
      questionnaires. The questionnaires include demographic characteristics, 28-item Brief COPE,
      Cardiac Symptom Survey (CSS), Medication Adherence Rating Scale (MARS), and the 3-level
      version of EuroQol five-dimension self-report questionnaire (EQ-5D-3L).

      Double blinding is maintained because i) research nurse who is involved in the collection of
      post-test data are not having any information of group assignment. ii) Participants do not
      know their group assignment and receive corresponding interventions.

      The Internet-based integrated management Program is conducted in the cardiology outpatient
      department. Participants will have their own account and passwords to log in to the system
      via mobile phones or computers. The system has five domains that included patient's
      information collection, AF knowledge area, instructions on anticoagulation medicine,
      self-monitoring of symptom area, and professional consultation. Everyone has their own area
      to ensure the privacy of participants. The research nurse will have sent messages every day
      to care about the participant's condition. In this area, when the participants have an
      emergency, it will not only provide textual information, but also provide telephone coaching.
      In addition, the investigators also will instruct participants and provide the AF management
      manual, which will include a description of the causes and predisposing risk factors of AF,
      the symptoms of AF, the relationship between AF and stroke, stroke prevention measures for
      patients with AF, and managing a healthy lifestyle.

      Patients in the control group will receive standard nurse consultations. A manual of AF
      management is provided and explained. In addition, the investigators will provide a
      three-time telephone coaching, which will teach participants how to manage their disease and
      associated disease knowledge at the 1 month, 3 months and 6 months after random assignment.

      Coping strategies: The 28-item Brief COPE self-report questionnaire measure strategies
      participants use for coping. The Brief-COPE is divided into approach coping, in which
      individuals actively seek resources to deal with their health problems; and avoidance coping,
      in which individuals attempt to divert attention away from events. Higher scores indicate
      greater use of the specific coping strategy.

      Medicine adherence: This 10-items MARS scale has three domains: medication adherence
      behavior, attitude toward taking medication, and negative side-effects and attitudes to
      medication. The total possible score ranged from 0 to 10. A higher score indicates a better
      medicine adherence.

      Health-Related Quality of Life: Participant's HRQoL was measured by the 3-level version of
      EuroQol five-dimension self-report questionnaire (EQ-5D-3L). The instrument has two
      subscales: the EQ-5D descriptive system (5 items) and the EuroQol visual analog scale
      (EQ-VAS). The EQ-5D descriptive system have five domains: mobility, self-care, usual
      activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. EQ-VAS is an individual's
      self-assessment of health status, with a vertical scale of 20 cm (visual analog scale). The
      higher score indicates the best possible state of health.

      Readmission events: After inclusion in the study, the investigators will follow up
      readmission events in all included participants. The readmission events are based on the
      query of medical records in the research hospital.

      Statistical analysis: the investigators will use descriptive statistics (mean, standard
      deviation, frequency and percentage) to analyze participant characteristics and outcomes. The
      initial differences between groups for demographic characteristics, coping strategies,
      medical adherence, and HRQoL will be examined with independent t-tests and Chi-square
      analysis. Effects of the Internet-based integrated-management Program on coping strategies,
      medical adherence, and HRQoL in patients with AF will be analyze using generalized estimating
      equations (GEE). The significance will be defined as a two-tailed P-value of < 0.05.

      Patient's characteristics will report as age, gender, type of AF, the class of mEHRA,
      comorbidities and medication status are evaluated by the univariate logistic regression to
      assess the association with the readmission events. Predictor variables with P value <0.20
      are eligible for inclusion in the multivariable logistic regression model for the outcome.
      The continuous variables are converted to categorical variables in the multivariable logistic
      model. In the multivariable logistic regression model, predictor variables with two-tailed P
      value <0.05 are considered significant.
    
  