
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To define the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of OSI-774 (erlotinib; Tarceva) in combination
      with CCI-779 (temsirolimus) in patients with recurrent malignant glioma who are not taking
      enzyme-inducing anti-epileptic drugs (EIAEDs). (Phase I) II. To characterize the safety
      profile of OSI-774 (erlotinib) and CCI-779 (temsirolimus). (Phase I) III. To characterize the
      pharmacokinetics of OSI-774 (erlotinib) and CCI-779 (temsirolimus). (Phase I) IV. To
      determine the efficacy of OSI-774 (erlotinib) and CCI-779 (temsirolimus) in patients with
      recurrent malignant glioma as measured by 6-month progression-free survival. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Overall progression-free survival. (Phase II) II. Response. (Phase II)

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the association of response to treatment to the molecular phenotype of the
      tumor. (Phase II) II. Determine whether OSI-774 (erlotinib) and CCI-779 (temsirolimus)
      inhibits EGFR and mTOR and the PI3K-AKT-mTOR and RAS-ERK signaling pathways in tumor
      specimens taken from malignant glioma patients undergoing surgery. (Phase II) III. Tumor
      concentration of OSI-774 (erlotinib) and CCI-779 (temsirolimus). (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I, dose-escalation study of temsirolimus followed by a
      phase II study. Patients are stratified according to study phase (I vs II), histology at
      study enrollment (glioblastoma multiforme or gliosarcoma vs anaplastic glioma), preoperative
      candidacy (yes vs no), and presence of measurable or evaluable disease (yes vs no).

      PHASE I: Patients receive oral erlotinib once daily on days 1-28 and temsirolimus IV over 30
      minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of temsirolimus until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients receive temsirolimus at the MTD and erlotinib as in phase I.

      PHASE II (preoperative component): Patients who are surgical candidates may opt to undergo
      surgical resection of the tumor. Beginning 5-7 days before surgery, these patients receive
      oral erlotinib once daily until surgery. Patients also receive temsirolimus IV over 30
      minutes at the MTD and then undergo surgical resection of the tumor 3-24 hours later.
      Beginning 2-4 weeks after surgery, patients receive temsirolimus at the MTD and erlotinib as
      in phase I.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3-24 patients will be accrued for the phase I portion of the
      study within 1-8 months. A total of 50 patients (32 patients with glioblastoma multiforme and
      18 with anaplastic glioma) will be accrued for the phase II portion of the study within 8-12
      months.
    
  