
    
      Establishment of regular menstrual cycles is a key component of reproductive maturation and a
      recognized vital sign for health and well-being. Irregular menstrual cycles are especially
      common for the first 2-3 years after an adolescent's first menstrual period (i.e., menarche),
      which delays the identification and diagnosis of early reproductive perturbations and
      subsequent future disease risk. Therefore, the objectives of this study are to determine
      whether there are distinct aspects of ovarian morphology that predict the likelihood of
      regular menses or cycle irregularity at 2y post-menarche and to determine whether diet or
      lifestyle (such as quality of sleep) contribute to changes in the ovaries and period
      patterns.

      A group of up to 60 adolescents will be enrolled into a prospective longitudinal cohort
      study. Participants will attend four study visits to their location's respective clinical
      research center. Study visits will occur at four distinct time points post-menarche: 6-10
      months, 11-13 months, 17-19 months, and 23-25 months.

      Prior to each of the study visits, participants will undergo one planned 24-hr dietary recall
      by a member of the research team and self-collect a stool sample. Participants will be asked
      to fast the night before the study visit. At each study visit, participants will undergo the
      following assessments:

      A 3D transabdominal ultrasound of the ovaries and uterus.

      A fasting blood sample, obtained via venipuncture.

      A series of anthropometric assessments, including: height, weight, waist and hip
      circumference, blood pressure, heart rate, and body fat percentage obtained using a
      bioimpedance scale.

      Tanner stage assessment, using a standardized self-report scoring scheme and by a trained
      member of the research team who is blinded to the results of the self-reported tanner stage.

      Acne scoring, using a standardized scoring scheme by a member of the research team.

      Hirsutism assessment, obtained by visually inspecting nine pre-defined regions of the body
      for terminal hair growth using a standardized scoring scheme by a trained member of the
      research team.

      Urine sample, self-collected by the participant after the transabdominal ultrasound.

      24-hour dietary recall.

      Physical activity questionnaire.

      Two sleep questionnaires, including questions about sleep hygiene, sleep quality, and
      circadian rhythms.

      In between study visits, participants will maintain menstrual cycle diaries and medication
      diaries.
    
  