
    
      Blood transfusions are associated with various risks including viral infections, delayed
      wound healing, transfusion related acute lung injury and cardiovascular complications.
      Despite limitations, and ongoing efforts to identify and validate other
      more-physiologically-relevant "triggers" for blood transfusions, hemoglobin-based transfusion
      triggers are still commonly used in practice, as well as in all currently available
      transfusion guidelines, alone, or in combination with other parameters. In the operating room
      the anesthesiologist has to withdraw blood from the patient and send it to the lab or the
      blood gas machine to achieve hemoglobin levels. It may be suggested that the ability to
      continuously monitor hemoglobin levels may help physicians to take more appropriate
      transfusion decisions; i.e, the physicians will either identify critical decreases in
      hemoglobin levels earlier and respond appropriately or avoid over-transfusing when hemoglobin
      levels have not decreased yet. Accordingly, monitors of hemoglobin levels are used in the
      operating theatre in many centers, although their blood-conserving effect has not been proven
      yet.

      We believe that the transfusion decision making algorithm in the operating room relies less
      heavily on "on spot" measures of hemoglobin levels but rather on patient's comorbidities,
      expected additional bleeding according to the surgery and the surgeon, the course of the
      operation (the operating field is "open" and thus surgeons can tell if it is oozing or frank
      bleeding, if they can control bleeding promptly or not etc..), hemodynamic data available
      from the different invasive and non-invasive monitors, pressure from the surgeon, etc. It is
      therefore suggested that continuous monitoring of hemoglobin levels may be less relevant in
      this environment.

      Specific Aims/Hypothesis:

        1. The primary hypothesis is that continuous noninvasive hemoglobin monitoring will not
           reduce the number of blood transfusions in patients undergoing surgeries associated with
           a significant risk of bleeding.

        2. The secondary hypothesis is that in patients monitored with continuous noninvasive
           hemoglobin, there will not be earlier warning of critical drops in hemoglobin, resulting
           in less frequent complications compared with patients who are not being monitored with
           continuous noninvasive hemoglobin.
    
  