
    
      Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a developmental impairment characterized by persistent
      deficits in social communication and interactions coupled with restricted and repetitive
      patterns of behaviors. The symptoms of ASD appear in early childhood. Given that no known
      cure or effective pharmacological intervention for ASD is available, behavioral interventions
      that target autism symptoms is the main strategy to support individuals with ASD to be
      integrated into school and the society. The choice to examine music in social skill
      intervention is motivated by accruing evidence of its potential for therapeutic use for
      various clinical populations. For ASD intervention, music has been explored as a medium to
      increase social skills in the field of music therapy for some years. Children with ASD and ID
      are often described as preoccupied in their own world and may be highly passive and
      unresponsive in social situations. The low verbal ability of these children is one limitation
      to their participation given that social interactions often involve verbal exchanges. Music
      may become a conduit for children whose natural affinity to social interactions is impaired.
      Group music making and improvisations encourage initiation and turn-taking behavior in a
      non-verbal situation and may be an alternative avenue for social practice. Children with ASD
      can learn to tolerate the presence of and physical contact with other people, distinguish
      between oneself and others, and practice social behavior in music therapy group activities.

      Although these claims are supported by data, no conclusive evidence is available that music
      therapy is an effective social skill intervention for children with ASD. One hypothesis that
      has not been tested is that success in social skill interventions may depend on individual
      differences. Autistic symptoms and abilities vary widely among children with ASD, arising
      both from different developmental speeds and specific interests. Some individuals may possess
      deficits in the areas of restricted interests or repetitive behavior, which results in poor
      social skills; however, they are accepting of social interactions. The willingness to seek
      out social experiences is the foundation to social skill development because without initial
      interests in social behavior, the motivation to attend to the explicit training and modeling
      is low. In such cases of social avoidance, cultivation of social interests through other
      strategies, such as music making, may be effective. Narrowing down the types of children who
      may respond well to a particular type of intervention can facilitate timely and efficient
      treatment provision. In this study, the investigators will test quantitative
      electroencephalogram (qEEG) signals in response to music and social scenes as predictive
      measures of treatment outcomes.

      Spontaneous electrophysiological neural activities at rest or when engaged in task can be
      measured by qEEG. Spectral analysis is used to decompose qEEG signals across several minutes
      into different frequency bands, which are associated with specific functions. The most
      consistent pattern of findings in the literature is that individuals with ASD show a U-shaped
      pattern of spectral power relative to controls without ASD; that is, excessive power is
      observed at low-frequency (delta, 1-3Hz and theta, 4-7Hz) and high-frequency (beta, 13-35Hz
      and gamma, >35Hz) bands, but reduced power is detected in middle-range frequency band (alpha,
      8-12Hz). The pattern was found with wide topographic distribution, which suggested
      abnormalities across multiple brain regions. This finding was reported for children in
      different age groups and for individuals with or without comorbid ID. High-frequency bands
      have been associated with emotional responses and emotion recognition and may be linked to
      such deficits in individuals with ASD. Neural patterns that deviate from age-matched controls
      to a greater extent may suggest more severe behavioral symptoms.

      Frontal alpha asymmetry (FAA) is typically investigated in relation to emotional response and
      motivations, both in clinical and normal populations. Left-lateralized or left-dominant brain
      activity has been linked to an approach system where an individual experiences positive
      emotions and motivations. In contrast, right-lateralized frontal activity may reflect
      negative emotions and intention to withdraw. Reduced alpha power in the left frontal area of
      the scalp in individuals with ASD has also been reported. The modulation of FAA has been
      demonstrated in neurofeedback training in individuals with ASD to activate their imitation
      behaviors; so this measure is hypothesized to predict and be responsive to social skill
      interventions. High-functioning individuals with ASD show intact emotional processing when
      listening to music, although they demonstrate distinct neural patterns relative to
      neurotypical adults, which is interpreted as increased cognitive load and physiological
      arousal. Individual preference for music varies within the target group with ASD/ID and may
      predict how they respond to social skill intervention using music therapy. Although
      self-report rating scales exist for reporting music experience and preference, qEEG measures
      may be superior because they index automatic responses to musical stimuli that the target
      population of children with ASD/ID may find difficult to understand or express.

      EEG data can be collected with low-cost, commercially available products and take only 5-10
      min to set up. Children with ASD and ID are only required to sit still for a few minutes
      because no explicit task response is needed. With the relative ease of data collection, this
      procedure may be included in routine clinical check-ups. The analyses of these data can help
      researchers and clinicians to understand how neural responses in children with ASD are
      related to the clinical presentation of ASD symptoms and their social deficits. Such data may
      be further compared with those of neurotypical children to elucidate the mechanisms of social
      functioning and to improve social skill interventions. With positive validation, these neural
      markers can then be used to prescribe the type of intervention that will most likely succeed.
    
  