
    
      Select one category that most adequately describes your research:

      Pilot

      Discuss the research design including but not limited to such issues as: probability of group
      assignment, potential for subject to be randomized to placebo group, use of control subjects,
      etc.

      The proposed project is designed to pilot test the feasibility of a brief psychosocial
      intervention among depressed and/or anxious medical patients with confirmed symptoms of COPD
      and/or CHF causing significant impairment as ascertained by validated surveys. We will test
      the intervention with an open-trial format. Therefore, all patients who meet the inclusion
      criteria described below will receive the intervention. Group assignment, randomization, and
      use of control subjects are not applicable to this pilot research project. Data will be
      collected at baseline, post-treatment (8 weeks), and at 3 month follow-up. Trained members of
      the study staff will conduct assessments, intervention and follow-up sessions following a
      protocol. A licensed psychologist will supervise all members of the study staff.

      F2. Procedure

      Recruitment Procedures: Patients with COPD and CHF who meet criteria for clinically
      significant physical and emotional symptoms will be recruited. Recruitment of potential
      participants (detailed further in Section J) will occur through database extractions (e.g.
      ICD-9 codes), primary care provider referrals, and specialty care provider referrals (e.g.
      cardiology and pulmonology). Patients will then be contacted via letter, which provides basic
      information about the study. If no response from the person is received within 5 days, a
      study research assistant will contact the person via telephone to determine if they are
      interested and eligible for participation in the study. These procedures are currently being
      used in related IRB approved studies H#19681 "Mental Health Treatment Engagement In CHF
      Patients With Depression And Anxiety", and H-19629 "Identifying Mental Health Treatment
      Barriers in Medically Ill Older Adults".

      Telephone Screening: A trained research assistant will administer the 15 minute telephone
      screen. Prior to the initiation of the telephone screen, patients will be provided with study
      informed consent and patient verbal assent will be obtained. Following consent, patients will
      be asked a series of questions to assess: patient information (e.g. demographic data),
      symptoms of heart failure and/or symptoms of COPD, cognitive functioning (6-item screener),
      and brief mental health service use history. The RA will also determine eligibility by
      administering five items from the PRIME-MD to screen for anxiety and depression. Given its
      high sensitivity to detect depression and anxiety, use of the PRIME-MD will reduce the number
      of patients without symptoms of depression or anxiety unnecessarily attending in-person
      interview. If the patient meets study eligibility, they will be invited to attend an
      in-person study interview.

      In-person Screening: Initial screen eligible patients will be invited to an in-person
      appointment where final eligibility will be determined and baseline assessment measures
      completed. All appointments will take place at the designated research site. Demographic
      information will be collected for: age, gender, ethnicity, household income, marital status,
      education, employment status, and current/past smoking (e.g. pack years). Medical history
      information will be collected for: date of onset/diagnosis of CHF and/or COPD, current
      medication usage, and history of other significant illness. The MINI psychiatric interview
      will be used to determine the presence of DSM-IV Axis I disorders. Symptoms of anxiety and
      depression will be assessed using self-report and clinician rated instruments to determine
      final eligibility. Other baseline measures will include assessments for psychiatric diagnoses
      (semi-structured clinical interview), quality of life (disease specific and general), and
      health service utilization (by patient self-report). All patients who meet the eligibility
      requirements described in Section F will be invited to receive the intervention. A study
      clinician will initiate contact with the patient via telephone and subsequently set up an
      initial treatment session.

      Intervention: The intervention is a psychosocial treatment that was specifically developed to
      address the mental health and quality of life needs for chronically ill patients. As such the
      intervention contains a number of unique characteristics that are designed to better address
      the mental and physical health needs of these patients. It is a skills-based intervention
      that matches patients' expressed desire for improved quality of life within focused
      intervention modules based on their symptom profile and preferences for care. Modules are
      guided by a symptom-based algorithm but ultimately patients choose the intervention focus
      with the clinician serving as a consultant or guide. All patients receive two core modules
      focused on increasing awareness and controlling symptoms that emphasizes the overlap and
      distinction between mental health and physical heath symptoms. At the conclusion of the core
      modules, patients work with their study clinician to set initial goals for improving quality
      of life. Goals need not be restricted to "mental health" (e.g. reducing symptoms of
      depression or anxiety) but can also focus on stress and concerns about their physical
      condition (e.g. improving functioning and general quality of life by actively coping with a
      chronic medical illness). Following the core modules, patients are provided with a series of
      module choices from which they select skills training that matches their current and most
      pressing needs. Collectively, the active treatment phase is provided over 6 weekly sessions
      (2 core sessions and 4 elective module sessions). Each session is followed by a brief
      telephone follow-up that occurs between 1 and 3 days before the next session. At the
      conclusion of the active treatment phase, the participant will receive three follow-up
      telephone calls at weeks 8, 10, and 12 (referred to as booster telephone calls) to review
      skills, encourage continued practice, and facilitate consolidation of treatment gains.

      Assessments: Data will be collected at baseline, post-treatment (8 weeks), and at 3-month
      follow-up.
    
  