
    
      The incidence of obesity and obesity-associated metabolic disorders such as insulin
      resistance and type 2 diabetes is increasing worldwide. To date, bariatric surgery is the
      only obesity treatment that results in long-term weight reduction. In addition, bariatric
      surgery has been reported to promote remission of type 2 diabetes and to be a more effective
      treatment than standard medication for type 2 diabetes. Surprisingly, improvement in glucose
      homeostasis after some bariatric surgery procedures occurs before weight loss is achieved.
      The mechanisms behind this improvement are still unclear but a recent study indicates that
      the bypassing of jejunum could play an important role in glucose homeostasis. Moreover,
      jejunum-derived proteins present in serum in both human and mice induce insulin resistance in
      cell cultures of myocytes and in mice. This taken together indicates that the gut may play an
      important role in glucose homeostasis in type 2 diabetes mellitus.

      Metabolomics has recently been regarded to be one of the most suitable technologies for
      investigating complex diseases such as type 2 diabetes mellitus because it represent a
      real-time functional portrait of the organisms. Previous studies have shown that different
      metabolites and bile acids could be involved in the regulation of glucose homeostasis. Hence
      it is possible that the gut regulates metabolites that could be involved in the impaired
      glucose tolerance and type 2 diabetes mellitus.

      The specific aims of this research project are:

      Aim 1: To demonstrate that orally ingested glucose induces insulin resistance and to
      determine if this regulation of glucose homeostasis differs between subjects with normal
      glucose tolerance, impaired glucose tolerance and subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

      Aim 2: To identify metabolites regulated by the gut that are associated with impaired glucose
      tolerance and type 2 diabetes mellitus.

      To address this aim, differences in glucose kinetics will be studied when glucose is orally
      administrated (in an oral glucose tolerance test, OGTT) compared to an graded intravenous
      glucose infusion, were plasma glucose levels are held in the same range as during the OGTT,
      in subjects with normal glucose tolerance (n = 8), impaired glucose tolerance (n = 8) and
      type 2 diabetes mellitus (n = 8).

      Basal glucose kinetics will first be assessed by double glucose tracer technique. In the
      basal part of the glucose tolerance tests glucose tracer nr 1 will be infused and then be
      followed by either a continued infusion and a gradually increasing oral glucose load (25 g,
      75 g and 125 g with a 2 h interval during the OGTT) with glucose tracer nr 2 or an graded
      intravenous glucose tracer infusion where plasma glucose levels are adjusted to those
      obtained during the OGTTs.

      Gas chromatography/mass spectrometry will be used to measure isotopic enrichment of glucose
      tracers. Insulin, glucagon, total glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) and C-peptide will be
      measured by radioimmunoassays repeatedly during the glucose tolerance tests. Glucose kinetics
      including endogenous glucose production, insulin sensitivity and insulin secretion will be
      calculated. Differences in glucose kinetics between the oral and intravenous administration
      of glucose will be calculated and compared in subjects with normal glucose tolerance,
      impaired glucose tolerance or type 2 diabetes mellitus.

      Analysis of metabolomics will be performed in plasma collected during the OGTT and the graded
      intravenous glucose infusion. Metabolites in plasma samples will be analyzed using two global
      profiling analytical platforms and a targeted profiling platform. Two-dimensional gas
      chromatography coupled to time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GCxGC-TOFMS) will be performed to
      measure small polar metabolites. Molecular lipids will be assessed by a global platform using
      ultra performance liquid chromatography coupled to quadrupole-TOFMS (UPLC-QTOFMS). A targeted
      platform based on UPLC coupled to triple-quadrupole MS (UPLC-QqQMS) will be performed to
      quantify both unconjugated and conjugated forms of bile acids.

      Differences in plasma metabolites during OGTT and graded intravenous glucose infusion will be
      studied to assess information on possible regulation by the gut and the results will be
      compared in subjects with normal glucose tolerance, impaired glucose tolerance and subjects
      with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

      Significance The expected results in this study will demonstrate that the gut plays an
      important role in glucose homeostasis and that this system is dysregulated in type 2
      diabetes. More importantly, novel factors derived or regulated from the gut that regulate
      insulin resistance and glucose tolerance will be identified which could be possible targets
      for future antidiabetic therapies.
    
  