
    
      The Environmental Polymorphisms Registry (EPR) Health and Exposure Survey is designed to
      collect health, family history of disease, environmental exposures and lifestyle data on EPR
      participants. The EPR was established to collect and store DNA specimens from 20,000
      participants and to serve as a resource for scientists investigating genotype-driven
      translational research of chronic health conditions. Under this protocol, we will administer
      the approximately 200 question Health and Exposure Survey to EPR participants. The
      information will be used to better characterize the EPR population, thus making it more
      useful in answering research questions related to gene-environment interactions. Data from
      the survey will help researchers to advance clinical research by developing new ways of
      preventing, diagnosing, and treating common diseases such as cardiovascular disease, asthma,
      and diabetes.

      During Phases I and II, the survey was administered to EPR participants using a modified
      version of the Dillman Total Design Method (TDM) for surveys. This method requires following
      specific steps for survey administration that incorporate web-based, paper and phone
      administration. The rationale for using the TDM is to maximize participant response rates.
      During Phase III, the survey may be distributed to new EPR participants (e.g., those who were
      not enrolled in the EPR at the time of the Phase I and II survey administrations) for
      self-administration at the time of enrollment.

      Investigators may select and contact participants for follow-up studies based upon health,
      exposure, or disease status information; this includes responses to the EPR Health and
      Exposure Survey. Participation in follow-up studies is completely voluntary. Participants can
      decide at the time they are contacted if they would like to enroll in the follow-up study.
      Their decision whether or not to participate in a follow-up study will not affect their
      participation in the EPR.
    
  