
    
      Background: Psychosocial interventions are effective for all types of cancer in preventing
      and addressing distress and enhancing quality of life. However, most neglect existential
      issues. Issues of meaning and meaninglessness are especially important existential concerns
      for advanced cancer patients and crucial in determining their quality of life. Adaptation can
      be promoted and current and/or future existential crises curtailed by an early,
      psychologically growth-promoting intervention such as the Meaning-Making intervention
      (MMi)(Lee, 2006), helping patients adapt more quickly or fully, and preparing them for stormy
      periods ahead such as the end of life. However, it is not known whether: 1) the MMi can help
      patients newly diagnosed with advanced cancer; 2) it increases a sense of meaning in life; 3)
      its impact lasts beyond the end of the intervention; and 4) the effect shown is due to the
      MMi or a similar effect could be obtained by having someone listen empathically for the same
      amount of time as it takes to administer the MMi.

      The investigators now want to test its efficacy in a full 3-arm randomized controlled trial
      for newly diagnosed advanced cancer patients. They will roll in the feasibility pilot study
      data (n=60) since it demonstrated that the initial protocol was feasible and the
      investigators therefore did not view or analyze the outcome data (it was viewed only by the
      research coordinator) and the design stayed the same (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier:
      NCT01693991). .

      Primary Hypothesis: Adding the MMi to usual care (experimental group) enhances meaning in
      life on the FACIT-Sp-12 meaning subscale among newly diagnosed advanced cancer patients,
      compared with those receiving usual care plus meetings with an empathic non-professional
      visitor (i.e., attention-control group) or usual care alone, at 2 months post-randomization.
      "Meaning in life" (primary outcome) is defined as the belief that one's life has significance
      and purpose (i.e., global meaning) and "newly diagnosed advanced cancer patient" is defined
      as the 6 months after first occurrence of, progression to, or recurrence of stage III or IV
      cancer.

      Secondary hypotheses: The Experimental Group will have decreased anxiety and depression
      (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale), increased overall quality of life (McGill Quality of
      Life Questionnaire (MQOL) Total), existential wellbeing (MQOL Existential Wellbeing), and
      posttraumatic growth (Post-Traumatic Growth Inventory), compared to the Attention-Control and
      Usual Care groups at 2 months post-randomization. Furthermore, the MMi effects are present at
      4 and 6 months post-randomization. Additional analyses: The investigators plan subgroup
      analyses of effect modifiers such as gender, degree of baseline perceived life-threat,
      initial level of psychological distress, initial level of meaning in life, and degree of
      experienced physical wellbeing.

      Design and method: RCT with 471 newly diagnosed advanced cancer patients assigned randomly to
      the Experimental Group, Attention-Control, or Usual Care. Patients will complete self-report
      questionnaires measuring outcomes at baseline, 2, 4 and 6 months post-randomization.

      Significance of the research: Advanced cancer patients are confronted with the possibility of
      imminent death and consequently struggle to search for meaning in their plight. An early,
      psychologically growth-promoting intervention is especially important for these patients to
      prevent further distress within a lifespan that is likely to be limited. Interventions
      designed to promote psychological wellbeing and enhance quality of life usually fail to
      address this important existential dimension and pathway to improved wellbeing. The MMi
      offers a promising avenue to help advanced cancer patients adjust to their diagnosis and
      improve their quality of life, helping them to adapt more quickly or fully. If the results of
      this RCT are positive, focus groups and interviews with key stakeholders indicate that it
      will be integrated into routine cancer care, with outreach activities designed to equip the
      oncology healthcare community to address meaning and existential issues in clinical practice.
    
  