
    
      Background

      The prevalence of patent foramen ovale (PFO) is about 25% in the general population and
      approximately 40% in patients who have ischemic stroke of unknown cause (cryptogenic stroke).
      Given the large number of asymptomatic patients, no primary prevention is currently
      recommended. On the contrary, secondary prevention is very important. Prospective studies
      have shown that antithrombotic treatment (ATT) with aspirin or warfarin appears to negate the
      risk of recurrent stroke associated with a PFO. Patients with spontaneous or large
      right-to-left shunts (RLS), those with a coinciding atrial septal aneurysm (ASA) or multiple
      ischemic events prior to the PFO diagnosis may still be at increased risk of stroke
      recurrence despite ATT. Percutaneous device closure (PDC) is a challenging alternative to
      ATT. Several studies reported 0% to 3.4% annual recurrence rates of stroke or TIA in patients
      treated by PDC. To date, there is no data from randomized controlled trials (RCT) comparing
      the risk of stroke recurrence after PDC with that under ATT only. The results from ongoing
      RCTs are not to be awaited in the near future, mainly due to low enrolment and event rates.
      Even if RCTs are completed successfully, statistical differences may remain undetected with
      the planned sample sizes. Alternative data-gathering strategies such as multicenter
      registries are needed to overcome the low recruitment rates.

      Objective

      1) To compare the risk of recurrent stroke and TIA in patients aged ≤ 55 years with PFO and
      otherwise unexplained stroke who undergo PDC or receive ATT only; 2) To assess the
      etiological role of PFO for stroke/TIA in patients aged > 55 years; 3) To assess the risk of
      recurrent stroke/TIA in "high-risk" PFO patients (i.e. those with spontaneous (at rest) or
      large RLS, coinciding ASA, or multiple previous cerebrovascular events).

      Methods

      Multicenter prospective non-randomized study with scheduled 3-years follow-up of patients
      with PFO and ischemic stroke or TIA. Participating centers: Swiss University Hospitals of
      Basel, Bern, Geneva, Lausanne and Zurich, the Cantonal Hospital of Aarau, the Triemli
      Hospital, the Alfried-Krupp Krankenhaus of Essen, the University Hospital of Essen, the
      Klinikum Worms gGmbH, Tufts Medical Center, Baystate Medical Center, the East Medical Center
      Tyler, and the University Hospital of Leuven.
    
  