
    
      Patients undergoing cataract surgery are often otherwise healthy and active with their only
      restriction being reduced visual quality. Within the past few years, intraocular lenses
      (IOLs) have been improved to fulfill the needs of these patients. Nowadays efforts are aiming
      for the enhancement of the patient vision and his subjective satisfaction postoperative.

      One of the best ways to accomplish this is to have a perfect intraocular lens (IOL) power
      calculation. However, the best calculation can't help if the implanted intraocular lens (IOL)
      changes its position after implantation.

      It should be considered that an anterior chamber depth (ACD) shift, decentration, tilt or
      rotation of an IOL could result in a reduction in visual quality. For an aspherical IOL, for
      instance, it is essential not to be decentrated and tilted more than 0.4 mm 2 (0.8 mm 3) and
      7° 2 (10° 3), respectively. Otherwise it will be outperformed by a spherical IOL. The
      estimation of the post-operative intraocular lens (IOL) position and therefore the estimated
      anterior chamber depth (ACD) is presently the main source of error (35% 4 to 42% 5) in IOL
      power calculation and therefore for the refractive outcome of the patients after cataract
      surgery. Presently the pre-operatively measured ACD is taken into account for several IOL
      power calculation formulas, such as the Haigis formula, the Holladay II formula and the Olsen
      formula.

      To manage a better outcome an IOL with less postoperative influence of the anterior chamber
      depth (ACD) is very important. To accomplish a smaller deviation after the operation of the
      anterior chamber depth (ACD) the haptic and the material of the lens is very important. The
      change of the anterior chamber depth (ACD) after cataract surgery can be easily measured by
      instruments like the IOL-Master 700, AC-Master and Lenstar. It must be considered that every
      person is different and that change of the anterior chamber depth (ACD) in different eyes can
      cause high measurement errors. The changes in two eyes of the same patient help to minimize
      the error. These can help to achieve a better outcome for future patients.

      The hydrophobic acrylate of the Acrysof IOL has been modified to the new material in the
      Clareon IOL. This study will evaluate whether the new Clareon has non-inferior axial
      stability to the Acrysof.
    
  