
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Overweight/obesity is the second leading cause of death in the US, and is growing in
      prevalence at an alarming rate. Control of overweight/obesity is increasingly recognized as a
      high national priority because of its contribution to cardiovascular (CVD) risk factors and
      ultimately to CVD itself. The short-term success of behavioral interventions for weight loss
      has been repeatedly documented. Unfortunately, because weight re-gain is extremely common, a
      disappointingly, small proportion of individuals achieve long-term weight control. Of the
      factors that are associated with sustained weight loss, one of the most important is
      continued intervention with frequent contacts.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study is a multi-center, randomized, controlled trial [Weight Loss Maintenance Trial
      (MAINTENANCE)] to determine the effects of two innovative behavioral interventions, each
      designed to maintain frequent contacts, compared to a usual care control group. Overweight
      and obese individuals (60% women, 40% African Americans) who are taking medication for
      hypertension, dyslipidemia and/or type 2 diabetes will enter a 6-month, weight loss program.
      Those 800 individuals who lose at least 4 kg (approximately 9 pounds) will then be randomized
      into one of three groups: a Personal Contact (PC) Intervention that provides monthly personal
      contacts with a trained interventionist, primarily via telephone; an Interactive Technology
      (IT) Intervention that provides frequent contacts through a state-of-the-art interactive
      web-based program supplemented by other communication technologies; or Usual Care (UC). The
      primary outcome will be weight change from the end of the initial weight loss program to the
      end of the 30-month weight maintenance intervention period. Other outcomes will include
      weight change in subgroups, prevalence of CVD risk factors, measures of behavior change, and
      cost of implementation. For each outcome, the Personal Contact and Interactive Technology
      interventions will be compared to Usual Care and, if different from Usual Care, to each
      other. To successfully combat the obesity epidemic, clinicians and health care systems must
      have options that are effective and feasible and that can be provided to large numbers of
      individuals.

      Phase II intervention completed: July 2007

      Phase III intervention completed: October 2009
    
  