
    
      Intravenous therapy is one of the basic elements of modern health care. IV routes provided
      through catheters for pediatric patients are necessary for primary and secondary health and
      increase the possibility of mortality and morbidity depending on the treatment given and the
      factors of the patient. As in every invasive application, there are problems regarding the
      use of catheters, which is a minimal surgical procedure, and perhaps the most important of
      these is catheter-related infections.

      CRI's are defined as the accompanying of both local (redness around the catheter, increased
      temperature, discharge, drainage, tenderness, edema) and systemic (fever, chills, changes in
      laboratory tests) infection findings in patients and is an important complication for
      children. is happening. The increase in prevalence varies among patients, as well as between
      cities and countries, and is among the top three among hospital-associated infections.

      Although there are many studies on infections related to the use of a peripheric intravenous
      catheters in adult patients, it is reported that this issue is not addressed much in
      children. It is thought that there is no standardization regarding peripheric intravenous
      catheters management in the studies conducted.

      Since the risk factors for infection such as body weight, concomitant chronic disease,
      characteristics of the catheter used and the drug administered, presence of interconnection
      for pediatric patients are different from adults, catheter-related infections in the
      pediatric age group requires a separate discussion. It cannot be denied that the main step in
      the prevention of catheter-related infections is the management of peripheric intravenous
      catheters and determining an appropriate skin antiseptic is a part of this.

      In Children, 70% Alcohol, 2% Chlorhexidine Gluconate, 1% Octenidine, and 10% Povidone-iodine
      type antiseptics are commonly used for skin antisepsis. Sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO3) solutions
      are used in different areas such as oral hygiene and dental care in the world and our
      country, and side effects are not reported. There is limited information in the literature
      regarding its use as a skin antiseptic, and it is seen that this information belongs to the
      adult age group. There is no data on the child age group.

      In this study, which was planned in two stages to determine the effectiveness of the use of
      sodium bicarbonate as a skin antiseptic in the prevention of catheter-related infections, the
      effectiveness of the antiseptics used in the first stage was evaluated in the laboratory
      environment against the most common microorganisms in the skin flora, and in the second
      stage, the use of these antiseptic solutions in skin cleansing in pediatric patients before
      the peripheric intravenous catheters procedure their effectiveness has been evaluated.
    
  