
    
      In this proposed RCT, and based on recommendations from parents who participated in the
      initial Cuídalos7 intervention trial, the investigators plan to modify the program by: 1)
      increasing the amount of content related to sexual communication (e.g., more case studies and
      interactive activities); 2) adding a module on stigma (towards HIV/AIDS); 3) increasing
      access by moving from a computer-based to a web-based platform; and 4) increasing the
      flexibility in how the program is used (e.g., ability to view the entire program or specific
      modules more than once). In order to examine the efficacy of the program, the investigators
      will recruit 680 parents and one of the participant's adolescents from schools,
      community-based and governmental organizations in Puerto Rico, and will randomly assign
      parents to receive: 1) the Cuídalos intervention; or 2) a web-based health promotion control
      intervention focused on the prevention of diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Parents and
      adolescents will complete measures at pre-intervention and at 3- (parents only), 6-, and 12
      month follow-ups.

      The investigators will address the five following specific aims:

        1. Determine whether the Cuídalos intervention increases parents' comfort with, as well as
           the amount of, general and sexual risk-specific communication with adolescents and
           whether it decreases stigma (towards HIV/AIDS) at 3-,6-, and 12- month follow-ups as
           compared to the general health promotion control intervention.

        2. Determine whether the Cuídalos intervention decreases self-reported adolescent
           intercourse and unprotected intercourse at 6-, and 12- month follow-ups as compared to
           the general health promotion control intervention.

        3. Identify theory-based variables (e.g., attitudes, subjective norms, perceived behavioral
           control, and intentions) that mediate the intervention effects of Cuídalos on parents'
           self-reported comfort with and amount of communication with their adolescents.

        4. Determine whether the effects of the Cuídalos intervention on adolescents sexual
           behavior and parent adolescent communication are moderated by individual (adolescents:
           sexual experience, gender, age, stigma; parents: gender, age, computer access and
           experience, frequency and time engaged in the program), and microsystem (adolescents:
           parent-adolescent communication) factors.

        5. Examine the cost-effectiveness of the web-based Cuídalos intervention on adolescent
           sexual behavior.

      Results from this study will inform the use and efficacy of a web-based Cuídalos program for
      Puerto Rican parents. This study is an innovative and timely effort given the existing
      disparities in sexual health outcomes among Latino youth, the lack of culturally and
      linguistically effective interventions for Latino parents and adolescents, and the absence of
      web-based interventions with Latinos. If the program is efficacious, the web-based format
      will accelerate the translation of this program into public health practice and will be an
      important contribution in supporting adolescent sexual health behaviors.
    
  