
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Hypertension is a multifactorial disease with genetic and environmental factors contributing
      to the disease process. HYPGENE will investigate gene-fitness and gene-obesity interactions
      that relate to the development of hypertension during adulthood. The study uses the cohort of
      the Aerobics Center Longitudinal Study (ACLS) at the Cooper Clinic.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The HYPGENE Study is a collaborative effort between the Pennington Biomedical Research
      Center, the Cooper Institute, and Washington University in St. Louis. The aim of the study is
      to investigate the contributions of DNA sequence variation in candidate genes as well as
      their interactions with cardiorespiratory fitness and obesity to the risk of hypertension in
      participants of the Aerobics Center Longitudinal Study (ACLS). In the first phase (as of
      12/01/03), a group of 1000 subjects, who were normotensive and free of cardiovascular disease
      and diabetes at the time of their first preventive medical examination (from 01/1987 to
      02/2001) will be selected from the ACLS cohort. Half of these subjects (n=500) developed
      hypertension during the follow-up period (duration 2 to 16 years), whereas the other half
      remained normotensive. In the second phase (from 12/03 to 11/05), the sample size will be
      increased to 1500 subjects (750 cases and 750 controls). Cases are defined as individuals who
      were normotensive at baseline but developed essential hypertension during follow-up.
      Comparison individuals are those who also were normotensive at baseline and remained
      normotensive during follow-up. The ascertainment of the case-control status will be done
      during the subjects' return visits to the Cooper Clinic. A panel of biallelic single
      nucleotide polymorphisms in candidate gene loci will be typed. The candidate genes are
      selected based on their putative roles in the physiological pathways pertaining to the
      regulation of blood pressure by fitness and obesity, or on evidence of linkages and
      associations in previous studies. The candidates include endothelial factors contributing to
      vasodilation and vasoconstriction, beta-adrenergic receptors and their kinases, which mediate
      the effects of autonomic nervous system on cardiac function and vascular tone, the renin
      angiotensin system, and signaling molecules that mediate the effects of laminar shear stress
      on vascular wall enzyme activity and gene expression. Logistic regression modeling and
      classification and regression trees methodology will be used to analyze the contribution of
      genotype, fitness level and obesity, as well as their interactions, to the risk of
      hypertension. The HYPGENE study will produce novel data on the effects of genetic factors in
      the presence of either high or low cardiorespiratory fitness level or obesity or normal body
      weight on the development of hypertension. These data could ultimately lead to more efficient
      use of physical activity and body weight control in the primary and secondary prevention of
      hypertension.
    
  