
    
      All hospitals in the Latin America Sepsis Institute network were invited to participate. This
      is a national based quality improvement initiative aiming to improve compliance with the
      sepsis bundles and mortality. The hospitals were instructed to include all patients that
      presented with the diagnosis of sepsis or septic shock in the emergency department (ED),
      wards or ICU. The diagnosis of sepsis was based on the previous criteria used by the network,
      which means presence of suspected infection and an infection-associated organ dysfunction.
      Organ dysfunction was defined by the presence of any of the following: systolic blood
      pressure <90 mmHg or mean arterial pressure <65 mmHg or fall in systolic blood pressure> 40
      mmHg; creatinine> 2.0 mg / dl or diuresis less than 0.5 ml/kg/h in the last 2 hours,
      bilirubin> 2mg/dl, platelet count<100,000, lactate> 2 mmol/dl (or above the reference value),
      coagulopathy (RNI> 1.5 or APTT>60 sec), PaO2/FiO2 ratio <300 or recent or increased O2 need
      to maintain SpO2> 90. Suspected of infection was based on the clinical suspicious by the
      attending physician. All patients under end-of-life care and those previously included in the
      database in the same hospital admission were excluded.

      The case managers were instructed to collect the 3 components of the qSOFA criteria, namely
      reduced level of consciousness, respiratory rate higher than 22 bpm and systolic blood
      pressure lower than 100 mmHg). In patients included from the ED, these components were
      checked at the time of triage. In patients in the wards or in the ICU, the 3 components were
      considered if presented any time in the 24 hours prior to the diagnosis of sepsis.

      Outcomes Primary outcome was hospital mortality. Secondary endpoints included admission to
      ICU and length of ICU stay of more than 48 hours. A secondary composite outcome was hospital
      mortality plus ICU length of stay higher than two days (for those admitted to the ICU).
    
  