
    
      Given the significant risk of morbidity and mortality, it is critical and highly recommended
      that lung transplant patients receive annual influenza immunizations that confer protection
      throughout the influenza season. Previous studies have demonstrated that transplant
      recipients and nonimmunocompromised populations display similar rates of seroprotection
      between 3 and 5 weeks after influenza vaccination, despite the transplant population
      achieving generally lower antibody concentrations. Two studies show influenza vaccine
      antibody persistence at reasonable rates at 1 year, but not 2 years, after immunization.
      However, there are no studies comparing seroprotection rates 6 months after vaccination,
      reflecting adequate coverage throughout the entire influenza season.

      Seroprotection has traditionally been defined as an antibody concentration of at least 40
      hemagglutination units (HAU) after vaccination, which is the criterion for influenza vaccine
      licensure. This concentration of antibody provides protection from infection at a rate of
      about 50% in typically healthy individuals. Protection from infection improves with higher
      antibody concentrations. For this study, a HAU of at least 160 was selected as a more
      conservative definition of seroprotection, where protection may reach up to 95%.

      The hypothesis is that seroprotection, defined as 40 HAU or greater, will persist up to 6
      months at high rates in lung transplant patients and that these rates will be comparable to
      the rates in healthy individuals. As a secondary outcome, seroprotection rates are compared
      when 160 HAU or greater was used to define seroprotection.

      Influenza vaccine responses in lung transplant patients and healthy control subjects without
      lung disease will be compared over the course of the 2008 to 2009 influenza season.

      Serum collected from participants before immunization, 2 to 4 weeks after immunization
      (postimmunization), and 6 months after immunization.

      [This substudy that was originally registered to NCT00205270 and subsequently registered to
      its own NCT number for the purpose of clarity in linked results]
    
  