
    
      -  There are various reasons for renal failure after kidney transplantation, such as
           delayed graft function (DGF) and acute rejection, acute renal tubular necrosis, chronic
           rejection and toxicity of immunosuppressive drugs. The diagnosis of renal allografts
           dysfunction can determine the direction of therapy. Currently, the gold standard of
           diagnosing renal allografts status is biopsies. However, biopsy has several drawbacks.
           It is invasive and can cause serious complications. These drawbacks urge investigators
           to find an accurate and non-invasive method to detect renal function. Elastography is a
           new way to detect tissue elasticity and can evaluate the tissue elasticity
           quantitatively. This method is proved to be of great value in diagnosing hepatic
           fibrosis (≥stage 2). Even though the investigation about this method is relatively less
           in allograft, the recent research shows that tissue elasticity does have relationship
           with pathological changes of transplanted kidney. Another new method, contrast-enhanced
           ultrasonography (CEUS), can indicate the blood perfusion of organ microcirculation. The
           accuracy rate of diagnosis of acute rejection(AR) can be 80% by using this method. It
           also has advantage in diagnosing acute tubular necrosis(ATN) and CAN. In addition, it
           produces no radioactive contamination as well as renal toxicity. This method has no
           serious side effect so it will not influence the normal function of patients' bodies and
           it can be performed for many times easily.

        -  The research information about Elastography and CEUS is still at the primary stage. The
           value of one single parameter in diagnosing renal failure is restricted. So the
           establishment of an integrated mathematical model got by combining traditional methods
           (such as ultrasonography and color Doppler flow imaging) with these two new methods
           (Elastography and CEUS) is required to provide a systematical, multi-parameter diagnosis
           of allograft rejection.

        -  What investigators have investigated before shows that different pathological changes of
           renal allograft can lead to regular changes in shear wave speed (SWS) and hemodynamics.
           By in-depth study of these changes, investigators aim to develop a mathematical model to
           diagnose the status of renal allograft.

        -  To achieve this goal, the following things will be done:

             1. Investigators plan to enroll 100 renal transplant recipients .

             2. Before biopsy, these things will be done : a. Normal ultrasonography will be
                performed on transplanted kidney to measure their size, cortical thickness and
                vertebral body. b. Color Doppler flow imaging will be performed to see blood supply
                of transplanted kidney and resistive index (RI) of renal seg-mental will be
                measured. c. Contrast enhanced ultrasonography examination will be performed using
                Philips iU-22 ultrasonic apparatus with a C5-1 probe (Philips,Amsterdam,
                theNetherlands)with an intravenous bolus injection of 0.6-1.0mL SonoVue (Bracco,
                Milan, Italy). Area under curve (AUC), peak intensity (PI), time-to-peak (TTP),
                rise time (RT) and mean transit time (MTT) will be measured on central cortex of
                transplanted kidney. d. Elastography will be performed with a Siemens Acuson S2000
                ultrasound machine using a 1- to 4-MHzcurved array multifrequency transducer (4 C1)
                (Siemens,Munich, Germany).

                Shear wave velocity (SWV) will be measured.

             3. Statistical analysis will be performed on the 10 quantitative parameters we got
                before (AUC, PI.etc ). The correlation between these parameters and condition of
                transplanted kidney (got by renal biopsy) will be evaluated. Then screening indexes
                will be optimized. On this basis, a mathematical model in diagnosing transplanted
                kidney is supposed to be built up.

             4. A ROC curve will be used to analyze the accuracy, sensitivity and specificity of
                this mathematical model.

             5. Then the US model will be verified in another 80 renal transplant recipients.
                Investigators will compare the diagnosis efficacy of transplanted kidney status got
                by the US model with the kidney biopsy result. Any parameter can be adjusted
                according to the verification results.
    
  