
    
      Major head and neck surgery involving micro-vascular reconstructions are prolonged procedures
      with considerable post operative risk. Not only do patients have prolonged time in theatre,
      the surgery involves two distinct surgical sites (head & neck site and peripheral flap donor
      site), and requires the patient to be admitted to a high care area for overnight sedation and
      ventilation. This combined with the presence of significant co-morbidities such as
      hypertension, cardiomyopathy and respiratory disease, place the patient at significant risk
      of post-operative complications. A recent prospective cohort study reported complication
      rates in nearly 65% of cases, of which 29% were of pulmonary origin. Furthermore, of these,
      14 patients required treatment in the intensive care or high dependency. Interestingly, and
      in contrast to other research3, neither pre-operative smoking nor the presence of
      pre-existing lung disease predicted pulmonary complications.

      The risks of post-operative pulmonary complications (PPCs) seem to be further increased in
      those patients requiring a tracheostomy. This tracheostomy is required to facilitate access
      to the tumour location and to provide post-operative airway protection in the presence of
      significant swelling or oedema. The risks of tracheostomy are well known4. Patients are prone
      to increased rates of infection, poor sputum clearance and inadequate humidification. These
      complications lead to prolonged admissions, delays in tracheostomy weaning and considerable
      healthcare related costs. To overcome these issues national guidance documents have
      identified the need to provide adequate humidification to prevent mucus plugging, as well as
      the provision of increased nursing care for stoma site cleaning and inner tube care.
      Historically, humidification has been provided by heated systems however due to perceived
      increased infection risk this has fallen out of favour and now passive humidification systems
      such as heat moisture exchangers have become more popular.

      Clearly, the combination of the risks of major head and neck surgery and those of a
      tracheostomy, place the patient at significant risk. As such it is essential to develop new
      post-operative management protocols to reduce the occurrence of post-operative complications.

      AIRVOTM (a form of non-invasive high flow oxygen therapy, HFOT), which delivers high flow
      heated and humidified oxygen and air via a tracheostomy tube at a prescribed fraction of
      inspired oxygen and a maximum flow of 60 L/min, is an attractive alternative to conventional
      oxygen therapy. Previous studies have shown that HFOT therapy generates a flow-dependent
      positive airway pressure and improves oxygenation by increasing end-expiratory lung volume,
      thus suggesting a possible alveolar recruitment associated with high-flow therapy. Although
      widely used in other clinical areas including patients with tracheostomy tubes, HFOT
      delivered in the AIRVOTM system has yet to be evaluated in the Head and Neck surgery
      population.

      This study aims to compare the effects of application of HFOT(delivered via AIRVOTM) therapy
      and conventional oxygen and humidification administration after major head and neck surgery
      involving insertion of a tracheostomy tube on postoperative pulmonary complications. The
      study will also compare post-operative length of stay, time to tracheostomy tube cuff
      deflation, tracheostomy tube decannulation, antibiotic use and post-operative physiotherapy
      requirements.

      The results of this proof of concept study will be used to further develop local protocols
      and to inform a grant funded multi-centre trial.
    
  