
    
      High glucose level in Pregnancy or Gestational Diabetes Mellitus (GDM) is one of the most
      common medical conditions during pregnancy. When undetected, it can cause significant harm
      for the pregnant women and her offspring. GDM can affect 5-25% of all pregnant women. It
      depends on the population and where the boundary is drawn between normal and abnormal glucose
      levels.

      Certain ethnic minority groups are considered at high-risk for developing GDM, including
      Indians. It is estimated >15% of pregnancies are affected by GDM in India. The immediate
      risks of untreated GDM are high rates of pre-eclampsia, higher caesarean section rates and
      psychological effects such as anxiety and depression. Women who develop GDM have a 7-8 times
      higher life-time risk of type 2 diabetes (T2D). Similarly, the immediate risks to the
      children are being too big or too small, shoulder damage during labour, low glucose levels or
      jaundice at birth, difficulty in breathing and in rare cases stillbirth. In the long term,
      the risk of obesity and T2D is also higher.

      The diagnosis of GDM is usually made between 24-28 weeks of pregnancy using a glucose drink
      test called oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). Although treatment can improve the outcomes,
      some of the damage may have already been done before the detection of GDM. Therefore,
      screening to detect high glucose level in pregnancy seems beneficial. However, there can be
      harms as well as benefits in screening programmes. Therefore a balance should be achieved
      between identifying women whose blood glucose level is high enough to cause harm and those
      with glucose level that would not cause harm. Currently, it is recommended that all pregnant
      women should be screened for GDM if they belong to a high-risk ethnic population. However,
      conducting OGTT in India is challenging, as this test requires pregnant women present
      themselves to a laboratory facility in a fasting state.

      In many countries, women are selected for OGTT based on the presence of at least one of the
      high risk factors such as higher body weight, older age and family history of T2D. However,
      this selection method can miss up to 50% of women who may develop GDM. The aim of the study
      is to develop a risk score in early pregnancy based on a combination of these risk factors
      that can be collected easily along with a simple finger prick average blood glucose test
      (called HbA1c). The efficiency of different levels of this combined risk score will be tested
      against the risk of developing GDM in the later part of pregnancy.

      Cost effectiveness analysis will also be conducted to identify at what risk level screening
      can be recommended in India. An accurate score that can safely exclude women at low risk of
      developing GDM will have significant benefits to the pregnant women. They can be safely
      reassured. Avoiding the need for OGTT will have significant time and cost benefits. In
      contrast, if the score identifies them as at high-risk, healthy eating and appropriate life
      style advice can reduce their risk of developing GDM in later pregnancy.
    
  