
    
      Knee OA, in particular, is a major driver of health care costs and is also a leading cause of
      arthritis-related activity limitations. A common assumption in knee OA treatment is that
      relief of joint pain will lead to improvements in physical function. However, many factors
      can influence disability in OA, not only the biomechanical factors which have been the focus
      of traditional rehabilitation. Although research supports a broader biopsychosocial approach
      to knee OA treatment, it has not been broadly adopted into clinical treatments. The
      biopsychosocial model posits that pain and disability are not only affected by pathophysical
      (e.g., biological) factors, but also psychological (e.g., depression, coping, self-efficacy)
      and social factors (e.g., social support, response of significant other).

      One approach to offering psychosocial aspects in the context of pain treatment has been via
      CBT, a common psychosocial intervention, with evidence supporting its efficacy in OA. Despite
      the evidence, CBT is rarely integrated into actual clinical practice for people with knee OA.
      Barriers to integration have included limited access to psychologists (particularly in rural
      settings), difficulties coordinating primary care physicians with psychological practices,
      inconsistent reimbursement of psychological services for OA pain, and inconsistent
      standardization of treatments across settings. The current study aims to overcome barriers
      that have previously limited access to a biopsychosocial approach to knee OA treatments by
      integrating cognitive and behaviorally-based self-management training into a new
      rehabilitation intervention offered through occupational therapy, an allied medical field
      which commonly teaches behavioral strategies to improve physical function in many clinical
      populations. Because this approach will be manualized, it will provide the opportunity for
      easy adoption into clinical practice.
    
  