
    
      Some local or systemic biological markers, using highly specialized techniques, have an
      interest that remains quite marginal in routine.

      Markers of inflammation generally have elevated concentrations in circulating blood, but
      these increases are not specific for prognosis. This is the case of pro-inflammatory
      cytokines (TNF, IL-1, IL-6...)[1, 2] and especially, so-called'acute phase' proteins such as
      C-reactive protein (CRP) and procalcitonin. It is now well established that the rise in the
      CRP is totally non-specific. With regard to procalcitonin, the published data are far from
      univocal[3-4], in particular because of the heterogeneity of the populations studied
      (emergency services, medical services, intensive care).

      These conventional biological assays are therefore not very informative and less efficient
      than the clinical-biological scores used in routine (SAPSII and SOFA).

      An alternative diagnostic approach relies on molecular changes in the cellular compartment of
      innate immunity. Activation of neutrophil polymorphils (PNN) is the result of the
      pro/anti-inflammatory cytokinic balance and hormonal cascades In other words, the degree of
      activation of NNPs can be considered as the barometer of the intensity of any acute
      inflammatory phenomenon. One of the most specific indicators of a systemic inflammatory
      response is the increased expression of CD64, a high affinity receptor to the immunoglobulin
      fragment Fcγ, on the surface of PNNs.

      CD64 expression elevation is induced in 4-6 hours by numerous cytokines (G-CSF, IFN- γ[5-7].
      Given the very low basal expression level of CD64 (less than 2000 sites per cell) and its
      rate of elevation in case of inflammation, its determination could prove interesting in
      demonstrating the inflammatory response and its intensity.

      In addition, the measurement of CD64 expression has obvious advantages over other PNN
      activation markers (such as CD11b, CD18, CD16, CD45RA or CD62L): negligible expression in
      healthy volunteers; no influence of blood sample manipulation; stable expression for 36 hours
      on anticoagulated blood.

      The other decisive advantage is the standardisation and automation of the measurement
      (performed in flow cytometry) thanks to a device developed by the LeukoDx company, the
      ACCELLIX-CD64. This measurement is performed in whole blood (30 to 50µL maximum), and the
      measurement time is short (26 minutes), which makes it particularly attractive in the context
      of emergency and resuscitation.
    
  