
    
      Glucosamine is a popular over-the-counter nutritional supplement that many people use for the
      treatment of osteoarthritis. Intravenous administration of glucosamine to animals or humans
      causes significant metabolic insulin resistance and vascular endothelial dysfunction.
      Moreover, experiments with various cell lines have implicated elevated glucosamine levels in
      the development of insulin resistance. However, there are no published studies examining the
      potential effects of oral glucosamine administration to modulate insulin sensitivity or
      capillary recruitment in humans. This is a significant concern because insulin resistance and
      vascular dysfunction contribute importantly to major public health problems including
      diabetes, obesity, hypertension, and cardiovascular diseases. Normal healthy volunteers and
      obese insulin resistant subjects will be enrolled in a randomized double-blind,
      placebo-controlled, crossover study to evaluate the effects of oral glucosamine to modulate
      insulin sensitivity and insulin-stimulated capillary recruitment. The reference standard
      hyperinsulinemic isoglycemic glucose clamp technique will be used to assess insulin
      sensitivity before treatment, after placebo or oral glucosamine (500 mg p.o. TID for 6
      weeks), and after completion of the crossover. In addition, insulin-stimulated capillary
      recruitment will be measured at the same time as the glucose clamp studies by using the
      ultrasound microbubble contrast technique to assess blood flow in the brachial artery and
      capillary recruitment in forearm skeletal muscle in response to hyperinsulinemia. Finally,
      plasma glucosamine levels will be measured just prior to each glucose clamp study using an
      HPLC method. The results of this study will determine if oral glucosamine administration
      causes significant insulin resistance and impairment in insulin-stimulated capillary
      recruitment in healthy volunteers or worsens insulin resistance and capillary recruitment in
      obese subjects. In addition, our study will provide important information about how plasma
      glucosamine levels change with commonly used oral doses of glucosamine.
    
  