
    
      OUTLINE: This is an open label, multi-center, randomized study.

      Eligible patients will be randomized to one of two treatment arms:

      Arm A (Azacitidine + Erythropoietin)

        -  Azacitidine Treatment 50 mg/m2 subcutaneously every other day (three times a week) for
           two consecutive weeks every four weeks. A cycle of therapy is defined as two consecutive
           weeks of subcutaneous azacitidine administered every other day three times a week (e.g.
           Monday - Wednesday - Friday) and the time to resolution of any treatment associated
           toxicity.

        -  Erythropoietin Treatment Patients who are randomized to Arm A will receive a dose of
           60,000IU as a single subcutaneous injection weekly without interruption while enrolled
           on protocol therapy. The dose should be administered to coincide with the first day of
           each cycle.

        -  Protocol therapy may be administered for up to six cycles of therapy.

      Arm B (Azacitidine Alone)

        -  Azacitidine Treatment 50 mg/m2 subcutaneously every other day (three times a week) for
           two consecutive weeks every four weeks. A cycle of therapy is defined as two consecutive
           weeks of subcutaneous azacitidine administered every other day three times a week (e.g.
           Monday - Wednesday - Friday) and the time to resolution of any treatment associated
           toxicity.

        -  Protocol therapy may be administered for up to six cycles of therapy.

      ECOG performance status 0 to 2

      Hematopoietic:

      To be eligible for randomization, subjects must have documentation of at least 1 of the
      following:

        -  A transfusion dependent anemia (defined by a history of two or more episodes of
           transfusion within a period of 8 weeks).

        -  An untransfused hemoglobin < 10 gm/dl measured on at least two occasions more than 7
           days apart in the month prior to randomization.

      Patients must also meet 1 of the following criteria:

        -  Has not received prior erythropoietin and has a serum erythropoietin level > 200 IU/L
           within 14 days of randomization.

        -  Has received prior erythropoietin without clinical benefit in the judgment of the
           treating physician.

        -  Adequate iron status defined as serum ferritin > 20 ng/ml and transferrin saturation of
           > 30% within 90 days prior to randomization.

        -  Symptoms attributed to the anemia with hemoglobin < 11 g/dL.

        -  Folate and Vitamin B12 levels within normal limits within 90 days prior to
           randomization.

      Hepatic:

        -  SGOT (ALT) level < 2 x ULN within 14 days prior to randomization.

        -  SGPT (AST) level < 2 x ULN within 14 days prior to randomization.

        -  Serum total bilirubin level < 2 x ULN within 14 days prior to randomization.

      Renal:

        -  Serum creatine < 1.5 x the upper limit of normal (ULN) within 14 days prior to
           randomization.

      Cardiovascular:

        -  No uncontrolled hypertension (defined as a systolic pressure > 160 mmHg and/or a
           diastolic pressure > 110 mmHg).

        -  No history of (within 12 months) deep venous thrombosis (DVT), pulmonary embolism (PE),
           or other venous thrombosis. Prior superficial thrombophlebitis is not an exclusion
           criterion.

        -  No history of (within 6 months) cerebrovascular accident ([CVA] includes ischemic,
           embolic, and hemorrhagic), transient ischemic attack (TIA), myocardial ischemia
           (includes Unstable Angina, Q wave Myocardial Infarction [QwMI], and non-Q wave
           Myocardial Infarction [NQMI]), or other arterial thrombosis.
    
  