
    
      Hypothesis: To compare the novel refractive surgery (SMILE, the intervention group) with
      traditional refractive surgery (FS-LASIK, the control group) in terms of visual acuity, the
      higher order aberrations, corneal biomechanical parameters and the complications. SMILE
      surgery might offer some advantages in some aspects compared with FS-LASIK surgery.

      Study program

      The procedures of the study are listed as follows:

      All the participants accept the refractive surgery which were selected at first, and
      patients' routine postoperative examinations included UCVA, BCVA, slit lamp microscopy,
      non-contact IOP, corneal topography with the Scheimpflug tomography system, ocular higher
      order aberrations using the WASCA analyzer (Carl Zeiss Meditec AG), corneal biomechanical
      properties acquired by the Ocular Response Analyzer and/or the Corvis ST (Corvis ST, OCULUS,
      Wetzlar, Germany) at 1 week, 1 month, 3 months and 6 months follow-up periods after surgery.

      Statistics:

      Patients who have decided to choose the SMILE surgery or the FS-LASIK will be selected as
      participants. The propensity matching method will be used to choose proper cases for the two
      groups. The propensity matching method can be calculated by SPSS software. The independent
      variables include: the central corneal thickness (CCT), the Km (mean Pentacam keratometry),
      the spherical diopter (from manifest refraction), and the cylindrical diopter (from manifest
      refraction), the UCVA, the BCVA, the corneal resistance factor (CRF) and the corneal
      hysteresis (CH) (if the investigator have the Ocular Response Analyzer) of the cornea at
      preoperative. The closest score of eyes in the two groups will be matched.

      The data will be preserved by each site, and will be systematically collected and analyzed by
      TianjinEH center. The statistical expert Dr Hayes from American Pacific University will be
      the statistical consultant, and will also in charge of the sample size calculation, the
      instructor of statistical analysis, and the quality control.
    
  