
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the disease free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) (dual primary
      endpoints) between combination pembrolizumab plus standard of care (Arm C) versus (vs.)
      standard of care (Arm A) in patients with stage IB-IIIA non-small cell lung cancer.

      II. To compare the DFS and OS (dual primary endpoints) between sequential pembrolizumab
      following standard of care (Arm B) vs. standard of care (Arm A) followed by observation in
      patients with stage IB-IIIA non-small cell lung cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the DFS and OS between combination pembrolizumab with standard of care (Arm C)
      vs. sequential standard of care followed by pembrolizumab (Arm B) in patients with stage
      IB-IIIA non-small cell lung cancer.

      II. To compare the adverse event rates and drug discontinuation rates due to adverse events
      with the addition of pembrolizumab plus standard of care (combination and/or sequential; Arms
      B and C) vs. standard of care alone (Arm A) as well as Arm B versus Arm C in patients with
      stage IB-IIIA non-small cell lung cancer.

      III. To compare the DFS and OS between pembrolizumab plus standard of care (combination
      and/or sequential; Arms B and C) vs. standard of care alone (Arm A) by PD-L1 expression
      status (tumor proportion score [TPS] >= 50% vs TPS < 50%) in patients with stage IB-IIIA
      non-small cell lung cancer.

      IV. To compare the DFS and OS between pembrolizumab plus standard of care (combination and/or
      sequential; Arms B and C) vs. standard of care alone (Arm A) in patients with stage IB-IIIA
      non-small cell lung cancer that receive at least 2 cycles of initial adjuvant chemotherapy.

      QUALITY OF LIFE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare patient-reported quality of life (QOL) one year after randomization as assessed
      by the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life
      Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ)-Core (C)30 between patients randomized to receive adjuvant
      chemotherapy followed by pembrolizumab (Arm B), and those randomized to receive adjuvant
      chemotherapy + observation (Arm A).

      II. To compare patient reported QOL one year after randomization as assessed by EORTC QLQ-C30
      between patients randomized to receive adjuvant chemotherapy + pembrolizumab concomitantly
      (Arm C) and those randomized to receive adjuvant chemotherapy + observation (Arm A).

      III. To compare patient-reported QOL at completion of chemotherapy as assessed by the EORTC
      QLQ-C30 between patients randomized to receive adjuvant chemotherapy + pembrolizumab
      concomitantly (Arm C) and those randomized to receive adjuvant chemotherapy + observation or
      adjuvant chemotherapy followed by pembrolizumab (Arms A and B combined).

      IV. To present longitudinal trajectories by arm of patient-reported dyspnea and coughing as
      assessed by the EORTC QLQ-Lung Cancer (LC13).

      CORRELATIVE SCIENCE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the DFS and OS with the addition of pembrolizumab (combination and/or
      sequential) to standard of care platinum-based adjuvant therapy (Arms B and C) vs standard of
      care (Arm A) in the PD-L1 subgroup of patients with PD-L1 expression status (>= 1% vs < 1%).

      II. To compare the DFS and OS with the addition of pembrolizumab (combination and/or
      sequential) to standard of care platinum-based adjuvant therapy (Arms B and C) vs. standard
      of care (Arm A) by tumor mutational burden status (high vs. low) in patients with stage
      IB-IIIA non-small cell lung cancer.

      III. To identify a cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (cfDNA) marker associated with high-risk
      of recurrence and improved DFS and OS with the addition of pembrolizumab to standard adjuvant
      chemotherapy (Arms B and C).

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM A:

      INITIAL THERAPY: Patients receive 1 of 4 platinum doublet regimens* based on the treating
      physician's choice. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      CONTINUANCE THERAPY: Patients then undergo observation.

      ARM B:

      INITIAL THERAPY: Patients receive 1 of 4 platinum doublet regimens* based on the treating
      physician's choice. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      CONTINUANCE THERAPY: Patients then receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 25-40
      minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 17 cycles or every 6 weeks for 16
      cycles (patients enrolled after 10/14/2020) in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM C:

      INITIAL THERAPY: Patients receive 1 of 4 platinum doublet regimens* based on the treating
      physician's choice and pembrolizumab IV over 25-40 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every
      21 days for 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      CONTINUANCE THERAPY: Patients then receive pembrolizumab IV over 25-40 minutes on day 1.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for 13 cycles or every 6 weeks for 12 cycles (patients
      enrolled after 10/14/2020) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      *ACCEPTABLE REGIMENS: DOUBLET I: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1-2 hours and pemetrexed
      IV over 10 minutes on day 1 of each cycle.

      DOUBLET II: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 30 minutes and pemetrexed IV over 10 minutes
      on day 1 of each cycle.

      DOUBLET III: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1-2 hours on day 1 of each cycle and
      gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 of each cycle.

      DOUBLET IV: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 30 minutes and paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on
      day 1 of each cycle.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 weeks, then every 3 months
      for 2 years from randomization, every 6 months for years 2-4, and then annually for up to 10
      years from randomization.
    
  