
    
      Testosterone replacement therapy (TTh) is becoming increasingly common among men of
      reproductive age in the United States. An estimated 3 million men are on TTh; however
      exogenous testosterone use can disrupt the hypothalamus-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis, leading
      to reduced spermatogenesis and possible infertility. In normal physiology, the hypothalamus
      releases Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), which stimulates the anterior pituitary to
      release Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH) and Luteinizing Hormone (LH). FSH then stimulates
      the Sertoli cells in the testis to support spermatogonial differentiation and maturation. LH
      stimulates the Leydig cells in the testes to produce endogenous testosterone. Regulation of
      this HPG axis occurs via negative feedback where testosterone directly inhibits the release
      of GnRH and LH from the hypothalamus and pituitary, respectively. The use of exogenous
      testosterone thus leads to reduced Sertoli function causing diminished spermatogenesis.

      The spontaneous recovery of spermatogenesis after cessation of TTh is possible but may take
      months to years and cause the patient to experience new onset of severe hypothalamic
      hypogonadal symptoms. Human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) is a naturally occurring protein
      that mimics LH and may be used as a therapy to support the return of spermatogenesis quickly
      with minimal side effects and resolve hypogonadal symptoms. Studies have shown that
      testosterone-induced infertile patients can recover sperm in the ejaculate in 4.6 months when
      treated with HCG supplemented with clomiphene citrate, tamoxifen, anastrozole, or recombinant
      FSH. With the cessation of TTh, despite the use of LH stimulatory protocols, these patients
      still experience hypogonadal symptoms. Recent preliminary results show the potential to
      offset hypogonadism symptoms that accompany exogenous testosterone cessation through
      administration of 4.5% intranasal testosterone gel. Natesto is a nasally administered
      exogenous 4.5% testosterone gel, administered from a non-pressurized, manual pump dispenser
      equipped with a specialized nasal applicator which administers 125uL (5.5mg of testosterone).
      Previous studies have shown that a single nasal dose has a rapid absorption with a Tmax at 60
      mins and a half-life that ranged between 10-100 minutes. Three to four daily doses achieve
      eugonadal levels of circulating testosterone comparable to normal pulsatile-regulated release
      of testosterone. It has also been shown that men on Natesto maintain FSH and LH levels as
      well as total motile sperm count within the normal range. In this prospective study, the
      investigators seek to confirm the role of Natesto to combat hypogonadal symptoms in men
      trying to recover spermatogenesis following the withdrawal of conventional TTh.
    
  