
    
      Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is the first reason for consultation in gastroenterology and
      his prevalence reach 5% of the general population. IBS is characterized by abdominal
      discomfort, diarrhea or constipation and decreased quality of life.

      Recent facts on IBS pathophysiology show association between mucosal immunity activation
      (mast cells and their proteases) and epithelial permeability disorder. Permeability disorder
      can be reproduced by application of colonic biopsies cultures supernatants on in-vitro cell
      cultures. In parallel, tight junctions proteins mRNA (ZO-1, Occludin) decrease is observed
      ex-vivo in biopsies and in-vitro.

      Gut bacterial proteases (cystein and serin proteases) may also play a role. In human,
      proteases activity is correlated with IBS symptoms severity. Proteases activity increase
      (cystein and serin proteases) is poorly understood, and this increase could be subjected to a
      genetic determinism (decrease in proteases inhibitors genes expression - Serpin A1/E1).

      Objectives: 1/ To study relations between proteases activity (in stool and colonic biopsies
      supernatants), proteases inhibitors genes expression and mucosal cellular infiltrate (IBS
      patients and healthy subjects). 2/ Establishing a correlation between proteases activity,
      mucosal micro-inflammation and symptoms. 3/ To evaluate proteases inhibitors therapeutic
      potential.

      Method: Subjects will be recruited in gastroenterology consultation. IBS patients will answer
      to Rome III criteria. Patients coming for screening colonoscopy will be defined as healthy
      subjects.

      Colonic biopsies will be sent in real time to the research laboratory (EA 6302) for
      supernatants collecting, mRNA expression studies (Serpins, ZO-1, occludin, cytokines),
      proteases activity / permeability measurements and proteases inhibitors reversibility tests.
      Histologic study will also be performed.

      Expected results: 1/ Decreased expression of proteases inhibitors genes in subjects with IBS.
      2/ Correlation of symptoms with proteases activity intensity. 3/ Demonstration of restorative
      potential of proteases inhibitors.
    
  