
    
      The project will investigate the roles of cortical regions, sub-thalamic nucleus and
      pedunculo-pontine nucleus in the preparation of volitional movement termination in patients
      with Parkinson's disease (PD)receiving deep brain stimulation. Currently there are two models
      of inhibitory preparation of volitional movements. The "withdrawal mechanism" posits the
      explanation that movement termination is due to the"shutting off" of the activated
      neuralcircuitry, whereas the "inhibition mechanism" suggests that inhibitory neural
      structures are activated to terminate the voluntary movement. These hypotheses were deduced
      from the study of scalp movement-related cortical potential recordings and how the deep
      structures involved in the execution in movement termination is uncertain. Movement
      preparation prior to movement onset (Mon) has been addressed in both scalp recordings of MRCP
      and from recent studies of STN in PD patients. However,the electro-physiologic information
      concerning the role of STN in the preparation of movement offset (Moff)is less understood. In
      our pilot study, we have found that high-beta event-related de-synchronization (ERD)appeared
      earlier (3 seconds prior to Mon) than those of low-beta and alpha for the Mon phasic
      movement.There was no alpha ERD for the Mon tonic movement. Alpha, low-beta, and high-beta
      ERD all appeared about 1 second prior to the Moff tonic movement. These findings suggest that
      STN participates in the preparation of volitional movement termination but via different
      mechanism from that in movement initiation.Unlike asynchronous ERD frequency bands present in
      movement initiation, a simultaneous ERD across wide frequency bands in STN may play a pivotal
      role in terminating volitional movement. Since there is tight connection between the cortical
      regions and STN, it is intriguing to know the relationship of these oscillatory patterns
      between the deep and superficial neural structures. In the current proposal, we will examine
      the patterns of ERD and ERS prior to Mon and Moff of tonic movements in both cortical and STN
      regions and determine the temporal relationship among them.
    
  