
    
      The aim of the current study is to investigate the efficacy of CFT compared with a
      sham-intervention, comprised of photobiomodulation using a detuned device + talking about
      neutral topics, for pain intensity and disability at the end of the treatment and at 3-month
      follow-up. The secondary aims will be to investigate the effect of CFT for pain intensity and
      disability at 6-month follow-up, as well as the effect of the active treatment on exercise
      adherence, global perceived effect of improvement, functioning and therapeutic alliance at 3-
      and 6-month follow-up.

      The study was submitted to and approved by the ethics committee for research involving human
      subjects of the Ribeirão Preto Medical School (Ethics Committee Board from Centro Saúde
      Escola Cuaibá) of the University of São Paulo (HCFMRP CAE number: 26780619.0.0000.5414).

      This study will be a sham-controlled randomized clinical trial (RCT). The sample will be
      comprised of 152 participants (both genders) with non-specific CLBP who will be referred to
      the physiotherapy outpatient clinic from the Centro Saúde Escola Cuiabá of Ribeirão Preto
      Medical School - University of São Paulo (Brazil).

      Patients will be informed that this study will involve a sham intervention arm (fake
      intervention in which an inert treatment will be provided but it still can result in positive
      outcomes due to its psychological effects) vs. an active treatment arm, but the nature of the
      sham will not be elucidated (equipment detuned).

      After this initial assessment, participants will be randomly assigned using block
      randomization by simple computerized procedures to one of the two treatment groups through
      the use of cards previously placed in opaque sealed envelopes: i) CFT group or ii) Sham
      group.

      As a strategy to control for the treatment fidelity on both arms of the study, we will adopt
      the framework developed by the NIH Behaviour Change Consortium (BCC). To control for the
      "Intervention Delivery", the time of therapist-patient interaction, number of sessions and
      the different components of the intervention administered (e.g.: in the sham-group, the time
      administering the sham photobiomodulation and the time spent with neutral talking), as well
      as video recordings during the pilot study and along the trial will be registered. Also,
      regular meetings to discuss the clinical cases will be performed. Furthermore, the
      "Intervention receipt" will be assessed in two different manners: i) on the completion of the
      study, each participant will be submitted to a manipulation check and they will be asked
      about the group they think they were at and ii) patients in both groups will be invited to
      summarize at the beginning of each session how the treatment impact their lives.

      Despite it is a sham-controlled RCT, considering the differences in the interventions
      administered in both study arms, it will not be possible to blind the therapists, however,
      patients will be blinded to randomized interventions. The assessor and the participants will
      not have access to what type of treatment the participant will be given.

      To the best of our knowledge, the current study will be the first to compare CFT vs. sham
      intervention. Sham-controlled RCTs may help to understand the influence of non-specific
      factors on treatment outcomes. Considering complex interventions as CFT, it is imperative to
      understand the impact of contextual factors on outcomes.
    
  