
    
      Background

      Traditionally, Chinese people place great importance on their families. However, the
      increasingly busy city lifestyle leaves little time for family gatherings and communication.
      A recent census by the Hong Kong government showed that nearly 50% of respondents never, or
      only occasionally, listened to their parents' concerns or heeded their advice on important
      matters; and over 50% rarely or never listened to their siblings' views or gave them advice
      on important matters. This lack of communication raises the problem of neglect or
      indifferent, rigid relationships within the family, which tend to exert negative effects on
      health, happiness and harmony (the 3Hs). For these reasons, the School of Public Health of
      HKU collaborates with the Hong Kong Council of Social Service (HKSCC) to conduct a
      district-based mega-project "Happy Family Kitchen", which using "eating" and "the kitchen" as
      a platform, to make the effort to improve effective communication in Hong Kong families.

      Current evidence

      The Happy Family Kitchen 1 project (HFK 1 project) was launched in September 2010 with the
      mission to promote family health, happiness and harmony (i.e. 3Hs) by advocating positive
      family communication. In collaboration with 18 NGOs and SWD (including 23 service units) in
      Yuen Long district, the one-year HFK project was completed in August 2011, with the following
      achievements:

        -  Over 1,000 families joined the 23 community programs under the project theme of positive
           family communication in Yuen Long district.

        -  50 professional social work practitioners were equipped with knowledge and skills in
           integrating positive psychology and program design through trainer's training.

        -  Built-in evaluative research study conducted to examine the project process and outcome.

        -  Practice wisdom consolidated and shared with the social services sector through a
           sharing forum and a specially designed practice manual.

        -  Over 10,000 pieces of Happy Family Kitchen Cookbook were distributed to the public with
           positive feedback received.

        -  Series of media publicity (e.g. news feature, magazine, Roadshow, You tube etc) was
           conducted to convey the key message of promoting positive family communication.

      Upon completion of the one-year pilot project, it was observed that substantial impact was
      made in various aspects, namely:

      i. Participating Families - over 1,000 families in Yuen Long district participated in the
      community programs and learned the ways to enhance the communication with their family
      members through the means of dinning together.

      ii. Social Work Practice - prototype of the practice model adopting positive psychology (i.e.
      正向溝通五常法) was successfully piloted with empirical evidence supported. Practice wisdom of
      applying such model had been documented as practice manual for future use. Besides,
      evidence-based practice approach was promoted by supporting NGOs to integrate theoretical
      framework (i.e. positive psychology) and program evaluation into practice.

      iii. Community Partnership - district-based collaboration network among NGOs and SWD
      established for joint effort in promoting 3Hs in the community. Family-centered approach had
      been adopted as the foundation of collaboration among service units of different settings.

      iv. Territory-wide Public Education - the key message on encouraging positive family
      communication was disseminated to the whole territory through series of publicity work. The
      impact of the project was beyond Yuen Long district.

      The community-based HFK project was the first of its kind which aimed to integrate the best
      social work practice with public health science. Based on the successful experience of the
      HKF project in Yuen Long district, it is crucial to think of ways to sustain the project
      impact in the longer term. As the enhanced version of the HFK project, HFK2 is going to
      answer this question by suggesting three possible ways forward:

      i) enhancing the existing practice model with evidence support; ii) scaling up the practice
      model in wider scope; and iii) strengthening the key message of promoting positive family
      communication in the society.

      Aim and objectives The aim of this study is to assess the effectiveness of a district-based
      intervention programme (with the application of positive psychology) among families in the
      Tsuen Wan, Kwai Chung and Tsing Yi district, on enhancing their family communication and
      family 3Hs.

      The specific objectives of the study include:

      i. To promote family happiness, harmony and health by building capacity for families on
      positive communication.

      ii. To enhance and test the practice model integrating positive psychology and family
      education.

      iii. To improve and strengthen the community-based service model and keep sustainable
      application in the target district

      Hypotheses

      Primary hypothesis:

      Families participated in a district-based programme that received a positive psychology
      intervention (intervention groups) have better family communication and family 3Hs than
      families who don't participate in a community-based programme (control group) during 3
      months.

      Second hypotheses:

      i. The district-based intervention programmes (core session) has significant effect on
      improving family communication and 3Hs (intervention 2 versus control) ii. The District-based
      intervention programmes (whole dosage, core session +booster) have significant effect on
      improving family communication and 3Hs (intervention 1 versus control) iii. Booster
      intervention can further improve the family communication and 3Hs compares with non-booster
      intervention (intervention 1 versus intervention 2)

      Randomization

      A total of 30 NGOs and schools will be randomized into three groups respectively:

      Intervention arm 1: core session intervention + booster intervention; questionnaire
      evaluation is conducted at baseline (T1), post-session (T2), pre-booster (T3) and 3 month
      after core session (T4-tea gathering).

      Intervention arm 2: only core session intervention; once finish the T4 evaluation, the
      booster can be conducted subsequently. Questionnaire evaluation are conducted at baseline
      (T1), post-session (T2), T3 and 3 month after core session (T4- tea gathering).

      Control arm: waiting list control, only questionnaire evaluations can be conducted at T1(Tea
      gathering), T3(Tea gathering) and T4; when finish T4 evaluation, the core session and booster
      can be conducted subsequently.
    
  