
    
      A randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, phase IIa study for assessment of the safety
      of Foralumab, an oral anti-CD3 antibody, in patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH)
      and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).

      This is a randomized, placebo-controlled, four-arm, double-blind study. Subjects will be
      randomized (1:1:1:1) to receive either a daily oral placebo solution or a daily oral dose of
      0.5 mg, 2.5 mg or 5.0 mg Foralumab Solution for 30 consecutive days. Subjects will record
      adverse events and daily administration of study medication in a subject diary. This will
      serve as a measure of compliance and record of safety and tolerability. Subjects will be
      followed up for 30 days following completion of treatment.

      Study visits performed on Days 14, 30 and 60 of the study, will monitor metabolic parameters
      (body mass index [BMI] and waist circumference), serum lipid profiles, immunological markers
      (c-reactive protein [CRP] and an array of cytokines), hepatic enzymes and functions
      (13C-methacetin breath test [MBT]) and liver steatosis/fibrosis, which will be compared to
      baseline levels (Day 1).

      The safety and tolerability of the treatment regimen will be determined by monitoring vital
      signs, laboratory values, adverse events and physical findings throughout the study. In
      addition, its efficacy will be established upon either reduced Day 30 serum alanine
      aminotransferase (ALT) levels, reduced hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) or improved homeostasis model
      assessment (HOMA) or HOMA of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) scores as compared to baseline (Day
      1). In addition, to assess the efficacy of the tested Foralumab Solution regimen in improving
      overall subject status, a battery of exploratory metabolic, immunologic and hepatic markers
      will be evaluated on Days 30 and 60.

      Primary: To assess the safety and tolerability of the tested Foralumab Solution regimen in
      subjects with both T2DM and NASH/NAFLD Secondary: To assess the efficacy of the tested
      Foralumab Solution regimen in improving serum ALT levels, HbA1c, HOMA or HOMA-IR scores in
      subjects with both T2DM and NASH/NAFLD.

      Exploratory: To assess the efficacy of the tested Foralumab Solution regimen in improving
      overall subject status, as measured by a battery of metabolic, immunologic and hepatic
      markers.

      48 adult subjects (≥18 years) with T2DM and who meet the inclusion criteria for NASH or NAFLD
      2a Up to 25 Foralumab (TZLS-0401) is a fully human IgG1 monoclonal antibody directed against
      the CD3-epsilon (or CD3ε) antigen expressed on the surface of a type of white blood cell
      called T-cells, or T-lymphocytes. The Fc region of the antibody is mutated to reduce the
      cytokine release syndrome associated with parenteral administration of anti CD3. When
      administered orally, Foralumab is not absorbed and induces a signal at the level of the gut
      immune system to promote regulatory T cells systemically.

      A once-daily oral dose of Foralumab solution (0.5, 2.5 or 5.0 mg) or placebo solution will be
      taken in the morning on an empty stomach for 30 consecutive days.

      Group A will receive placebo solution for 30 days (n=12) Group B will receive 0.5 mg
      Foralumab Solution daily for 30 days (n=12) Group C will receive 2.5 mg Foralumab Solution
      daily for 30 days (n=12) Group D will receive 5.0 mg Foralumab Solution daily for 30 days
      (n=12)

      A single 20 mg omeprazole pill will be concomitantly administered daily.
    
  