
    
      Improvements in human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS)
      treatments in the United States have made the disease in many cases a chronic illness.
      However, many individuals have failed multiple lines of standard therapy, and thus,
      development of new modes of salvage treatment is crucial. Restriction of viral replication,
      mediated by CD8+ cells, appears to play an important role in control of HIV replication. A
      subset of individuals, many of whom possess human leukocyte antigen (HLA) B*57 exhibit
      restriction of HIV type 1 viral replication to less than 50 copies/mL, presumably by a
      mechanism that is CD8+ T-cell mediated, and become elite long-term non-progressors (LTNP),
      who have no evidence of progressive immunodeficiency and no development of opportunistic
      complications during many years of follow-up. Other individuals, including those with
      HLA-B*57 show no evidence of control of HIV replication, and without antiretroviral therapy
      will develop progressive immunodeficiency and HIV-related opportunistic complications. In
      this exploratory study, we are investigating a novel cell transfer strategy: up to 3 patients
      with HIV infection have failed at least 2 standard regimens of antiretroviral therapy, have a
      CD4+ count under 200 cells/mm (3), and a plasma HIV viral load of greater than 10,000
      copies/mL, will be administered 10 (10) peripheral blood mononuclear cells obtained by
      lymphapheresis from an "elite" LTNP matched to the recipient on at least one HLA-B allele. Up
      to 70 patients may be enrolled for screening to identify 3 donors and 3 recipients. Up to 3
      infusions may be administered per patient, with each infusion occurring no more frequently
      than every 3 months. The primary endpoints will be the safety of the infusions and the
      survival of donor cells in the recipient. Changes in the recipient s CD4+ and CD8+ cell
      number, other immune parameters, and plasma HIV viral load will also be monitored closely for
      evidence of anti-HIV activity.
    
  