
    
      The primary objective of the study is to assess the ORR of patients with advanced
      cholangiocarcinoma receiving a combination of pembrolizumab and olaparib. It is hypothesized
      that the addition of olaparib will improve the response rate of second line systemic therapy
      from 17.5% to 35% in patients with advanced cholangiocarcinoma.

      The study is designed to enroll 33 subjects (for 85% power) with advanced stage
      cholangiocarcinoma to test the hypothesis that the combination of olaparib and pembrolizumab
      will increase the ORR in comparison with the ORR from second line systemic chemotherapy
      (historical control) in this patient population. As the primary study endpoint, which is also
      being used to determine the sample size of the study, the investigators propose that the
      combination of olaparib and pembrolizumab will increase the ORR to 35% from 17.5% (achieved
      with systemic cytotoxic chemotherapy including mFOLFOX-historical control). To allow a 10%
      patient drop off rate, the investigators expect to enroll a total of 36 subjects into this
      study. In addition, as secondary study endpoints the investigators expect to see an increase
      in the PFS and OS of patients receiving combination therapy compared to cytotoxic
      chemotherapy.

      In this study, the investigators propose the collection of three biopsies-one at baseline
      prior to the start of treatment, one at the beginning of week 4, three weeks after the
      administration of combination olaparib and pembrolizumab, and one at the time of cancer
      progression-for the elucidation of exploratory study endpoints. Patients will have a CT or
      MRI scan at the beginning of treatment and then every 6 weeks thereafter for the first six
      months of study treatment administration, then every 9 weeks for up to 12 months after the
      start of treatment, followed by every 12 weeks up to 24 months on study. All patients will
      continue to receive olaparib and pembrolizumab combination treatment as tolerated unless
      unacceptable toxicities or cancer progression occur, at which time therapy will cease. In the
      absence of any problems, the planned study duration is 20-36 months.
    
  