
    
      It has seen an increasing number of individuals with congenital heart diseases mainly due to
      the development of new diagnostic techniques, assessment and treatment, thereby contributing
      to longer survival. These individuals that survive to adulthood, many sometimes develop other
      secondary problems to the underlying pathology, one of Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension. The
      Syndrome Eisenmenger is the most advanced form of pulmonary hypertension secondary to
      congenital heart defects. It is known that patients with pulmonary hypertension secondary
      congenital heart disease have marked functional limitation and high risk of death. Among the
      various forms of assess exercise capacity, Walk Test Six Minutes (6MWT), Shuttle walking test
      and Cardiopulmonary Exercise Test are among the most applicable. Little has been studied
      about the patients with pulmonary hypertension secondary to congenital heart disease and
      Eisenmenger Syndrome. The characterization of this profile of patients against the effort
      becomes necessary and useful in determining strategies and identification of factors that may
      be limited to functional capacity and quality of life. Objectives: To verify the
      applicability Six minutes walk test and Shuttle walk test in assessing functional capacity in
      patients with Eisenmenger Syndrome. Methods: Cross-sectional study with patients diagnosed
      with Eisenmenger Syndrome, of both sexes, without changing pace or lower limbs, who have
      performed echocardiography in the last 6 months and clinical stability. Patients will undergo
      three functional tests, being the six-minute walk test, shuttle walk test and cardiopulmonary
      exercise test on a cycle ergometer, associated with evaluation of metabolic and ventilatory
      variables and cardiac monitoring throughout the test. Also will be held assess respiratory
      endurance and strength, peripheral muscle strength and manual pinch, Heart rate variability,
      inflammatory mediators and blood lactate, besides questionnaires about quality of life,
      quality of sleep and daytime drowsiness.
    
  