
    
      This study will develop and implement a mobile technology-delivered psychosocial intervention
      for opioid-dependent adults in methadone maintenance treatment (MMT). This novel therapeutic
      system promises to be cost-effective and to enable the provision of flexible, on-demand
      therapeutic support outside of the formal treatment setting. The specific aims of this
      investigation are as follows: Aim 1: The investigators will develop a novel, interactive,
      evidence-based psychosocial intervention delivered via mobile phones, designed to promote
      skills acquisition and reduce illicit drug use. Specifically, our Mobile Therapeutic System
      (MTS) will offer key elements of a psychosocial intervention for substance use disorders of
      known efficacy (the Community Reinforcement Approach). Participants will be provided with
      unlimited daily prompts to encourage use of the program and will be able to access the
      application at any time and as much as they choose, within their natural environments. Our
      iterative development process will include input from focus groups with clients in methadone
      treatment (n=24), input from experts in the field, and feedback testing of a beta-version of
      the mobile phone-based program with clients in methadone treatment (n=30). Aim 2: The
      investigators will evaluate the efficacy of this mobile tool with participants entering MMT
      during the first three months of their treatment (n=219). The investigators will evaluate the
      relative preliminary efficacy of (1) standard treatment, (2) standard treatment plus MTS and
      (3) a mobile-based control condition on the primary outcomes of retention and opioid use (via
      urine toxicology) and secondary outcomes of other substance use (via urine toxicology and
      self-report), readiness to change drug use behavior, coping skills, opioid craving, HIV risk
      behavior, and psychosocial functioning during the 3-month intervention phase. Durability of
      effects will be examined at 1 and 3 month follow-ups. Aim 3: The investigators will perform
      an economic analysis of MTS in community-based MMT. The investigators will estimate the
      incremental costs and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of MTS relative to
      standard care and the mobile control group. The primary ICER will be the incremental costs
      per increased abstinence time (the clinical measure of effectiveness) and the secondary ICER
      will be incremental costs per increased quality adjusted life year (QALY) (the economic
      measure of effectiveness). Cost data will be vital to future translational projects to
      disseminate effective mobile interventions in community systems. If results are promising,
      this novel therapeutic tool may have a tremendous impact on improving access to and
      effectiveness of substance abuse treatment in a variety of other populations (and could also
      be adapted for an array of other behavioral health applications), while significantly
      limiting costs.
    
  