
    
      Eligible adults with written informed consent will be monitored for general anaesthesia
      according standard operating procedure of the Bern University Hospital's anaesthesia
      department. Additional non-invasive monitoring for this study are transcutaneous measurement
      of carbon dioxide and oxygen (TCM 5®, Radiometer, Krefeld, Germany), NarcotrendTM (
      Narcotrend-Group, Hannover, Germany)and thoracic electrical impedance tomography (EIT,
      PulmoVista® 500, Draeger, Luebeck, Germany).

      Normal pre-oxygenation (until end expiratory carbon dioxide is > 90% or time > 3 minutes)
      will occur. Anaesthesia will be started using a target -controlled infusion system for
      Propofol and Remifentanil, using NarcotrendTM to measure depth of anaesthesia. All patients
      will receive a standard dose of neuromuscular blockage to facilitate airway management and
      total intravenous anaesthesia will be installed. Using the train of four measurement (TOF)
      full neuromuscular blockage with Rocuronium will be confirmed every 30 seconds. After
      administration of rocuronium, proper bag-mask ventilation will be confirmed.

      Intratracheal pressure will be measured by 11 Fr. catheter (Cook Medical, Bloomington, IN,
      USA), connected to a CODAN Xtrans®-transducer (CODAN ARGUS Ag, Baar, Switzerland). A 11 Fr.
      catheter (Cook Medical, Bloomington, IN, USA) will be introduced oral in the trachea
      facilitated by video-laryngoscopy. To ensure patency of the upper airway jaw thrust via
      Esmarch manoeuvre will be applied and flexible bronchoscopy will confirm upper airway
      patency. Initially this 11 Fr. catheter will be positioned in the right main bronchus (2 cm
      below the carina). The first measurement will be performed with a randomized sequence of flow
      rates of 80, 60, 40, 20 or 1 l/min with opened and closed mouth. Each pressure measurement
      will be performed after a stable pressure plateau of 10 seconds will be observed. The
      catheter will then be retracted and the pressure quantification are performed with the same
      sequence, defined above, in different positions (50% of trachea length and pharyngeal
      pressures 10 cm from upper front teeth). The order of flow and mouth opening will be
      randomized.

      The study intervention will end when all measurements are taken or upper airway patency
      cannot be ensured under direct endoscopy view. If one of the following criteria is met:
      peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2) <92% or transcutaneous carbon dioxide (PtCO2) >80mmHg,
      immediately bag mask ventilation will be initiated, until normal values of SpO2 and PtCO2 are
      reached.

      When any of the end points is reached, normal anesthesiologic care will be established as
      planned.

      A safety interview will be conducted on the first post-operative day to evaluate injuries
      during airway management (e.g. bleeding, sore throat, hoarseness, lip injuries), pain,
      postoperative nausea and vomiting.
    
  