
    
      This will be a single-center, Phase 1a/1b, placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blind,
      integrated sequential ascending dose / multiple ascending dose study.

      The study will be divided into two parts: the single ascending dose evaluation in healthy
      normal volunteers will constitute Part A and the multiple ascending doses evaluation in
      healthy normal volunteers will constitute Part B. The two study parts will be performed
      sequentially with partial overlapping.

      Part A will include up to 6 cohorts (1 cohort per dose level; 4 planned cohorts and 2
      optional adaptive cohorts). Each cohort will include 8 subjects - 6 on active drug and 2 on
      placebo - resulting in a maximum number of 48 subjects in the study - 32 planned and 16
      optional. Subjects in each cohort will receive a single IV slow bolus (50 mL over 5 minutes)
      administration of study medication or placebo. The dose of EP-7041 will be sequentially
      escalated cohort by cohort in Part A . A staggered dosing schedule will be used for each
      cohort of Part A: 2 sentinel subjects (1 active and 1 placebo) will be dosed first and the
      remaining 6 subjects will be dosed the next day (5 active and 1 placebo).

      Part B will include up to 4 cohorts (1 cohort per dose level; 3 planned cohorts and 1
      optional adaptive cohort). As in Part A, each cohort of Part B will include 6 subjects on
      active drug and 2 on placebo, for a total of 8 subjects per cohort. Part B will therefore
      involve, at maximum, 32 subjects, with 24 planned subjects an 8 optional subjects. Subjects
      in each cohort of Part B will receive a total of 5 sequential 24-hour IV infusions of EP-7041
      or matching placebo.

      Evaluation of safety and tolerability to EP-7041 will include adverse events (i.e.,
      seriousness, severity, relationship to EP-7041), vital signs, ECG, clinical laboratory
      parameters, physical examination, local response to each injection, and body weight.

      Pharmacokinetic analyses will be performed with measurements of EP-7041 plasma
      concentrations, following single and multiple IV doses.

      Pharmacodynamic effects of EP-7041 will be evaluated through the measurement of aPTT and PT
      in all subjects at multiple times throughout the course of both studies.
    
  