
    
      The purpose of this study is to compare the effectiveness of an aerobic exercise program
      versus a strength training program in altering RR interval and blood pressure variability as
      indices of autonomic nervous system regulation of the cardiovascular system. Subjects will be
      tested at rest and in response to challenge.

      This study will enroll healthy, young (age 18-45) sedentary individuals at Columbia
      University Medical Center and St. John's University. At an initial screening visit, potential
      participants will be screened for exercise activity and will also undergo a test of aerobic
      capacity. Subjects will be eligible if they are not exercising regularly and do not exceed
      American Heart Association standards for average fitness (VO2max ≤ 43 and 37 ml/kg/min for
      men and women respectively). Exclusion criteria include current symptoms of affective
      disorder, psychosis, or substance abuse, current usage of psychotropic medication, and any
      medical condition that affected the autonomic nervous system or cardiovascular system.

      Eligible participants will then be randomly assigned to 12 weeks of either an aerobic
      conditioning program or a strength training program. At study entry, heart rate, respiratory
      rate, and blood pressure will be measured; an ECG will be used to measure heart activity.
      Questionnaires will be completed to assess anger, tension, depression, and fatigue.
      Participants in the aerobic conditioning program will attend four 1-hour exercise sessions
      per week, which will focus on increasing cardiovascular fitness through running and other
      forms of aerobic exercise. The strength training program will also include four sessions per
      week, with the focus on increasing muscle endurance and strength. At the end of the 12-week
      programs, participants will begin a 4-week period of deconditioning, during which they will
      discontinue all exercise. Evaluations will be repeated at the end of the 12-week programs,
      and at the end of the 4-week deconditioning period.
    
  