
    
      Negative symptoms are one of the five-dimensional symptoms of patients with schizophrenia.
      Drug treatment of negative symptoms is not effective. Even if the positive symptoms are
      relieved, the negative symptoms continue to exist, which seriously affects the personal
      family social function and is an important risk factor for poor prognosis. The mechanism of
      negative symptoms of schizophrenia is unknown, which may be related to insufficient dopamine
      function of the prefrontal cortex, but the pathogenesis is still not fully explained.
      Amisulpride is a D2/D3 receptor antagonist, which can improve negative symptoms, but the
      mechanism is not clear. Intestinal microbes are related to central nervous system psychiatric
      diseases, and intestinal flora imbalance may be an important cause of autism, anxiety,
      depression, schizophrenia and other mental and psychological diseases. Under pathological
      conditions, when the intestinal microbiome is disturbed or the intestinal mucosal barrier is
      destroyed, microbial-related molecules stimulate macrophages and dendritic cells to produce
      pro-inflammatory cytokines, which in turn activate adaptive immune cells, leading to the
      destruction of immune homeostasis and enteric nerves The system can also interact with the
      central nervous system through the brain-gut axis. Intestinal microbes may also influence the
      occurrence of mental illness through metabolites. Animal studies have found that changes in
      the intestinal microflora are related to schizophrenia. Clinical studies have found that the
      gut microbes of patients with schizophrenia are different from those of normal healthy
      people. Therefore, we are trying to discover the changes of gut microbes in patients with
      effective amisulpride treatment, and to improve the negative symptoms of schizophrenia
      patients through the intestinal immune system. The mechanism of brain relationship provides
      direction, and also provides a new way for the drug treatment of negative symptoms. This
      study intends to select 30 patients with schizophrenia with dominant negative symptoms (study
      group) and 15 healthy people with similar living environment (control group), and the study
      group will be treated with amisulpride (flexible treatment), negative symptom factor The
      score reduction rate reached 20% for the effective group. Followed up for 8 weeks, fresh
      stool samples were collected at the baseline, 2, 4, and 8 weekends for 16S rRNA sequencing
      and short-chain fatty acid detection, and whole blood samples for immune factors (IL-1β,
      IL-6, IL-10, TNF) -α) Test to assess the negative symptom factor scores of PANSS, CDSS, CGI,
      TESS, SAS, and Barnes akathisia, and evaluate the patient's negative symptoms, depressive
      symptoms, efficacy and adverse reactions in turn. Comparing the differences in the intestinal
      microflora of the two groups at baseline, the correlation between the changes of the
      intestinal microflora of the effective group of amisulpride and the immune factors and
      negative symptoms. To understand the pathogenesis of schizophrenia patients with dominant
      negative symptoms through the gut microbiota-brain axis.
    
  