
    
      This is an Italian National multicenter study composed by a retrospective phase of data
      collection from patients of past ten years and a perspective one of next two years.

      INCLUSION AND EXCLUSION CRITERIA We include in our analysis all patients with more than 18
      years old undergoing emergency surgery for gastro-intestinal perforations, with or without
      signs of septic shock. All patients with covered perforations or abdominal perivisceral free
      air bubbles treated with non- operative management or delayed surgery will be excluded. An
      online Case Report Form (CRF) will be filled out by every participating Italian participating
      center.

      ENDPOINTS Primary outcome analyzed is in-hospital Clavien-Dindo > 3 complication rate [12].
      Secondary outcomes are 60-d mortality rate, total length of stay (LOS), LOS in Intensive Care
      Unit (ICU), days of mechanical ventilation, re-intervention rate and 30-d readmission rate.

      Analyzed variables are:

        -  Hospital characteristics; teaching/non-teaching setting; I/II level ED; emergency
           surgery/volume x year; 24H/on-call radiology and surgery team; presence of a dedicated
           OR in ED;

        -  Patient demographics (gender, age, Body Mass Index (BMI) and American Society of
           Anaesthesiologists' (ASA) classification of Physical Health, medical history of past
           abdominal surgical operations and comorbidities according to Charlson Comorbidity Index
           (CCI), mainly related to corticosteroids therapy and immunosuppressive conditions),

        -  Patient management in ED: admission date and time; Priority code at admission; time of
           abdominal x-Ray; time of CT-scan; Time of patient evaluation by surgeon on- call;
           Preoperative resuscitation management (Y/N, type, time of beginning); presence of Sepsis
           (infection documented or suspected + SOFA >=2) and of septic shock (sepsis + persistent
           hypotension needing vasopressors to maintain a Mean Arterial Pressure (MAP) of 65 mmHg;
           serum values of lactates > 18 mg/dL (or 2 mmol/L) with an adequate volume resuscitation
           measures) at admission or during patient stay in ED; SOFA score at admission; Emergency
           surgery score; ACS NSQIP® Surgical Risk score.

        -  Radiological findings: CT-scan reports of patients selected will be analyzed by site
           data-collection centers with the aim to identify typical and atypical radiological
           findings (subdiaphragmatic free gas, free peritoneal fluid, bowel wall discontinuity,
           extraluminal oral contrast, extraluminal abscess, abdominal collections, fat stranding,
           portal venous gas, wall bowel thickening, pneumatosis and mucosal hyperenhancement).

        -  Surgery: Time of skin incision; Type and duration of surgery; source control surgery,
           Open Abdomen; surgical approach; site and cause of perforation; pathologic data;
           Emergency surgery score; ACS NSQIP® Surgical Risk score.

        -  Postoperative Course: Preoperative mortality (patients die before surgery); Medical and
           Surgical complications (Clavien-Dindo score); total LOS; LOS in ICU; days of Mechanical
           Ventilation; Re-intervention rate; 90-d mortality.

      PLANNED SAMPLE SIZE With a binary response variable, β=0·95, α=0·05, an anticipated small
      effect size and an allocation ratio 1:10 (Early treatment Yes vs. No), it has been calculated
      that 3276 patients are required to detect an association between the variables and the
      endpoint.

      PLANNED ANALYSES Time between patient admission to ED and surgery will be analyzed as a
      continuous variable with t-Student's tests, comparing means between the different outcomes
      (primary and secondary). Different cut-off will be tested to define a significant time
      threshold correlating with outcomes. If necessary, more time intervals will be evaluated to
      evaluate correlations between the variables collected and the time.
    
  