
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Given increasing awareness of the extent to which environments typically faced by ethnic
      groups differ, environmental influence on these processes may be an important factor that is
      an aspect of ethnicity. Socioeconomic status (SES) is a useful index of such environments and
      is associated with cardiovascular disease (CVD). Since behavior is one pathway through which
      SES influences are thought to be expressed in disease, this study focuses specifically on
      stress responsivity, which is thought to be linked to the pathophysiology of CVD. Since such
      disease has its antecedents in childhood, a multiethnic pediatric sample is employed. In
      addition, the subject sample consists of twins. Investigation of the impact of environments
      on the expression of CVD can be achieved only with proper control for biological influences.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Subjects completed three laboratory stressors: a video game task, a structured social
      interview, and the cold pressor. Stress responsivity was assessed, with particular interest
      being paid to systemic vascular resistance (SVR). Left ventricular mass (LVM) was also
      assessed. Sophisticated environmentally and genetically informative analyses permitted
      quantification of environmental impact upon systemic vascular resistance responsivity and
      left ventricular mass. It was hypothesized that environmental influences (SES) accounted for
      a greater proportion of the variance in systemic vascular resistance responsivity and left
      ventricular mass in African Americans than Caucasian Americans. The hypothesis that systemic
      vascular resistance responsivity was a pathway through which SES exerted its influence on
      left ventricular mass was also tested.

      The study has been extended through November 2005 to continue examination of the
      investigator's Twin CV Health cohort (519 pairs of twins who will be 14 to 25 years old). The
      study provides the unique opportunity to better understand the effects of sodium ion (Na+)
      retention as a mechanism augmenting systemic vascular resistance responsivity (SVR) and
      changes in vascular function (i.e., endothelium dependent arterial dilation; EDAD),
      ventricular structure (i.e., left ventricular mass; LVM) and 24-hour ambulatory BP (ABP). The
      specific aims are to determine: 1) To what extent is environmental stress related to stress
      induced Na+ retention, SVR responsivity and preclinical markers of essential hypertension
      risk and are these relationships stronger in African Americans than Caucasian Americans; 2)
      Whether stress induced Na+ retention is a pathway linking environmental stress with
      preclinical markers of essential hypertension risk; and 3) Whether behavioral factors (i.e.
      John Henryism, anger expression, social support, physical activity) moderate effects of
      environmental stress on stress induced Na+ retention and/or SVR responsivity and in the
      preclinical markers of essential hypertension risk, particularly in African Americans.
    
  