
    
      Post-induction hypotension (PIH) is very common with high incidence about 9-60% in every kind
      of surgeries includes general anesthesia and neuraxial anesthesia. There are multiple factors
      that may cause PIH, like pre-operative fasting, bowel preparation, vasodilatation due to
      anesthetics, sympathetic blockade and reduced stimulation during preparation before surgical
      incision. Hypotension during the surgeries could possibly cause tissue hypoperfusion, tissue
      ischemia and higher risk for acute kidney failure, stroke or myocardial infarction, which
      result in higher risk for prolonged hospital stay or death [1-4]. In general surgical
      patients, lower pre-induction systolic arterial pressure, older age (>50 years old), and
      emergent surgery are independently associated with PIH[1].

      However, nowadays heart rate variability (HRV), the inferior vena cava(IVC) ultrasound, and
      stroke volume variation were demonstrated to be able to predict the PIH event [5-7]. However,
      people with any kind of arrhythmia is not suitable for HRV analysis. Part of obese patients
      are not suitable for IVC ultrasound due to poor image quality. Stroke volume variation can
      only be monitored if the arterial catheter and Flotrac® were applied on the patient before
      anesthetic induction.

      In this study, the wireless continuous non-invasive sonography device has the benefits of
      light-weighted, short learning curve, non-invasive, continuous monitoring, and more intuitive
      collected data. It's a huge progress for non-invasive cardiac output during anesthesia with
      GIS-Heartio®. The primary endpoint is if the change of cardiac output after fasting could
      predict PIH. The second endpoint is whether the change of cardiac output during "passive leg
      test" could predict PIH. If PIH can be predicted and prevented before anesthesia, the safety
      of the surgery and prognosis of patient will be elevated!
    
  