
    
      Background: In Rwanda, diabetes mellitus (DM) prevalence has been estimated between 3.0 -
      3.5%. Several factors, including an increase in screening and diagnosis programmes, the
      urbanization of the population, and changes in lifestyle are likely to contribute to a sharp
      increase in the prevalence of DM in the next decade, posing a daunting challenge for the
      fragile health care systems in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). At the same time,
      the level of knowledge and perceptions of DM among patients is inadequate. Patients with low
      health literacy levels are often unable to recognise the signs and symptoms of DM, and may
      access their health provider late, hence presenting with more complications.

      Although the majority of the Rwandan population seek care at the health centres, the Rwandan
      primary health care is facing a shortage of human resources. A community health worker
      programme was introduced in Rwanda in 2007 covering mainly infectious diseases, maternal and
      child health, and family planning.

      In response to the need for better management of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) at the
      community level, the Ministry of Health of Rwanda and its partners adopted a new strategy and
      initiated a Home-Based Care Practitioner (HBCP) programme. Approximately 100 cells, belonging
      to the catchment area of nine selected hospitals, participate in the first phase of the HBCP
      programme (a "cell" is a small administrative area under the larger areas called
      "districts"). Every cell has two HBCPs, who completed high school and received six months of
      technical vocational education and training organised by the Ministry of Health in
      collaboration with its partners.

      There is growing evidence for the efficacy of interventions using mobile devices (mHealth) in
      LMICs, particularly in improving treatment adherence, appointment compliance, data gathering,
      and developing support networks for health workers. In Rwanda, there is an urgent call to
      using mHealth interventions for the prevention and management of NCDs. The present research
      project responds to this by developing an mHealth intervention integrated in the current
      primary health care system, in support of both the DM patients and their healthcare
      providers.

      Randomisation: The unit of randomisation will be the cluster, defined by the cell. In each
      cell two HBCPs work. Under each district hospital, the cells participating in the HBCP
      programme will be randomised to receive intervention 1 or 2. The patients from each group
      will receive the same intervention. An equal number of cells, out of those not participating
      in the HBCP programme, will be randomly selected and assigned to the control group.

      Sample size: Lacking other data on diabetes in Rwanda, the standard deviation from a study of
      Levitt et al. in South Africa is used to calculate the within and between variance. A
      one-point difference in HbA1c is considered as clinically significant outcome based on
      previous studies. For the power calculation, a within variance of 4.76, a between variance of
      0.53, and an intra-class correlation of 0.1 are assumed. Based on the information which will
      be gathered before the onset of the trial, the final sample will be estimated assuming either
      four or six patients per cell (in each cell two HBCPs work).

      Assuming four patients per cell, the number of clusters per group needed is 27 for a total
      number of 108 patients per group to achieve 80% power with a 5% level of significance (total
      number of patients: 324, total number of cells: 81). 144 patients per group (total number of
      patients: 432; total number of cells: 108) will be needed to allow for a 30% attrition.

      Assuming six patients per cell, the number of clusters per group needed is 21 for a total
      number of 126 patients per group to achieve 80% power with a 5% level of significance (total
      number of patients: 378, total number of cells: 63). 168 patients per group (total number of
      patients: 504; total number of cells: 84) will be needed to allow for a 30% attrition.

      Study questionnaires: Four questionnaires will be employed for the assessment of the patients
      of the trial (D-39, PAID, BMQ, ISHA-Q). In preparation for their use both their translation
      in Kinyarwanda and their cultural adaptation will be carried out.

      Qualitative study: At the end of the trial two types of focus discussion groups will be
      conducted: a) with patients of the two intervention groups, and; b) with HBCPs delivering the
      two interventions of the study. The aim of these focus discussion groups is to explore the
      ways the intervention will have been enacted in practice, expected and unexpected impacts,
      and the perceptions of relevance and contextual issues that may have impacted the
      intervention.

      Ethical review: Ethical approval has been obtained from the Rwanda National Ethics Committee
      (100/RNEC/2017; amendment approved in 463/RNEC/2017; renewed in 113/RNEC/2018) and the Ethics
      Review Panel of the University of Luxembourg (ERP 17-014 D2Rwanda; amendment approved in ERP
      17-048 D2Rwanda).
    
  