
    
      Consultation for primary breast augmentation involves clear communication between patient and
      surgeon to select the implant and manage expectations. Tissue-based planning strategies rely
      on tissue characteristics and measurements to produce safe and reproducible aesthetic
      outcomes. The implementation of sizers in the preoperative consultation and a greater
      emphasis on patient aesthetic goals have also proven to be favorable strategies. Recently,
      many plastic surgeons have started to incorporate three-dimensional (3D) photography and
      computer simulation into their preoperative consultation process. The accuracy of computer
      simulation for volume assessment of breast augmentation is reportedly ≥90%, and patients
      demonstrate a preference for consultations involving simulation.Support for computer
      simulation, however, is not unanimous.

      Quantitative analyses, prospective study designs, and utilization of validated health-related
      quality of life metrics have been recommended to more thoroughly scrutinize implant selection
      systems and outcomes in aesthetic surgery.Mammometrics yields numerical data useful for
      quantifying changes in breast morphology after breast reduction, reconstruction with
      implants, and augmentation. The BREAST-Q represents the most comprehensive and quantitative
      method for patient self-assessment following breast surgery, and has gained traction as a
      patient-reported outcomes instrument for breast augmentation. To date, there are no studies
      that focus on the impact of simulation on patient-reported outcomes in breast augmentation,
      as measured with the validated BREAST-Q. Furthermore, there is minimal data examining
      correlations between patient-reported outcomes and mammometrics.

      The purpose of this study was to conduct a prospective, clinical trial to evaluate the impact
      of 3D imaging and simulation used during the preoperative consultation on postoperative
      patient-reported outcomes and quantitative changes in breast morphology. We hypothesized that
      computer simulation would facilitate patient education and surgical planning, thus leading to
      quantitatively higher patient-reported outcomes.
    
  