
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the efficacy of telomerase peptide vaccine GV1001 when administered
           concurrently or sequentially with gemcitabine hydrochloride and capecitabine, in terms
           of survival, in patients with locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the safety of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Assess the immunogenicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the time to progression in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the quality of life of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the clinical benefit response in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the objective response rate in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the survival and response by delayed-type hypersensitivity in patients treated
           with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a prospective, controlled, randomized, open-label, multicenter study.
      Patients are stratified according to stage of disease (locally advanced vs metastatic) and
      ECOG performance status (0 vs 1 vs 2). Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and
           15 and oral capecitabine twice daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride and capecitabine as in arm I.
           Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 2 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive sargramostim (GM-CSF)
           intradermally (ID) and telomerase peptide vaccine GV1001 ID on days 1, 3, and 5 in week
           9, once a week in weeks 10-12 and 14, and then once a month in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who develop disease progression while on
           vaccine therapy, discontinue vaccine therapy and then restart treatment with gemcitabine
           hydrochloride and capecitabine. Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride and
           capecitabine as above and continue treatment in the absence of further disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride and capecitabine as in arm I.
           Patients also receive GM-CSF ID and telomerase peptide vaccine GV1001 ID on days 1, 3,
           and 5 in week 1, once weekly in weeks 2, 3, 4 and 6, and then once a month in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and at 8 weeks and then every 12 weeks during study
      treatment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,110 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  