
    
      EYN-1601 delivered topically as a microdose via a proprietary delivery system (the Eyenovia
      Multi-Dose Device [MDD] system) is being investigated for dilation of the pupil for
      ophthalmic examinations and procedures. Phenylephrine hydrochloride, a sympathetic
      α1-adrenergic agonist, has been used for pupil dilation for over 70 years. The mydriatic
      action of phenylephrine is due to its stimulation of the α1 receptors of the radial muscle of
      the iris, which causes the muscle fibers to contract and results in pupil dilation.

      When conducting a variety of ophthalmological procedures, it is necessary to dilate (enlarge)
      the pupil to allow an unobstructed view of the lens and retina, as well as the optic nerve.
      The degree of pupil dilation required is somewhat dependent on the procedure being performed.
      Eyenovia, the Sponsor, is a specialty pharmaceutical company focused on the development of
      ophthalmic drug products that can be delivered in small volumes, ie, via microdosing, in
      order to maximize therapeutic control and minimize systemic absorption. To achieve this goal,
      Eyenovia is developing a drug/device combination product to allow accurate topical ocular
      delivery of controlled quantities of specific active pharmaceutical ingredients.

      Phenylephrine has been known to cause systemic cardiovascular effects in some patients when
      dosed via the topical ocular route including hypertension, tachycardia, and more rarely,
      arrhythmia and stroke, especially in those patients with pre-existing heart conditions. These
      risks are even more relevant when phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 10% is used
      in circumstances where a greater degree of mydriasis is required. Microdosing with the
      Eyenovia MDD system is expected to significantly reduce or eliminate these risks while
      allowing the same degree of mydriasis produced with the currently approved products.

      Subjects (healthy volunteers) will be screened for eligibility and 12 subjects that meet
      inclusion/exclusion criteria will be enrolled into the study. All subjects will be followed
      through the same pre-specified treatment visit schedule at which the 3 study drugs are
      administered (phenylephrine 2.5% eyedrops at Visit 1, phenylephrine 10% eyedrops at Visit 2
      and EYN-1601 MDD at Visit 3). At each treatment visit, baseline measurements will be taken
      prior to study medication administration.

      Subjects will participate in safety, efficacy, and pharmacokinetic assessments. Subsequent
      visits must be separated by at least 2 days but may be up to 1 week apart.

      Efficacy will be assessed by measurement of pupil dilation in both eyes.

      Safety assessments will include slit lamp examination (SLE) of both eyes and measurement of
      vital signs (blood pressure [BP]/heart rate [HR]) and adverse events, as well as an ocular
      discomfort survey

      Absorption will be assessed through blood plasma analysis to detect free phenylephrine.
    
  