
    
      The contribution of air pollution is a very important public health issue for human health.
      Indoor air quality may have more influence on human health than outdoor air pollution.
      Previous studies indicate indoor air pollution which causes respiratory disease has been
      associated with cardiovascular disease. Besides, some studies showed that indoor CO2
      concentration was positively correlated with virus detection and bacterial concentration in
      the air, and coagulase-negative staphylococci (CNS) was detected in many poorly ventilated
      indoor environments. Mint can release chemical substance to inhibit viruses and bacteria.
      Among the components, the menthol and terpineol induced vasodilation so as to reduce blood
      pressure. For the pilot study we have finished the qualitative and quantitative research in
      chemical components released by the mint.

      Therefore, this study aims to evaluate the indoor air quality and the distribution of fungal
      and bacterial concentration in the indoor environment, analyze the effect of potted mint
      plants on indoor air quality, fungal and bacterial concentration, and explore the correlation
      between the intervention of potted mint plants and cardiovascular health.

      This study will recruit 60 subjects, in sum of 30 families. We will measure 2 indoor
      environments (living room and bedroom) for All-in-one monitoring the indoor air quality, in
      which collected culturable fungus and bacteria indoor to calculate colony forming unit (CFU).
      We will apply Kore Technology (MS-200) (Electron Ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry,
      EI-TOF-MS) to measure the indoor volatile organic chemicals (VOCs) before intervention and
      perform repeated measurements of VOCs and the concentration of phytoncides before
      intervention and one week later after placing potted plants into indoor environments (living
      room and bedroom).

      Furthermore, we used matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time of flight mass
      spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) to identify microbiology; simultaneously, we record the outdoor
      environment and indoor ventilation. To assess subjects' cardiovascular health, we use
      DynaPulse to evaluate their cardiovascular function, and make them equipped with Holter
      electrocardiography (ECG) to continuously monitor the trend of heart rate variability (HRV)
      before and after intervention.

      In conclusion, this study aims to investigate the clinical utility of potted mint plants in
      reducing indoor bacterial and fungal growth and indoor air pollution, and cardiovascular
      benefits. Furthermore, the possible application of indoor potted mint plant in antiviral
      influenza or pneumonia in the future.
    
  