
    
      Background

      WARFARIN AND THE MONITORING OF ANTICOAGULATION THERAPY: Warfarin, an oral anticoagulant
      medication which disrupts vitamin K's ability to activate clotting factors in the liver, has
      strong evidence for efficacy in the prevention of thromboembolic disease (most notably in the
      setting of atrial fibrillation, mechanical heart valves or venous thromboembolism). However,
      it also has a very narrow therapeutic range and many drug / disease interactions - with risk
      of the clotting disorders it is meant to prevent (e.g. stroke, pulmonary embolism) in those
      who are "under anticoagulated" and risk of major bleeding as a side effect in those who are
      "over anticoagulated". For this reason warfarin users routinely undergo regular blood tests
      which measure the time it takes their blood to clot in a standardized setting compared to the
      population average. This test is commonly referred to as the "INR" (International Normalized
      Ratio) and patients will commonly have this blood test measured every 1 to 4 weeks with
      same-day decisions on warfarin dose adjustments made by their general practitioner (GP) based
      on that day's INR result. For atrial fibrillation and venous thromboembolism the target INR
      range is usually 2.0 to 3.0 (i.e. it takes 2 to 3 times longer for the patient's blood to
      clot while on warfarin). For mechanical heart valves, where the risk of stroke is higher,
      this target range is usually 2.5 to 3.5. Unfortunately some patients can have highly variable
      INR tests and the proportion of time they spend in the therapeutic range ("TTR") will be
      relatively low. This reduces the effectiveness of the therapy (if the INR is too low) and
      puts the patient at risk of potentially life threatening bleeding (if the INR is too high).
      The overall average for TTR in community settings in the published literature is 56.7% [95%CI
      51.5-62.0%], which is considered suboptimal. "Good control" has been described as TTR > 75%
      and newer alternative anticoagulation strategies have been recommended when TTR is < 60%.

      THE INFLUENCE OF VITAMIN K ON WARFARIN THERAPY: Vitamin K, which plants use in the process of
      photosynthesis, is found largely in green leafy vegetables (most notably kale, spinach,
      broccoli, lettuce and Brussels sprouts). It is an essential cofactor used by the liver to
      "activate" the clotting factors it releases into the blood. Vitamin K has a very short
      half-life in the body (approximately 2 ½ hours) and cycles through an active (so far as its
      ability to "activate" clotting factors) and inactive form in the liver. Warfarin acts by
      preventing one of the intermediary steps necessary to convert the inactive form of vitamin K
      back to the active form and hence it reduces the amount of available activated clotting
      factor. When vitamin K is first ingested, however, it is in an easily activated form upon
      which warfarin has little effect. As a result, consumption of high vitamin K containing foods
      can counteract the effect of warfarin and highly variable consumption of these foods may
      cause clinically important INR variability in some individuals. Most typically, low vitamin K
      containing foods are consumed in the morning, and highly variable vitamin K containing meals
      are consumed at dinner.

      THE POTENTIAL INFLUENCE OF THE TIMING OF WARFARIN INGESTION ON ANTICOAGULATION THERAPY:
      Warfarin has a long half-life (36 to 42 hours) and, as a result, it is generally assumed by
      clinicians that the time of day it is ingested will not impact its efficacy. Although some
      patients will take it in the morning, most commonly warfarin is taken at dinnertime (or later
      in the evening) so that the results from each INR test can be communicated to the patient in
      time for dose adjustments (if any) the same day. However warfarin acts on the liver and
      immediately following ingestion (as is the case with all ingested substances) ALL of the
      ingested warfarin is delivered directly to the liver by the portal blood. Conceivably,
      because warfarin transitions through the liver first, there could be an important "first pass
      effect" that would make warfarin activity greatest around the time it is ingested (in
      comparison to a few hours later when the drug is distributed throughout the rest of the
      body). To date, this possibility has never been explored. If a first pass effect did exist,
      it is conceivable that ingesting warfarin at dinner (the same time as ingestion of the day's
      largest and most highly variable amount of easily activated vitamin K), may induce
      undesirable variability in what might be the period of greatest warfarin activity. Given
      vitamin K has such a short half-life, taking warfarin in the morning (when one would expect
      consistently low vitamin K activity) may produce a more consistent first pass effect (if one
      exists), and a more stable INR as a result.

      Hypotheses

      A) Morning, as compared to evening, administration of warfarin will produce a more consistent
      anticoagulant effect and improve the proportion of time a patient spends in the target
      therapeutic INR range.

      B) A less variable daily (as opposed to weekly) dietary vitamin K consumption at dinner,
      whether consistently high or consistently low, will reduce variability in the anticoagulant
      effect of warfarin and improve the proportion of time a patient spends in the target
      therapeutic INR range.

      Objectives

      A) To determine (by RCT) whether switching current warfarin users from evening to morning
      dosing will alter the proportion of time spent in therapeutic INR range.

      B) To determine (by cross-sectional analysis of baseline data) whether evening warfarin users
      with greater variability in daily dinner-time vitamin K ingestion have a lower time in
      therapeutic INR range.

      C) To determine (by prospective subgroup analysis of RCT data) whether the effect of warfarin
      timing on TTR (i.e. the effect of changing to morning dosing) is influenced by day-to-day
      variability in vitamin K consumption.

      Methods

      Design: Prospective Randomized Open Blinded End-Point (PROBE) Study

      Population: Community family physicians will be recruited from across two Canadian provinces,
      British Columbia and Alberta. These physicians will send a letter (from them) to their
      warfarin using patients which: a) Describes the project; b) Lets patients know their
      physician is participating; and c) Provides a central contact number (which reaches our study
      co-ordinator) for more information. The study co-ordinator dialogs with interested patients,
      ensures they are eligible, obtains written informed consent from all patients willing to be
      randomized and obtains baseline information presumed to be predictive of TTR [including age ≥
      80 years, hospitalization in the last 6 months, temporary planned discontinuation of warfarin
      in the last 6 months (e.g. for elective surgery), number of daily prescription medications, ≥
      6 months of warfarin use, the self-reported average number of days per week in which high
      vitamin K containing foods are consumed, and how variable this dietary consumption is]. For
      consenting patients who meet the interview criteria for eligibility, the family physician
      will be asked to provide investigators with the patient's target INR range and their last 6
      months of INR results and test dates. This will provide baseline data for the cross-sectional
      analysis and allow determination of the last RCT eligibility criteria (which is availability
      of complete and adequate baseline INR data).

      Intervention: Morning warfarin ingestion versus continued evening ingestion. Upon completing
      the determination of eligibility (i.e. upon receiving 6 months of baseline INR data from each
      patient's family physician) consented eligible patients will be randomized with
      stratification by baseline % of INR tests in range (<50%, 50-80%, >80%), using variable
      blocks of 2 or 4 (by a study co-ordinator with no clinical patient interactions), to either
      morning (active arm) or continued evening (control arm) ingestion of their warfarin. REDCap
      software will be used to perform randomization and ensure allocation concealment. Patients
      (and hence their providers) will not be blinded to the intervention.

      Seven months after enrolment of each patient the investigators will ask their family
      physician to provide us all INR results for that period in order to determine the outcomes
      specified below.

      Sample size: We wish to be able to demonstrate a 20% reduction in time out of therapeutic
      range and will conservatively estimate (since there are no prior studies exploring this
      outcome to guide us) that the standard deviation of this measure is twice the mean effect
      (i.e. SD = 40%). For a t-test with 1:1 allocation to control and experimental groups, power =
      0.9, alpha = 0.05, minimum difference = 20% and SD = 40% the required sample size per group
      is 85 (i.e. 170 subjects in total). Providing for potential dropouts we will increase our
      target enrolment to 200 subjects.

      Statistical analysis:

      Calculating TTR:

      The therapeutic INR range for each patient will vary and be determined by the treating
      physician. Typically the therapeutic range is 1 unit wide (often 2 - 3, or 2.5 - 3.5) but
      some physicians will choose narrower or wider ranges (e.g. 3.0 - 3.5, or 2 - 3.5). We will
      standardize the width of all target ranges by determining the midpoint of each patient's
      individual target range and use upper and lower limits that are 0.5 units above and below
      this midpoint. For example, if a physician is targeting a narrower than normal 3.0 to 3.5
      range, we will use a midpoint of 3.25 and assume a (standardized width) target therapeutic
      range of 2.75 to 3.75. The proportion of time both in and out of therapeutic range will be
      determined using the linear interpolation method of Rosendaal which (conceptually) draws a
      line between sequential INR values no more than 8 weeks apart and assigns a projected INR
      value to every day in that interval.

      RCT:

      All analyses will be by intention to treat. The primary analysis of percentage change in time
      outside of therapeutic range will be by Student's t-test if the data appears normally
      distributed or by Mann Whitney U test if it is not. The secondary analyses will be by
      Student's t or Mann Whitney U (for percentage change in TTR and for maximum and minimum INR
      values), and by the Student's t or Fisher's exact test (for both percentages of patients with
      TTR > 75% & < 60%, and major warfarin related cardiovascular events). A subgroup analysis of
      the influence on the intervention of the numbers of days per week that high vitamin K foods
      are ingested will be carried out looking at an ANOVA analysis of % change in time outside of
      therapeutic range according to 3 possible categories for the number of days per week of
      consumption of high vitamin K containing foods (these being less than 2, 2 to 5, and greater
      than 5 days per week). In the same analysis we will also examine the effect on the
      intervention of the patient's global assessment of how variable their consumption of high
      vitamin K containing foods is. To do this we will convert the 4-point scale of possible
      responses into a dichotomous variable that combines the two options indicating the most
      variable diet, and the two options indicating the least variable diet.

      Baseline cross-sectional analysis:

      The effect on baseline TTR of the number of days per week that high vitamin K containing
      foods are consumed will be analyzed with multiple linear regression using baseline covariates
      which include: gender, age ≥ 80 years, hospitalization in the last 6 months, temporary
      planned discontinuation of warfarin in the last 6 months, number of daily prescription
      medications, < 6 months of warfarin use, each of the 3 possible categories for number of days
      per week consuming high vitamin K containing foods, and the patient's dichotomous global
      assessment of how variable their pattern of vitamin K consumption is.
    
  