
    
      The project will be implemented in 2 phases; Phase 1: From August 2015 to March 2017
      [projected], HIV-infected patients who present for HIV care and undergo CD4 testing will be
      reviewed to determine the proportion of newly presenting patients with advanced disease (CD4
      ≤100 cells/μL). Reflex CrAg screening will be performed using Lateral Flow Assay (LFA) for
      those with CD4≤100 cells/μL, per Vietnam national guidelines.

      Patients with CD4≤100 cells/μL who present for antiretroviral treatment (ART) at a study
      OPCs-CRICS Sites- will be recruited into the longitudinal study and followed up with
      assessments and the collection of routine and supplemental data for 12 months or through
      September 2017 (whichever comes sooner). Those who are CrAg-positive, but have no features of
      central nervous system (CNS) disease, will be treated with high-dose fluconazole. Those with
      symptoms of CNS disease will be treated according to national guidelines. Survival, retention
      in care, and other clinical outcomes will be documented for patients who test CrAg-positive
      and are treated with fluconazole and those who test CrAg-negative. Data from those tested at
      participating labs but not eligible for enrollment in the longitudinal study will contribute
      to the estimation of the prevalence of CrAg.

      Phase 2: From April 2017 to September 2017, a cost and cost-effectiveness analysis of CrAg
      screening will be conducted, a routine screening will be continued at existing sites and
      expanded to additional sites (preferentially to hospitals affiliated with Phase 1 OPCs and to
      other OPCs whose CD4 testing is conducted at laboratories already conducting CrAg screening
      as part of Phase 1). CrAg tests will also be made available to screen all patients with
      CD4≤100 cells/μL including those who are treatment-experienced. The test will also be made
      available for use among symptomatic patients for diagnostic purposes, including cerebral
      spinal fluid (CSF) and blood testing. Investigators will monitor prevalence at each testing
      site, but screened patients will not be enrolled in longitudinal follow-up. Phase 2 will last
      for at least 6 months based on the availability of funding and fluconazole for those who
      screen CrAg positive and the availability/stability of CD4 testing.

      [Note that follow up of patients enrolled in Phase 1 will continue during this time period,
      but is considered to be part of Phase 1 rather than Phase 2. Also, sites included in Phase 2
      may change over time as a result of the instability of CD4 testing (e.g., if participating
      laboratories stop conducting CD4 testing, those sites might no longer be included; if
      participating laboratories begin CD4 testing for other sites, those sites might be
      included).]
    
  