
    
      At the commencement of training season athletes will receive a detailed explanation and sign
      an informed concent form.

        -  Upon enrollment each athlete will fill a personal questionnaire, including injury
           history. This is done in accordance with a regular screening performed on those teams.

        -  ROM will be measured in the supine position, as described in detail in the work of
           Almeida et al, J shoulder Elbow Surg 2013, 22 , 602-607.

        -  Following the ROM measurement, assessment of Humeral retroversion via Ultrasound will be
           carried out, as described and validated by Myers J et al, Am J Sports Med, 2012, 40:
           1155-1160.

        -  Strength testing will be then commenced. A structured warm up procedure consisting of 2
           sets of rotation exercises using Theraband will be carried out. Following this a pre -
           set order of testing consisting of isometric- isokinetic concentric, isokinetic
           eccentric testing will be performed. This order was chosen in order to allow maximal
           physiologic preparation and safety during testing. The first side to be tested will be
           determined randomly.

        -  Isometric testing will be carried out in the seated, 90/90 position with respect to
           shoulder and elbow. This position was chosen to reflect as closely as possible the
           functional range of the dominant shoulder during athletic activity. 3 Contractions of 3
           second each, external rotation will be performed, followed by 3 contractions of 3
           seconds each into internal rotation. Both will be held against a stationary pad.

        -  Isokinetic testing will commence following a familiarization procedure, with subject
           positioned according to manufacture's manual and the protocol described by Zanca et al,
           J Sports Sciences 2011,29 (15):1603-1611.

        -  Two sets will be performed concentrically, at 60 degrees/second and at 180 deg/second.
           Eccentric testing will consist of one set utilizing the slow velocity of 60 degrees/sec.

        -  Outcome measures will consist of total range of motion (TROM), difference in internal
           rotation (GIRD), external rotation gain (ERG), Humeral retroversion (HRT)- all measured
           in degrees. Strength measurement will consisit of maximal isometric strength (Newton),
           isokinetic peak torque for each direction (Newton/Meter) and agonist:antagonist muscle
           ratios- concentric, eccentric and dynamic control ratio ( Eccentric external
           rotation/concentric internal rotation).
    
  