
    
      Study subjects This study was approved by the institutional research ethics board. Written
      informed consent was prospectively obtained from all study subjects. Twelve consecutive
      patients (nine females, three male; mean age, 56 years; range, 38 to 76 years) suffering from
      bilateral CTS referred for consideration of carpal tunnel steroid injection were
      prospectively recruited. Inclusion criteria consisted of a clinical diagnosis of unilateral
      or bilateral CTS based on a standardized and validated diagnostic scale. The degree of the
      entrapment ranged from mild to severe according to the American Association of
      Electrodiagnostic Medicine ratings: mild = slowing of sensory conduction velocity (<50 m/s),
      moderate = slowing of sensory conduction velocity (<50 m/s) and delayed motor distal latency
      (>4 ms), and severe = absence of sensory response. Exclusion criteria included prior carpal
      tunnel release or contraindications to MRI. All patients also had the clinical diagnosis
      supported by electrodiagnostic investigations.

      Ultrasound needle guidance:

      The US-guided injection procedure was performed in a standardized manner. The one-needle
      two-syringe technique with US guidance was used (1) one needle is used for anesthesia,
      hydrodissection, and intra-carpal tunnel injection; (2) the first syringe is used to
      anesthetize, hydrodissect, and dilate the intra-carpal tunnel space; and (3) the second
      syringe is used to inject the corticosteroid therapy into the new hydrodissected space. After
      hydrodissection, the empty lidocaine syringe was detached from the needle while still in the
      carpal tunnel, and a 3-ml syringe prefilled with 10 mg triamcinolone acetonide suspension was
      attached to the indwelling needle, and the treatment was slowly injected into the
      hydrodissected neutral space. The injections were performed in a standardized fashion by a
      musculoskeletal radiologist (Y.C.H.) with 13 years of experience in US.

      MRI protocol Magnetic resonance images were acquired at 3.0 T (Discovery MR750, GE
      Healthcare, Milwaukee, WI, USA) using a 8-channel wrist coil (GE Healthcare, Gainesville, FL,
      USA). The coil was at the center of the magnet to maximize the magnetic-field homogeneity.
      The subject's hand was fixed with a plastic plate and Velcro tape to the coil to restrict
      movements; the subjects were examined in prone position.

      For DTI, the investigators recorded non-diffusion-weighted b0 image and 15 diffusion gradient
      directions with b = 1,200 s/mm2 from 20 axial slices of 4 mm thickness. Slices were
      positioned to cover the whole carpal tunnel and in part the proximal and distal nerve. The
      two most proximal and distal slices were excluded from the analysis because of potential bias
      caused by the rapid decrease in homogeneity at the edge of the coil. Thus, the total
      proximal-distal range examined was 80 mm. The other imaging parameters were as follows:
      repetition time (TR) = 10,000 ms, echo time (TE) = 101 ms, number of averages = 3 (during
      post-processing), field of view (FOV) = 12 cm and matrix 100 × 80 pixels. The voxel size was
      thus 1.46 × 1.46 ×4 mm3.

      In addition to DTI, the imaging protocol comprised the following MRI sequences:

        1. Axial T2-weighted fast spin echo (FSE): TR = 5,430 ms, TE = 88 ms, echo train length
           (ETL) = 16, FOV = 12 cm, matrix 224 × 256 pixels, phase FOV = 0.7, the same slice
           positions as in DTI.

        2. Axial T1-weighted fast spin echo (FSE): TR = 457 ms, TE = 11~33 ms, flip angle = 110°,
           FOV = 12 cm, matrix 384 × 256 pixels, phase FOV = 0.7, the same slice positions as in
           DTI.

      Data collection:

      The patients' medical records were reviewed by a neurologist (F.C.Y.). Routinely, the
      investigators recorded clinical data (including sex, age, and side of injection, and the
      effect of treatment. The satisfaction scale of patients was rated using a Likert scale: 5 =
      greatly satisfactory; 4 = some residual symptoms and satisfaction > 50%; 3 = some residual
      symptoms and satisfaction = 50% ; 2 = residual symptoms and satisfaction < 50%; 1=
      unsatisfactory. Boston Carpal Tunnel Syndrome Questionnaire (BCTQ) is the most commonly used
      questionnaire for the measurement of the severity of symptoms and functional status with
      reproducibility, internal consistency, and validity in patients with CTS. The symptom
      severity subscale of BCTQ consists of 11 questions with scores from 1 point (mildest) to 5
      points (most severe), and the functional status of BCTQ subscale is made up of 8 questions
      with scores from 1 point (no difficulty in activity) to 5 points (unable to perform the
      activity at all). Patients were seen in the subsequent clinical visit to determine outcomes.
      The investigators also recorded the decrement of BCTQ between the pre-injection and
      post-injection.

      Data analysis Two investigators (Y.C.H., H.Y.C.) with experience in peripheral nerve imaging
      assessed the quality of the DTI source data. No case with visible motion artefacts was
      identified. Eddy current induced distortion occasionally appeared on the very proximal
      imaging planes, but did not affect the measurement regions. The DTI source data was post
      processed using the commercial post-processing workstation (GE Healthcare, ADW4.5). The
      investigators blinded to clinical data, side, and time point relative to steroid injection
      randomly performed all measurements. The same author performed a second blinded analysis of
      all acquired datasets after a 2-week period. Raw DTI data was initially reviewed with regard
      to image quality and occurrence of artefacts. After performing the GE Workspace imaging
      co-registration of EPI images for motion correction (through plane), DTI-based tractography
      (DTT) of the median nerve was performed. By defining at least two seed points, fibers passing
      in anterograde and retrograde direction followed a streamline algorithm and terminated if FA
      values were below 0.15 or if there were angle changes over 27°. The median nerve was
      visualized using at least three different attempts with two ROIs placed at different slice
      positions along the nerve (covering the entire imaged carpal tunnel). The 3D course of the
      nerve was tracked with DTT computed with the FACT algorithm (Fiber Assignment by Continuous
      Tracking).

      Fractional anisotropy (FA) and the apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) were measured
      bilaterally at each time point. FA and ADC were calculated from free-hand regions of interest
      (ROIs) placed in the center of the median nerve at three levels: at the level of the distal
      radioulnar joint (the most proximal slice where by the distal radio ulnar joint was
      visualized) and at the level of the flexor retinaculum (level of the pisiform). To avoid
      partial volume artifacts, care was taken to draw the ROIs slightly smaller than the
      cross-sectional area of the median nerve. The size of the ROIs depended on the
      cross-sectional area of the nerve and all ROIs were placed on one slice only. Anatomic
      reference images were used to identify the median nerve. The measurement of each parameter
      was repeated three times and the mean was calculated. Representative images are presented.

      Regarding the assessment of DTT, the investigators determined the nerve fiber tractography by
      morphology. Four different nerve trajectory patterns were defined by Breitenseher et al.: (1)
      If there was no alteration of the peripheral nerve trajectories, the pattern was rated
      "continuous". (2) If the trajectories were continuous, but irregularly organized, peripheral
      nerve tractography result was rated "deranged" .(3) In cases where only some of the ulnar
      nerve trajectories were interrupted in one peripheral nerve segment, the finding was defined
      as "partially discontinuous ". (4) If there was a complete discontinuity of all trajectories
      and a "gap" on at least one plane, tractography was classified as "completely discontinuous".
      DTT images were evaluated by two readers (Y.C.H., G.S.H.) in consensus.
    
  