
    
      Study design and plan:

      This is a one-year, 5-site randomized trial. High-risk patients will be randomized to usual
      care or a case/self management intervention. The frequency of urgent care visits or admission
      to a hospital for COPD will be compared.

      Study procedures: visit 1 Patient informed consent will be obtained prior to patient
      participation in the trial.

      Patients will also sign a release of information form to obtain outside records of COPD
      admissions or urgent care visits.

      Demographic data, inclusion/exclusion data, medications and problem list will be obtained.

      Post-albuterol forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) and forced vital capacity (FVC)
      will be performed using calibrated spirometers in accordance with guidelines established by
      the American Thoracic Society. A uniform set of nomograms (NHANES III) will be used at all
      sites. The best of three efforts will be defined as the highest FEV1 and the highest FVC
      obtained on any of the three blows (even if not from the same curve with a maximum of 5
      attempts).

      Patients who meet all above criteria and who agree to participation will be randomized to
      usual care or the case/self management intervention, by means of sealed sequentially numbered
      envelopes at each site.

      Patients who are randomized to case/self management intervention will receive 1-2 hours of
      education (appendix 1). These patients will be given instructions for self-management of
      exacerbation and a telephone care contact number. Coordinators will confirm that the patient
      has been instructed about, and is in possession of, standard pharmacologic treatment of
      exacerbation, including a 10 day supply of oral prednisone and an oral antibiotic. Prednisone
      dose regimens and specific antibiotics will be determined by the site PI according to local
      sensitivities and practice patterns, with access to current disease management
      recommendations and information.

      Study procedures: treatment period All patients will be contacted by telephone every 6 weeks
      by a blinded centralized study staff member who will inquire about interim urgent care visits
      and hospitalizations and COPD exacerbations according to a scripted case report form.

      Patients in the intervention arm will be contacted by the site coordinator monthly to
      reinforce educational principles and assist patients with disease management questions or
      concerns.

      Study procedures: end of trial At the end of one year quality of life scores (SF36 and St.
      George's Respiratory Questionnaire, a VISN 23 patient satisfaction survey, and a brief
      questionnaire regarding current influenza and pneumococcal vaccination status, smoking
      status, and average number of minutes of exercise per day will be mailed to all patients.
    
  