
    
      Study Visits/Contacts/Interventions

      Procedures for Participants in the Collaborative Care Intervention

      In the hospital, participants randomized to CC will work with the care manager to: (a) define
      specific goals related to their psychiatric condition, health behaviors, and self-care, (b)
      initiate care for their psychiatric condition, and (c) make a plan for a health goal, using a
      structured tool based on prior work, with a specific and systematic focus on social,
      functional, financial, and other barriers to behavior change.

      Following discharge, all contact will be via phone, with the same care manager completing
      phone sessions to enhance alliance and care continuity. Contacts will last typically 30-45
      minutes using a structured but highly flexible approach designed to manage acute issues and
      cover some aspect of all three care targets based on patient needs/preferences, without
      requiring care managers to complete all possible interventions at each call. Care managers
      will prioritize topics to be addressed at each contact, responding first to urgent concerns
      (e.g., chest pain, suicidal ideation). Next, the care manager will touch on all three aspects
      of the intervention, with the depth of focus for each component based on prior sessions and
      current issues. He/she will review psychiatric symptoms and treatment. The care manager will
      gauge progress on health behavior goals, review motivation/barriers to goal completion, and
      make an action plan for the next week. Finally, he/she will compare cardiac medication lists
      to guidelines and review weight/blood pressure self-monitoring. Calls will occur weekly for
      the first 6 weeks, then may be spaced out in subsequent weeks based on the patient's
      psychiatric symptoms, progress toward health behavior goals, and cardiovascular status. Both
      the participant and care manager will agree upon the amount of time between calls after the
      first 6 weeks, though participants will be encouraged to contact the care manager sooner if
      needed.

        -  1 Targeting multiple psychiatric conditions. First, the care manager will assist in the
           assessment and management of depression, GAD, and/or PD using standardized scales. At
           weekly team meetings, care managers and supervising clinicians will review participants'
           scores to allow iterative recommendations for treatment, and supervision will be
           provided to care managers about psychotherapeutic content. A treat-to-target approach
           will be used for psychiatric disorders, with a goal of remission. Treatments for
           mood/anxiety disorders may include medications (with selective serotonin reuptake
           inhibitors [SSRIs] typically recommended), psychotherapy (telephone-delivered cognitive
           behavioral therapy [CBT] sessions, supplemented by CBT workbooks), or relaxation
           response (RR) training.

        -  2 Targeting cardiac health behaviors. The investigators will systematically target
           health behaviors, primarily via motivational interviewing given its efficacy for a wide
           variety of behaviors in medical patients. The investigators will focus on four specific
           health behaviors (diet, exercise, smoking, and medication adherence). During admission,
           care managers and participants will identify one behavior to target and set a specific
           goal aligned with ACS/HF guidelines and the medical team's recommendations. Care
           managers will utilize motivational interviewing techniques to assist participants in
           considering, making, and maintaining change toward that goal. A focus on health
           behaviors will then continue throughout the 26 weeks.

        -  3 Targeting the cardiac condition. First, care managers will review the participant's
           medication regimen and compare it to published guidelines for ACS and HF. The care
           manager will discuss this with the study cardiologist and, if the regimen appears
           suboptimal, they will suggest to the patient's physician(s) possible adjustments.
           Second, care managers will encourage participants to check blood pressure and weight
           daily and will review data at study calls; if the readings deviate from targets (e.g.,
           HF patient gaining weight), the care manager will review with the cardiologist and
           contact patients' medical providers as indicated. The investigators will provide
           (commercially-available) digital scales or automated blood pressure cuffs to
           participants (in either group) who need them.

      Procedures for Participants in Enhanced Usual Care.

      For participants randomized to eUC, baseline psychiatric and medical assessments will be
      transmitted to the patient's electronic health record. During the enrollment admission, the
      care manager will also inform the participant and treatment team about the specific symptoms
      on the study instruments and their clinical relevance (and will alert teams to the data
      transmitted to the electronic health record). eUC participants also will be free to receive
      any treatment for mental health or cardiac conditions throughout the study.

      At follow-up study assessments for eUC (and CC) participants at 26 and 52 weeks, psychiatric
      symptom data will be transmitted to the electronic health record, and providers will be
      alerted if psychiatric symptoms persist. If acute safety concerns are identified at
      follow-ups or other contacts, the study team will also arrange as-needed urgent care).
      Finally, the investigators will provide eUC participants with blood pressure cuffs and/or
      scales if needed, to ensure that outcome improvements in CC are not simply due to their
      provision.

      Study Endpoints.

      Functional, HRQoL, psychological, and care process outcomes (Specific Aim 1) The
      investigators will assess the intervention's impact on multiple functional and psychological
      outcomes, including physical function (using the Duke Activity Status Index (primary study
      outcome), generic HRQoL (Medical Outcomes Study SF-12), disease-specific HRQoL (Kansas City
      Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire, Seattle Angina Questionnaire), depression (SCL-20), anxiety
      (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale - anxiety subscale), optimism (Life Orientation Test -
      Revised), and participant satisfaction.

      Behavioral and medical outcomes (Specific Aim 2) The investigators will assess the
      intervention's impact on adherence to medications (using the self-report medication adherence
      tool from the NHLBI Heart and Soul study), diet (using the MEDFICTS (meats, eggs, dairy,
      fried foods, fat in baked goods, convenience foods, fats added at the table, and snacks)
      scale for saturated fat intake and the Scored Sodium Questionnaire for sodium intake),
      physical activity (using the International Physical Activity Questionnaire), and smoking
      (7-day point prevalence smoking assessment). The investigators also will monitor for major
      adverse cardiac events (defined as admission for an ACS, percutaneous intervention, or acute
      HF, or mortality).

      Cost and related outcomes (Specific Aim 3) Finally, the investigators will monitor medical
      utilization using Partners Healthcare records ahd the Massachusetts All Payer Claims
      Database. For cost effectiveness, the investigators will use the EuroQol five dimensions
      questionnaire (EQ-5D) health utilities scale, which allows direct assessment of cost per
      quality-adjusted life year.
    
  