
    
      The study is an open label, non-randomized, observational, descriptive and prospective
      pharmacokinetic study.

      Setting: this study will be conducted at the Intensive Care Unit at the Bellvitge University
      Hospital.

      Study aims: the primary objective is to determine the PK/PD target attainment of
      piperacillin, ceftazidime, cefepime, ceftolozane and daptomycin in septic critically ill
      patients treated with CVVHDF using oXiris® membrane. Secondary aims are: i) to characterize
      the PK of piperacillin, ceftazidime, cefepime, ceftolozane and daptomycin in critically ill
      patients under CVVHDF therapy using oXiris® membrane by developing a population PK model; ii)
      to identify the clinical and demographic sources of PK variability observed in these patient
      and iii) to develop individualized dosing recommendations based on the PK/PD index associated
      with therapy success.

      Recruitment process: patients who meet the inclusion criteria will be enrolled for at least
      72 hours (maximum 96 hours).

      Sample size: no power calculations are required for this study as it aims to investigate the
      PK of these antibiotics and does not intend to measure the effect of an intervention between
      two groups.

      Antibiotic treatment: patients will receive piperacillin, ceftazidime, cefepime,
      ceftolozane/tazobactam or daptomycin as their standard of care. Doses will be at the
      discretion of the treating physician. At the same time, patients will be treated under
      continuous renal replacement techniques (CRRT) with continuous venovenous hemodiafiltration
      mode (CVVHDF) using PrismafleX eXeed™ system and high adsorbent polyethyleneimide membrane
      (oXiris®). Filtration parameters will be determined following the local protocol (dose of
      25-30 ml/kg/h) CRRT initiation will be determined by the treating physician on charge,
      according with the current recommendations of clinical practice and prescriptions of CRRT and
      local management protocols. The decision to stop the treatment will be determined by:

        -  Adequate renal recovery status: adequate capacity to effectively maintain fluid and
           electrolyte homeostasis and urinary output (>450 ml in 24 h) without the use of
           diuretics.

        -  Hemodynamic stability without renal function recovery. Therapy will be continued as
           intermittent hemodialysis.

      Antibiotic concentrations: blood, either pre and post filtration through oXiris® membrane,
      urine and ultrafiltrate samples will be obtained. Samples will be collected at 1) steady
      state conditions and 2) after minimum 24h from the concomitant administration of CRRT and
      antibiotic for piperacillin, ceftazidime, cefepime, ceftolozane and 48h for daptomycin.
      Sampling times will depend on the dosage regimen of each antibiotic therapy. Drug
      concentrations will be determined using a previously developed and validated measurement
      procedure based on ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.
    
  