
    
      After gaining verbal consent , Patients included in this study will be subjected to:

        1. history taking :

             -  peronal history .

             -  obstetric history.

             -  past history

        2. general examination including vital signs

        3. abominal and pelvic examination

        4. the patient will be examined son graphically at 3 visits

             1. The first visit at less than 10 weeks gestation :trans vaginal ultrasound with
                partially filled bladder to nullify effect of anteversion of the uterus for
                assessment of---the site of the intrauterine gestational sac in relation to the
                endometrial cavity . For the purposes of this study and to obtain consistent
                findings, it was decided to have only five subgroups of gestational site
                implantation in relation to the endometrial cavity (Fig. 2):

                  1. anterior,

                  2. posterior,

                  3. Fundal,

                  4. low-lying anterior,\

                  5. low lying posterior

                We adopted the definition of implantation site from previous publication (Abdallah
                et al., 2012). The implantation site is visualized in the sagittal plane as a
                hyperechoic ring that occupies one side of the implanted gestational sac and
                protrudes into the endometrial lumen It represents the maternal decidual reaction
                and the beginning of maternal-fetal circulation. This area is also believed to be
                responsible for future placental formation and development (Brosens and Gellersen,
                2010) Distance between the implantation site and the internal cervical ostium (os).
                This was taken from the lower end of the hyperechoic trophoblast ring of the
                gestational sac to the internal cervical os in the sagittal plane.

                -----doppler assessment of the retro chorionic blood flow in the area behind the
                maximum chorionic tissue to detect sensitivity index (RI),in cases of low
                gestational sac Doppler assessment of peri trophoplastic blood flow will be
                assessed.

             2. then the patient will be enrolled during routine ANC till delivery and data
                collected at32-34 weeks gestation regarding placental site will be correlated with
                1st data and data at delivery
    
  