
    
      Introduction:

      Severe sepsis/septic shock are one of the most important reasons for admission the
      critically-ill patient to Intensive Care Units (ICU) and remaining a major causes of high
      mortality. Evidently, the fluctuation in pathophysiology, particularly during early phase, of
      this condition may result in PK alteration and lead to the inadequate antibiotic dosed of
      standard treatment. Therefore, thearly phase treatment with an appropriate antimicrobial
      doses that achieved pharmacodynamic target for antimicrobial therapy have been the crucial
      factor for therapeutic.

      Meropenem, a carbapenem antibiotic, is a β-lactam antimicrobial agent with a broad spectrum
      of activity, coverage of gram-negative bacteria including highly resistant pathogens for
      instance ESBL-producing or AmpC-mediated b-lactamase producing Enterobacteriaceae. This
      agent, in common with other β-lactams, is characterized by time-dependent antimicrobial
      activity, and the exposure time during which the free drug concentrations remains above the
      minimum inhibitory concentration (T>MIC) is the pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) index
      that best correlates with efficacy. The majority of previous PK/PDs studies on β-lactams in
      critically ill patients were mostly conducted in the steady-state period of treatment in
      which during the early phase of severe sepsis/septic shock was still lacking.

      Objectives:

      To study the population PK of meropenem and assess the probability of target attainment (PTA)
      of meropenem inthe initial phases of severe sepsis or septic shock patients in order to be
      able to optimize dosing recommendations.

      Clinical and laboratory data:

      Age, sex, body weight, electrolite, vitalsigns, APACHAE II score, BUN, Cr, blood culture

      Drug preparation and administration:

      The dosage of meropenem was 1-h infusion of 1g diluted in 100 mL of normal saline solution
      via infusion pump at a constant flow rate every 8 h (q8h) for 16 hours.

      Study design:

      Prospective non-comparative studyof 9 patients during the initial 24 h of severe sepsis or
      septic shock. Each subject received a 1-h infusion of 1 g q8h of meropenem for 16 hrs. Monte
      Carlo simulation were attempted to analyze the pharmacokinetics of experimental data.

      Sample collection:

      Meropenem PK studies were carried out during the administration of the first and second dose
      of meropenem (0-16 h after the start of administration of meropenem). Blood samples (ca. 3
      mL) were obtained by direct venipuncture at the following times: shortly before (time 0) and
      then at 0.25, 0.5, 1, 1.25, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 4, 5, 8, 8.5, 9, 9.5, 10, 12, 14 and 16 h after
      the start of administration of meropenem. All blood samples were added to a heparinized tube,
      were immediately stored on ice and were centrifuged at 2000 × g at 4◦C for 10 min within 5
      min. All plasma samples were stored at -80◦C until analysis within 1 week.

      Moropenem assay:

      The meropenem assays by method of Ozkan et al. (Biomed Chromatogr, 2001) will be performed at
      Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine.

      Duration of study:

      Patients will receive a 1-h infusion of 1 g q8h of meropenem for 16 hrs.

      Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic analysis:

      Concentration of meropenem in plasma will be simulated in Monte Carlo technique to get PK/PD
      index (40% and 80% PTA)

      Sample size: Nine patients with severe sepsis and septic shock.
    
  