
    
      As you are aware, COVID caused us to consider how to complete this project and answer the
      scientific questions posed in the Specific Aims. The investigators considered shifting the
      RTL project to a later time and switching with another project but this would not have worked
      for the other project.

      To solve this challenge of impact of school changes, the investigators convened with the
      project advisory board for consultation, consulted the research core at HIPRC and contacted
      the participants who were to have been participants in the randomized controlled trial. 19 of
      the 24 schools responded. From this work, the investigators agreed that since the school
      context has changed to either home online or hybrid mode, that students with concussion who
      are the recipients of the intervention should not be deprived of an intervention that is
      potentially beneficial.

      The investigators have therefore made the following adaptations that retained the specific
      aims and central hypothesis that school context capacity can be strengthened to provide
      tailored student-centered RTL care and improve outcomes for students with a concussion.

      To this end, the investigators are considering "school" wherever students are receiving an
      education. The investigators will recruit subjects who are currently largely coordinating
      education due to COVID, work with their schools, and recruit nationally. These adaptations
      will require a sample size of a total of 150 high school students with recent concussion (75
      intervention [Group A: RISE bundle + CDC information], 75 controls [Group B: CDC information
      only]) who will be recruited using social media and other platforms.

      There are some advantages to this design: 1) The investigator's intervention materials will
      now be able to be translated to Spanish due to adaptations, 2) This project will reach more
      particpants in rural and from disadvantaged backgrounds, 3) Communications between
      particpants and schools will be enhanced.
    
  