
    
      Parkinsons' disease is one of the most disabling chronic neurological diseases. It can be
      treated sufficiently until motor complications with fluctuations of mobility and dyskinesias
      develop. The quality of life and the social and occupational functioning is relentlessly
      deteriorating with longer disease duration once the complications of conservative therapy
      develop. High-frequency stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus especially improves the motor
      complications of Parkinson's disease and preliminary data suggest that also the quality of
      life and psychosocial handicap are improved. So far this therapy is only used for patients
      which have already undergone personal, professional and social degradation due to motor
      complications of the disease. The aim of this study is to assess the use of this therapy in
      earlier stages of the disease, when motor complications have just developed and before
      patients are significantly affected in their social and occupational functioning.

      The main study (Earlystim) was finished in March 2012 and published in February 2013
      (Schuepbach WM, Rau J, Knudsen K, et al. Neurostimulation for Parkinson's disease with early
      motor complications. N Engl J Med. Feb 14 2013;368(7):610-622.) Patients, who were treated
      with BMT only in the Earlystim Study were privileged to be operated after the 24 months and a
      follow up phase of 5 years was planned to elucidate whether earlier stimulation has
      advantages (or drawbacks) compared to later stimulation.

      As operated patients fare better in terms of quality of life and other outcomes (see
      publication), it will be important to know if patients who are operated earlier keep an
      advantage in all thoses parameters over those who were operated later or if those operated
      later will catch up after surgery. Also the pattern of adverse events among earlier and later
      operated patients may differ. These issues can be addressed with the post-study follow-up
      (PSFU) studies of the patients of the Earlystim trial. The results of these investigations
      elucidate longterm issues of DBS in PD and may affect the recommendations of surgery for
      patients.
    
  