
    
      Primary objective: Assessment of the performance of an automatic measurement of vertebral
      bone mineral density (BMD) on routine abdominal scans for the prediction of fractures
      (necessitating hospitalization) over 3 years.

      Secondary objective:

        -  Assessment of the performance of an automatic measurement of lumbar vertebral bone
           density on routine abdominal scans (performed for other medical indications) for the
           prediction of fractures (necessitating hospitalization) over 3 years according to the
           location of fracture (spine, hip, non- spine-non-hip).

        -  Assessment of the performance of an automatic measurement of lumbar vertebral bone
           density on routine abdominal scans (performed for other medical indications) for the
           prediction of fractures (necessitating hospitalization) over 3 years according to age
           (>= 75 vs < 75) and sex.

        -  Assessment of the impact of a preventive treatment of patients at high risk of fracture
           in terms of number of avoided fractures (simulation study)

      The study is based on the patients of the Paris University Hospitals / Assistance Publique -
      Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP), the largest hospital entity in Europe, who had, whatever the
      medical indication, an abdominal CT; the images are stored in the PACS workstation (available
      since 20076). After legal authorizations, data from the PACS will be merged with data from
      the national Programme de Médicalisation des Systèmes d'Information (PMSI) database, which
      records all discharge summaries of public and private hospitals in France. Each summary
      contains the age and sex of the patient, the motive of admission, described through the
      diagnosis codes from the International Statistical Classification of Diseases, 10th Revision
      (ICD-10) and secondary diagnosis, allowing to identify fractures and, among them, neoplastic
      (on bone metastasis or primary bone cancer) will not be considered as event of interest).

        -  All legible abdominal scans performed between 20076 and 20132 at AP-HP in subjects of 60
           years and older (i.e. those at a priori higher risk of fragility fractures) during an
           hospital stay and stored on PACS workstation will be used. If a subject performed
           several abdominal scans, only the first one will be used.

        -  Vertebral BMD will be calculated automatically with a validated algorithm (in Hounsfield
           Unit - HU), with the lower attenuation (lower HU) representing less dense bone (i.e.
           more fragile), at each vertebra from L1 to L4. The algorithm automatically segments the
           L1-L4 vertebrae, and extracts their overall density based on a number of features
           extracted.

        -  clinical data of APHP patients (included vertebral BMD) will be transferred into the
           AP-HP Clinical Data Repository (CDR).

        -  Incident fractures will be identified in the national PMSI database (20076-20156). An
           event will be defined by the occurrence of an incident fracture (excluding polytraumatic
           fractures and neoplastic fractures) necessitating hospitalization, within 3 years after
           the abdominal scan.

        -  Prediction of the occurrence of fracture by vertebral BMD will be assessed.

      The source population will be patients 60 years and older (i.e. those at a priori higher risk
      of fragility fractures because of age) who had abdominal QCT with images stored centrally in
      the Picture Archiving and Communication System (PACS) of our institution (Assistance Publique
      Hôpitaux de Paris, AP-HP). AP-HP is the largest university hospital entity in Europe (Greater
      Paris University Hospitals, 39 hospitals, 23 of which are for acute care, 20,700 beds
      including 11700 beds for acute care, more than 7 million patients treated and 1.2 million
      hospitalizations each year in acute care). The PACS has been implemented in 20076, and stores
      all the images acquired in the AP-HP institution.
    
  