
    
      The study is a randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover, single-center trial with one
      screening visit (Visit 1; Week -1) and 3 test periods [Test Period 1 (Visits 2 and 3; Weeks 0
      to 3), Test Period 2 (Visits 4 and 5; Weeks 5 to 8), and Test Period 3 (Visits 6 and 7; Weeks
      10 to 13)] separated by minimum 2-week washout periods.

      At Visit 1 (Week -1), subjects will provide informed consent and undergo assessments of
      medical history and prior, current medication/supplement use, and inclusion and exclusion
      criteria and a last menses query, where applicable. Additionally, height, body weight, and
      vital signs will be measured and BMI will be calculated. Fasting (12 ± 2 h) blood samples
      will be collected for chemistry and hematology, and female subjects will undergo an in-clinic
      urine pregnancy test. Subjects will be instructed to maintain physical activity and habitual
      diet as much as possible with the exception of excluding fermented foods or beverages that do
      or might contain live probiotics (e.g., yogurt, kombucha). Subjects will be dispensed a
      Baseline Diet Diary with instructions to record intake 7 days prior to Visit 2 (Week 0).
      Subjects will also be dispensed a Bowel Habits Diary and Daily GI Tolerance Questionnaire
      with instructions to complete these during the 7 days prior to Visit 2 (Week 0). Finally,
      subjects will be dispensed a stool collection kit and will be instructed to collect one fecal
      sample from one bowel movement during the 3 days prior to Visit 2 (Week 0). Subjects will be
      reminded that they are not required to fast prior to Visit 2 (Week 0) and will be encouraged
      to eat breakfast prior to their visit.

      At Visit 2 (Week 0), subjects will arrive at the clinic to undergo clinic visit procedures
      (concomitant medication/supplement use, assess inclusion/exclusion criteria, body weight and
      vital signs measurements, last menses query, where applicable). Subjects will be queried
      about compliance with study instructions. The fecal sample will be collected and the Bowel
      Habits Diary, Baseline Diet Diary, and Daily GI Tolerance Questionnaire will be collected and
      reviewed. Subjects will be assigned to a randomization sequence. The first study product
      consumption will occur in the clinic and subject will be dispensed the remaining study
      products according to their assigned randomization sequence for home consumption (twice a
      day, once in the morning and once in the evening, with or without food). Subjects who
      consumed breakfast at home prior to arriving at the clinic will be administered the study
      product alone while those who did not consume breakfast prior to arriving at the clinic will
      be administered the study product with a snack. Subjects will also be dispensed a Study
      Product Diary to record study product intake. Subjects will be dispensed a copy of the last 5
      days of their completed Baseline Diet Diary (reviewed at Visit 2, Week 0) and will be
      instructed to replicate the same food and beverage intake as closely as possible during the
      days prior to the collection of their fecal sample, which will occur during the 3 days
      immediately prior to Visit 3 (Week 3). Additionally, subjects will be dispensed 3-day
      Analysis Diet Records with instructions to record all food and beverages consumed during 3
      days (2 weekdays and one weekend) following Visit 2 (Week 0) and before Visit 3 (Week 3) that
      do not coincide with the 5 replication days immediately prior to Visit 3 (Week 3). Subjects
      will be dispensed a Bowel Habits Diary and stool collection kit, and will be instructed to
      complete the Bowel Habits Diary during the 7 days immediately prior to Visit 3 (Week 3) and
      to collect a fecal sample from one bowel movement during the 3 days immediately prior to
      Visit 3 (Week 3). Subjects will also be dispensed a Daily GI Tolerance Questionnaire with
      instructions to complete the questionnaire daily starting from Visit 2 (Week 0) up to Visit 3
      (Week 3). Finally, study instructions will also be provided [(i.e., overnight fasting (12 ± 2
      h, water only), maintenance of physical activity with the exception of avoiding vigorous
      physical activity for 24 h prior; maintenance of habitual diet as much as possible with the
      exception of avoiding alcohol for 24 h prior and excluding fermented foods or beverages that
      do or might contain live probiotics (e.g., yogurt, kombucha) and consumption of study
      products].

      At Visit 3 (Week 3), subjects will arrive at the clinic to undergo clinic visit procedures
      (concomitant medication/supplement use, assess inclusion/exclusion criteria, body weight, and
      vital signs measurements, last menses query, where applicable) and adverse event (AE)
      assessments. Subjects will be queried about compliance with study instructions and diet
      replication. Fasting (12 ± 2 h) blood samples will be collected for chemistry and hematology.
      Fecal samples will be collected and the Bowel Habits Diary, Daily GI Tolerance Questionnaire,
      and the 3-day Analysis Diet Record will be collected and reviewed. The Study Product Diary
      will be collected/reviewed, any unused study products will be collected, and compliance with
      study product consumption will be assessed. The Product Likeability Questionnaire will be
      administered in clinic. Subjects will be dispensed a stool collection kit and will be
      instructed to collect a fecal sample from one bowel movement during the 3 days immediately
      prior to Visit 4 (Week 5). Subjects will also be dispensed a copy of the last 5 days of their
      completed Baseline Diet Diary (reviewed at Visit 2, Week 0) and will be instructed to
      replicate the same food and beverage intake as closely as possible during the days prior to
      the collection of their fecal sample, which will occur during the 3 days immediately prior to
      Visit 4 (Week 5). Subjects will also be instructed to begin the 2-week washout period and
      return to the clinic to begin Test Period 2 at Visit 4 (Week 5). Finally, study instructions
      will also be provided [(i.e., maintenance of physical activity; maintenance of habitual diet
      as much as possible with the exception of excluding fermented foods or beverages that do or
      might contain live probiotics (e.g., yogurt, kombucha)]. Subjects will also be reminded that
      they are not required to fast prior to Visit 4 (Week 5) and will be encouraged to eat
      breakfast prior to their visit.

      At Visit 4 (Week 5), subjects will return to the clinic, crossover to the other study product
      in their test sequence, and repeat the procedures from Visits 2 (Week 0) with the exception
      of the randomization procedure. At Visit 5 (Week 8), subjects will repeat the procedures from
      Visit 3 (Week 3), followed by a 2-week washout period before starting Test Period 3 at Visit
      6 (Week 10). At Visit 6 (Week 10), subjects will return to the clinic, crossover to the other
      study product in their test sequence, and repeat the procedures from Visits 2 (Week 0) with
      the exception of the randomization procedure. Finally, at Visit 7 (Week 13), subjects will
      repeat the procedures from Visit 3 (Week 3).
    
  