
    
      This proposal describes the first prospective large pediatric cohort study designed to look
      simultaneously, from disease onset, at clinical, inflammatory, serological and therapeutic
      parameters of CD, with standardized treatment regimens and long-term follow-up. The
      exploratory study will delineate whether a sub-clinical inflammatory parameter
      (calprotectin), performed post-treatment and after achieving remission, is indeed predictive
      of time to relapse or relapse rate. We anticipate that patients with low calprotectin levels
      are significantly less likely to relapse during the follow-up period, while patients with
      persistent inflammation after induction of remission (high calprotectin levels) are more
      likely to relapse early. We will also evaluate the relationships between various clinical and
      sub-clinical parameters and CD disease outcomes, as well as the influence of treatments on
      these parameters. Greater knowledge about the relationship between inflammatory and
      serological markers, treatments chosen, and CD outcome will improve disease control in the
      clinic and may offer insights as to how the clinician can modify the course of CD.
      Furthermore, this study should answer the following question: in patients with clinical
      improvement but ongoing inflammation, should we treat according to clinical symptoms or
      should we treat according to sub-clinical laboratory data? Finally, without industry bias,
      this study may offer ultimately the ability to model factors predictive of poorer outcomes,
      and to compare the long-term benefits or hazards of treatments in use today.

      The framework of the proposed study is development prospectively of an incident cohort of
      ~300 +/- 30 newly diagnosed cases of CD over a period of two years by a team of pediatric
      gastroenterologists that represent approximately 20 European IBD centers (the ESPGHAN 'Porto'
      group). Multiple clinical and laboratory parameters will be recorded serially at intervals in
      a standardized, pre-agreed format, at initial presentation and for the subsequent 18 months.

      At initial presentation, each IBD clinic will confirm independently diagnosis of CD, as
      opposed to any other inflammatory bowel condition, according to the Porto criteria . These
      newly diagnosed untreated pediatric patients with CD must be under the age of 18. Exclusion
      criteria will include abdominal surgery, pregnancy and indeterminate colitis. All
      participating centers will file an IRB within their own organization. Consent will be sought
      from each patient or patient's guardian and documented in their native language.
      Participation in this study does not entail any novel therapeutic intervention, and as such
      does not pose any risk to the patient. Most of the data to be collected during the study are
      collected routinely during care of a CD pediatric patient, although there will be extra blood
      and stool samples taken. Since it is standard to take blood for other tests during these
      visits, for example to assess disease activity or the presence of anemia or other
      complications, it is not anticipated that the blood draws will inhibit participation.
      Therefore, we predict that almost all eligible patients (80%) that present at 'Porto' group
      centers will be enrolled in this study. At each visit, a clinician will evaluate and record
      the location of disease, height and weight, as well as disease activity (Pediatric Crohn's
      Disease Activity Index, PCDAI; and CRP . A stool sample will be taken at all visits for
      assessing fecal calprotectin (a measure of intestinal inflammation . Any disease
      complications, such as fistulae, abscess or strictures will also be noted as well as the type
      (if any) of treatment to be administered. There will be 6 predetermined standard visits at 0,
      8, 12, 26, 52 and 78 weeks. Blood will be drawn at 0, 8, 12 and 52 weeks. Serum obtained from
      blood samples will be divided before being frozen at minus 20 degrees centigrade in each
      center. These serums will be transported to 'Hub' centers (to be selected), where they will
      be stored long-term; they shall not be transferred to any other party. These samples will be
      used to serotype the serological markers gASCA, pANCA, ACCA, ALCA and AMCA (serology
      profile). .

      All participating gastroenterologists have agreed on standardized treatment regimens to be
      employed where possible and standardized follow-up protocols. The regimens and protocols were
      defined at a meeting held in Porto in June 2005 and validated at the meeting held in Porto in
      March 2007 . Use of standardized regimens removes treatment variability as a possible bias or
      confounding factor during disease outcome analysis. Institution of a second treatment, due to
      relapse or to lack of response, will be registered using a standardized relapse/lack of
      response form .

      In general, multivariate statistical analysis will be employed to search for significant
      correlations between inflammatory and serological parameters and disease outcomes.
    
  