
    
      Autonomic failure (AF) is a severely disabling condition, which is characterized by
      orthostatic hypotension (severe drop in blood pressure upon standing), bladder and bowel
      dysfunction, and sexual dysfunction. Besides disabling orthostatic hypotension, however, half
      of these patients have supine hypertension (high blood pressure when lying). Sustained high
      blood pressure is a cardiac risk for heart disease, kidney disease, and stroke. Sustained
      supine hypertension during the night induces pressure natriuresis (increased urine production
      due to high blood pressure) and volume loss (due to frequent urination/high volumes of
      urine), worsening orthostatic hypotension the following morning (blood pressure falls even
      more when the blood volume has been decreased due to loss of fluids in urine) and may also
      complicate the treatment of orthostatic hypotension with pressor agents (giving a blood
      pressure pill to prevent overnight high blood pressure may make daytime standing blood
      pressure worse).

      Upright posture induces significant gravitational pooling of blood in the lower body that is
      normally compensated for by sympathetic activation. Failure of compensatory sympathetic
      activation results in orthostatic hypotension in autonomic failure patients due to the
      reduction in venous return and cardiac output. This abnormality has been used in autonomic
      failure patients with supine hypertension to their benefit by having them sleep with the head
      of the bed tilted up. The recommended amount of head up tilt is 10°, or about a 9-inch
      elevation of the head of the bed. In the investigators' hands this degree of tilt produces a
      significant but only modest decrease in blood pressure. Compliance is a limiting factor
      because most patients (and their spouses) are not able to tolerate even this modest level of
      head up tilt. Participants often elevate just the torso overnight, but the effect of this
      approach on supine blood pressure has not been reported.The investigators would like to
      compare the effects of tilt versus only elevating the head on supine blood pressure.

      The existing knowledge provides the rationale for the study of the elevation of the head of
      the bed as a non-pharmacologic approaches for the treatment of supine hypertension in these
      patients. Elevation of the head of the bed will decrease venous return to the heart using the
      effects of gravity.
    
  