
    
      Falls and related injuries among elderly people are a major public health problem
      worldwide.All older people with recurrent falls or assessed as being at increased risk of
      falling should be considered for an individualized multifactorial intervention.

      In successful multifactorial intervention programmes the following specific components are
      common - against a background of the general diagnosis and management of causes and
      recognized risk factors:

        -  exercise

        -  home hazard assessment and intervention

        -  vision assessment and referral

        -  medications list review with modification/withdrawal We will address to 4000 randomly
           chosen patients from study population (elderly (65+) men and women, living in Beer-Sheva
           and Ofakim , Israel and belonging to Clalit HMO). This telephone interview will be
           conducted to reveal falls in last 12 months. The people who do fall (1 + falls) will be
           invited to research assistant.

      In that meeting the research assistant will explain about the study aims and ask them to sign
      informed consent. Those who do not agree to participate - will be referred to their family
      doctor for further assessment.

      Those who agree to participate in the study will fill in questionnaire about falls (causes,
      circumstance, results). All will pass through: cognitive assessment by the Mini-Mental State
      Examination (MMSE), affective assessment by the 15-item Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS),
      functional assessment by Barthel Index (BI), visual assessment by Snellen charts and basic
      gait assessment by a "Timed get Up and Go" test (TU&G).

      Participants that fulfill inclusion criteria will be randomly assigned to the intervention
      group or the control group. All participants will be instructed to call to the research
      assistant closely to each fall.

      All information about assessment of patients in both groups will be transferred to the family
      physician. Their family physician according to his opinion will treat patients from usual
      care group.

      A geriatrician, physiotherapist and occupational therapist will observe patients in the
      intervention group. OT will conduct a home visit to assess hazard and level of risk factor
      for falling. Results of assessment will be discussed on multi- disciplinary team meeting.

      According to this plan each patient in this group will receive one or more following
      interventions:

        1. Written recommendation to the family physician for medication adjustment. As well, the
           geriatrician will discuss with family physician these recommendations.

        2. Recommendation to the family physician to refer the patient to optometrist/
           ophthalmologist.

        3. Physical therapy: each subject in intervention group will get 15 weekly sessions (each
           session - 45 minutes) of specified exercise from a physical therapist that specializes
           in fall prevention and walking device recommendations. All subjects will get brochure
           for home exercise. It will be expected for intervention group to exercise twice daily,
           each time for 20 minutes in addition to the PT sessions.

        4. Occupational therapy: OT will make recommendation for changing any unsafe environments
           in the home.

      First follow-up (four months after baseline assessment):

        1. OT will make a second home visit to each subject of the intervention group to check
           recommendation fulfillment.

        2. Study assistant will repeat baseline assessment (MMSE, GDS, BI, TU&G and visual
           assessment by Snellen chart).

        3. Information about falls and injuries as well as health care utilization will be
           collected from Clalit computerized system and Soroka Medical Center data base.

        4. Information about medication adjustment and changes will be collected from Clalit
           computerized system.

      Second follow-up (12 months after baseline assessment ) :

        1. Study assistant will repeat baseline assessment (MMSE, GDS, BI, TUG test and visual
           assessment by Snellen chart).

        2. Information about falls and injuries as well as health care utilization will be
           collected from Clalit computerized system and Soroka Medical Center data base.

        3. Information about medication adjustment and changes will be collected from Clalit
           computerized system.
    
  