
    
      Right ventricular (RV) function is increasingly recognized to play an important role in the
      clinical status and long-term outcome in patients with congenital heart disease (CHD) as well
      as ischemic cardiomyopathy with left ventricular (LV) dysfunction. However, quantitation of
      RV characteristics and function, in particular for regional RV characteristics and function,
      are still challenging due to its complex morphology and its thin wall with coarse
      trabeculations. The remarkable improvement in survival of CHD patients has led to a
      continuously growing number of grown-up CHD. In addition, some defects (e.g., Ebstein's
      anomaly) may be diagnosed for the first time in adult. Majority of these CHD patients face a
      lifetime of problems including RV dilation, ventricular arrhythmias, and sudden cardiac
      death. Therefore, accurate depictions of the RV remodeling process facilitate disease would
      aid in surveillance and monitoring of therapeutic efficacy.

      CHD patients, even after corrective surgery, need lifetime surveillance and yearly clinical
      evaluation. Currently, clinical evaluation includes ECG and pulse oximetries alongside
      clinical examination. Investigation of anatomy and physiology of RV are changing from
      invasive studies (right heart catheterization) to noninvasive imaging techniques including:
      echocardiography, nuclear scintigraphy, computed tomography, and cardiac magnetic resonance
      (CMR) imaging. In short, echocardiography is largely operator dependent and suffers from poor
      inter-study reproducibility. The complex geometry of the RV makes it difficult to accurately
      quantify its remodeling before and after intervention. Nuclear scintigraphy and computed
      tomography are constrained by the need for ionizing radiation as well as the poor temporal
      resolution of the technique. CMR has been considered the golden reference technique for RV
      volume and ejection fraction.

      From current state-of-the-art in CMR, generation of RV volume and ejection fraction, global
      measures of RV remodeling, requires extensive manual contouring. Most important, there is
      lacking of regional RV remodeling measures.
    
  