
    
      The purpose of this clinical study is to evaluate the performance and safety of the Temporary
      Spur Stent System (TSS) for subjects with infrapopliteal arterial disease.

      The Temporary Spur Stent System is intended for use in conjunction with a commercially
      available drug coated balloon in the infrapopliteal arteries for the treatment of de novo or
      restenotic lesions.

      The TSS has been developed to provide another treatment option for patients with Peripheral
      Arterial Disease (PAD), and Critical Limb Ischemia (CLI).

      Up to 100 subjects will be treated with the Temporary Spur Stent System in conjunction with
      an approved Drug Coated Balloon (DCB). No less than 1 subject and no more than 40 subjects
      will be enrolled at a single site.

      A vessel recoil substudy is included in the trial. The purpose of this study is to evaluate
      vessel recoil in a select group of subjects (no more than 10 per site, up to 35 subjects in
      total). This will be conducted by obtaining measurements using Optical Coherence Tomography
      (OCT), Intravascular Ultrasound (IVUS), or Quantitative Vascular Analysis (QVA) of the target
      vessel during the index procedure.

      The statistical analysis for this trial will use as a comparator a performance goal derived
      from a meta-analysis of infrapopliteal balloon angioplasty. Descriptive statistics may be
      used to describe other data points.

      Subjects will be asked to participate in a baseline evaluation visit, the index procedure, a
      30 day follow up visit, a 90 day follow up visit, a 180 day follow up visit, and a 365 day
      follow up visit. The baseline evaluation and index procedure visits may be combined. At each
      follow up visit, the subject will undergo a physical exam with wound evaluation (if
      applicable) including pictures, a medication history and compliance review, Ankle Brachial
      and Toe Brachial Indices (ABI and TBI), a duplex ultrasound of the treated limb, review of
      symptoms, and Adverse Events (AE) assessment. Subjects may choose to withdraw from the study
      at any time, for any reason. If subjects choose to withdraw, they will be asked to undergo an
      unscheduled study visit consisting of the aforementioned procedures.
    
  