
    
      Postoperative pain is one of the major challenges in postoperative care and several studies
      continue to demonstrate that postoperative pain is generally undertreated. A key focus for
      postoperative pain is to identify gold standards within procedure-specific pain treatment.
      However, results from single randomized trials do not per se lead to better treatment, as
      this requires both efforts within implementation of best evidence, quality control of
      efficacy, including efficacy on the individual level, and education of staff and physicians.

      It has been suggested, that a way forward must include changes at the organizational level.
      For basic postoperative pain treatment, the major responsibility for planning and execution
      often rests on the surgical departments. For invasive pain treatment methods, e.g. epidural
      analgesia with continual infusion, patient controlled epidural analgesia (PCEA), patient
      controlled analgesia (PCA), and regional blocks, both single and continuing, this treatment
      is instituted at the departments of anaesthesia, but the responsibility for follow up is
      rarely described.

      Generally, epidural analgesia is widely recommended because of superior benefits in reducing
      postoperative pain, pulmonal complications and surgical stress, as compared to systemic
      opioid treatment. However, epidural analgesia is not without complications especially not for
      abdominal and thoracic surgery. The accompanying unwanted motor blockade may delay recovery
      and recent studies question this treatment. Likewise, up to 20 % percent of patients will not
      receive adequate analgesia for the first 48 hours postoperative with this method. Finally, it
      is possible, that adverse effects and complications from epidural treatment are currently
      being underestimated, due to lack of routine monitoring and missing protocols.

      Besides epidural analgesia, the use of Patient controlled analgesia (PCA), Patient controlled
      epidural analgesia (PCEA) and regional blocks have gained ground the last decades. With these
      techniques it might be possible to reduce overall opioid requirements. Nevertheless, a daily
      evaluation of benefits and harms of such analgesic techniques may be required to justify
      these treatment modalities. It is suggested, that regularly monitoring of invasive analgesic
      methods is of great concern when it comes to optimal postoperative pain management and
      reduction of adverse effects.

      A structured organizational approach has the potential to improve benefit and harm of
      postoperative pain management. A number of studies argues that in order to obtain optimal
      postoperative pain treatment there need to be regular monitoring, and optimization of the
      analgesic regimens and techniques, preferably in a clinical setting with either an Acute Pain
      Service (APS) or a similar setup. With the decline of the use of APS's in Denmark it seems
      that the organization and management around postoperative pain treatment in general, and for
      invasive pain treatment methods in particular, needs to be investigated. As of today, it is
      not known how patients with such pain treatment are monitored and taken care of after leaving
      the post anaesthesia care unit, and where the responsibility for this pain treatment lies
    
  