
    
      Highly active muscles such as the diaphragm are particularly sensitive to both disuse and
      training. For example, diaphragm fibers of controlled mechanically ventilated young adults
      atrophy by more than 50% within 36 hours of complete inactivity, and mechanical ventilation
      (MV) initiates signaling pathways within the first several hours of inactivity that promote
      progressive diaphragmatic fiber dysfunction. The investigators have shown that widespread
      atrophy signaling begins in the operating room during cardiac surgery, after only a few hours
      of MV. In addition to this fiber atrophy, MV leads to significant declines in the strength of
      the diaphragm, which can lengthen the time it takes to wean from MV. The clinical occurrence
      of early onset, progressive contractile dysfunction is defined as ventilator-induced
      diaphragmatic dysfunction (VIDD). VIDD is regarded as a primary contributor to difficulties
      with weaning from MV.

      Conversely, the investigators have shown that IMT increases the pressure-generating capacity
      of the diaphragm and inspiratory synergist muscles, and facilitates weaning in patients with
      VIDD. Preoperative IMT for as little as 1-2 weeks reportedly increases inspiratory muscle
      strength. IMT prior to cardiothoracic surgery has been shown to reduce post-operative
      pulmonary complications such as atelectasis, pneumonia, or delayed ventilator weaning.
      Additionally, strength gains associated with preoperative IMT are associated with shorter ICU
      and hospital lengths of stay, which may potentially offer a cost benefit.

      Unfortunately, very little is understood about the neuromuscular adaptations and signaling
      mechanisms that contribute to these IMT clinical advantages. A particularly novel aspect of
      this project is it will be the first study of the mechanisms that contribute to diaphragm
      strengthening. A greater understanding of these mechanisms may help future investigators to
      develop more efficient exercise prescriptions to offset MV use in cases such as surgery, and
      it may help identify molecules and exercise that could protect the diaphragms of individuals
      who cannot exercise in advance, as in the case of acute infections that compromise breathing.

      The overall objective of this study is to investigate diaphragm neuromuscular remodeling
      associated with pre-operative, telehealth delivered IMT, compared with relaxation breathing
      training (RLX). Guided RLX exercises have been shown to improve post-operative pain
      perception and modestly lower systolic blood pressure in hypertensives but are not thought to
      significantly alter diaphragm strength.

      Forty adult volunteers will receive either IMT (n=20) or RLX training (n=20) for 2-4 weeks
      prior to elective cardiothoracic surgery and undergo breathing performance tests before and
      after the training period. A full thickness biopsy (approximately 6mm x 20 mm) from the right
      ventral costal diaphragm will be acquired as soon as the diaphragm is exposed during surgery.
      Additionally, a biopsy from the pectoralis major will be obtained and used as a non-exercised
      control muscle. Histological and RNA sequencing analyses will be performed to examine the
      mechanisms that contribute to neuromuscular adaptations to training.
    
  