
    
      MTN-007 is a Phase 1, randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled safety and acceptability study
      of vaginally formulated tenofovir 1% gel (a reduced-glycerin formulation), when applied
      rectally. The primary objective of this study is to assess the safety of vaginally formulated
      tenofovir 1% gel when applied rectally. This study will also determine whether rectal use of
      tenofovir 1% gel is associated with rectal mucosal damage using a broad range of
      immunological safety biomarkers, utilizing N-9 as a positive control, as rectal application
      of N-9 is known to cause mild but transient mucosal damage. Other secondary objectives
      include evaluations of the acceptability of rectal administration of tenofovir 1% gel as well
      as the safety of HEC placebo gel when applied rectally.

      Participants will be randomized to receive a single dose of tenofovir 1% gel, 2% N-9 gel or a
      placebo gel that is applied by a clinician at the study site. The study will also include a
      no treatment arm. There will be 15 participants in each arm. Participants will return to the
      clinic, where they will self-administer a single dose of the study gel under observation.
      Within approximately 30 minutes, lavage, stool, and rectal biopsy specimens will be obtained.
      After a one-week recovery period, participants will return to the clinic for assessment. If
      no significant adverse events (AEs) are reported they will begin to self-administer
      once-daily outpatient doses of the study gel for 7 days. Participants will return to the
      clinic for evaluation and specimen collection after completion of 7 days of daily dosing.

      Receptive anal intercourse is common among men who have sex with men and there is increasing
      evidence that heterosexual women in the developed and developing world also practice anal
      sex. It can therefore be anticipated that once vaginal microbicides are licensed, they will
      be used in both the vaginal and rectal compartments. As a consequence, there is a need to
      evaluate both the rectal and vaginal safety profile of candidate microbicides. The Rectal
      Microbicide Program clinical protocols have therefore been developed to assess the safety and
      pharmacology of tenofovir 1% gel when used rectally in men and women as well as address
      critical questions regarding rectal microbicides through exploratory objectives.
    
  