
    
      The clinical severity of lymphedema in an extremity is generally graded according to the
      International Society of Lymphology (ISL) stage. Stage 0 which refers to a latent or
      subclinical condition where swelling is not evident despite impaired lymph transport. It may
      exist months or years before overt edema occurs (Stages I-III). Stage I represents an early
      accumulation of fluid relatively high in protein content (e.g., in comparison with "venous"
      edema) and subsides with limb elevation. Pitting may occur. Stage II signifies that limb
      elevation alone rarely reduces tissue swelling and pitting is manifest. Late in Stage II, the
      limb may or may not pit as tissue fibrosis supervenes. Stage III encompasses lymphostatic
      elephantiasis where pitting is absent and trophic skin changes such as acanthosis, fat
      deposits, and warty overgrowths develop. Within each Stage, severity based on volume
      difference can be assessed as minimal (<20% increase) in limb volume, moderate (20-40%
      increase), or severe (>40% increase).

      Because the ISL stage mainly consists of findings achieved by physical examinations and
      represents the most severely affected arm, it is subjective and may not reflect the
      distribution and mode of progression of the disease. The characteristic skin and subcutaneous
      tissue changes in extremities with chronic lymphedema are caused by changes in the
      extracellular matrix, such as connective tissue hypertrophy, fat accumulation resulting from
      both fat hypertrophy and an increased number of adipocytes, and interstitial protein-rich
      fluid accumulation. Ultrasound has been used to assess and diagnose lymphedema related
      changes. Subcutaneous echogenicity (SEG) and subcutaneous echo-free space (SEFS) grade
      systems for postmastectomy lymphedema are developed in order to grade lymphedema objectively
      and to delineate the disease status more clearly. However, the reliability of SEG and SEFS
      has not been evaluated. The aims of this study is to determine the inter- and intra-rater
      reliability of SEG and SEFS grade systems for postmastectomy lymphedema. Two physiatrist (one
      ten-year-experienced and one five-year-experienced in musculoskeletal ultrasonography)
      independently and alternately will assess the subjects once for each assessment. Three days
      later after the initial examination, one of the physiatrists reassessed the patients. The
      inter- and intra-rater reliability will be determined using kappa.
    
  