
    
      According to the WHO, the incidence of melanoma is 199,627 worldwide in 2008, of which the
      melanoma-in-transit is about 4%. When melanoma spreads, it does so by the lymphatic system
      which drains to the regional lymph nodes. Uncommonly, melanoma can become trapped in the
      lymphatic vessels and grow to cause tumor nodules in the skin and subcutaneous tissues
      between the primary site and the regional lymph node basin. These nodules are termed
      in-transit metastases and carry an ominous prognosis. The American Joint Committee on Cancer
      (AJCC) defines such in-transit metastases as any skin or subcutaneous metastases that are
      more than 2 cm from the primary lesion but are not beyond the regional nodal basin. The 2010
      tumor node metastasis (TNM) staging system considers the melanoma-in-transit a N2c stage when
      they arise in the absence of nodal metastases.

      The current treatment options (approved or in late stage development) are:

        -  Local excision, if there are only a few;

        -  Isolated limb perfusion (local high dose chemotherapy);

        -  Systemic chemotherapy (Dacarbazine, Temozolomide, Cis-platine);

        -  Targeted therapy (B-raf inhibitors: Vemurafenib and Dabrafenib; MEK inhibitor:
           Trametinib);

        -  Immunotherapy (Ipilimumab, Nivolumab, Pembrolizumab, OncoVEX GM-CSF, Tumor Infiltrating
           Lymphocytes and interleukin-2 [IL-2]);

        -  Radiotherapy;

        -  Photodynamic therapy;

        -  Laser vaporization. With rare exceptions, none of these treatments are curative.
           Immunotherapy results in prolongation of survival although overall response rate remains
           low (ref: oncovex phase II study).

      According to the Sponsor's clinical development strategy and plan, the local metastatic
      melanoma with relapsed cutaneous/subcutaneous tumors, including melanoma-in-transit, has been
      chosen as the 1st indication for evaluating safety, tolerance and PK of DT01 in combination
      with a palliative radiotherapy (10x3 Gy). The presence of multiple cutaneous/subcutaneous
      tumor should provide an initial clinical evaluation of the safety and skin tolerance of the
      combined treatment of DT01 and 10x3 Gy irradiation, as well as a preliminary assessment of
      anti-tumor activity (proof of concept) of DT01 to sensitize and improve the response rate of
      radiotherapy (estimated about 50% response rate), and to delay local relapse.

      Based on the pharmacologically active dose in human melanoma xenografted tumor in mice and
      the wide safety margin estimated from the toxicology data, the starting dose of 16 mg and the
      planned dose escalation represent a conservative approach for titration. The dose escalation
      will provide valuable information about the safety, tolerance and preliminary efficacy data.
    
  