
    
      Older adults are at increased risk of various chronic diseases where inadequate levels of
      vitamins and minerals may play a significant role, including cardiovascular disease,
      Alzheimer's disease, liver disease, and cancer. Older adults are increasingly more
      susceptible to vitamin and mineral deficiencies with changes in dietary preferences, changes
      in socioeconomic status, decreased consumption of a variety of foods, poor absorption in the
      gut, and an increased demand for many of these micronutrients with advanced age.

      Epidemiological studies and recent clinical trials have shown that use of
      multivitamin/mineral or single nutrient supplements, such as vitamin E, have beneficial
      effects on disease risk, but many people are hesitant to use dietary supplements due to
      reports of ineffectiveness or potential negative effects. However, food sources of vitamin E
      and other key vitamins and minerals continue to show health benefits. As an alternative to
      mandating consumption of multivitamin and mineral supplements or food fortification, a
      dietary solution is to increase consumption of nutrient-dense foods, like hazelnuts.

      Tree nuts, including hazelnuts, contain a wide variety of vitamins and minerals, and are
      particularly good source of vitamin E and magnesium, two "shortfall nutrients" that are
      lacking in the typical American diet. Over 90% of U.S. adults do not meet recommended intake
      levels of vitamin E, and 60% do not get enough magnesium. Tree nuts are also a good source of
      protein and fiber and are high in healthful unsaturated fatty acids and phytochemicals such
      as flavonoids and phytosterols.

      Most clinical studies on the benefits of nut consumption have been conducted using almonds
      and walnuts, with hazelnuts used less frequently. However, the health benefits of consuming
      hazelnuts have been demonstrated in many clinical trials, including lower blood glucose
      levels, alterations in blood lipids, and declines in biomarkers of oxidative stress. Although
      several clinical trials have investigated nutritional impact of hazelnuts in adults, no
      clinical trials with hazelnuts have focused on examining micronutrient status and potential
      health benefits only in older (≥55 years) adults.

      Determination of body status of many micronutrients can be difficult, especially so the
      evaluation of vitamin E levels when age is considered as a factor. Although serum
      α-tocopherol levels are generally higher in adults above the age of 50 compared to younger
      adults, the increased prevalence of hypercholesterolemia in older adults makes interpretation
      of circulating α-tocopherol levels difficult. Alternatively, urinary α- and γ-carboxyethyl
      hydroxychromanol (α- and γ-CEHC) is believed to be a biomarker of α- and γ-tocopherol status
      that changes with vitamin E intake. In particular, low α-CEHC excretion is considered a
      reliable marker of poor α-tocopherol status, while an increase in α-CEHC is indicative of
      adequate α-tocopherol status.

      The objective of this study was to determine whether daily hazelnut consumption by healthy
      older adults for 16 weeks improves biomarkers of micronutrient status, especially vitamin E
      and magnesium. For a detailed assessment of vitamin E status, plasma α- and γ-tocopherol
      concentrations were determined together with urinary α- and γ-CEHC levels. In addition, a
      commercially available lymphocyte proliferation assay was utilized to evaluate the status of
      several other micronutrients. Since hazelnut consumption is reported to reduce blood lipids
      and improve glucose homeostasis, these biomarkers were also monitored in our study.
    
  