
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine if a cell phone video reminder system will improve
      compliance and glycemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus when compared with
      standard of care. We plan to partner with Affinity Network, Inc., a local minority-owned
      small business, to provide broadband-enabled cell phone service to patients with diabetes
      mellitus. Their IntelaCare™ system will host the content and transmit it to the phones on a
      personalized schedule. This will be a prospective, randomized, controlled trial comparing
      patients with diabetes mellitus who receive daily video reminders via cell phone to take
      their medications and check their blood glucose with patients who are just given a cell phone
      without daily reminders. The primary endpoint will be improvement of glycemic control as
      measured by glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c). The secondary endpoints will compare mean daily
      glucose levels, the number of both hypoglycemic and hyperglycemic events, the amount of time
      spent in target blood glucose, and the perceived level of diabetes-related stress between the
      two groups. Patients in both groups will receive a broad-band enabled cell phone and cell
      phone service for the duration of the study. Patients will be randomized into a "cell phone"
      group (group A) and a "cell phone plus reminder" group (group B). They will be seen by their
      provider at least quarterly (or more often as clinically appropriate). Blood glucose readings
      will be downloaded from patients' glucometers at every provider visit (at least quarterly).
      Group B will receive a daily 15-second video from their provider reminding them to take their
      medication and to test their blood sugar and an educational "tip-of-the day." These reminders
      will be personalized and recorded by their provider. During the second 6 months, the patients
      will be followed by their provider at least quarterly. Improvement in glycemic control will
      be determined by quarterly measurements of A1c and the mean and standard deviation of blood
      glucose. In addition, the number of home blood glucose tests performed on a weekly basis will
      be compared. Compliance with medication will be determined by pharmacy refill records and
      pill counts. Quality-of-life will be measures using 2 validated instruments at 0, 26 and 52
      weeks - the Problem Areas in Diabetes (PAID), which is a diabetes-related quality of life
      questionnaire and the SF-8, which is a general quality of life questionnaire for people with
      chronic disease.
    
  