
    
      Children undergoing major surgery or severe trauma with bleeding require regular hemodynamic
      evaluation, including cardiac output measurement, to maintain adequate organ perfusion. In
      fact, administration of fluid to improve cardiac output is the mainstay of hemodynamic
      resuscitation. However, not all patients respond to fluid therapy, and excessive fluid
      administration is harmful. Therefore, the vascular filling strategy requires a thorough
      hemodynamic evaluation.

      Many predictive tools for fluid responsiveness have been validated in adults, and are based
      on heart-lung interaction in ventilated patients. Up to now, respiratory variation in aortic
      blood flow peak velocity, measured by transthoracic or transoesophageal cardiac
      echocardiography, is the only variable shown to effectively predict fluid responsiveness in
      children.

      However, the use of these methods does not allow continuous monitoring (trans-thoracic
      echocardiography) or is not easily achievable in current practice (trans-esophageal
      echocardiography). In addition, these monitoring tools require learning and inter- and
      intra-individual variability is not negligible, ranging from 1% to 20%.

      The Pressure Recording Analytical Method, invasive hemodynamic monitoring, is an uncalibrated
      pulse contour analysis, installed in the Mostcare® system, that allows a continuous
      estimation of the stroke volume and thus of the cardiac output, by the relationship between
      the area under the curve of the systolic portion of the arterial blood pressure curve and the
      dynamic impedance of the cardiovascular system.

      The goal of this study is to assess the ability of dynamic cardiovascular variables measured
      using Mostcare® to predict fluid responsiveness in pediatric surgical critical care patients,
      sedated, intubated and ventilated, in prone position, by comparing the changes in stroke
      volume (SV), induced by a volume expansion (VE), measured by trans-thoracic echocardiography.
      For the purpose of the study, responders (Rs) to VE are patients showing an increase in SV
      measured using transthoracic echocardiography of at least 15% after VE.
    
  