
    
      Number of Participants:

      250

      Primary Research Objectives:

      Feasibility

      Secondary Research Objective:

      The secondary objectives are to determine:

        1. How a history of IPV affects injury-related complications;

        2. How a history of IPV affects return to pre-injury function;

        3. Incident cases of IPV after a musculoskeletal injury, if the injury was not the result
           of IPV;

        4. How a history of IPV affects health care and support service use after a musculoskeletal
           injury;

        5. How a history of IPV affects health-related quality of life after a musculoskeletal
           injury;

        6. How patterns of IPV change over time after a musculoskeletal injury;

        7. How abused women's stage of change changes over time after a musculoskeletal injury

      Diagnosis and Main Inclusion Criteria:

      The inclusion criteria are:

        1. adult females (at least 16 or 18 years of age depending on local ethics requirements);

        2. patients presenting to participating fracture clinics within 6 weeks of their
           musculoskeletal injury;

        3. patients presenting with a fracture or dislocation which is being managed with either
           surgical or non-surgical treatment.

      The exclusion criteria are:

        1. unwilling to or unable to provide consent;

        2. unable to complete the study questionnaires in a private location, due to safety and
           confidentiality;

        3. unwilling or unable to follow the study protocol or their attending surgeon has concerns
           about their ability or willingness to follow study protocols;

        4. does not speak and write in English or the dominant language of the local clinic

      Study Outcomes:

      The primary outcome is feasibility. Secondary outcomes are injury-related complications,
      return to function, incidence of IPV, quality of life, abuse type and severity, and stage of
      change.

      Duration of Patient Follow-Up:

      Study participants will be followed for 12 months
    
  