
    
      Upon arrival at the ICU, a standardized protocol for postoperative care was implemented for
      all patients. Infusion rates for all sedative protocols were titrated in order to achieve and
      maintain light sedation (RASS -2 to +1) before extubation and (RASS 0) after extubation. All
      patients were extubated when deemed clinically appropriate according to local protocols.
      Because of their specific pharmacologic properties (i.e., respiratory depression), patients
      were weaned off propofol or midazolam infusions before extubation, whereas patients receiving
      dexmedetomidine were extubated while still on the medication and were kept on the maintenance
      infusion as deemed clinically necessary for a maximum of 24 hours.

      Initial assessment and stabilization of both patient groups include; Clinical examination,
      hemodynamics (invasive blood pressure, heart rate, drains), activated clotting time,
      electrocardiography, chest x-ray and arterial blood gases including sodium and potassium. All
      patients were allowed to take 200 μg fentanyl and 5mg midazolam immediately on admission.
      Daily electrocardiography, chest x-ray, arterial blood gases including sodium and potassium,
      kidney function, coagulation profile if valve surgery or bleeding occurred, liver function if
      delirium occurred and CRP quantitative titre.

      Delirium was monitored and reassessed up to a maximum of 7 days after surgery and the
      assessment takes place in two steps; Firstly, the level of consciousness must be assessed
      using the Richmond Agitation-Sedation Scale. If the patient appears to have a RASS score≥3,
      then evaluation of delirium using the Confusion Assessment Method for the Intensive Care Unit
      (CAM-ICU) can be performed. The CAM-ICU includes the assessment of 4 different features;
      acute change or fluctuating course of mental status, inattention, altered level of
      consciousness and disorganized thinking. CAM-ICU is considered positive when features 1 and 2
      and either 3 or 4 are present (11). The CAM-ICU was performed once daily before midday,
      independent of additional analgesia or sedation. Abnormal or delirious behavior was recorded
      every shift by the bedside nurse (nurse:patient ratio 1:1) and reviewed by the research team.
      The number of delirium days was determined by following delirious patients until 7 days after
      surgery. Patients were considered delirium-free when they were free of delirium for more than
      24 h and alive.
    
  