
    
      Pediatric upper and lower limb surgery often requires fine tissue handling. The prevention of
      blood flow to a limb allows surgical procedures to be performed with improved accuracy,
      safety, and speed. Surgical tourniquets, compressing devices used to control venous and
      arterial circulation to an extremity, enable the surgeons to work in a bloodless operative
      field.

      Tourniquet related complications comprise severe pain during and after the procedure.

      In infants and children, surgical procedures are performed under general anaesthesia (GA),
      comprising standard analgesics and anesthesia maintenance drugs. If an inflatable tourniquet
      is used, supplementary opioid analgesics are often required to relieve postoperative pain.
      This clinical observation is in accordance with previously reported data. In adult patients,
      surgical extremity procedures requiring tourniquets are well known to be painful. As a
      consequence, infants and children are subjected to prolonged stays in the recovery
      department. Mobilization and referral to a more child friendly environment might be delayed.

      Many interventions and different medications have been tried in order to improve
      postoperative analgesia in pediatric patients. Amongst these Clonidine, primarily an alpha-2
      adrenoceptor agonist. Clonidine stimulates alpha-2 adrenoceptors in the brain stem, thus
      activating inhibitory neurons, resulting in reduced sympathetic outflow from the CNS.

      In several studies' clonidine administered orally or rectally before anesthesia has shown to
      reduce opioid use and diminish level of pain. Additionally, clonidine reduces the occurrence
      of postoperative agitation. As an adjuvant to central or peripheral nerve blocks, clonidine
      effectively prolongs analgesia. The efficacy of clonidine has also been investigated in
      clinical studies with pediatric ADHD patients Tourette's syndrome and stuttering. The
      efficacy of Clonidine in these conditions has not been demonstrated.

      Clonidine is a taste- and smell less fluid, completely opaque. Although clonidine has been
      widely studied in the pediatric population, the main outcome of investigations has been
      emergence delirium. In existing literature, the means of administration vary from
      intravenous, rectal, epidural or oral dosing. Intravenous single-bolus dosages range from 1.5
      - 4 mcg/kg. One recent study included almost 400 patients and administered 3mcg/kg bodyweight
      without the occurrence of any severe events. Based on these results the investigators chose
      to administer 3mcg/kg bodyweight as a single bolus in our current study.

      All outcomes are objective measures (mg/kg bodyweight, time endurance) or validated
      evaluation scales (FLACC/VAS score, PAED scale).

      Morphine is widely used for postoperative pain relief, the intravenous administration being
      the most potent. However, morphine is known to have several side effects (prolonged sedation,
      nausea and vomiting, refusal of oral intake and concomitant dehydration) and may be dangerous
      for certain children, who experience serious respiratory depression. Hence, a reduction in
      total dose is crucial, especially after referral to the pediatric ward, where means of
      monitoring are reduced to intermittent observation and assessment of vital parameters (oxygen
      saturation by pulse oxymetri, heart rate and blood pressure) is only possible sporadically.

      The same is true for pain and the assessment of pain using either FLACC or VAS scales.

      Time-at-recovery should be held at a minimum of duration due to high turn-over in our
      operating facilities. Any unnecessary prolongation of recovery-time should hence be avoided.

      Assessment of both primary and secondary outcomes are part of standard care and documentation
      of the conductance of anesthesia, recovery and post-recovery treatment at the pediatric ward.
      Hence, this information is readily available but will be registered in source-data sheets.
      After the individual participant has completed the study, the total amount of morphine
      administered at the pediatric ward from TREC-END to T24 will be registered by the study
      investigators.

      Prior to any kind of scheduled surgery, patients are seen at the outpatient's clinics at the
      Department of Orthopedic Surgery. If the patient is less than 15 years of age and is planned
      for extremity surgery with the use of surgical tourniquet, the surgeon will hand out parental
      information material. Further, he/she will inquire, whether parents will give their accept to
      receive a phone call 1-3 days prior to the date of surgery. If parents approve, study
      investigators will contact the parents and inform them about the study.

      If parents agree to study participation, a written consent form will be presented on the day
      of surgery by one of the study investigators for the parents to sign before induction of
      anesthesia. Electronic patient records will not be accessed before written consent to study
      participation has been granted.

      All of inclusion- and exclusion criteria are readily available in every anamnesis form filled
      out in the electronic patient data instrument at Odense University Hospital. Since inclusion
      criteria comprise 'scheduled procedures', female study participants at fertile ages will
      hence not be pregnant, since pregnancy is a contraindication against elective/non-urgent
      surgery with concomitant GA.

      On surgery day, children will be prepared according to departmental standard. This includes
      fasting for meals 6 hours and for watery drinks 1 hour prior to anaesthesia induction and
      premedication with sedatives at the discretion of the anaesthetist in charge. In order to
      reduce pre-induction anxiety, parental presence will be allowed and encouraged. Choice of
      inductional technique (mask or intravenous), choice of airway management device (oral tube
      (portex (Smiths Medical International Ltd. Bound, Kent, CT21 6JL, UK) or Ruesch (Teleflex
      Medical, Westmeath, Ireland)) or laryngeal mask (AmbuR AuraStraightTM, Ambu A/S, Ballerup,
      Denmark) and means of anaesthesia maintenance are according to anaesthetists' preference.
      After induction, children will receive one i.v. line (BD VenflonTM Pro, Becton Dickinson
      Infusion Therapy AB, Helsingborg, Sweden) and a bolus of fentanyl (Fentanyl B.Braun; B.Braun
      Melsungen AG, Melsungen, Tyskland) 3mcg/kg. Maintenance fluid (Ringer's Acetate, Fresenius
      Kabi AB, Uppsala, Sweden) will be infused at a rate of 10ml/kg the first hour and then
      reduced to 5ml/kg/h. Monitoring will comprise electrocardiogram (ecg), non-invasive blood
      pressure (NIBP), puls oxymetri, esohageal temperature (IntelliVue MP70; ViCare Medical,
      Birkerød, Denmark). Children will be mechanically ventilated by pressure controlled
      ventilation (Siesta I TS, DAMECA, Denmark) aiming at end tidal carbon dioxide (CO2) of
      4.5-5.5kPa. Flow of inspiratory oxygen FiO2 will be set at 45%. Anaesthesia depth will be
      clinically observed and adjusted as needed. All children will receive paracetamol i.v.
      (Para15mg/kg after induction. As it is not departmental standard, children will not receive
      ondansetron or steroid for prophylaxis of post-operative nausea and vomiting (PONV).

      Tourniquet will be positioned, and inflation pressure applied according to surgeons' choice.
      At the time of tourniquet insufflation, children will receive either an intravenous bolus of
      Catapressan (CatapresR Ampoules 150 micrograms in 1ml, Solution for injection, Boehringer
      Ingelheim Ltd., Berkshire, UK)(3mcg/kg) or an equal quantity of IV saline (Natriumklorid
      B.Braun 9mg/ml, B.Braun Melsungen AG, Melsungen, Tyskland). Fentanyl will be supplemented by
      the anaesthetist as needed according to clinical judgement.

      After surgery, children will be awake extubated and transferred to recovery. In recovery,
      children will be observed and monitored as per departmental standard comprising pulsoxymetri
      and pain assessment using the FLACC score (<6yrs) and VAS score (>6 yrs). Presence of nausea
      and vomiting will be registered and treated as per departmental standard. Children will be
      transferred to the pediatric ward when appropriate, that is in compliance with standards. On
      the 1st postoperative day the total consumption of opioids 24 hours after transferral to
      recovery will be summed up.

      Peri-anaesthetic data collection: vital parameters (pulse, mean arteria pressure in mmHg,
      oxygen saturation) will be recorded every 5 minutes. Total amounts in mg/kg of Propofol
      (intravenous maintenance) or end-tidal sevoflurane/desflurane recorded at time of incision-
      time of tourniquet inflation and desuflation. Level of tourniquet pressure and total time of
      insufflation (total-tourniquet-time) will be recorded in minutes. Total amounts of fentanyl
      (mcg/kg) and infused fluid (ml/kg) will be registered. Adverse events (desaturation <90%,
      bradycardia and hypotension according to European Pediatric Life Support (EPLS) reference
      values for age) will be registered.

      Recovery: FLACC/VAS score will be recorded at arrival and discharge. If pain is present
      during recovery, scores will be registered before and after intervention. Total amount of
      analgesics will be registered. Occurrence of PONV will be registered as well as interventions
      undertaken against. Occurrence of emergency delirium will be registered. Time-to-discharge
      will be registered (in minutes).

      Children will be transferred to the pediatric ward when appropriate, that is in compliance
      with standards. On the 1st postoperative day the total consumption of opioids 24 hours after
      transferral to recovery will be summed up.

      The investigators chose the parallel-group design for the CLOTCH-Study. In accordance with
      ICH-GCP recommendations on statistical principles for clinical trials (E9), the primary
      analyses will be differences in primary and secondary outcomes adjusted for stratification
      variables (i.e. means of anaesthesia maintenance (TIVA or Inhalational), tourniquet-time and
      tourniquet pressure level, age groups <1year, 1-6years, >6years). The investigators will
      assess and report all outcomes as "intention-to-treat" analysis including all randomised
      children meeting the inclusion criteria and not fulfilling the exclusion criteria with a
      standing consent to participate. Complete case analysis will be carried out if the overall
      level of missing data is less than 5%. However, if exceeding the limit of 5% missing data and
      if Littles' test is statistically significant, multiple imputation will be used and
      considered the primary result of the trial to reduce bias from complete case analysis.
      Little's test tests the null hypothesis that the missing data is Missing Completely At Random
      (MCAR). A p-value of less than 0.05 is usually interpreted as being that the missing data is
      not MCAR (i.e. is either Missing At Random or non-ignorable). The investigators will present
      "worst-case" and "best-case" scenarios. p < 0.05 will be considered statistically
      significant. For each group, all children will be analysed for the primary outcome. For each
      primary and secondary outcome, the results and estimated effect sizes with 95% confidence
      interval will be provided. The investigators will exclude patients with major protocol
      violations defined as failure to receive the total drug dose. The investigators will carry
      out statistical analyses before revealing the code of allocation.

      The trial offers benefits for the population, which the minor study participant represents.
      These comprise

        -  Improved strategies for treatment of pain after use of surgical tourniquets for
           extremity surgery

        -  Reduced anxiety and discomfort postoperatively due to reduced pain levels

        -  Accelerated mobilization postoperatively - a major factor in order to prevent immobility
           related complications (pulmonary infections, obstipation)

        -  Reduced-time-to-oral-intake, which is extremely important in all age groups, but crucial
           for infants, who have a high metabolism and hence are at high risk of complications due
           to anaerobic energy production.
    
  