
    
      The eligible participant will be chosen by door-door household visit. Each participant will
      be given information regarding the study and written informed consent will be obtained from
      them. Their participation will be entirely voluntary and no pressure or coercion will be
      used. Our team will help them with questions that are not well understood by them or are
      ambiguous for them. The questionnaire is in 2 sections. Section one will try and ascertain
      the mother's Knowledge, Attitude and Perception regarding cervix cancer, HPV infection and
      HPV Vaccination.

      Section 1 will be interviewed for a period of 5-10 minutes followed by an information sheet
      providing details on HPV infection, its association with cervix cancer and HPV Vaccination
      against cervix cancer. The information sheet available will be explained to them for a period
      of 10-15 minutes. Our social workers will be available at all times to allay their
      misinterpretations. This will be followed by section 2 which will be a post intervention
      questionnaire comprising of questions regarding their attitude towards HPV vaccination and
      identifying barriers and motivators for these women towards vaccination.

      The post-intervention questionnaire would be interviewed for a period of 10-15 minutes, thus
      a total of 25-40 minutes will be made available to every participant for the entire session.
      The team is expected to cover 15 women per day totaling to 300 women per month considering
      the monthly holidays and time lost in certain administrative issues.

      Patients will be recruited for 4 months which will be followed by data entry, data analysis,
      formulation of results and write -up. Thus the entire study will last for eight months. The
      questionnaire consists of mostly close ended questions with options in the form of yes/no/do
      not know. Some questions which require definitive answers have been provided with plausible
      options. Some questions have been left open ended so as to avoid ambiguity. The questionnaire
      is simple, in continuity and is translated into Hindi and Marathi languages so as to meet the
      needs of the local population.
    
  