
    
      200 women with gestational diabetes will be randomized into the intervention and the control
      group at gestational week (GW) 24-28.

      Participants in the intervention group will use the eMOM GDM -application one week/month
      until delivery.

      The participants in the intervention and the control group visit study nurse (measurements) 3
      times in study period (at GW 24-28 and GW 35-37 and 3 months postpartum).

      Both groups also receive regular antenatal care in maternity clinics and hospitals.

      Maternal measurements at enrollment before randomization process (at 24-28 GW), and at 35-37
      GW (both groups):

        -  Laboratory tests: fp-gluc, HbA1c, fp-insu, lipids, hs-CRP

        -  Fingertips glucose values from glucose meter (belong to normal antenatal care)

        -  Fasting blood samples for future analyses

        -  Weight, height, blood pressure (from the antenatal registry and study visits)

        -  Questionnaires: background (only at enrollment), diet (food frequency questionnaire),
           depression (EPDS), physical activity, motivation (TSRQ+PCS), quality of life (15D)

        -  continuous glucose measurements 1 week a month until delivery

        -  Physical activity and sedentary behavior with the hip-worn triaxial accelerometer (UKK
           RM 42)

        -  Physical activity and heart rate with Firstbeat Bodyguard

      Measurements at Birth:

        -  Cord blood sample

        -  Placental weight

        -  Offspring birthweight, height, body composition (PEA POD Cosmed®)

        -  Questionnaires: maternal diet (FFQ), maternal depression (EPDS), and maternal physical
           activity

      Maternal measurements at 3 months postpartum:

        -  Laboratory tests: fp-gluc, HbA1c, fp-insu, lipids, hs-CRP

        -  fp-gluc, 2h postprandial value, as measured during oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT)

        -  Fasting blood samples for future analyses

        -  Firstbeat Bodyguard 2 measurement (3 days)

        -  Depression questionnaire (EPDS)

        -  Diet questionnaire (FFQ)

        -  Physical activity questionnaire

      Protocol only for the intervention group

      - eMOM GDM application: use: 1 application week + 3 normal care weeks repeatedly until
      delivery

      The application includes:

        1. continuous glucose monitor (CGM)

             -  fingertips glucose calibration according to CGM protocol (twice per day with
                Medtronic)

        2. diet (speech-enabled food tracker)

             -  3 days during one application week

             -  For ensuring the quality of food record a researcher will phone interview the
                participant based on her recordings. This is done after each recording period.

        3. heartrate, stress and physical activity with the wrist-worn activity tracker (Vivosmart
           3)

        4. weight measured once a week

      Data from the sensors

      - Data from users' input to the application

      A study nurse calls after each week application use (simulating the normal health care
      communication). A standardized phone call concerns the quality and amount of measurements and
      their results.

        -  Technology acceptance questionnaire (UTAUT) after every application week

        -  Usability questionnaire, after four weeks usage of the eMOM GDM application

        -  Semi-structured interview
    
  