
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess overall survival (OS) in patients with refractory advanced biliary cancer
      randomized to Arm 1: trametinib compared to those randomized to Arm 2: chemotherapy (either
      5-fluorouracil [fluorouracil] and leucovorin [leucovorin calcium] or capecitabine).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the frequency and severity of adverse events of trametinib in this patient
      population.

      II. To assess response rate (RR) and progression-free survival (PFS) in patients randomized
      to Arm 1: trametinib and patients randomized to Arm 2: chemotherapy (fluorouracil [5-FU] or
      capecitabine in this patient population).

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if a 16-gene expression signature is predictive of mitogen-activated protein
      kinase kinase (MEK) efficacy as evidenced by improved RR, PFS, and OS.

      II. To evaluate the effects of trametinib on the inflammatory cytokine and explore potential
      associations with response rate and survival.

      III. To estimate lean soft tissue and fat mass weight gain as a result of treatment with
      trametinib vs. capecitabine in patients with advanced refractory biliary cancer.

      IV. To bank tissue samples for other future correlative studies including next generation
      sequencing and whole genome methylation assays. NOTE: These potential future correlative
      studies will not be performed until an amended protocol with relevant detailed information
      including specific arms and assays is approved by Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP).

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive trametinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Courses repeat
      every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive 1 of 2 treatment regimens at the discretion of the investigator.

      ARM IIA: Patients receive leucovorin calcium intravenously (IV) over 2 hours and fluorouracil
      IV continuously over 46-48 hours on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM IIB: Patients receive capecitabine PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-14. Courses repeat
      every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.
    
  