
    
      To the researchers' knowledge, there is no report to prospectively examine the benefits of
      switching antidepressants following early nonresponse. In this prospective 24-week study, the
      researchers will compare clinical outcomes between switching antidepressants and maintaining
      the same antidepressant in patients with major depressive disorder who do not show a 20%
      reduction in symptoms at week 2.

      Materials and Methods: This open-label 24-week randomized controlled trial will be performed
      at psychiatric hospitals in Tokyo, Japan.

      This study will be conducted with the approval of the Institutional Review Board of each
      participating hospital, and written informed consent will be obtained from all of the
      participants after providing a full explanation about the study.

      In the short-term acute phase, sertraline will be initiated at 25 mg, increased to 50 mg on
      day 3, and maintained until day 14. If patients show an early response (i.e. ≧ 20%
      improvement in the MADRS total score from baseline), sertraline will be continued and
      titrated at 50 - 100 mg based on clinical judgment. On the other hand, if patients show no
      early response, they will be randomly divided into two groups. In one group, sertraline will
      be continued and titrated at 50 - 100 mg, whereas in the other group sertraline will be
      switched to paroxetine. Paroxetine will be started at 10 mg on days 15 and 16, increased to
      20 mg on day 17, and further increased weekly by 10 mg from week 4 (i.e. day 22), while
      sertraline will be tapered by 25 mg each on days 15 and 16. In case patients are intolerant
      to adverse events, or they achieve remission (i.e. the MADRS total score ≦ 8), increasing the
      dose will be terminated. Lorazepam, lormetazepam, and mosapride will be allowed on a p.r.n.
      basis.

      In the long-term follow-up phase after week 8, patients who achieve remission or response
      will be followed up and the same dose will be administered throughout. Assessments will
      include the MADRS, the clinical global impression scale (CGI), and the Quick Inventory of
      Depressive Symptomatology self-reported (QIDS-SR) (weeks 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 16, 20, and
      24). Adverse events will also be monitored on every visit.
    
  