
    
      Background:

      Congestive heart failure (HF) is a major public health problem. There is a pressing need to
      improve treatment of HF, but lifesaving therapies remain underused in clinical practice. The
      investigators proposed a novel, potentially cost-effective model of community-based,
      multidisciplinary, collaborative HF care - the "Hub and Satellite" Heart Failure Providers
      Network. Primary care providers trained in HF management would provide improved care to their
      clinic patients with HF in "satellite" clinics, supported by the Regional HF Center "hub".

      Objectives:

        1. To establish and demonstrate the feasibility of the "Hub and Satellite" Heart Failure
           Providers Network

        2. To obtain data examining clinical effectiveness and barriers

      Methods:

      Volunteer community-based primary care providers underwent 3 days of HF management training
      at the regional HF center (Nashville), consisting of 21 hours of lectures, briefings,
      teaching sessions and case presentations. Multiple choice testing and a survey interview were
      completed at the beginning and end of training. Exclusive access was given to the services of
      a clinical pharmacist to titrate HF medications to clinical guideline-recommended doses.

      Providers received updates on advances in HF management. A confidential feedback report on
      their performance was given to HF providers. Formative evaluation was performed through
      pre-educational and 4 subsequent telephone interviews with HF providers.

      Decision Support System (DSS) data was used to identify patients with systolic HF (ejection
      fraction<40%) cared for by the HF providers; systolic HF patients in the same clinics cared
      for by non-HF trained providers were randomly selected as controls. Data on the care received
      over the one year period of follow-up was collected from DSS data and the computerized
      patient record system (CPRS).

      Status:

      One year of study follow-up has been completed. Primary data analysis is continuing. Work
      done to date has successfully demonstrated the feasibility of implementing a "Hub and
      Satellite" HF Providers network, including high provider satisfaction.
    
  