
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and toxicity profile of intravenous bevacizumab (avastin)
      administered in combination with oral AZD2171 (cediranib maleate) for patients with advanced
      malignancies.

      II. To determine the pharmacokinetic profile of oral AZD2171 in combination with bevacizumab
      (avastin) administered to patients with advanced malignancies.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the serum concentrations of Nitric Oxide (NO) and Nitric oxide synthase (NOS)
      among patients treated with this regimen and to correlate with VEGF expression.

      II. To determine changes in the tumor vasculature detected by DCE-MRI among patients treated
      with this combination of VEGF receptor blocking agents.

      III. To evaluate the potential predictive role of angiogenesis molecular endpoints in
      malignant effusion samples.

      IV. To assess in a descriptive fashion the efficacy of the studied regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15 and oral cediranib
      maleate once daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of bevacizumab and cediranib maleate until
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that
      at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Blood samples are acquired at baseline, on day 2, and after 2 courses of treatment for
      pharmacokinetic studies. Samples are analyzed by TUNEL, immunofluorescence staining,
      laser-scanning cytometry, flow cytometry, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and
      immunohistochemistry to assess apoptosis in tumor and endothelial cells, microvessel density
      mean vessel volume, nitric oxide concentration, and signal transduction pathways (i.e., ERK
      ½, P38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, protein kinase B, circulating endothelial and
      progenitor cells, basic fibroblast growth factor, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)
      receptor phosphorylation, VEGF, and hypoxia inducible factor-1α). Some patients also undergo
      tissue biopsy at baseline and after 2 courses of treatment for characterization of vascular
      and angiogenesis markers. Some patients also undergo DCE-MRI at baseline, once between days
      22-24, and after every 2 courses of treatment to assess blood perfusion.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 6 weeks.
    
  