
    
      Primary Objective

      • To compare the efficacy and safety of the insulin-only configuration of the iLet BP System
      (using insulin lispro, insulin aspart, and Fiasp [adults only]) in maintaining near-normal
      glycemia relative to usual care in a home-use study in adults and children with T1D.

      Secondary Objectives • To assess the impact of the insulin-only configuration of the iLet BP
      System on quality of life and treatment satisfaction.

      The study has four major parts: (1) the Test-Run Phase, (2) the RCT Period, (3) the Extension
      Phase for the UC Arm, and (4) the Transition Phase. These four parts are described below, and
      detailed in the main part of the protocol.

      A Test-Run Phase will be conducted to (1) test the functionality of all aspects of the iLet
      BP System, (2) train the clinical staff on the execution of the clinical protocol, and (3)
      provide hands-on training with the device prior to initiating the RCT Period. The initial
      test run will be conducted at one site (MGH) with ~5 participants using the iLet BP system
      for 4-7 days. If there are no safety or consequential device issues, a test run will be
      conducted at each of the other 15 sites, with ~2 participants per site using the iLet BP
      system for 4-7 days. The iLet BP system will use insulin lispro or insulin aspart. Results of
      this Test-Run Phase will be evaluated for safety prior to beginning the RCT Period as
      described in section 3.3.

      The 13-week, parallel-group, multi-center RCT Period is designed to compare the insulin-only
      iLet BP Group using insulin lispro, insulin aspart, or Fiasp (adults only); and a control
      group following usual care (UC Group). Upon completion of the RCT Period, the BP Group will
      enter the 2-4 day Transition Phase and the UC Group will enter the Extension Phase.

      The UC Group Extension Phase will immediately follow the RCT Period. Participants from the UC
      Group who complete the primary outcome visit, miss no more than 3 of the maximum possible
      number of the weekly questionnaires, attend all clinic visits, and follow study procedures
      for collecting CGM data during the RCT Period, will be given the option to use the iLet BP
      system with insulin lispro or insulin aspart for 13 weeks. The visit schedule and procedures
      for the Extension Phase will be similar to that of the BP Group in the RCT Period. Upon
      completion of the Extension Phase, participants will enter the 2-4 day Transition Phase.

      A 2-4 day Transition Phase will be conducted for all participants who complete BP use at
      either the end of the RCT Period (BP Group) or at the end of the Extension Phase (UC Group).
      Participants will be randomly assigned (1:1) to either transition back to their usual mode of
      therapy (MDI or pump therapy) based on therapeutic guidance from the iLet BP system or
      transition back to their usual mode of therapy based on what their own insulin regimens were
      prior to enrolling in the RCT Period. For those randomized to using their pre-study regimens,
      the dosing can be adjusted by the investigator to mitigate safety issues but should follow
      pre-study regimen as closely as possible.

      Test-Run Visit and Phone Contact Schedule

        -  Screening Visit - Eligibility assessed, informed consent, point-of-care/local HbA1c,
           testing and procedures similar to the RCT Screening Visit including psychosocial
           questionnaires; if eligible, BP system started.

           o For participants who completed the separate screening protocol, eligibility will be
           reassessed. Point-of-care/local HbA1c will be obtained if more than 28 days have
           elapsed. Participants will not need to repeat the psychosocial questionnaires.

        -  Phone contact after 1-2 days

        -  Shut-down visit at the end of the study period 4-7 days RCT Period Visit and Phone
           Contact Schedule

        -  Screening Visit (which may be completed as part of a separate screening protocol)

             -  Eligibility assessed, informed consent signed, point-of-care/local HbA1c,
                psychosocial questionnaires completed, blinded Dexcom G6 CGM sensor placed for non
                Dexcom G6 users.

                  -  For baseline data collection, participants using a personal Dexcom G6 who have
                     at least 85% of possible glucose data in last 14 days can skip the blinded CGM
                     wear

                  -  Participants using a personal Dexcom G6 with <85% of data will use their
                     personal Dexcom G6.

                  -  For participants who completed the separate screening protocol, eligibility
                     will be reassessed. Point-of-care/local HbA1c will be obtained if more than 28
                     days have elapsed. Participants will not need to repeat the psychosocial
                     questionnaires or blinded CGM wear.

        -  If the separate screening protocol or Test Run Phase of this protocol was completed or
           blinded CGM wear is not needed, randomization can proceed immediately. If blinded CGM
           wear was performed as part of this protocol, randomization visit will occur14-21 days
           after screening.

        -  Prior to randomization, eligibility will be reassessed and blood drawn for central lab
           HbA1c

        -  BP study start/UC study start on day of Randomization Visit

        -  Phone contacts after 1-2 days and 7 (±2) days

        -  Visits at 2 weeks (±4 days), 6 weeks (±4 days), 10 weeks (±4 days), and ~13 weeks (91-98
           days from randomization):

             -  Participants in the UC Group will wear a blinded Dexcom G6 sensor throughout the
                entire study unless they are current users of the Dexcom G6 CGM, in which case they
                will continue to use their own Dexcom G6 CGM.

             -  At the 6-week and 13-week visits, central lab HbA1c determination and psychosocial
                questionnaires UC Group Extension Phase Visit and Phone Contact Schedule

        -  BP initiation at 13-week visit

        -  Phone contacts after 13 weeks plus 1-2 days and 14 weeks (±2 days)

        -  Visits at 15 weeks (± 4 days), 19 (±4 days), 23 (±4 days), and ~26 weeks (182-189 days):

           o At the 19-week and 26-week visits, central lab HbA1c determination and psychosocial
           questionnaires Transition Phase Visit Schedule

        -  Randomization and transition to UC regimen at 13-week visit for BP Group and 26-week
           visit for Usual Care Group, for a period of 2-4 days in duration.

        -  Visit ≤4 days later for end of study
    
  