
    
      Who is in the cohort? In June 1990, a questionnaire was sent to 500 000 women who had been
      born between 1925 and 1950 and were insured by the Mutuelle Générale de l'Education Nationale
      (MGEN), a national health insurance plan that primarily covers teachers. The questionnaire
      was sent along with a leaflet explaining that an Inserm research team was launching a study
      of cancer risk factors and that participation would require filling in questionnaires every
      2-3 years as well as the submission of a signed consent form providing permission to obtain
      information about each participant's vital status, address changes and medical expense
      reimbursements from the insurance plan. Nearly 100 000 women volunteered.

      How often have they been followed-up? Until now, nine follow-up questionnaires have been sent
      every 2-3 years from the baseline. Approximately half of the answers were obtained after the
      first mailing. Two reminders were sent thereafter. The questionnaires were accompanied with
      newsletters that informed participants about the major results obtained to date. The
      participation rate remained high (77-92% according to the questionnaires) and the lost to
      follow-up rate was minimal because of the ability to trace non-respondents through their
      insurance plan files. The questionnaires were accurately filled in, with few missing or
      unacceptable answers.

      What has been measured? To date, 11 self-administered questionnaires have been sent. The
      collected data are sociodemographic factors, anthropometric measurements, reproductive
      factors, hormonal treatments, health behaviour and lifestyle. Each follow-up questionnaire
      also recorded the participant's health status. The questionnaires are available at www.e3n.fr
      .

      The questionnaires are anonymous and identified with an identification number and pin code
      that can be rapidly scanned to identify the respondents. The questionnaires are optically
      scanned and all answers are checked on screen. The scanned images are saved to allow data
      entry at a later time, including information regarding the addresses of medical doctors (18
      000 to date) or drug names (pre-listed to avoid errors). The longitudinal data (repeats of
      identical questions for the purpose of updating information about topics such as menopause or
      smoking) are routinely homogenized. Several validation studies (e.g. dietary and
      anthropometrical data studies) have been performed and have revealed very satisfactory
      results.

      Self-reported cases of cancer are validated and coded after reviewing the pathology reports
      obtained from medical practitioners, and nearly 90% of all cancer cases are histologically
      confirmed. Other diseases are also validated (e.g. diabetes, myocardial infarction, stroke,
      Parkinson disease) by requesting additional information about the participants (e.g.
      glycosylated haemoglobin levels, fracture-related circumstances, drug names) and sending
      questionnaires to medical doctors.

      Additionally, a biological material bank was generated. Blood samples were initially
      collected from 1994-99. The participation rate among the invited participants was
      approximately 40%; this yielded approximately 25 000 blood samples that were each separated
      into 28 aliquots (e.g. plasma, serum, leukocytes, erythrocytes). Plastic straws were used to
      store each participant's samples in liquid nitrogen containers. The bio-repositories are
      located at the IARC (Lyon) and the EFS (Etablissement Français du Sang, Annemasse). Since
      2004, approximately 10 case-control studies have been conducted (approximately 1 800 cases
      and 3 500 controls) with regard to the measurements of various biomarkers (e.g. fatty acids,
      calcium, vitamin D, vitamin B, cholesterol and C-reactive protein). A metabolomics study is
      currently ongoing.

      From 2009-11, saliva samples (Oragene, DNA Genotek, Kanata, ON, Canada) were requested from
      68 242 living women and were obtained from 47 000 women (participation rate, 69%). Salivary
      DNA has been extracted and has been used for genotyping in two case-control studies
      (approximately 2 500 cases and 850 controls) since December 2010.

      The research team is currently planning to set up a tumour tissue bank and will begin with
      the collection of breast cancer tissues.

      What has it found? The E3N cohort has produced a spectrum of results regarding the complex
      roles played by nutrition, hormonal factors, physical activity, anthropometric
      characteristics and other major lifestyle-related factors with respect to various diseases.
    
  