
    
      Dental caries is the most globally prevalent disease that affects thousands of adults and
      children. Caries is a biofilm-mediated, sugar-driven, multifactorial, and dynamic disease
      that results from the imbalance between demineralization and remineralization of the dental
      hard tissues. Preventing the onset of the disease should be the primary goal; however, once
      the disease is present efforts should be made by both patient and clinician to successfully
      reestablish the mineralization balance by the use of preventive and/or minimally-invasive
      methods when possible. The sodium fluoride (5% NaF) varnish is one of the most common
      therapies used as a non-invasive approach for caries prevention and remineralization; and,
      the resin infiltration materials are indicated for the minimal intervention of non-cavitated
      occlusal and proximal caries. The minimal intervention has been considered the new concept of
      caries management. Although several studies discussing minimal intervention or
      non-intervention are available, there is a lack of published randomized controlled trials
      (RCTs) providing data about the use of non-invasive therapies on incipient lesions, and its
      correlation with the patient's caries risk. The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy
      non-invasive and minimally-invasive therapies on the progression of the caries lesions
      considering the patient's caries risk.

      This study will be conducted in the province of Ontario, Canada. A total of thirty patients
      (15 to 50 years old), who present with a minimum of two incipient proximal carious lesions on
      the proximal surfaces of posterior teeth (non-cavitated lesions identified as small, faint
      radiolucent areas seen on the intra-oral radiographs) will be asked to participate in this
      study. The radiologic assessment of incipient lesions will be performed by a dental
      radiologist, blinded to the selected treatment groups, by comparison of the radiographs
      imaging over time.
    
  