
    
      To participate in this transplant, the patient will need to have a central line.

      Before the transplant we will test the blood for viruses which can cause problems after the
      transplant. These viruses include Hepatitis B, cytomegalovirus and HIV. If the patient is
      positive for the AIDS virus, they will not be able to undertake the transplant.

      Standard therapy: The patient will be given 6 doses of chemotherapy with a drug called Ara C
      in high doses (every 12 hours) which will begin 8 days before the stem cell transplant. Then,
      another chemotherapy drug called cyclophosphamide will be given in high doses by vein for two
      days on the 7th and 6th days before the transplant. A drug called MESNA will be given with
      cyclophosphamide. MESNA is used to decrease the side effects caused by cyclophosphamide. The
      patient will also receive an antibody called Campath (each day for 4 days before the
      transplant) to help destroy the immune system so that there is less host resistance to the
      growth of the donor cells. Radiation treatment will be given to the entire body on each day
      for 4 days before transplant. This will be given 2 times a day for 4 days. The chemotherapy
      and radiation treatment will last 8 days. If the patient has a diagnosis of T-cell Lymphoma,
      they will not be given the Ara-C.

      Extra bone marrow tests may be recommended by the physician to check on the patients
      condition, especially if the marrow is slow to grow.

      The day after the radiation treatment is completed; the patient will receive the healthy stem
      cells by vein. Once in the bloodstream, these stem cells will go to the bone marrow and
      should begin to grow.

      In prevention of GvHD, the patient will also receive medicine called FK506 as well as low
      dose methotrexate. The FK506 will be given intravenously initially starting 2 days before the
      transplant and later by mouth (when they are able to take oral medications). This drug will
      be given each day for several weeks. Four doses of low dose methotrexate will be given
      intravenously. The methotrexate will be given on the day after the transplant, 3, 6 and 11
      days after the transplant. If the GVHD cannot be controlled with FK506, other medicines may
      need to be given. The doctor will describe these medicines at that time.

      Blood samples for research: To study how these cells are working in the patients system,
      blood samples will be taken each month for six months, at nine months, at one year, 2 years
      and 3 years following transplant. Approximately 6-8 teaspoons of blood will be collected each
      time. The total blood drawn for this study over three years should not exceed 1 and 3/4 cups.
      This amount is considered safe in adults. The amount of blood collected will be decreased in
      children and/or in patients where this amount of blood collection would not be appropriate.
    
  