
    
      Background: Hospital readmission rates are a key issue in health policy as they place a large
      burden on the healthcare system. Readmissions are a preventable source of health care
      expenditure and in some cases, represent an opportunity for quality improvement. Lack of
      standardization in hospital discharge processes, and deficiencies in the transition of care
      after discharge, predispose patients to an increased risk of illness, hospital utilization
      and healthcare costs. Previously identified issues in discharge planning include timely
      transmission of discharge summaries to primary care providers and lack of communication
      between providers and patients with respect to discharge medications and follow-up
      appointments.

      Rationale: Various post-discharge interventions have been effective in reducing hospital
      readmission rates and increasing patient satisfaction. However, in patients with flares of
      Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD), there is limited evidence to suggest which processes of
      care are protective against readmissions. IBD patients are frequently hospitalized, with over
      22% of patients hospitalized within the first 2 years of diagnosis. Moreover, readmission
      rates are high in the IBD population, with over 20% of patients readmitted within the same
      calendar year of their initial hospitalization. Alongside increased healthcare expenditure,
      hospitalizations in the IBD population are associated with a number of nosocomial
      complications including venous thromboembolism and infection.

      Specific Aim: The primary aim of this study is to determine whether standardized IBD
      post-discharge pathway, involving regular follow-up with an advanced practice nurse and
      electronic monitoring through a web-based application, decreases the risk of IBD readmissions
      when compared to the usual standard of care.

      Study Design: All IBD inpatients with a diagnosis of Ulcerative Colitis (UC) or Crohn's
      Disease (CD) will be approached to participate in this parallel group randomized control
      trial. Patients randomized to the control arm will be discharged with the usual
      post-discharge standard of care. Patients randomized to the intervention arm will receive the
      usual post-discharge standard of care, in addition to organised follow-up with an advance
      practice nurse and electronic monitoring through a web-based application.
    
  