
    
      The hypothesis in this study are:

        1. Perioperative ONS decreases surgery related morbidity

        2. Perioperative ONS increases the quality of life after surgery

        3. Perioperative ONS decreases the length of stay in institutional care

        4. Perioperative ONS decreases 90-day mortality and improve 5-year survival

        5. Perioperative ONS benefits the patients to tolerate the adjuvant chemotherapy with less
           side effects

        6. Perioperative ONS protects patients from postoperative nutritional depletion

      Primary end point is to investigate whether the preoperative oral nutritional support
      decreases the number of complications during the 30-day follow up after the surgery.
      Secondary end points are to study the effect of oral nutritional support on quality of life
      after surgery, length of hospital stay, disease free and overall survival.

      Randomization:

      Patients having a surgery for adenocarcinoma of the colon are randomized on their
      preoperative visit in the outpatient clinic about 2-3 weeks prior to surgery.

      The patients are randomized in two different groups according to NRS-2002 results. Both
      groups contain equal number of patients with normally nourished patients (NRS-2002 1-2) and
      malnourished patients by NRS 3 or more. NRS >5 patients are excluded (nutritional support is
      recommended before the surgery). The control group (group 1) will continue their regular
      diet. The study group (group 2) will get preoperative nutritional support two weeks before
      the operation and the nutritional support will continue 10 days after the operation. The
      control group will continue their regular diet after the operation.

      Thus the randomization groups will be (total number of patients 318):

        1. no oral nutritional support (control group) n=159

        2. pre and postoperative oral nutritional support (intervention group) n=159

      Preoperative assessment and data-collection:

      All patients attending this study have a visit in the out-patient clinic 2-3 weeks prior the
      surgery. The height and weight are measured at the baseline. 3 and 6 months previous weights
      recalled by patient. ASA (The American Society of Anesthesiologists) classification is
      estimated by anesthesiologist. Whole body computer tomography is done to assess the
      possibility of metastases or locally spread cancer. Laboratory markers including total blood
      count, CRP (C-reactive protein) , creatinine, sodium, potassium, albumin, prealbumin, HbA1c,
      CEA (Carcinoembryonic antigen), transferrin and lipids (LDL, HDL, triglycerides)
      concentration are measured. History of smoking, alcohol consumption and other diseases and
      medications are recorded. NRS-2002 questionnaire is filled, as well as QoL- questionnaire and
      exercise questionnaire. Bioelectrical impedance analysis (InBody) and handgrip strength are
      measured.

      Laboratory parameters, as described above, are measured at the time of randomization, at
      admission to hospital on the morning of surgery, leaving the hospital and about 1 and 3
      months and 1,2 and 5 years after surgery. BMI, hand grip strength, bioelectrical impedance
      analysis are collected and the patients fill the QoL-questionnaire and exercise questionnaire
      at the same time points. The side effects of chemotherapy are monitored, as well as
      discontinuation of chemotherapy. Complication form will be filled when necessary.

      Follow- up:

      Follow-up will be same as other colon cancer patients. The follow.up will continue 5 years
      and the only difference is 3 month phone call. Patients will also fill exercise and quality
      of life forms and bioimpedance and handgrip strength will be measured.

      First follow up visit after the surgery is at the outpatient clinic 1 month after the
      surgery. At that time patient is interviewed about recovery from surgery, patients who went
      to health care center to recover from surgery are asked about the length of stay and possible
      complications after leaving the hospital. The patients´ fill the 4-day food diary, exercise
      questionnaire and QoL questionnaire (RAND-36). The blood samples are taken. Bioelectrical
      impedance analysis and handgrip strength are measured as well.

      Second follow up at 3 months after the surgery is by phone. Then the recovery from surgery is
      checked, as well as patients are asked to keep 4-day food diary. The blood samples are
      collected. Patients fill quality of life and exercise questionnaire.

      Patients have CEA, hemoglobin, leucocyte count and thrombocyte count measured every 3 months
      until 2 years, and every 6 months until 5 months on a routine basis. Whole body CT scan is
      done in a year after the surgery. There are also follow up CT scans at the oncology clinic on
      patients who receive adjuvant therapy. They will be utilized for analysis on recovery from
      the sarcopenia and its effect on survival and toxicity of chemotherapy. There are routine
      hospital visits 1,2 and 5 years after the surgery. Laboratory parameters, BMI, bioelectrical
      impedance analysis and handgrip strength are measures at each visit. The patients fill the
      QoL questionnaire and exercise questionnaire also at each time points. charlson comorbidity
      index and who classification are also marked.
    
  