
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess the dose-limiting toxicities and safety of vorinostat and lenalidomide after
           autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in patients with multiple myeloma.

        -  To evaluate the overall response rate to the combination of Vorinostat (SAHA) and
           lenalidomide.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the effect of this treatment regimen on natural killer cell activity and
           regulatory T cells in the post-transplant period.

        -  To determine preliminary clinical activity of this treatment regimen by assessing
           overall survival and progression-free survival of these patients.

        -  To obtain pilot data regarding an association between this treatment regimen and patient
           quality of life and circulating inflammatory cytokines.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of vorinostat.

      Patients receive oral vorinostat alone once daily on days 1-21 in course 1. For the second
      and subsequent courses, patients receive oral vorinostat in combination with oral
      lenalidomide once daily on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo blood sample collection periodically for correlative laboratory studies.
      Studies include functional immune assays (T-cell and natural killer cell activity and
      regulatory T-cell recovery) by fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS) or ELISPOT;
      analysis of inflammatory markers (cytokines and catecholamines); and analysis of global H3
      and H4 acetylation by immunohistochemistry.

      Quality of life is assessed periodically using the Brief Pain Inventory (Short Form), The
      Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D-10), a 9-item Brief Fatigue
      Inventory, and the FACT-G questionnaires.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for at least 30 days.
    
  