
    
      This study is comparative clinical trial carried out in the period between February 2015 and
      August 2019 on 74 female patients with early breast cancer. All patients were informed and
      signed a written consent. The study was approved from institutional review board (IRB) and
      ethical committee of our university.

      Patient selection Patients included in the study are female patients above 18 years old,
      known breast cancer with clinically negative nodal metastasis who were admitted for
      completion ALND, after positive sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB).

      Patients excluded from the study are those who had received chemotherapy for breast cancer,
      recurrent cases after conservative breast surgery, bilateral disease and pregnant cases.

      Patients were randomly divided into two equal groups each 37 patients, group A; (ARM
      preserving ALND), where arm lymphatics and lymph nodes were identified and preserved,
      subsequently ALND was completed, group B; where arm lymphatics and lymph nodes were
      identified, marked and removed with ALND.

      Technical procedures:

      Axillary reverse mapping (ARM) procedure; one to two ml of methylene blue dye was
      subcutaneously injected in the upper medial arm in the groove between biceps muscle and
      triceps muscle then subsequently the area of injection was massaged for 5 minutes. During
      axillary dissection the (ARM) positive lymphatics and lymph nodes were identified and
      carefully dissected as the lymphatic vessels are very delicate, in group A the (ARM) positive
      lymphatics and lymph nodes were preserved and axillary clearance was completed, in group B
      (ARM) positive lymphatics and lymph nodes were identified, dissected, marked and taken out
      with ALND. The procedures were carried out with oncological surgeons familial with ALND. The
      limits of axillary dissection was axillary vein from above, lateral border subscapularis
      muscle laterally and medial border of pectoralis minor medially, long thoracic and lateral
      thoracic nerves were preserved intercostobrachial nerve wasn't preserved in all cases.

      Data collection

        -  Preoperative data including demographic criteria, histopathological findings of breast
           biopsy and SLNB, preoperative measurement of arm volume by water displacement,
           circumferential measurement of the arm at the metacarpopharyngeal level, wrist level, 10
           cm and 15 cm distal and proximal to the lateral epicondyle respectively.

        -  State of ARM positive or negative

        -  Follow up was carried out on outpatient clinic basis, monthly in the first 6 months then
           every 3 months for 2 years for data collection and later dates for regular follow up.
           Data was recorded including ARM histopathology (considered as the primary outcome),
           development of lymphedema defined as increase in arm volume by 10 % of the original
           size, tingling, numbness, paraesthesia and restricted shoulder movement were considered
           secondary outcome. Shoulder movement restriction was calculated by decrease of abduction
           by 10 degrees in comparison to the contralateral arm, development of local axillary
           recurrences, arm volume was measured at 6,12 and 24 months by water displacement method.

      The collected data was properly analyzed using the proper statistical methods in SPSS 21
      package.
    
  