
    
      Background:

      Currently, guidelines and clinical practice differ considerably with respect to use of
      anticoagulant treatment after arthroscopy of the knee. Trials that have been carried out were
      aimed at efficacy only, had small sample sizes and therefore mainly used asymptomatic
      thrombosis as endpoint. From these trials an overall risk benefit-balance could not be
      established, hence the current controversy exists. In the proposed study we will use relevant
      symptomatic endpoints in a large cohort of patients. Furthermore we will follow subjects with
      an adverse event for a longer period, during which we will assess the long term sequelae of
      these events. Lastly, we will determine high risk groups that will benefit most from
      anticoagulant treatment.

      Objective:

      Comparative effectiveness research to determine cost-effectiveness of an existing healthcare
      policy, i.e. treatment with low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) after arthroscopy of the
      knee. In addition we will investigate personalized prophylaxis based on genetic and acquired
      risk factors.

      Study Design:

      A randomized controlled trial comparing a policy with the anticoagulant LMWH to a policy with
      no anticoagulant in patients who underwent knee arthroscopy.

      Determination of genetic and acquired risk factors will be performed at the start of the
      study. Based on the presence or absence of these factors we will assign a risk profile to
      each patient

      Study Population:

      The study population will consist of 1500 patients undergoing knee arthroscopy. These
      patients will be recruited from 6 hospitals in the Leiden/Den Haag region over a two-year
      inclusion period. All patients over 18 years will be eligible, except patients with a
      contra-indication or an absolute indication for LMWH use

      Intervention:

      LMWH (for example nadroparin 2850 IE s.c. once daily, > 100kg 5700IE sc) for 8 days vs no
      treatment.

      Each hospital will use a LMWH according to their own preference.

      Blood taken pre- and post-operatively will be analyzed on common single nucleotide
      polymorphisms (SNPs) known to strongly affect thrombotic risk; on levels of coagulation
      factors in plasma (of which high or low levels are known to increase the risk). Patients will
      also be screened on acquired risk factors for thrombosis through a questionnaire.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      We will compare two standard treatment modes that are currently both used depending on the
      physician's or hospital's preference. The patients in our trial will be subjected to one of
      these standard treatments. It is therefore not expected that participation will lead to an
      increased health risk. LMWHs like Nadroparin and Dalteparin are no experimental
      pharmaceuticals; both have been registered in the Netherlands for these indications since
      1989.

      Not participating in the trial may, depending on the physician, still lead to treatment with
      an LMWH.

      All patients will need to undergo two venepunctures for blood sampling for the study. These
      blood samples will be taken pre-operatively and post-operatively. No extra hospital visits
      are required. Patients will be contacted by an electronic questionnaire 2 weeks and 6 weeks
      after the arthroscopy of the knee and by telephone after three months.

      One questionnaire concerning risk factors for thrombosis, bleeding and patients demographics
      will be filled in before arthroscopy of the knee.

      Only subjects with clinically relevant adverse events (and a similar random sample of
      subjects without a clinically relevant adverse event) will be monitored for a two year period
      after the event (in total expected to be about 30 subjects). After six months, one year and
      two years after the event, patients will be seen for clinical examination and quality of life
      assessment by means of a questionnaire.
    
  