
    
      A limited-center, open-label dose escalating phase I/IIa study of autologous T cells
      expressing LVgp120duoCAR molecules will be performed. Participants will be enrolled
      sequentially in up to three cohorts following a 3+3 design. Dose escalation decisions will be
      made when a minimum of three participants have completed the safety-evaluation period (45
      days) at a given dose level. No dose escalation will be allowed in an individual participant,
      and participants who have dose limiting adverse events will reinstate ART therapy at first
      available opportunity.

      Following a 3+3 design, each cohort will enroll at least 3 participants. If there are no
      safety issues with dosing in a cohort, the investigators will proceed to the following
      cohort. If one participant in a cohort experiences a safety issue, an additional 3
      individuals will be enrolled in that cohort to assess safety prior to proceeding to the next
      cohort. See below for Dose Escalation Procedures.

      The first 3 participants start at Cohort 1. Data from Cohort 1 will be submitted for FDA
      review prior to dosing Cohorts 2 and 3 to determine if cyclophosphamide conditioning is
      needed.

      Cohort 1: Participants will NOT undergo non-ablative conditioning with cyclophosphamide. A
      single dose of 3 x 105 cells/kg LVgp120duoCAR-T cells will be infused. ART will be
      interrupted immediately after infusion.

      Cohort 2: Participants will undergo non-ablative conditioning with cyclophosphamide. A single
      dose of 3 x 105 cells/kg LVgp120duoCAR-T cells will be infused. ART will be interrupted
      immediately after infusion.

      Cohort 3: Participants will undergo non-ablative conditioning with cyclophosphamide. A single
      dose of 1 x 106 cells/kg LVgp120duoCAR-T cells will be infused into the participant. ART will
      be interrupted immediately after infusion.

      Dose Escalation Procedures:

        1. If, after 45 days of study treatment, no participant out of the initial 3 in a cohort
           exhibits a study treatment-related DLT, then the next cohort of participants will be
           treated at the subsequent cohort.

        2. If, after 45 days of study treatment, 1 participant out of the initial 3 in a cohort
           exhibits a study treatment-related DLT, then up to 3 additional participants will be
           added at that dose level.

        3. If no additional participant develops a study treatment-related DLT (i.e., 1/6
           participants with DLT at that dose level), then the next cohort of participants will be
           treated at the next higher dose level.

        4. However, if a second participant develops a study treatment-related DLT, even if it is
           before there are 6 total participants on that level, then the maximum tolerated dose
           (MTD) has been exceeded and no additional participants should be added to this or any
           higher doses. A total of 6 participants should then be treated on the next lowest dose
           level to ensure its tolerability and to better define the MTD. Thus, the MTD is defined
           as the highest assigned dose level at which < 2/6 participants have a DLT.

        5. If 2 participants in Cohort 1 experience a related DLT, the MTD will have been exceeded
           and no additional participants will be added at any higher level.

        6. If the investigators experience DLTs in Cohort 1, the investigators will de-escalate the
           dose to 1 x 10^5 cells per kg. If the investigators experience DLTs at the de-escalated
           dose of 1 x 10^5 cells per kg, the study will stop.
    
  