
    
      -  The research subjects selected for this trial will patients among those who have given
           their approval to participate in the trial and who are first starting their treatment or
           who intend to alter their medication because treatment with the existing drugs has
           failed who satisfy the criteria.

        -  Patients with a '7.5% ≤ HbA1c ≤ 10%' in the HbA1c test will be chosen.

        -  Patients who are intending to change drugs due to the failure of an existing drug
           treatment must have the use of 1,000 mg or the maximum tolerance dose (MTD) of metformin
           recorded in his or her medical records.

        -  The investigators must confirm the patient's intention to participate in the trial and,
           starting at the point of the routine laboratory test results, must provide a sufficient
           explanation of this research to the patients who satisfy the criteria and then must
           acquire a research subject consent form from these patients. The consent forms must
           include the trial objectives, the benefits for participants, the risk factors, a
           confidentiality agreement, the right to withdraw consent, and contact information. The
           patients must sign the consent forms.

             -  The change in the level of HbAc1 will be compared among the 3 treatment groups -
                the glimepiride monotherapy treatment group, the alogliptin monotherapy treatment
                group, and the alogliptin - pioglitazone combination therapy treatment group -
                until the 24th week after the Baseline is taken.

             -  CGMS will be checked to investigate changes in blood glucose.

             -  Glimepiride's nonproprietary name is glimepiride; this drug is a snowman shaped
                tablet. Starting with a 1 mg dosage once a day before the first meal, the
                investigators will decide to increase the dosage to a maximum of 2 mg in the Week
                4.

             -  Dosage adjustment will be conducted for participants proven to have persistent
                hyperglycemia (in the opinion of the investigator).

      Week 4 Week 12 Alogliptin 25mg Dosage adjustment is not allowed Dosage adjustment is not
      allowed Glimepiride1mg 2mg Dosage adjustment is not allowed Alogliptin 25mg

      +Pioglitazone 15mg Dosage adjustment is not allowed Dosage adjustment is not allowed

        -  Alogliptin's nonproprietary name is alogliptin benzoate and is an oval-shaped yellow
           tablet. A 25 mg dose of this medication is administered once a day and is taken with
           food or on an empty stomach.

        -  The pioglitazone used by the alogliptin - pioglitazone combination therapy treatment
           group is pioglitazone hydrochloride and is a grey circular tablet. A 15 mg dose of this
           medication is administered once a day and is taken with food or on an empty stomach.

        -  The subjects will test the HbA1c level in Week 12 and Week 24 and will check CGMS at the
           Baseline and in Week 24.

        -  General characteristics (bodyweight and BMI), vital signs, and laboratory tests will be
           conducted in Week 4, Week 12, and Week 24.

        -  MAGE will be measured using CGMS (continuous glucose monitoring system) for 3 days (72
           hours). Education regarding eating, CGMS usage, notices, and correction will be given.

        -  A follow-up safety survey will be conducted 30 days after the last visit.

        -  Subjects will be enrolled in the trial for 6 months and following this a follow-up
           survey will be conducted.

        -  Approximately 12 months will be required for the total trial period based on the last
           patient (6 months) to have their Baseline enrollment conducted.

        -  Patients will be asked to come to the clinical research institution after Week 4, Week
           12, and Week 24 (for Week 12 and Week 24, a period of ±7 days is permitted) after the
           Baseline (or the first) visit. In addition, patients will be requested to take a call 30
           days after their last visit for the safety follow-up survey.

        -  Subjects with a drug compliance of less than 80% will be eliminated.

        -  Subjects with an HbA1c level of more than 9.0% in Week 12 will be eliminated. Subjects
           who sign the trial subject consent form and participate in the trial but do not finish
           will be eliminated. The elimination of a subject can be determined at any time during
           the trial. Withdrawal of consent by the subject will also be considered as an
           elimination and the reason for the withdrawal of consent must be clearly recorded.
           Furthermore, if an adverse event and/or a serious adverse event occurs during the trial,
           the corresponding subject will be immediately eliminated from the trial.
    
  