
    
      Preoperative procedures A preoperative radiograph was performed for all patients for
      diagnosis and treatment planning purposes. Non-surgical periodontal treatment was done as
      needed. Impressions were taken and casted in stone for the fabrication of the surgical
      templates.

      Surgical protocol As dictated by the randomization patients were assigned to either Buser's
      technique or to the VST. In the VST group, atraumatic tooth extraction was carried out using
      periotomes (Stoma, Storz am Mark GmbH, Emmingen-Liptingen Germany) under local anaesthesia
      (ARTINIBSA 4% 1:100.000. Inibsa Dental S.L.U. Barcelona, SPAIN). After that, the socket was
      thoroughly curetted and debrided and repeatedly irrigated with 100 ml of anti-anaerobic
      infusion solution of 500 mg Metronidazole (Minapharm pharmaceuticals, Egypt). The root was
      then trimmed to half-length, its surface cleansed with an ultrasonic cleaner and reinserted
      into the socket with its crown bonded to adjacent teeth . After six days, the root was
      removed and VST protocol was implemented.

      Vestibular socket therapy (VST) included the following steps. a-traumatic tooth extraction,
      the socket curetted and rinsed with normal saline thoroughly. One-cm long vestibular access
      incision was made using a 15c blade (Stoma, Storz am Mark GmbH, Emmingen-Liptingen Germany)
      3-4 mm apical to the mucogingival junction at the related socket . A subperiosteal tunnel was
      created connecting the socket orifice and the vestibular access incision using periotomes and
      micro periosteal elevators (Stoma, Storz am Mark GmbH, Emmingen-Liptingen Germany). Implant
      fixture (Biohorizons, Birmingham, Al, USA) were then inserted after drilling to its
      pre-planned location 3-4 mm apical to socket base with adequate primary stability achieved
      using a torque wrench reaching 30 Ncm torque . A flexible cortical membrane shield that is
      made of cortical bone of heterologous origin of 0.6 mm thickness (OsteoBiol® Lamina ,
      Tecnoss®, Torino, Italy) was hydrated and then trimmed and introduced from the vestibular
      access incision reaching 1 mm below the socket orifice through the tunnel then stabilized
      using a membrane tack or a micro screw to the alveolar bone apical to the base of the socket
      (AutoTac System Kit, Biohorizons Implant Systems, Birmingham , Alabama Inc, USA) . The socket
      gap between the implant and the shield was then packed thoroughly with particulate bone graft
      (75% autogenous bone chips and 25% deproteinized bovine bone mineral (DBBM) of equine origin,
      fully enzyme deantigenised (Bio-Gen Mix, Bioteck, Vicenza -Italy).

      In Buser's group early implant placement, the failing tooth was extracted atraumatically
      using a periotome. A collagen plug was placed to stabilize the wound clot. A healing period
      of 8-12 weeks (depending on the size of the extracted tooth) was followed. Then an open flap
      implant surgery using a triangular flap design was cut. A slightly palatal incision in the
      edentulous area is done, with the incision made along the inner surface of the palatal bone
      wall deep into the socket allowing the entire regenerated soft tissue to be part of the
      buccal flap. After preparing the implant bed, the site was irrigated using normal saline.
      Implant was then placed under the crest of the palatal bone. A healing abutment was then
      attached. Contour augmentation was done using autogenous bone chips mixed with saline and
      bone conditioned medium (BCM) added to bioss bone granules to activate it. The bone graft was
      placed in a layered manner, where the cortical bone chips were placed first followed by the
      bio-oss activated mix. A non-cross liked membrane was then placed, after being soaked with
      BCM. Finally, the healing abutment was removed and the flap was released to allow for its
      suturing.
    
  