
    
      If the participant is eligible to take part in this study, the participant will have surgery
      to place a catheter into the Ommaya reservoir. The Ommaya reservoir is a catheter system that
      allows drugs to be administered directly to parts of the brain. This catheter will be used
      for the infusion of methotrexate and etoposide directly into the 4th ventricle of the brain,
      which is 1 of the 4 connected fluid-filled cavities in the brain.

      If the study doctor thinks it is necessary, based on the location of the tumor, the tumor may
      also be removed while the participant is already under anesthesia just before the catheter is
      placed.

      Study Drug Administration:

      The participant will receive twice weekly 4 mg intraventricular methotrexate infusions for
      six consecutive weeks and daily 1 mg intraventricular etoposide infusion five times per week,
      every 2 weeks. Etoposide will be administered on weeks 1, 3, and 5.

      Methotrexate and Etoposide will be infused though the ommaya reservoir catheter directly into
      the 4th ventricle of the brain starting at a minimum of 7 days after the catheter placement
      surgery. A MRI will be done to confirm adequate cerebrospinal fluid flow. The etoposide
      infusion will last 3-4 minutes and the methotrexate infusion will last 3 minutes.

      If the participant already has an Ommaya catheter, methotrexate and etoposide will begin
      after an MRI has confirmed adequate cerebrospinal fluid flow.

      Study Visits:

      Prior to first infusion:

      Medical history will be reviewed and any updates to health will be recorded. Physical and
      Neurological exam with vital signs will be done. Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for
      routine test. A lumbar puncture will be done. A MRI scan of the brain and spine will be done
      to check the status of the disease.

      On the days of the Methotrexate and Etoposide Infusion:

      A neurological exam with vital signs will be done. A Ommaya reservoir tap (a catheter is
      placed into the Ommaya reservoir to give the methotrexate and etoposide infusion.

      Cerebrospinal fluid (about 1 teaspoon) will be collected for routine tests.

      Within 7 days of completing the Final infusion:

      A neurological exam with vital signs will be done. A lumbar puncture and lab work will be
      done. A MRI scan of the brain and spine will be done to check status of the disease.

      Length of Study:

      The participant will receive 12 infusions of Methotrexate 4 mg and 15 infusions of Etoposide
      1 mg, as long as the doctor thinks it is in their best interest. The participant will no
      longer be able to receive the study drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side
      effects occur, or if unable to follow study directions.

      This is an investigation study. Methotrexate is FDA approved and commercially available for
      infusion directly into brain tumors. The infusion of methotrexate into the 4th ventricle of
      the brain in investigational. Etoposide is FDA approved and commercially available to be
      given by mouth or into the bloodstream (intravenously) but has never been given in the 4th
      ventricle of the brain. The infusion of methotrexate and etoposide into the 4th ventricle of
      the brain is investigational.

      Up to 10 patients will be enrolled in this study. All will be enrolled at Children's Memorial
      Hermann Hospital.
    
  