
    
      In order to evaluate the impact of the new SARS-CoV-2 this study analyzes the clinical
      outcomes of patients with a confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection using a systems approach. The
      objective is to integrate various datasets covering clinical and non-clinical variables.
      Beside host factors such as age, gender, comorbidities and treatments, microbiological
      factors, such as SARS-CoV-2 viral loads using a (semi)-quantitative nucleic acid test (QNAT),
      genome sequences, and virus-specific immune responses are included. In addition,
      epidemiological aspects within the city, such as case numbers in specific areas and resulting
      saturation of the healthcare system (e.g. patients being hospitalized, and ICU occupancy),
      will be analyzed. Further epidemiological data will be generated from biological measurements
      from all available serum and respiratory samples (leftover material) collected from February
      2020 to November 2021 over two seasons as it is likely that a second wave will be circulating
      in the following winter 2020/2021.

      In this project, three retrospective studies will be conducted:

      Study A: retrospective observational case-control study to predict the clinical outcomes and
      features of SARS-CoV-2 infection. The clinical outcomes of SARSCoV-2 infected patients
      (cases) and non-SARS-CoV-2 infected patients with or without other respiratory viruses
      (control) will be explored.

      Study B: retrospective observational epidemiological surveillance study to describe the
      epidemiology of the SARS-CoV-2 outbreak; description of the epidemiological spread of the new
      SARS-CoV-2 virus in people living in Basel.

      Study C: retrospective observational viral evolution study whereby respiratory materials and
      matching blood and tissue materials will be used to perform whole genome sequencing to study
      pathogen evolution between hosts as well as in-host evolution. No additional material will be
      collected. Virus genomes obtained during the expanding, peak, and contracting phase of the
      pandemic will be compared to identify predictors of viral evolution, viral loads, majority
      species, immune escape variants, and the implications for clinical outcome, diagnostic
      detection, treatment, and vaccine design. Correlating specifically the occurrence and rate
      and variants of SARS-CoV-2 re-infections in city blocks of high activity and exposure risk
      will be of interest.

      Study D: retrospective observational treatment outcome study whereby clinical outcome,
      laboratory, radiological, pulmonary function and virological data as well as data on immune
      responses will be used to study safety and efficacy of different treatment modalities. All
      data and material will be collected on a routine basis during hospitalization and in the
      outpatient setting to assess the safety and effect of different treatment modalities on
      outcome.
    
  