
    
      Study goals include confirming inflammation mediators are biomarkers of both systemic
      diabetes and DR progression in the aqueous. Like the vitreous humor, the aqueous reflects
      localized ocular inflammation, however, is technically easier to collect with less risk. The
      investigators will also determine the long-term effects of sustained ketorolac application on
      intraocular cytokine levels, DR progression, and diabetic macular edema (DME) incidence. The
      proposal is the first to use a cornea-permeable Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID)
      for the treatment of DR.

      It is believed local inflammation control in the eye will transform future treatment options
      for diabetic patients facing blindness. Tracking and inhibiting local inflammatory mediators
      through all DR stages has the capacity to reduce or prevent disability in millions of
      patients per year.

      164 adult type II diabetic mellitus (T2DM) patients, aged 18 years or greater will be
      enrolled to measure aqueous PGE2 and inflammatory cytokines. Because the pathophysiology of
      type I disease and the population it effects are different, type I diabetic patients will be
      excluded. Diabetic retinopathy is broadly categorized as nonproliferative (NPDR) and
      proliferative (PDR). The international Clinical Disease Severity Scale is a standard
      classification system consisting of two categories and five stages: the nonproliferative
      category, stage 1-4 and proliferative category, stage 5. Stage 1 is characterized as "no
      apparent retinopathy." The nonproliferative stage is further grouped into stage 2 (mild),
      stage 3 (moderate), and stage 4 (severe). Stage 5 is final stage, PDR.

      Of the 164 patients enrolled for aqueous PGE2 and inflammatory cytokine measurements, the
      diabetic participants corresponding to stages 1, 3, and 5 will be classified as patients with
      no DR (23 patients), with PDR (23 patients), and with moderate NPDR (118 patients). The 118
      participants with moderate NPDR will be randomized for Aim 2 described below.

      In addition, 100 age-matched patients without diabetes who are undergoing unilateral
      vitrectomy surgery for non-inflammatory conditions such as epiretinal membrane or macular
      hole will be enrolled as controls.

      Aim 1 of this project is to measure aqueous PGE2 and inflammatory cytokines during DR
      progression.

      Aim 2 of this project is two-fold:

        1. Investigate the long-term effects of daily topical application of ketorolac on PGE2 and
           cytokine levels.

        2. Determine how topical application of ketorolac influences DR progression and development
           of DME.
    
  