
    
      Study design: A descriptive and prospective prognostic cohort study, with consecutive
      recruitment of patients during a 12 month period from seven sites in Sweden Start of
      recruiting participants is October 2016. Most participants will receive a diagnosis from an
      orthopedic doctor approximately 2-4 weeks after their knee injury, and undergo rehabilitation
      for at least the first three months, before a decision regarding ACL reconstruction is taken
      (in line with current treatment guidelines). The patient cohort will be naturally divided
      into reconstruction plus rehabilitation, and rehabilitation only. Being included in the study
      will not affect the choice of treatment.

      Patients will be asked to participate at their initial contact with healthcare, after their
      knee injury. The recruitment process will differ slightly between the different sites, based
      on the clinical routine.

      Patients who accept to participate will complete web-based questionnaires distributed via
      smart phones or e-mail, once a week the first 6 weeks, every second week up to 3rd month,
      every month up to 1 year and every second month up to 3 years after initial injury. The
      length of the questionnaires varies from very short (approximately 10 questions that take 2
      minutes to fill in) to longer at specific critical time points. Each time the patient has
      contact with an orthopedic surgeon, the patient, orthopedic doctor and physiotherapist (if
      the patient has contact with one) will be asked to answer a questionnaire about choice of
      treatment (surgery or not). In addition, when the patient reports that they are back to sport
      activity, the patient and the physiotherapist will be asked to answer a questionnaire about
      the decision to return to sport. Patients who will have ACL reconstruction will be followed
      up with new baseline from the time of reconstruction.

      Patients recruited from Linköping will have expanded follow-up data collection at baseline
      and 3, 6, 12 and 24 months after injury. At these follow-ups, a clinical examination will be
      completed by an orthopedic surgeon or physiotherapist, MRI, and blood and urine samples will
      be collected. A joint fluid sample will be acquired at baseline, and at the time of ACL
      reconstruction (if the patient has surgical treatment). Radiographs will be done at baseline
      and 5 years follow up. Patients who have ACL reconstruction will be followed up with new
      baseline at the time for reconstruction, but without MRI or blood and urine samples.
    
  