
    
      Nasal endoscopy is a minimally invasive, diagnostic medical procedure and currently the most
      preferred initial method of evaluating medical problems affecting nose and sinuses such as
      nasal stuffiness and obstruction, sinusitis, nasal polyposis, nasal tumors, epistaxis,
      recurrent bouts of sneezing and rhinorrhea. Overall, the procedure is considered very safe
      and low-risk. Currently, nasal endoscopy can be performed with a flexible or rigid endoscope,
      typically after a topical decongestant and anesthetic are applied to the nasal mucosa.

      Reprocessing is an issue of concern, especially for flexible endoscopes where multiple steps
      were confirmed to be critical for reprocessing to be effective. High-level disinfection has
      been determined to be the minimum level of disinfection required, which involves multiple
      steps including manual cleaning, leak testing, cleaning with an enzymatic agent, high-level
      disinfection, and drying with vertical storage. 3NT Medical Ltd. has developed the Peregrine
      Drivable Ear Nose and Throat (ENT) Scope, which offers the convenience of a single-use
      endoscope component coupled with performance characteristics of commercially available
      state-of-the-art reusable endoscopy systems. The single-use endoscope essentially removes
      concerns related to burdensome reprocessing techniques of a delicate tool required to achieve
      high-level of its disinfection.

      The objective of this study is to assess the safety and performance of the Peregrine
      endoscope in patients in the office setting in terms of access and visualization of the
      paranasal sinus anatomy, image quality, and patient tolerability and pain. For this study, up
      to 30 patients who have had prior endoscopic sinus surgery (ESS) and who are scheduled for
      nasal endoscopy in the office, as part of a routine post-operative office visit or due to
      recurrence of symptoms, will be evaluated with Peregrine Endoscope. Access and visualization
      by an additional standard endoscope will be conducted and compared to Peregrine endoscope.
      Image quality of the Peregrine endoscope, participant tolerability and pain, and the impact
      of Peregrine on clinical decision making will be evaluated.
    
  