
    
      Multiple myeloma is an incurable malignancy of the bone marrow and the second most common
      type of haematological cancer. In Denmark, about 320 patients are diagnosed annually with
      multiple myeloma, and the cancer often affects older people, but 30 % of the patients living
      with MM are of working age. The prognosis has improved markedly over the last two decades and
      is expected to improve further.

      Systematic monitoring of symptoms, side effects and complications over time outside clinical
      trials has not been performed yet. Knowledge of the elderly and frail patients´ perspective
      on the multiple myeloma disease is lacking, and the time after anti-myeloma treatment is left
      unstudied. A common side effect (up to 55 %) to specific types of anti-myeloma drugs is
      peripheral neuropathy (nerve injury), which can be temporary or permanent in the form of
      long-term sequelae of pain and numbness. Information on this side effect from the patients´
      perspective is missing.

      The design of the project is a prospective, population-based, national, longitudinal survey
      with retrospective data collection from more Danish registers. We will include 800 previously
      untreated and relapsed multiple myeloma patients at treatment-demanding disease recruited
      from all Danish haematological departments. At inclusion, demographic data and
      patient-related prognostic markers will be obtained. The patients will complete four
      validated QoL instruments (EORTC QLQ-C30, MY20, CIPN20 and SF12v2) at 13 measuring points
      over a period of 24 months. The questions are concerning cancer and MM symptoms, peripheral
      neuropathy, other side effects, quality of life and functional capacity of a social,
      emotional and physical character.

      This project will provide real-time data collection of the symptoms, side effects,
      complications and quality of life from the general multiple myeloma patients´ perspective
      during and after anti-myeloma treatment. It will illuminate the reason for the patients´ high
      loss of working ability. The findings will be integrated in the future Danish National
      treatment guidelines, and recommendation for rehabilitation in aspects of shared decision
      making.
    
  