
    
      In the management of HHT epistaxis, multiple approaches have been tried, including
      electrocautery, laser, embolization, arterial ligation, but all approaches are largely
      palliative with variable results, many requiring repeated interventions. Except for nasal
      closure, surgical options offer, at best, limited hemorrhage-free intervals, but no
      definitive results and all have side effects. Moreover, currently, there is no established
      medical treatment available for these patients. To limit blood loss, the few medical
      treatments used include manipulation of the coagulation and fibrinolytic pathways or topical
      applications of anti-inflammatory drugs. However, multiple lesions disseminated over the
      entire mucosal surface are common in affected individuals, making local treatment difficult.
      Re-bleeding consumes a disproportionate share of healthcare resources devoted to multiple
      admissions, repeated endoscopies and blood transfusions.

      Recently, angiogenesis has been implicated in the pathogenesis of HHT. Circulating
      concentrations of both TGF-beta and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) are
      significantly elevated and therefore, anti-angiogenic substances may be effective in the
      treatment of vascular malformations in this disease.

      Thalidomide functions as a potent immunosuppressive and antiangiogenic agent by inhibiting
      the phagocytic ability of inflammatory cells and the production of cytokines, such as tumor
      necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-a). It has been shown to be effective in the treatment of
      inflammatory diseases, in conditions associated with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
      infection, and in various cancers. Bleeding inhibition has been observed in HHT patients who
      received thalidomide as an antiangiogenic cancer therapy. A recent paper has reported that
      thalidomide treatment induced vessel maturation in an experimental model of HHT and reduced
      severe nosebleeds in six of the seven HHT patients studied. On the other hand, spectacular
      improvements have been described in patients with intestinal angiodysplasias, treated with
      thalidomide. In isolated case reports, patients with severe recurrent intestinal bleeding
      refractory to standard treatment achieved prolonged complete remission with thalidomide at a
      dose of 100 to 300 mg/day for a few months and tolerance was good. Cessation of bleeding was
      associated with a reduction in serum VEGF levels. These observations suggest that thalidomide
      might be useful for treatment of HHT patients and address significant unmet medical needs.
      Unfortunately, this drug exposes patients to the risk of severe side effects.

      Drug metabolism is under control of a number of enzymes specific for each drug; among these
      enzymes, many show variable levels of activity and we can thus recognize in the population
      extensive (high or fast) metabolizers (EM) intermediate (IM) and poor (low or slow)
      metabolizers (PM). This is true also for thalidomide, whose metabolism is in part controlled
      by the enzyme CYP2C19.

      The aims of our study are to test the hypothesis that thalidomide reduces the bleeding
      tendency of HHT patients and to verify to which extent CYP2C19 polymorphism modulates both
      response to treatment and side effects.
    
  