
    
      The Department of Neurological Surgery is entering a period of rapid growth accompanied by
      significant investment in its infrastructure. The goals of this effort is to re-establish a
      full academic mission and for the return of a residency program as part of this paradigm with
      the target of initiating the program in three to five years. This rebuilding project will be
      based on the pre-existing neurotrauma and critical care program and three new comprehensive
      and multidisciplinary clinical programs and medical center product lines. These include
      neuro-oncology, operative and non-operative spine services and cerebrovascular services. The
      care and treatment of patients with ischemic stroke is a part of the cerebrovascular program.

      Aggressive and accelerated clinical outcomes research and rapid peer-review publication is a
      mission critical need for successfully applying to re-establish the residency training
      program. The collection of this data will also strengthen marketing and will promote the
      advancement of the multidisciplinary programs. While the Neurosurgery Department is central
      to the multidisciplinary program evolution these affiliated programs and product lines
      involve multiple departments. These include: Neurology with the stroke service and neurology
      critical care services; Radiology with the neuroradiology and interventional neuroradiology
      services; the Hematology/Oncology Services associated with the Chao Family Comprehensive
      Cancer Center; Radiation Oncology; Otolaryngology Services; Orthopedic Spine Services; and,
      Physiatry with the Physical and Rehabilitative Medicine Services.

      MD Analyze is a commercially available relational data base software program designed to
      accumulate clinical data for future analysis. It allows the investigators to determine what
      clinical data they wish to collect, including, but not limited to history, physical,
      laboratory, radiographic, surgical and follow-up information. It can be programmed to allow
      data entry from any data collection instrument so desired by the investigators.

      Patients treated by the investigators in their practices at UCI will be asked to sign consent
      and HIPAA forms making them aware of their rights and protection regarding their health care
      information and giving informed consent to collect and analyze their health care data.
      Throughout the course of their care they may be asked to complete various surveys or data
      collection instruments depending on their diagnosis and treatment. See Appendix A for copies
      of the data collection instruments and surveys. The system allows the personal clinical data
      to be de-identified (i.e., made anonymous). A full-time data entry clerk will collect and
      enter clinical data into the MD Analyze data base. This person will also be asked to search
      and retrieve data based on investigators' research questions after their proposals have been
      IRB approved. Only the Department Chairman, the Data Base Manager, and the Department
      Administrator will have access to personal identification data. This information will not be
      available to the investigators. Potential investigators of the data base will have to provide
      documentation of IRB approval of their project to the Chair before their requested data set
      can be harvested from the data base. The chair will then direct the Data Base Manager to
      generate a report of the requested data. The report of de-identified data will then be
      securely delivered to the investigator. The Data Base Manager will maintain a file of all
      requests for data and a copy of the IRB approval for investigators research and data request.

      Minors may be asked to complete surveys and questionnaires appropriated to their reading
      level. Patients may withdraw at any time by making a request to their physician investigator
      or their staff.
    
  