
    
      RESEARCH QUESTION: Can the oropharyngeal spray of a viral blocking compound in conjunction
      with the provision of an immunostimulant compound, reduce the infection proportion by 2/3

      BENEFITS OF EACH INTERVENTION.

      INTERVENTION 1: The compound for oropharyngeal spray made out of three bioactive substances
      combined that are: allicin, eugenol and quercetin, as soluble recruiters of the virus at its
      main entry point, the upper respiratory tract or oropharyngeal region. There, these
      substances, which have high molecular homology to the sites or epitopes of the ACE-2
      receptor, will act as soluble receptor for the virus, and will be a preventive barrier for
      its entrance and contact with the native receptor, ACE-2; in this way, it is intended to
      reduce the possibility of infection by COVID-19, protecting at the level of the oropharyngeal
      mucosa from the direct inoculation of the virus.

      INTERVENTION 2: The immunostimulant compound will be used to potentiate the immune response
      of the subject, measured by the reduction in the risk of infection, as a complement to the
      effect of the soluble substances, homologous to the ACE-2 receptor, administered by
      oropharyngeal spray.

      RESEARCH HYPOTHESIS: In health care providers in the front line of care of suspicious cases
      or patients with COVID-19, the combined use of the interventions in question (oropharyngeal
      spray of a soluble compound that captures the virus, in addition to the ingestion of an
      immunostimulant compound), in comparison to the non-administration of either (Placebo),
      reduces the risk of infection with COVID-19, expressed as a negative result in IgM, IgG; and
      in those who undergo seroconversion, the greater proportion will have a mild to moderate
      clinical presentation.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE: To establish the efficacy of the combined use of the oropharyngeal spray
      of a soluble compound that captures the virus, in addition to the ingestion of an
      immunostimulant compound, in comparison with placebo, on the reduction of the risk of
      infection with COVID, indicated by the negative result in the measurement of COVID-19
      immunoglobulins by 30 days of starting the combined therapy. To establish the safety of the
      study products with evaluation of the expected and unexpected adverse events encountered
      during the treatment phase of the intervention (30 days since entering the project).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE: To establish the efficacy of the combined use of the of the
      oropharyngeal spray of a soluble compound that captures the virus, in addition to the
      ingestion of an immunostimulant compound, in comparison with placebo, on the reduction of the
      risk of infection with COVID, indicated by the clinical response to the disease, defined in
      three variations, mild to moderate: onset of fever, myalgias and cough without dyspnea;
      severe: fever, myalgias, cough and dyspnea that requires inpatient care; and critical: all of
      the above in addition to ventilatory support in the ICU.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES: To explore the efficacy of the combined use of the oropharyngeal
      spray of a soluble compound that captures the virus, in addition to the ingestion of an
      immunostimulant compound, on the reduction of the development of symptoms such as fever,
      cough, dyspnea, myalgias, or ventilatory support in the ICU, 15 days after finishing the
      treatment scheme. To explore the independent efficacy of each intervention (oropharyngeal
      spray of a soluble compound that captures the virus, or the ingestion of an immunostimulant
      compound), compared with placebo, on the reduction in the risk of infection with COVID, given
      by the negative result of IgG, IgM; and the decrease in the risk of symptoms such as fever,
      cough, dyspnea, myalgias, or ventilatory support in the ICU, 15 days after finishing the
      treatment scheme.

      FIELD OF STUDY: Health care centers in the city of Medellín, where suspected cases and
      patients with COVID-19 are being treated. A list with the participating centers will be drawn
      up.

      INTERVENTIONS.

      ACTIVE PRINCIPLE:

      Intervention 1: Preparation in a liquid solution to be used for oropharyngeal spray, composed
      of natural bioactive substances of routine use in humans, that feature homologous molecular
      structures to the native viral receptor.

      Intervention 2: Preparation in a solid pharmaceutical presentation for oral administration in
      a capsule form (inside a small gelatin container), that contains the bioactive compounds that
      have demonstrated modulation of the inflammatory response recognized at the moment in the
      immune activation against the virus.

      PLACEBO: Formulations without active components in the same pharmaceutical form as the former
      (intervention 1 and intervention 2). They will be presented with the same physical
      characteristics as the placebos, such as: shape, form, color, taste, smell, consistency,
      printed indications, weight, surface details, internal and external; in this way, the
      principal of concealment is guaranteed. They must be used under the following indications.

      Intervention 1: Two oropharyngeal sprays of the compound, every 4 hours, during the day.

      Intervention 2: Administering 1 capsule by mouth of the immunostimulant, every twelve hours.
      Dosing of the substances in intervention 1 follows the described pharmacological
      characteristics, that guarantee its permanence in the oral mucosa to protect the entry
      pathway of the virus into the organism (Oropharynx). The dosage of the oral compounds was
      defined according to recommendations of the WHO for the modulation of the immune response
      (capsules). In the randomization visit V1, each participant will be assigned a treatment
      scheme, composed of intervention 1 and intervention 2, in sufficient quantity for the
      duration of the study. The pharmaceutical service will dispense the code of the scheme,
      following a sequential order, indicated in an allocation listing of the schemes in site. Each
      treatment scheme is labeled with a unique code that identifies it, and it contains: One (1)
      device for oropharyngeal spray, with capacity for 200 applications. One (1) bottle with 90
      capsules (oral). In the subsequent visits the adherence to the dispensed schemes will be
      verified. The frequency of use will be checked, and dosing omissions will be registered by
      frequency (1 dose, once a week, more than once a week).
    
  