
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the toxic effects and feasibility of high-dose cytarabine and
      idarubicin in patients with refractory or relapsed acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) after a
      complete remission (CR) of less than 18 months. II. Determine the response of patients with
      ALL in first relapse after a CR of 18 months or more treated with a 2-phase re-induction
      regimen comprising prednisolone, vindesine, daunorubicin, asparaginase, intrathecal (IT)
      cytarabine, IT dexamethasone, and IT methotrexate followed by prednisolone, ifosfamide,
      high-dose methotrexate, leucovorin calcium, etoposide, and cytarabine (with a dose-escalation
      study of etoposide and cytarabine). III. Compare the effectiveness of these 2 regimens
      administered to these patients with the regimen administered to historic controls (protocol
      GER-ALL-REZ- 01/88).

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study. Patients are stratified by center,
      duration of complete remission (CR) (less than 18 months vs 18 months or more), and
      refractory disease (yes vs no). Patients with refractory or relapsed disease after a CR of
      less than 18 months are treated on Regimen A. Patients in first relapse after a CR of 18
      months or more are treated on Regimen B. Regimen A: Patients receive idarubicin IV over 30
      minutes followed by cytarabine IV over 3 hours on days 1-3 and filgrastim (G-CSF)
      subcutaneously (SC) daily beginning on day 5 and continuing until blood counts recover.
      Regimen B (2-phase reinduction): Patients receive oral prednisolone on days 1-21; vindesine
      IV and daunorubicin IV on days 1, 8, and 15; asparaginase IV on days 7, 8, 14, and 15; and
      methotrexate intrathecally (IT), cytarabine IT, and dexamethasone IT on days 1 and 8. When
      blood counts recover, patients receive oral prednisolone and ifosfamide IV over 1 hour on
      days 1-4; high-dose methotrexate IV continuously on day 1 followed by standard leucovorin
      calcium rescue; etoposide IV over 1 hour followed at least 8 hours later by cytarabine IV
      over 3 hours on days 3 and 4; and G-CSF SC beginning on day 6 and continuing until blood
      counts recover. Cohorts of 6 patients or more receive escalating doses of etoposide and
      cytarabine until the maximum tolerated dose is determined.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 60 patients (30 per regimen) will be accrued for this study
      within 2 years.
    
  