
    
      The purpose of this study was to test two dental products used as direct pulp capping agent
      for the permanent teeth. The two products were mineral trioxide aggregate and calcium
      hydroxide.

      A direct pulp capping consists of covering an exposed tooth pulp (the inside portion of the
      tooth where the blood vessels and nerve supply the tooth) with a medication to maintain tooth
      vitality. Different events can cause the pulp to be exposed, for example a deep cavity, or an
      accident where the outer portion of the tooth fractures. When this occurs, it is sometimes
      possible to place a medicine over the top of the exposure (a "cap") in an effort to allow the
      pulp to heal on its own. Our study intended to compare two of those medicines, calcium
      hydroxide and mineral trioxide aggregate, both Federal Drug Administration (FDA) approved
      products, to determine if one performed better than the other.

      The study was conducted with patients recruited by Northwest PRECEDENT practitioners. The
      practitioners interested in participating in the study were randomized (assigned by chance)
      to one of the two intervention groups: a treatment group (mineral trioxide aggregate) and a
      control group (calcium hydroxide).

      Direct pulp capping was completed on permanent (adult) teeth with pulps exposed due to decay,
      trauma (injury) or mechanical exposure. Treated teeth were followed over two years to
      determine how well they responded to the treatment.

      All patients who had a pulp exposure of a permanent tooth were eligible for the study. These
      patients were further asked to participate in the study if they satisfied the inclusion
      criteria for the study and did not present any of the exclusion criteria stated in the study
      protocol.

      A tooth that received a pulp cap was treated in the following manner: After a tooth pulp had
      been exposed and the tooth was found to be suitable for a pulp cap, the exposure and
      surrounding area was cleaned by gentle rinsing with water. A cotton pellet moistened with
      5.25% sodium hypochlorite was placed over the exposure and allowed to sit for 1-2 minutes.
      This procedure was used to control pulp bleeding and remove the germs from that area. After
      the initial period, the cotton pellet was removed and the area inspected. If bleeding
      continued, a new cotton pellet moistened in the sodium hypochlorite solution was reapplied to
      the area for an additional several minutes. This was repeated until bleeding was controlled
      or the practitioner decided that pulp capping was not appropriate for the situation. Once the
      bleeding was controlled from the exposure, one of the two pulp capping agents was applied to
      the pulp exposure site.

      Practices were assigned by chance into one of two treatment groups, those that completed
      direct pulp capping with mineral trioxide aggregate and those that completed direct pulp
      capping with calcium hydroxide, both FDA approved agents for this purpose. The handling
      characteristics of the two materials were so different, that it was not practical to blind
      the practitioners as to which material they were using. Likewise, training in the use of each
      material was required. It was believed that it was more important that the practitioner
      become familiar and competent in the use of one of the materials to ensure it was used
      appropriately, than it was to have practitioners use both materials and confuse procedures
      between them. Since time was a critical element in the success or failure of direct pulp
      capping, the patients were consented to participate in the study after the procedure was
      done. A resin-modified glass ionomer liner (e.g. Vitrebond, Fuji Lining Cement, Fuji II LC,
      Vitremer) was placed over the pulp capping agent. This liner sealed the pulp capping agent
      and protected the pulp from being infiltrated with bacteria. After the resin-modified glass
      ionomer lining material was set, the final filling was placed.

      Two types of instruments were used in this study:

      Study participant data collection form This form collected two types of data: demographic and
      clinical data. The demographic part gathered information regarding patient age, gender, and
      race. The clinical form collected data regarding the clinical and x-ray evaluation of the
      tooth treated with a direct pulp cap: condition of the tooth, the type of pulp exposure (by
      decay, by injury or during tooth preparation), patients' complaints regarding the tooth, and
      results of diagnostic tests (x-ray, pain to biting or temperature, etc) were recorded.

      Practitioner feedback survey A survey was administered to all practitioners who participated
      in the study. This survey included a series of questions designed to evaluate the
      communication between the member practitioners and the network, practitioner/staff training,
      patient recruitment, obtaining informed consent, data collection and data transmission,
      including the electronic data capture system. The survey also tried to determine how well the
      offices were able to combine the research in a regular daily office schedule in order to
      determine if a research project would affect the normal day-to-day routine.

      The intent of this study was to find out which of the two products yielded better results as
      a pulp capping agent. In order to detect this, the failure rates in the two treatment groups
      were compared using statistical tests. Distributions of covariates in the two treatment
      groups were compared and clinical judgment was used to identify covariates with serious group
      imbalances that would cause an unusual result for the primary analysis. Logistic regression
      was used to compare failure rates while adjusting for any covariates that were imbalanced
      between groups.
    
  