
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety and describe the full toxicity profile of cellular immunotherapy
      utilizing ex vivo expanded autologous central memory T cell (Tcm)-enriched T cells that are
      genetically modified using a self-inactivating (SIN) lentiviral vector to express a
      costimulatory cluster of differentiation (CD)19-specific chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) as
      well as a truncated human epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) (CD19R:CD28 zeta/EGFR tau
      +Tcm) (CD19-CAR-specific/truncated EGFR lentiviral vector-transduced autologous T cells) in
      conjunction with a standard myeloablative autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplant
      (HSCT) for patients with high-risk intermediate grade B-lineage non-Hodgkin lymphoma (e.g.,
      diffuse large B-cell lymphoma [DLBCL], mantle cell lymphoma [MCL] or transformed non-Hodgkin
      lymphoma [NHL]).

      II. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) based on dose limiting toxicities (DLTs).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the tempo, magnitude, and duration of engraftment of the transferred T cell
      product as it relates to the number of cells infused.

      II. To study the impact of this therapeutic intervention on the development of normal CD19+
      B-cell precursors in the peripheral blood as a surrogate for the in vivo effector function of
      transferred autologous CD19R:CD28 zeta/EGFR tau +Tcm.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of CD19-CAR-specific/truncated EGFR lentiviral
      vector-transduced autologous T cells. Patients undergo mobilization for autologous stem cell
      collection with cytoreductive chemotherapy and filgrastim and/or plerixafor per current
      standard operating policies. Patients undergo myeloablative conditioning regimen per
      institutional standards beginning day -7 followed by hematopoietic stem cell transplantation
      on day 0. Patients receive CD19-CAR-specific/truncated EGFR lentiviral vector-transduced
      autologous T cells IV on day 2 or 3 (may be delayed up to day 45 if the patient is not yet
      eligible). Patients who experience disease progression and have not experienced DLTs at
      greater than or equal to 100 days post HSCT will be allowed to receive an optional second T
      cell infusion.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up weekly for 1 month, monthly for
      1 year, and then yearly for 15 years.
    
  