
    
      The HS-1000 is an innovative non-invasive intracranial pressure (ICP) monitoring device that
      employs advanced acoustic signal analysis to derive ICP on a continuous basis. The first
      version of the device was clinically validated in trials in Italy, India, and Armenia.
      Overall, more than 10,000 ICP measurements were collected from both patients and healthy
      subjects. The device is currently undergoing FDA validation in an adult cohort across eight
      sites in the United States.

      This will be a pilot study conducted at Akron Children's Hospital. A maximum of 40 patients
      with severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) or neurological conditions requiring ICP monitoring
      will be studied over 2 years. All patients treated with either surgical ICP monitor (external
      ventricular drain [EVD] or subarachnoid manometer [Bolt]) are eligible for study enrollment.
      The HS-1000 device will be deployed as soon as possible after surgical ICP monitor placement
      to record and collect data in parallel with the surgical device.

      To assess the accuracy and safety of the HS-1000 device as an alternative to the invasive ICP
      procedure, the investigators will compare ICP readings obtained by the HS-1000 monitoring
      system to measurements recorded by the surgical device during 15-30 minute recording
      sessions.

      ICP readings will be recorded from both the invasive and HeadSense non-invasive ICP monitor
      for an aggregate of 30 minutes. During the recording sessions, a webcam will take periodic
      snapshots of the ICP monitor and/or bedside monitor picturing the ICP values and other
      clinical parameters that are displayed on screen, with a focus on blood pressure and heart
      rate (HR). Recording sessions will be done until an aggregate of at least 30 minutes of data
      are collected, depending on the patient's clinical condition. Recording sessions may be
      repeated over several days until the 30 minute target is reached.

      The HeadSense headset is removed between recordings. Recording should be done only in case
      the patient's clinical condition allows it (i.e. patient is in supine position and does not
      require any clinical intervention or treatment at the time of the recording). In case the
      patient requires some clinical intervention the recording will be stopped and will be resumed
      only after the intervention is done and the patient's clinical condition allows resuming of
      the recording.

      Lastly, the investigators will also place a commercial sound meter in the participant's room
      to collect baseline data on exposure to ambient noise within the Pediatric Intensive Care
      Unit (PICU) treatment environment. This data will facilitate a device-vs-ambient sound
      comparison, a component of the device safety profile.

      Study patient demographics will be collected to include patient medical record number, age,
      gender, diagnosis, medical information, and the patient's clinical course pertinent to the
      ICP monitoring until the attending physician determines invasive ICP measurement is no longer
      necessary. Additional demographic, diagnostic parameters, severity of illness calculations,
      and procedures will be obtained from the Virtual Pediatric Systems (VPS, LLC) Pediatric
      Intensive Care Unit clinical outcomes database. The patient will be followed for 48 hours
      post ICU discharge for any adverse events.

      The diagnosis of head trauma or other medical conditions indicating a need for ICP
      monitoring, the decision to place an intraventricular catheter and the duration of ICP
      monitoring are at the discretion of the patient's clinical care team and independent of this
      study. With the exception of simultaneous use of the non-invasive acoustical HS-1000
      monitoring system and ambient noise level measurements within the patient's room, all other
      patient care, including clinical evaluations and treatments, is independent of this study. No
      HS-1000 data will be displayed and will not be used in clinical decision making.
    
  