
    
      Study design:

      The study is a parallel group, double-blind, randomised controlled clinical trial. Allocation
      to treatment will be made when the subject has been entered into the study that is when
      he/she has fulfilled the inclusion/exclusion criteria (see below). Visits will be arranged at
      inclusion, at week 4 and 6 (Quit day (QD)) after inclusion, and at week 1, 6, 12, and 24
      after QD.

      Study population:

      Participants will be eligible smokers from throughout Jerusalem, who want to reduce then stop
      smoking.

      Randomisation procedure:

      Subjects will be computer-randomised either to an extended varenicline preload treatment or
      to a regular varenicline schedule. Both groups will receive an identical treatment
      thereafter.

      Blinding:

      Due to the nature of the intervention, blinding is possible only during the varenicline
      preload phase. During this phase, both the study team members and the participants will be
      blinded to treatment allocation. After week 6 all participants will be receiving the same,
      active treatment.

      Study intervention:

      After enrolment the subjects will be randomized to receive either varenicline preloading for
      6 weeks (1 mg/day at week 1; 2 mg/day from week 2-6) (Group A) or placebo for 5 weeks and
      varenicline for 1 week (Group B). Then, subjects in both groups will receive regular
      treatment with varenicline for 12 weeks according to a schedule depicted on Table 2. Only
      minimal levels of advice and support will be given. However, all subjects will receive
      individualized verbal instructions regarding the general conduct of the study and the proper
      use of the study medication. All participants will be asked to reduce smoking by 50 percent
      during 6 weeks after inclusion then stop smoking altogether.

      At baseline the following data will be collected:

        1. Demographic assessment (age, sex, height and weight). Subjects will be weighed during
           all scheduled visits on the same scale throughout the study: prior to weighing, subjects
           will remove shoes and excess clothes.

        2. Medical history

        3. Physical examination

        4. Vital signs (pulse, blood-pressure) will be assessed in the standard manner.

        5. Spirometry: This will be carried out at baseline and end-study using an electronic
           spirometer and techniques currently performed at the Pulmonary Institute, Shaare Zedek
           Medical Center.

        6. Smoking history and other smoking related information using the modified Cigarette
           Evaluation Questionnaire (mCEQ) .

        7. Nicotine dependence evaluation using the Fagerström Test for Nicotine Dependence (FTND)
           .

        8. CO in expired air. Expired carbon monoxide levels will be measured with a Bedfont
           monitor and recorded at each scheduled study visit. The subjects will be instructed to
           inhale deeply, do a 15 second breath hold, and produce a full, slow forced expiration
           through the disposable mouthpiece of the inflow valve of the monitor. Readings will be
           recorded in parts per million (ppm) of CO (non smokers = < 8 ppm ; smokers = > 10 to 75
           ppm) .

        9. Withdrawal symptoms: Will be measured using the Mood Symptoms Physical Scale (MPPS) (See
           Appendix) .

       10. Salive Cotinine determinations: This will be carried out at 3 visits namely baseline
           visit, week 6 and end-trial.

       11. Concomitant medication: Information about currently used medication will be collected
    
  