
    
      PKM consists of a set of validated and computerized algorithms to perform the following
      steps:

        1. Calculate calcium (Ca) and phosphorus (P) intake and absorption in individual patients
           as a function of the prescribed doses of Vitamin D analogues, protein catabolic rate
           (PCR) and dietary and binder Ca intakes.

        2. Calculate P removal between dialyses by P binders and P and Ca removal during dialysis
           from kinetic analysis of total P and Ca transport during dialysis based on dialyzer P
           and Ca transport coefficients and the levels of dialysate Ca and serum Ca and P.

        3. Thus from analysis of intake, absorption and removal the program can calculate net Ca
           and P balance in modeled patients.

        4. Calculate the dose of phosphate binder required to reduce the serum P to normal in
           patients with hyperphosphatemia.

        5. Calculate the dialysate Ca required to achieve zero calcium balance over complete
           dialysis cycles - the interdialytic interval and immediately succeeding dialytic
           interval.

        6. The program also computes a Phosphorus-Protein index (PPI, the total P removed divided
           by PCR, mg/gm/day) which provides a quantitative index of compliance with prescribed
           dietary P restriction and/or the prescribed dose of binders. If the PPI exceeds 18, the
           report indicates it is likely the patient is not in compliance with respect to
           prescribed diet and/or binder. It is hoped that this information will be valuable to
           guide semiquantitative evaluations of diet P and binder intakes in patients difficult to
           manage.

      Patients will be modeled on a monthly basis from pre- and post-dialytic Ca, P, PCR and other
      routine data readily available such as blood and dialysate flow rates, fluid removal etc. A
      monthly report will be generated for the physician and staff by Norma Ofsthun, PhD containing
      the analyses and recommendations for any changes in therapy.
    
  