
    
      Rationale

      The present double-blinded study was planned in order to assess whether differences in
      materials - using one otherwise similar TKA system - would have an effect on postoperative
      patient outcome. Moreover, metal ion levels will be measured in the blood stream
      preoperatively (as reference) and upon follow-up, based on previous observations that metal
      ion levels are increased in serum following TKA, without any relevant influence on outcome.

      Aims

      The aim of the present prospective study is to assess whether differences in tribological
      pairings - i.e. TiN-coating in comparison to CoCr-alloy using a frequently implanted total
      knee endoprosthesis (ACS® System, Implantcast GmbH, Buxtehude, Germany) - have an effect on
      postoperative range of motion (ROM) and patient satisfaction, reflected by Western Ontario
      and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC), Forgotten Joint Score (FJS), Knee
      Society Score (KSS), Visual Analogue Scale (VAS). Moreover, metal ion levels will be tested
      in both groups to monitor their concentration in the blood stream, usually reflecting
      physiological abrasion.

      Endpoints

      The primary endpoint of the current study is the functional outcome of patients with TKA on a
      CoCrMo- basis in comparison to a TiN-coated implant. The secondary endpoint is the
      measurement of metal ion levels in the blood stream and their potential dynamics over time.

      Methods

      Two-hundred patients will be prospectively included in the study over a 4-year period, with
      100 being randomly assigned to group A (TiN-coating) and 100 to group B (CoCr-alloy).

      Random assignment will be carried out via an automatic randomisation system run by a local
      study nurse. Pre- and postoperatively, range of motion (ROM), visual analogue scale (VAS)
      score and specific questionnaires - i.e. Western Ontario and McMaster Universities
      Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC), Forgotten Joint Score (FJS), Knee Society Score (KSS) - will be
      ascertained (Table 1) in order to allow comparison of potential differences between group A
      and B during follow-up. Furthermore, preoperatively, at 6 months, 12 months, 24 months and 60
      months, metal ion levels (cobalt, chromium, molybdenum, titanium) in the blood stream will be
      measured in each patient (6ml tubes). Measurements of metal ion levels will be performed at
      an external institution.

      The phase of active recruiting is planned for 4 years, with 50 patients being included per
      year on average. With the last patients anticipated to being included at the end of the 4th
      year, their follow-up will be finished 9 years after study initiation.

      Randomisation and Blinding

      All patients will be informed prior to potential study participation whether or not to they
      would like to participate, clarifying that refusal will not have any negative impact on
      further treatment. In case patients agree to participate, they will be randomly assigned to
      either group A or B.

      Double-blinding will be made possible by not informing patients whether they had been
      allocated to group A or B and by not directly revealing information about the implant type
      used on medical records that will later be accessible to the study nurse and/or physicians
      during clinical examinations at follow- up. Therefore, it will be necessary to exclude those
      surgeons participating in the surgeries of the respective patients from examining them during
      follow-up, in order to maintain blinding. Prior to follow-up appointments, surgeons who had
      not participated in surgeries of the respective patients will thus be informed by the study
      nurse in order to perform clinical examination, radiological follow-up and questionnaires.

      Expected Results

      As patients receive the identical orthopaedic implant during an identical surgical procedure
      for comparable indications, it is expected that the differences in alloy (i.e. TiN vs. CoCr)
      will not have a measurable effect on postoperative patient outcome. Neither there is expected
      to be a difference in metal ion levels in the blood stream over time between groups.
    
  