
    
      Biomarkers of radiation exposure are recognised to form an important component of the
      'toolkit' for initial triage assessment of potentially exposed individuals in a mass casualty
      radiation accident or incident. Furthermore, radiation is an important medical tool and
      biomarkers can contribute to longer term assessment of radiation effects and public health
      risks. The gene expression assay has been gaining popularity as a sensitive biological marker
      of radiation exposure with the potential to be used for truly individualised dosimetry. The
      possibility for this assay to be used for a large scale mass-casualty scenario has been
      proposed and tested in a recent inter-comparison exercise. However, a fuller understanding of
      genetic factors that contribute to individual radiation risks is needed to inform tailored
      screening approaches - i.e. to identify a truly radiation specific panel of genetics
      responses for use as a transcriptional biomarker.

      At Columbia University, research has shown that transcriptional effects have the potential to
      be used as individualised predictors of radiosensitivity to early and late effects. At Public
      Health England (PHE), recently established molecular counting nCounter technology allows
      direct counting of nucleic acid molecules (DNA, mRNA, miRNA and lncRNA) without the need for
      enzymatic reaction or amplification steps hence reducing time for data collection. This new
      gene expression analysis technique has been assessed for radiation biodosimetry applications
      with promising results. Furthermore, gene expression has shown a high degree of promise as a
      marker for late effects of radiation, for instance normal tissue reactions following curative
      radiotherapy for breast cancer.

      In the earlier pilot RTGene study the investigators found genes that are consistently
      down-regulated and up-regulated towards the end of the radiotherapy treatment. The next stage
      of this work (RTGene 2) will be to validate the nCounter data for a small number of new genes
      consistently found in the top 6 of differentially expressed. Importantly, in an attempt to
      identify genes which are promising biomarkers of susceptibility to radiation-induced
      toxicity, expression levels will need to be compared with normal tissue reaction to IR, and
      combined with longer term radiation toxicity data to identify genes with the most pronounced
      expression level fluctuations during and after radiotherapy.

      Peripheral blood samples will be taken with informed consent from radiotherapy patients
      before and during treatment fractions for sarcoma, breast, lung, gut, genitourinary and head
      & neck tumours at The Royal Marsden. Candidate genes identified by PHE, Columbia and/or in
      the literature as being specific to radiation responses will be assessed, together with genes
      relevant to systemic inflammatory and immune responses, to identify transcriptional responses
      for a range of doses and exposures on an inter-individual basis. Data will be analysed using
      existing and new statistical tools focused on count data modelling. The intended outcome is
      identification of a radiation specific panel of genes to inform individual radiation
      responses and if the results are favourable, a large scale follow up to this project is
      expected.
    
  