
    
      The study focuses on the following primary Objectives:

        -  To estimate local control rates with image guided radiation therapy as defined in this
           study for patients with primary musculoskeletal tumors (MST).

             -  Prospectively establish a baseline estimate of local control for patients with MST
                (Ewing's sarcoma family of tumors (ESFT), rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) and
                non-rhabdomyosarcoma soft tissue sarcoma (STS)) treated with image guided radiation
                therapy.

             -  Demonstrate that the increased level of conformality afforded by image guided
                radiation therapy does not reduce its efficacy relative to previously utilized
                non-image guided radiation therapy techniques in patients with Ewing's sarcoma
                family of tumors, resected soft tissue sarcomas, and group III rhabdomyosarcomas.

             -  Assess local and regional patterns of failure for patients with MST treated with
                image guided radiation therapy relative to their targeted volumes.

             -  Provide a long term (>5 year) estimate of local disease control for patients with
                MST (Ewing's sarcoma family of tumors (ESFT)), rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS), and
                non-rhabdomyosarcoma soft tissue sarcoma (STS) treated with image guided radiation
                therapy.

      The study focuses on the following secondary objectives:

        -  Establish a quantitative baseline estimate of radiation dose-related changes in normal
           tissues using novel objective measures of somatic change, musculoskeletal function,
           tissue biochemistry and physiology.

           o Investigate the dose and volume relationship for the developing physis and cortical
           bone using physical measures and imaging evaluations including:

             -  Prospectively investigate whether an age based radiotherapeutic threshold of dose
                and volume that will induce premature physis closure and alter long bone length can
                be quantitatively identified.

             -  Quantitatively explore the impact of radiation on cortical bone thinning and long
                bone curvature.

             -  Relate radiation dose and volume to late (10+ year) alterations in bone integrity.

        -  Describe the severity and time course of radiation-induced changes in the soft tissues
           including muscle.

             -  Delineate sequential changes in muscular volume, muscle function and organ function
                (delineated by imaging and measures of physical function) following image guided
                radiation for specific muscular groups.

             -  Correlate the temporal changes in muscular volume and function with changes in
                vascularity and metabolism defined by imaging studies.
    
  