
    
      We sought to develop a regimen that might successfully suppress myofibroblastic proliferation
      in infants and children with progressive pulmonary vein stenosis. A number of factors need to
      be considered when proposing novel treatment options for patients with multivessel pulmonary
      vein stenosis. Specifically:

        -  Treatment should be directed against a specific target, in this case excessive
           proliferation of myofibroblasts.

        -  Treatment should have known activity against the target cell.

        -  Treatment should be well-tolerated in the patient group. In this case, agents with
           minimal hemodynamic side effects would be preferred.

        -  Treatment should not preclude patients from participation in other potentially effective
           therapies. Specifically, agents that do not cause significant myelosuppression would
           allow listing for transplantation.

        -  Treatment should not interfere with normal growth and development, and should have
           minimal if any risk for long-term toxicity or second tumors.

      After considering these factors, we chose to administer two chemotherapeutic agents,
      vinblastine and methotrexate. Vinblastine and methotrexate have over 30 years of usage and
      are well-tolerated. The agents used are given in low-dose and do not usually cause nausea or
      vomiting, nor do they cause significant immunosuppression which, if present, could lead to a
      risk of infection and fever.

      Desmoid tumors, also referred to as infantile fibromatosis, overlap with infantile
      myofibromatosis. A combination of standard agents that has been successfully used to treat
      desmoid tumors in infants is vinblastine and methotrexate (24). As opposed to
      cyclophosphamide-based regimens, this combination has the distinct advantages of few acute
      side effects and no known long-term toxicities, such as infertility or second malignancy.
      These agents have been used for over 30 years to treat infant and childhood malignancies.
      Over the last five years, methotrexate and vinblastine have been used to treat 9 children
      with recurrent desmoid tumor, a lesion similar although not identical to the abnormality
      present in patients with pulmonary vein stenosis. This regimen had minimal acute toxicity
      limited to mild to moderate nausea (which is easily controlled with anti-emetic therapy),
      minimal alopecia, mild hepatic inflammation, and mild myelosuppression. An addition advantage
      is that these drugs do not interfere with listing for lung transplantation, an important
      factor in the overall treatment options for this patient population. Instead of high-dose
      administration of chemotherapy (that catches only those cells in cycle at the time of
      administration), the low-dose chronic weekly administration continues to catch proliferating
      cells as they continually come into cycle. This may explain why the only other trial of
      chemotherapy (with high-dose cytoxan) was unsuccessful. Of the 9 children with desmoid
      lesions who received vinblastine and methotrexate therapy, four patients were treated for 18
      months or longer. At the time of the last report, no patient had progressive disease during
      therapy. Two children had radiographically stable disease 1 and 2 years after treatment. Two
      children had stable disease for 1 and 2 years after treatment and then had disease
      progression. Thus, this drug combination is well-tolerated, has minimal side effects, and has
      demonstrated clinical activity against a closely related type of lesion.
    
  