
    
      The aim of this study is to design, implement and evaluate a telephone-based intervention
      using cognitive-behavioral approach for first-time mothers during the immediate postpartum
      period. The objective is to evaluate the effect of a telephone-based intervention using
      cognitive-behavioral approach on postnatal depression and quality of life at 6 weeks and 6
      months postpartum.

      A longitudinal, randomized, pre and post-test control group design will be used. This design
      involves providing a 5-week telephone-based intervention using cognitive-behavioral approach
      at the immediate postpartum period (first five weeks postpartum) to women with high risk of
      postnatal depression. The experimental group receives the intervention on top of the usual
      postpartum care, while the control group receives the usual postpartum care only.
      Participants will be recruited through the postnatal wards at three regional public hospitals
      in Hong Kong. Eligible participants will be randomly assigned to either the telephone-based
      intervention or control group. The allocation schedule will be prepared in advanced using a
      restricted randomization scheme (random permutated blocks of six) by a random number table.
      The random numbers will be placed in sequentially numbered, opaque and sealed envelopes.
      After the women have given informed written consent at 2-3 days postpartum at the postnatal
      units, the research assistant will open the envelope containing the group assignment.

      Participants will be postpartum women who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria. The
      research nurse will determine if the women meet the sample inclusion criteria from their
      records. Potential eligible participants will be approached on the second or third postpartum
      day at the postnatal units. Women will be provided with essential information on the nature
      of the study and invited to complete the EPDS. Women who score above 9 on EPDS are considered
      at risk of postnatal depression and they will be invited to participate in the study. Verbal
      and written explanations of the purpose and the procedure of the study will be provided by
      the research nurse and written consent will be obtained from women who agree to participate
      in the study. Participants will be asked to complete the baseline measures, including EPDS
      and SF-12. Post-test measures will be collected at 6 weeks and 6 months postpartum through
      mail.
    
  