
    
      The proposed study is an explanatory, proof-of-concept study of Senicapoc administered once
      daily in patients with familial dehydrated stomatocytosis caused by the autosomal dominant
      V282M mutation in the Gardos (KCNN4) channel. The study population will include up to 6
      members of the same family, all carrying the V282M mutation and meeting study criteria for
      inclusion and exclusion. Patients will begin the study with a loading dose of 20 mg/day for 4
      days followed by a dose of 10 mg once daily for the first 4 weeks of study.

      After 4 weeks at the initial dose, patients will be escalated to higher doses (in 3 steps of
      10 mg every 4 weeks) to a maximal dose of 40 mg once daily.

      Patients who demonstrate response in the primary endpoints at the end of the efficacy study,
      and who have not been permanently discontinued due to Senicapoc-attributed serious adverse
      events (SAE), will be eligible for a 12-month study extension at the dose determined to be
      effective in the treatment efficacy study.

      Patients who meet inclusion criteria will be enrolled at visit 0, and if available, will be
      provided with the appropriated instrument to record daily pain scores and other QOL
      indicators. Treatment will begin at Visit 1, which will follow visit 0 after 2-3 weeks. After
      an effective dose and tolerated has been established in the dose escalation period, patients
      will be seen every two weeks until they reach 24 weeks of treatment. Patients will be seen
      for a potential maximum of 19 visits in the treatment efficacy phase of the study, with
      additional phone contacts after the first week of treatment and within a week from each dose
      escalation.

      At the end of the efficacy portion of the study, patients will be eligible to participate in
      a one-year optional open-label extension, provided that they have not been permanently
      discontinued from the study.
    
  