
    
      Research question: What is the comparative effectiveness and safety of biosimilar drugs
      versus the equivalent legacy drugs?

      Primary aims:

      To compare, in biologic-naive patients, new users of biosimilar drugs versus new users of the
      equivalent legacy drugs:

        1. Frequency of discontinuation of the initial therapy

        2. Persistence on the initial therapy (time until drug discontinuation)

        3. Frequency of patients starting or increasing prednisone or other immunosuppressive drugs

        4. Frequency of and time to discontinuation of treatment due to ineffectiveness

        5. Frequency of and time to clinical remission/induction of response

        6. Frequency of and time to serious adverse events

      Secondary aims

      To describe in biologic-naïve patients, new users of biosimilar drugs or the equivalent
      legacy drugs:

        1. Change in disease activity over time

        2. The frequency of, and time to, long-term outcomes (sustained remission, erosions in RA,
           radiographic progression in AS, and endoscopic mucosal healing scores in CD and UC).

        3. Change in quality of life measures over time

      Exploratory aims:

        1. To describe the above outcomes in patients switching from the legacy drug, to the
           biosimilar.

        2. To describe the above outcomes in patients switching from the biosimilar to the legacy
           drug Investigators will be working with two types of cohorts; more specifically, new
           cohorts collecting data prospectively and established cohorts that will share
           retrospective and prospective data as per Data Transfer Agreements. Data from these
           cohorts will be analyzed together.

      Specific Outcomes

        1. Discontinuation of initial therapy, measured as the number of patients who discontinued
           the initial treatment during the follow-up period.

        2. Persistence on the initial therapy, defined as the time in months from cohort entry
           until drug discontinuation/switching.

        3. Frequency of patients starting or increasing prednisone or other immunosuppressive drug.

        4. Frequency of treatment failure, measured as the proportion of biosimilar or legacy drug
           patients who discontinue treatment due to ineffectiveness during follow-up.

        5. Time to treatment failure, measured in months from drug initiation until treatment
           failure.

        6. Frequency of clinical remission, measured by disease-specific measures including for RA,
           the Disease Activity Score (DAS28), and Simple Disease Activity Index (SDAI); the
           Spondylitis Disease Activity Score (ASDAS), the Assessment in SpondyloArthritis
           International Society (ASAS) response criteria, Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional
           Index (BASFI), Stoke Ankylosing Spondylitis Spine Score (mSASSS) and Bath Ankylosing
           Spondylitis Disease Activity Index (BASDAI) in AS; Crohn's Disease Activity Index
           (CDAI), Harvey-Bradshaw Index (HBI) for CD and Mayo or Partial Mayo Score (PMS) for UC.

        7. Serious adverse events (SAEs), measured as the proportion of patients in each group
           presenting with an AE that is fatal or life-threatening, requiring or extending a
           patient's hospitalization, resulting in persistent or significant disability or
           incapacity, inducing a congenital anomaly or birth defect, or otherwise be considered
           important by the physician.

        8. Long-term outcomes: frequency of sustained remission, presence of erosions in RA and
           radiographic progression in AS, and improvement or normalization of C-reactive protein
           and fecal calprotectin.

        9. Patient-reported change over time in the EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D), the Health Assessment
           Questionnaire Disability Index (HAQ-DI), the Short Inflammatory Bowel Disease
           Questionnaire (SIBDQ), Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) and the veterans RAND 12 (VR-12).

      OBJECTIVES

      The primary objectives are to compare, in biologic-naive patients, new users of biosimilar
      drugs versus new users of the equivalent legacy drugs:

        1. Frequency of discontinuation of the initial therapy

        2. Persistence (time until drug discontinuation) for the initial therapy

        3. Frequency of patients starting or increasing prednisone or other immunosuppressive drugs

        4. Frequency of and time to discontinuation of treatment due to ineffectiveness

        5. Frequency of and time to

             1. Induction and maintenance of response

             2. Clinical remission and sustained clinical remission

        6. Frequency of and time to serious adverse events.

      Methods

      Enrolment:

      Investigators are working with pan-Canadian, prospective cohorts of patients with
      inflammatory rheumatic diseases (rheumatoid arthritis, RA, and ankylosing spondylitis, AS)
      and Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) (Crohn's disease, CD, and Ulcerative Colitis, UC).
      Cohort members eligible for our study are patients starting treatment with any biosimilar or
      any legacy drug. Patients will be enrolled over an approximate 24 month-period and the
      follow-up period will be up to four and a half years.

      Patients will be followed for a maximum period of four and a half years for the study
      including patients who permanently discontinue the biosimilar or equivalent legacy drug
      treatment. Data for the study will be entered at enrolment and then approximately every 3
      months in the first year of follow-up and then every 6 months thereafter up to 24 months. To
      complement information collected by each cohort, patients' data obtained from administrative
      health databases, including hospitalizations, physician billing, and prescription drugs will
      also be collected. For those patients who reach the 24-month mark before the end of our study
      (Dec. 2022), investigators will continue to collect data at yearly intervals (with a final
      data collection at month 54) so that an exploratory analysis of outcomes beyond 24 months can
      be done. Off protocol visits for patient reported increases in disease activity will occur as
      clinically indicated, but no additional data are required for collection.

      Statistical analysis

      As mentioned earlier, the primary analyses will focus on biologic- naïve patients prior to
      starting one of the drugs under study. Secondary analyses of non-biologic naïve patients will
      be done, adjusting for number of prior biologics at baseline.

      Baseline characteristics will be presented using descriptive statistics to compare the two
      treatment groups. All continuous data will be expressed as the median (with range or
      interquartile range, IQR) or mean (with standard deviation SD) when appropriate. Categorical
      data will be presented as counts and percentages. Further descriptive comparisons of
      follow-up data will include: mean and cumulative doses, augmentation/reduction of therapy,
      and initiation or changes in the dose of prednisone and DMARDs/immunosuppressive agents.

      In univariate analysis, groups will be compared in terms of frequency of treatment
      discontinuation for any reason, treatment failure due to ineffectiveness, and the occurrence
      of AEs including SAEs. Clinical remission, disease progression, and patient-reported outcomes
      will be assessed at time points during follow-up. Disease damage will be assessed through
      presence of erosions/radiographic progression in RA and AS, and specific surgeries (joint
      replacements in AS and RA, abdominal surgery for CD and UC).

      For the continuous variables, the change over time between the two groups will be analysed
      using linear mixed models for repeated measures. Fixed effects of time will be estimated, and
      diagnosis, sex and age will be included in the analysis as possible effect modifiers.

      Kaplan-Meier curves will be used to compare time from cohort entry to: i) treatment
      discontinuation/switching for any reason, ii) treatment failure due to ineffectiveness; iii)
      first episode of clinical remission, iv) SAE v) disability. Additional Kaplan-Meier curves
      will be plotted to compare time under sustained remission (from first remission until loss of
      effectiveness).

      Then the same outcomes will be assessed using multivariate survival analyses during
      follow-up. In these analyses, the main exposure will be modeled as binary time-fixed
      indicator of drug used at cohort entry, as well as time-dependent cumulative duration and
      time-dependent cumulative dose of the biosimilar and the legacy drug. Survival analysis (Cox
      regression model) will be conducted to evaluate the risk of any SAE during follow-up.
      Separate Cox regression analysis will be conducted to evaluate the risk serious infection
      (defined as those requiring a hospitalization, emergency visit, or intravenous antibiotics),
      malignancies, and congestive heart failure, during the observational period. All models (for
      effectiveness and safety analyses) will be adjusted for the baseline covariates: sex, age,
      race/ethnicity, education, smoking, comorbidities, disease duration, disease activity,
      non-biologic or biologic DMARDs drugs, steroids, NSAIDs and COXIBs.

      KNOWLEDGE TRANSLATION (KT) PLAN The results of this project will be disseminated in part
      through traditional methods of dissemination, such as publication in peer reviewed and open
      access journals and abstracts submitted to national and international meetings. The advisory
      committee will also advise on the development, implementation and progress of KT activities
      in this project. Investigators will provide updates to Health Canada via the DSEN
      coordinating office in two formats: quarterly interim reports and a final report. Through
      quarterly interim reports investigators will share information on the status of the project,
      provide early results from preliminary analysis, as well as inform DSEN about potential
      modifications of project milestones and/or research protocols as needed. Investigators will
      also provide a final report, and make use of DSEN contacts with policy makers to ensure that
      results are adequately disseminated. Dissemination to a wide audience (researchers, policy
      makers, and other stakeholders) at DSEN-sponsored workshops (such as those held in the
      context of annual meetings of CADTH and the Canadian Association for Population Therapeutics
      [CAPT]) may also be possible.

      A novel element of our KT plan will be the presentation of the preliminary and final results
      at stakeholder workshops. The presentation will help investigators gather information from a
      wide range of stakeholders (patients, physicians, and policy makers) regarding reasons for
      our results.

      SUMMARY With this proof of concept project, investigators aim to demonstrate the feasibility
      of creating a network of clinical cohorts and other resources to provide real-world
      information on the use of biosimilar drugs in Canada. The core of the proposal revolves
      around the clinical datasets, but as investigators will complement that with analyses of
      national drug patterns using NPDUIS data. CAN-AIM is well-positioned to develop an effective
      program of research and surveillance related to biologic and biosimilar drugs.
    
  