
    
      This is a prospective, single center, non-randomized study designed to correlate Kyma
      measurements and in-hospital parameters as well as the changes in TFC and vital signs with
      clinical changes in the outpatient setting for 60 days post-discharge. The patient and
      hospital study personnel will be blinded to the Kyma data captured by the device. No
      intervention will be performed on the patient based on the Kyma device data, this is an
      observational study.

      The goals of the study are:

        1. Follow thoracic fluid and vital signs in acute, hospitalized heart failure(HF) patients
           with evidence of volume overload to evaluate this combined parameter in relation to
           decongestion (time to clear lung auscultation or clearing of congestion on chest x-ray
           or decrease in BNP by 50%), clinical symptoms, physical exam, and biomarker results.

        2. Evaluate the relationship between lung decongestion as externally measured and
           hemodynamic parameters as measured by pulmonary artery catheter in a subset of patients

        3. Correlate changes in thoracic fluid content and vital signs with clinical changes in the
           outpatient setting for 60 days post-discharge.

        4. Evaluate the feasibility of implementing a physician-directed, patient- managed model of
           diuretic and vasodilator adjustment.

      Patients will be approached for enrollment within 24 hours of presentation to the hospital.
      The Kyma device will be applied to the patient. Data will be automatically collected by the
      device: TFC will be measured every 30 minutes and vital signs will be measured several times
      an hour.

      Information collected at baseline by the study coordinators will include medications, lab
      work (CBC, Chemistry, BNP), ejection fraction(EF), weight, vital signs, and lung auscultation
      for both Cohorts.

      Cohorts I and II may be enrolled concurrently. For patients enrolled in Cohort I, PA readings
      will be recorded at baseline and 3 times daily until the pulmonary artery(PA) catheter is
      removed.

      While hospitalized, all patients will have daily weights, intake/output, Physical
      Exams(edema, jugular venous distention(JVP), lung exam) and vital signs will be recorded
      twice daily. Lab results will be recorded as well as any changes in medication.

      After hospital discharge, the patients will wear the Kyma device for an additional 60 days.
      Patients will be contacted by telephone at 10 days, 30 days, and 60 days post-discharge for
      weight measurements, medication changes, and assessment of any Office Visits, or
      ER/Hospitalizations for SOB.

      The Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire will be administered at hospital
      discharge and 30 and 60 days post-discharge.
    
  