
    
      In the current proposed pilot study, application of a low level laser light device,
      manufactured by Erchonia Corporation, to reduce the pain of vulvar vestibulitis will be
      evaluated. The Erchonia Laser device will emit three independent 7 milliWatt, 635 nanometer
      red light diodes in a hand-held device and is a variable frequency pulsed wave device.

      Erchonia low level lasers have been determined safe and effective and non-significant risk
      (NSR) by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for application for numerous and various pain
      reduction indications, providing justification for the anticipated safety and effectiveness
      of application of the Erchonia Laser to reduce pain in patients with vulvar vestibulitis. The
      FDA has granted 510(k) clearances for Erchonia low level laser devices for five pain
      reduction indications, all cleared under Product Code 'NHN', defined as: "A light based
      non-laser device that emits energy in infrared or other wavelengths, provides non-heating and
      non-thermal effect, and is indicated for adjunctive use in pain therapy or related
      indication. It does not provide therapeutic topical heating."

      The research will be conducted at ProHealth Care; Inc. across four campuses. Patients will be
      seen in private rooms in the therapy departments.

      All study staff are licensed in the field of either Occupational Therapy or Physical therapy
      (2 in each) with the advanced continuing education necessary to call them a "specialist" in
      the treatment of pelvic floor disorders. All investigators will complete CITI training for
      research.

      Subjects will be referred into the ProHealth Care system via a prescription for pelvic floor
      therapy signed by a licensed medical professional with the expertise to diagnose Vulvar
      vestibulitis. Written information regarding the study and proposed treatment will also be
      mailed to a larger group of pelvic floor therapists in the greater Milwaukee Wisconsin region
      through a "Pelvic Floor Study Group" list informing them of the need for subjects with this
      diagnosis so that they may inform their clients of the availability of such research. These
      clients may then request a referral from their private health care provider.

      The pilot study will be completed in twelve months following the commitment of ProHealth
      Care, Inc. Institutional Review Board as well as procurement of initial funding through
      grants applied for during 2013. There will be 10 patients enrolled in the pilot study.

      Patients will be screened after they are referred by their physician for physical therapy.
    
  