
    
      Intradialytic hypotension (IDH) is a common complication during hemodialysis (HD) which
      accounts up to 5 to 30 percent of all dialysis treatment and is associated with increased
      morbidity and mortality. The etiology of IDH is multifactorial, but intravascular volume
      depletion, autonomic neuropathy, and decreased cardiac reserve were the main factors. Several
      approaches were utilized to prevent IDH including adaptation of dialysis prescriptions,
      lengthening in dialysis time, avoiding food intake during dialysis, as well as limiting
      interdialytic sodium intake and administration of vasoconstrictor agents. However, it remains
      necessary to seek novel effective and safe inventions for IDH. To date, no studies have been
      done to evaluate the effectiveness of acupuncture and traditional moxibustion during HD for
      safety reasons (eg: risk of bleeding, burns and unpleasant smell). Therefore, the heating
      device appears to be a non-invasive and safe method for treating IDH. The investigators
      conduct a clinical trial using heating devices without direct contact to the skin on low
      temperatures (56±8℃) in treating patients with IDH. 30 eligible participants diagnosed with
      IDH will be enrolled and divided into Early heating Group and Late heating Group. Treatment
      1# will be regular dialysis 3 times per week for 4 weeks. Treatment 2# will be regular
      dialysis 3 times per week plus "HEALTHY BOX" Powered heating pad on acupoint CV4 at the
      abdomen for 1 hour during dialysis, also for 4 weeks. For Early heating Group, each subject
      will receive Treatment 1# first, for Late heating Group, Treatment 2# will be received first.
      Then, it takes 2-week washout period with regular dialysis 3 times per week and make Early
      heating Group and Late heating Group crossover. Primary outcomes will include blood pressure
      changes, the degree of cold intolerance, the degree of fatigue after dialysis and recovery
      time from fatigue after dialysis, cardiothoracic ratio, dose of midodrine used, the
      percentage of target ultrafiltration achieved and blood biochemistry. All the above data will
      be collected at the beginning of the study (baseline), end of Treatment 1 # , and end of
      Treatment 2#. The difference of evaluation scores between baseline and post-treatment will be
      analyzed using paired - T test. A value of P < 0.05 will be regarded as statistically
      significant for the above statistical analyses.
    
  