
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerable dose (MTD) and recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of oral
      triapine when used in combination with cisplatin plus radiation therapy.

      II. To determine the oral bioavailability of triapine. III. To describe the pharmacokinetics
      (PK) of oral and intravenous triapine.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether the metabolic complete response (mCR) rate of oral triapine in
      combination with cisplatin chemoradiation using fludeoxyglucose F 18 (18F-FDG)-positron
      emission tomography (PET) computed tomography (CT) at post-therapy (3-month) is at least 70%.

      II. To determine clinical overall response rate, progression-free survival, and overall
      survival.

      III. To determine the correlation of methemoglobin proportion (%) and triapine
      pharmacokinetic exposure.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine whether active human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) antiretroviral therapy
      impacts the antitumor activity of triapine.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of triapine.

      Patients undergo pelvic external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) or intensity modulated
      radiation therapy (IMRT) 5 days per week for 5 weeks (25 fractions) with a 3-day boost in
      week 6, and 1 or 2 applications of low dose rate (LDR) brachytherapy in week 6 or 5 fractions
      of high dose rate (HDR) brachytherapy at week 4 or 5. Patients also receive triapine
      intravenously (IV) over 120 minutes on day 1 and orally (PO) on days 2-5, 8-12, 15-19, 22-26,
      and 29-33 within 90 minutes after pelvic irradiation, and cisplatin IV over 60-120 minutes
      once weekly for 5 weeks (days 2, 9, 16, 23, and 30). Treatment continues in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may receive a 6th cycle of cisplatin
      IV during the parametrial boost or any make-up radiation treatment in a sixth week of
      external beam radiotherapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 3 months.
    
  