
    
      TREATMENT PLAN :

      Following randomisation patients will receive Arm A : AZD2014 plus anastrozole or Arm B:
      anastrozole alone AZD2014 will be administered with an intermittent schedule i.e. 125 mg bis
      in die (BID) intermittent with 2 days on followed by 5 days off per week for a total weekly
      dose of 500 mg/week (250mg D1 and D2, 5 days off) Anastrozole will be administered at the
      standard dose defined in the SPC i.e. 1mg/d, per os, continuously.

      Both treatment will be administered until progressive disease (PD), unacceptable toxicity or
      willingness to stop.

      STATISTICS :

      A total of 72 patients will be randomized in the study.

      Safety run-in Phase on the first 9 patients randomized - As no dose escalation will be
      performed, the safety will be evaluated following the treatment and 8-week follow-up of the
      first 6 patients by the experimental association AZD2014+anastrozole (experimental arm). By
      similarity to a classic 3+3 design, based on binomial probabilities, there is a 90%
      probability of observing one or more patients with a toxicity event, if that event occurs in
      at least 32% of the target population. Assuming a 2:1 randomization ratio, a total of 9
      patients (Arm A - Experimental: 6 patients, Arm B - Control: 3 patients) will be enrolled in
      this safety run-in phase and will be included in the evaluation of Phase II part.

      Phase II The sample size calculation was based on a Simon optimal two-stage design, with a
      minimum success (8-week non progression) rate considered of interest p1=60% and an
      uninteresting rate p0=40%. Assuming a type I error alpha of 0.05 and 80% power, 46 evaluable
      patients are needed in the experimental arm to reject the null hypothesis H0: p≤p0 versus the
      alternative hypothesis H1: p ≥ p1 in a unilateral situation (16 patients in Stage I and 30
      additional patients in Stage II).

      With a 2:1 randomization and based on the assumption that 5% of the patients may be
      non-evaluable, a total of 72 patients will be included in the study : 48 patients in Arm A -
      experimental and 24 patients in Arm B - control).

      DATA ENTRY, DATA MANAGEMENT AND STUDY MONITORING All the data concerning the patients will be
      recorded in the electronic case report form (eCRF) throughout the study. serious adverse
      event (SAE) reporting will be also paper-based by e-mail and/or Fax.

      The sponsor will perform the study monitoring and will help the investigators to conduct the
      study in compliance with the clinical trial protocol, Good Clinical Practices (GCP) and local
      law requirements.
    
  