
    
      The treatment of resistant gram positive infections remains problematic, with glycopeptides
      remaining the mainstay of current management. Unfortunately these can only be administered by
      the IV route, with no useful activity when given orally for these infections. Thus while oral
      flucloxacillin or ampicillin are used as follow up to IV treatment in the management of
      infections caused by antibiotic sensitive Staphylococcus aureus or enterococcal respectively,
      in the case of antibiotic resistant infections the whole course of antibiotics is usually
      given by the IV route. To some extent this is because there is insufficient evidence to
      support routine use of other oral agents and means that patients with antibiotic resistant
      infections stay in hospital longer than those with antibiotic sensitive infections.

      Linezolid is a relatively newly available antibiotic that has been shown to be as, and in
      some settings more effective than glycopeptides in the treatment of resistant gram positive
      infections including MRSA. Unfortunately Linezolid is significantly more expensive than other
      currently available agents making it important to evaluate the cost benefit aspects of its
      use in comparison to similarly effective agents.

      Switching from IV to a suitable oral alternative in the management of resistant gram positive
      infection could potentially result in significant saving in the duration of IV therapy and
      would allow patients to be discharged earlier. This would provide a significant cost benefit
      which in the face of Linezolids equal if not superior efficacy would justify more widespread
      use in order to allow suitable patients to be treated at home.

      The rationale behind this study is to determine the level at which this can be implemented in
      an NHS teaching hospital Trust. To do this we will identify patients who could potentially
      benefit from early discharge on oral therapy, implement this where possible and compare the
      actual effect on LOS with the potential identified in the earlier cohort of patients.

      We propose to prospectively assess the economic and clinical impact of switching from IV
      glycopeptides to oral Linezolid and implementing home treatment on oral therapy policy over
      an 18 month period in HHT hospitals Two senior infection specialists(a Medical
      Microbiologist, K Bamford and an Infectious Disease physician, A Holmes) will independently
      review each patient together with the study pharmacist and decide if the individual is
      suitable for switch to an oral agent and/or discharge using standardised criteria for
      decision making. Patients will be studied to assess the number of attributable bed days, line
      use days, ward pharmacist interventions (to trigger monitoring and adjust dose) and
      investigations and medical complications that accrue due to IV administration following
      glycopeptide prescription. The various costs to the Trust which are saved when the IV
      glycopeptide is switched to a suitable oral alternative and early discharge implemented will
      be calculated
    
  