
    
      The following variables will be followed: age, sex, occupation, hospital location at the time
      of positive culture (ER, medical ward, ICU, etc.), prior hospitalization or nursing home
      admission, receipt of outpatient dialysis, home care or other regular medical care (eg,
      outpatient chemotherapy), presence of invasive devices, receipt of antibiotics, including
      their type and whether they were adequate for the resistance profile of the organism, and
      prior positive microbiologic cultures. All sites are collecting the following information
      that was collected as part of the patient's clinical treatment. The following variables will
      be collected at all sites: time and location of positive cultures, underlying diseases and
      severity of illness, presence of urinary or intravascular devices, recent immunomodulative
      therapies or radiation therapy, physical exam findings, laboratory and radiographical data,
      antimicrobial usage within 30 days of onset of the infection, microbiological data and
      resistance patterns, choice of antibiotics once the organism is identified, bacteriological
      outcomes, laboratory results, demographic information, medications, clinical outcome, gender,
      height, weight, ethnicity, and past medical history. We will collect information
      prospectively for one year. The bacteria in the patient's cultures will be subcultured (after
      the diagnosis has been obtained since the microbiology lab would otherwise destroy the
      culture) and provided to the honest broker who will de-identify the specimen and link it to
      the medical information collected (which will also be de-identified by the honest broker).
      The following evaluation will be performed on these samples. The minimal inhibitory
      concentration of the antibiotic used in treatment will be performed by the E-Test method (AB
      Biodisk, Solna, Sweden). Specific mechanisms of antimicrobial resistance will be studied with
      emphasis on the presence of beta-lactamases produced by the bacteria. This evaluation will be
      performed by analytical isoelectric focusing techniques as well as PCR and gene sequencing
      analysis to determine genes encoding beta-lactamases. Biologic samples will be under the
      control of the principal investigator of this research project. All samples provided to the
      investigators are de-identified by the honest broker and will be coded with numbers. The
      information linking these code numbers to the corresponding subjects' identities will be kept
      in a separate, secure location that only the honest broker has access to. The investigators
      on this study will keep the samples indefinitely. Samples will be kept in the investigator's
      laboratory located in Scaife Hall, room 812, 3500 Terrace Street. At no time will the
      research investigators have access to any patient identifiers. Medical record information and
      bacteria samples from facilities outside of UPMC will be provided to the PI de-identified. At
      no time will anyone on the research team have access to patient identifiers. All information
      and bacteria are collected as part of the patient's clinical treatment.
    
  