
    
      Pertussis and influenza are the most poorly controlled vaccine preventable diseases in the
      United States. Pregnant women have increased risk of severe disease from influenza and
      newborns have increased risk of severe disease from influenza and pertussis. The Advisory
      Committee on Immunization Practices and American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists
      recommend women receive influenza and pertussis (Tdap) vaccine during each pregnancy, yet
      only about half of pregnant women receive these vaccines. Among identified barriers to
      maternal immunization are patient concerns about vaccine safety and effectiveness and lack of
      evidence for how ob-gyn providers can best communicate vaccine recommendations. Interventions
      to address these barriers and increase uptake of maternal immunizations are urgently needed.
      Motivational interviewing (MI) is a communication technique that has proven effective for
      changing health behaviors including increasing adolescent vaccination rates. MI is both
      time-effective and acceptable to providers. The long-term goal of this project is to adapt MI
      to the ob-gyn setting to improve influenza and Tdap vaccine uptake in pregnancy. There is
      evidence to support use of MI for childhood immunizations; however it is unknown if MI is
      feasible and acceptable among ob-gyn providers and pregnant women. The investigators propose
      a pragmatic practice-based study in 5 Colorado ob-gyn practices to develop the MI for
      maternal immunizations (MI4MI) intervention and assess acceptability, adoption and
      implementation among patients and providers. Aim 1 will use an iterative process building
      upon existing knowledge of patient concerns about maternal immunizations and our prior
      experience training providers in MI for childhood immunizations to develop the MI4MI
      training. During development, the investigators will conduct focus groups for provider input
      and [organizational context. The MI4MI intervention will include a video-module, in-person
      training, provider reference sheets, and practice study champions. Aim 2 will include
      intervention implementation and assessment of MI4MI acceptability, adoption, and
      implementation. The study team will audio-record a sample of provider visits with patients
      with vaccine concerns to assess fidelity of the intervention. Audio-elicitation interviews
      will be conducted to assess acceptability of MI4MI among patients. This qualitative method
      uses a recorded interaction to guide a semi-structured interview. The investigators will
      conduct post-intervention provider focus groups to assess acceptability and adoption of the
      MI training intervention. The study team will also conduct pre- and post-intervention surveys
      among providers to assess time spent and self-efficacy in vaccine communication. Providers
      will receive Maintenance of Certification or Continuing Medical/Nursing Education credit for
      participation. In Aim 2a, investigators will conduct pre- and post-intervention chart reviews
      in study practices to evaluate the impact of MI4MI on influenza and Tdap vaccine uptake in
      pregnant patients. This study will provide data for a larger implementation study with
      rigorous assessment of the effectiveness of MI4MI in increasing maternal immunization uptake
      in the future.
    
  