
    
      Recovery from injury can be counterintuitive and taxing. It is natural to feel protective and
      prepare for the worst. Healthy exercises can seem unwise. It can seem like things are taking
      too long or getting off track. We have noticed that small improvements such as being able to
      resume a cherished activity (e.g. knitting or swimming) or achieving some success with
      exercises (e.g. obtaining full supination after fracture of the distal radius), can help
      patients feel like things are going to be okay. That feeling seems to make it easier to do
      exercises and resume function activities.

      We wonder if awareness of this process (mindfulness) would help patients recover more
      rapidly. Keeping a journal is one method for encouraging mindfulness. It allows patients to
      express themselves and tell their stories. There is evidence that such "narrative medicine"
      can be healing. We anticipate that patients who perceive little or no progress will be able
      to look back on how they were feeling earlier on and appreciate that things are moving in the
      right direction. We also hope that their journal material might be useful for other patients
      that are having trouble seeing the "light at the end of the tunnel", so as part of this
      study, we will get permission to use their quotes anonymously in future patient care
      materials and future research. To our knowledge, research on the impact of keeping a personal
      diary/journal of recovery is scant, particularly pertaining to recovery from upper extremity
      trauma.

      Explanatory variables:

        -  Diary or no Diary

        -  Diagnosis (fracture, sprain, contusion, skin laceration, complex laceration [tendon,
           nerve])

        -  Location (hand, wrist, forearm, elbow, arm, shoulder)

        -  Sex

        -  Age

        -  Education

        -  Work status

        -  Insurance (worker's compensation, private, public, other)

        -  Visit type

        -  Prior treatment received

        -  Other pain conditions

        -  Smoking status

        -  Marital status

        -  Physical or Occupational Therapy
    
  