
    
      "Screening for the need of an extensive haematological investigation in order to determine
      the existence of inherited or acquired haemostatic abnormalities at the pre-anaesthesia visit
      is part of a routinely used strategy to prevent perioperative haemorrhagic complications. In
      France, this screening is mainly based on a basic set of haemostatic tests: prothrombin time
      (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) and platelet count (PC). When these tests
      are abnormal, the patient may undergo a more complete set of haemostatic tests and, if
      needed, be referred to a haematologist for advice. Nevertheless, all published studies have
      pointed out the scarce efficacy of preoperative PT/aPTT/PC testing for hemorrhagic risk
      assessment.

      Therefore, in 2011 several professional societies have advised AGAINST using this strategy
      and advocated its replacement by a structured questionnaire for the screening of the need of
      further haemostatic investigations (to validate or not an increased risk of perioperative
      haemorrhage). Nevertheless, the performance of a screening strategy relying on such a
      structured questionnaire has never been studied in the pre-anaesthesia context. This probably
      explains why many anaesthesiologists still continue to prescribe PT/aPTT/PC to detect
      haemostatic abnormalities and don't use any questionnaire.

      Thus, our hypothesis is that a validated structured and simple questionnaire is an accurate
      screening strategy to determine patients requiring further haemostatic investigations in the
      preoperative setting.

      One of the main reasons for the non compliance with the guidance advising against the use of
      screening haemostatic tests (PT/aPTT/PC) for the identification of patients with potential
      haemorrhagic risk is probably related to the fact that the alternative strategy proposed to
      anaesthesiologists (the use of a structured questionnaire) has never been investigated before
      in the context of the pre-anaesthesia visit. Therefore, the present project would estimate
      the diagnostic performance (sensitivity and specificity) of a simple structured questionnaire
      to identify patients requiring further haemostatic investigations (i.e. patients for whom
      further haemostatic investigations would conclude to an increase haemorrhagic risk). The
      innovative approach of the project is related to: (i) the choice of a simple structured
      questionnaire, specifically conceived to be used at the pre-anaesthesia visit; (ii) a study
      design that takes into account the needs of the final users (the anaesthesiologist and the
      surgical team).

      To estimate the diagnostic accuracy of a questionnaire at the pre-anaesthesia visit, to
      identify patients requiring further haemostatic investigations for haemorrhagic risk
      assessment as defined by a full haemostatic investigation (i.e. patients for whom full
      haemostatic investigations would conclude to an increase haemorrhagic risk)

        -  To estimate the diagnostic accuracy (specificity, sensibility and likelihood ratios) of
           the current routine care strategy at the pre-anaesthesia visit (i.e. no structured
           questionnaire, and prescription of further haematological tests at the sole discretion
           of the anaesthesiologist) to identify patients requiring further haemostatic
           investigations for HgR as defined by the gold standard (a full haemostatic
           investigation).

        -  To measure the improvement in the identification of patients requiring further
           haemostatic investigations for HgR assessment using a simple structured questionnaire,
           compared to usual care, in pre-operative patients (i.e. to describe how many patients
           are adequately reclassified by using the questionnaire).

        -  To describe how many patients had a major peri-operative bleeding event with respect to
           the answers to the simple structured questionnaire."
    
  