
    
      Upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage (UGIH) is one of the most common gastrointestinal
      emergencies, and is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. Acute upper
      gastrointestinal hemorrhage (AUGIH) management guidelines call for aggressive hemodynamic
      resuscitation, prevention and treatment of complications and treatment of bleeding, which
      generally includes endoscopic intervention and transfusion of appropriate blood components.
      However, in many cases, spontaneous hyperfibrinolysis occurs, jeopardizing pharmacological
      control of AUGIH. Antifibrinolytic drugs are considered effective in counteracting
      hyperfibrinolysis, but are associated with various side effects, such as neurotoxicity and
      accelerated fibrinolysis upon prolonged use.

      Fibrin clot breakdown is actively mediated by plasmin, a serine protease which cleaves
      fibrin. Administration of plasma depleted of plasminogen, the precursor of plasmin, may shift
      the balance towards coagulation.

      PlasFree Ltd. has developed ClearPlasma, a single-use, extracorporeal plasma filtration
      device which extracts plasminogen from plasma to reduce fibrinolysis. The resulting
      plasminogen-depleted plasma (PDP) is expected to reduce risk of fibrinolysis and re-bleeding
      in Patients undergoing plasma transfusions.

      The Primary Objective of this trial is to assess the safety profile of a one-time infusion of
      up to two units of PDP obtained through filtration with ClearPlasma in Patients presenting
      with acute upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage and to compare it to the same procedure carried
      out using FFP units.

      The Secondary Objective of this trial is to assess the efficacy of a one-time infusion of up
      to two units of PDP obtained through filtration with ClearPlasma in the reduction of
      re-bleeding in Patients presenting with acute upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage (as a measure
      of the performance of ClearPlasma) and to compare it to the same procedure carried out using
      FFP units.
    
  