
    
      The study will recruit 30-40 young healthy Asian men of Chinese, Malay or Indian descent.
      Volunteers will visit Clinical Nutrition Research Centre (CNRC) on 1 or 2 occasions: once for
      consenting and screening procedures (visit 1) and once to follow a 3 hour test session (visit
      2). Consenting, screening and the test protocol can take place on the same day or can be
      scheduled on separate days. In this study the investigators will study the changes in energy
      expenditure and substrate oxidation when changing posture between sitting and standing. Visit
      1 (screening): For screening, potential subjects will come in the morning after an overnight
      fast. After obtaining informed consent, a series of screening tests will be conducted,
      including questionnaires (general health, physical activity and eating behaviour),
      anthropometry (height, weight), blood pressure, resting heart rate, body composition and body
      proportions (waist circumference, hip circumference, sitting height, leg length, relative leg
      length, mid-arm circumference, mid-thigh circumference, calf circumference). The physical
      activity questionnaire will quantify physical activity level. The eating behaviour
      questionnaire will determine intentional restriction of food intake. Body composition will be
      measured using an electrical impedance analyser and the BodPod. Body proportions will be
      measured using a non-stretch measuring tape. Blood pressure and resting heart rate will be
      measured using an automatic blood pressure monitor. All these methods are non-invasive and do
      not cause any pain. Visit 2: This test session will last for approximately 3 hours in the
      morning, during which the following will take place: During each test session, the subject
      arrive at the centre between 8:00 and 9:00 in the morning after an overnight fast and has
      been instructed to avoid any physical activity/exercise and alcohol on the day prior to the
      test. The session will start after the subject enter the whole body calorimeter. The first 45
      minutes after entering, resting metabolic rate will be measured. Therefore, the subject will
      lie down comfortably on a bed in a supine position. Over the following 60 minutes the subject
      will alternate a sitting and standing position every 15 minutes based on the researchers
      instructions. The subject will then receive a drink and snack to consume and there will be a
      15 minute break in which the subject can take a toilet break if necessary. The break will be
      followed by a second sequence of 60 minutes in which the subject alternates a sitting and
      standing position every 15 minutes. After this subject will leave the whole body calorimeter
      and is free to go home.
    
  