
    
      Exposure to maternal mental illness early in life can have a negative effect on children's
      own mental health and behavior problems putting them at risk for intergenerational
      transmission of mental illness (Comaskey et al., 2017; Reupert, Maybery, Nicholson, Gopfert,
      & Seeman, 2015; Goodman et al., 2011; O'Connor, Monk, & Burke, 2016; Dean et al., 2018; Roos
      et al., 2016). In order to address this concern, there have been recent calls for action for
      the development of early intervention programs (Shonkoff, 2016; Chartier, 2016; Patel et al.,
      2016; Waddell et al., 2007) that support both mother and child in a dual generation capacity
      (Luthar & Eisenberg, 2017; Shonkoff & Fisher, 2013). In this study, the investigators are
      particularly interested in the mechanisms involved in maternal self-regulation, defined as
      the effortful regulation of one's emotions and behaviors and what effect it has on children's
      self-regulation. The investigators propose that dysfunction in maternal self-regulation
      serves as a risk factor for the intergenerational transmission of mental illness. Partially
      due to the fact that dysregulation in mother's own emotions puts them at risk for mental
      illness and can also lead to challenges in developmentally supportive parenting (Aldao, Gee,
      De Los Reyes, & Seager, 2016; Kochanska, Philibert, & Barry, 2009; Strauman, 2017;
      Zeytinoglu, Calkins, Swingler, & Leerkes, 2017) such as scaffolding emotional socialization,
      stress management, impulse control (Zeytinoglu et al., 2017, Crandall, Deater-Deckard, &
      Riley, 2015) and often at times leads to implementation of poor parenting practices (Choi et
      al., 2018; Dittrich et al., 2018). Children ages 3-5 are of particular interest as they are
      in a developmentally sensitive period of self-regulation skills (Blair & Diamond, 2008;
      Gilliom, Shaw, Beck, Schonberg, & Lukon, 2002; Woodward, Lu, Morris, & Healey, 2017). The aim
      of this study is to gain further insight into what factors of maternal mental illness are
      most relevant to the development of children's self-regulatory impairments and negative
      outcomes. The study will also investigate how exposure to chronic stress interacts with
      maternal mental illness to affect development. The investigators are especially interested in
      studying the effects of chronic stress exposure on biological stress-related systems such as
      the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA) and the autonomic nervous system (ANS) to see
      how intervention can target these systems.

      The study has two primary objectives:

        1. Establish a better understanding of the self-regulatory processes that are altered in
           preschool-aged children exposed to maternal mental illness, and determine the mediating
           role of parenting behaviours, as well as the moderating impact of chronic stress
           exposure The investigators predict that children with mothers who have a mental illness
           will have more self-regulatory deficits and that this relationship will be partially
           mediated by parenting skills. Whereas the effects of maternal mental illness will be
           exacerbated by exposure to chronic stress.

        2. Develop and evaluate a novel dual-generation intervention for mothers with mental
           illness and their 3 to 5-year-old children based on existing gold-standard
           evidence-based approaches. The investigators predict that our dual generation approach
           to intervention will improve self-regulatory outcomes in both mother and child.

      Methodology

      Intervention Group:

      Mothers experiencing symptoms of mental illness will be recruited from the local agencies
      serving this population and the general community. All interested participants will be phone
      screened to determine eligibility. If a participant passes the phone screener questionnaire,
      they will be scheduled for the intake interview in which a PhD level clinical psychology
      graduate student will complete the MINI Neuropsychiatric Interview (Sheehan et al., 1997) to
      determine if the participant has experienced a recent major depressive episode. If this is
      found to be the case, the participant is scheduled for a 2.5 hour laboratory assessment (T1)
      in which mother and child will participate a variety of self-report, behavioral, and
      biological assessments (see primary outcome measures for more details).

      After the T1 assessment, mothers will participate in the novel BRIDGE Therapy Program, which
      occurs once a week for 2 hours for 20 weeks. The BRIDGE Therapy Program is a mix of
      Dialectical Behaviour Therapy (DBT) and parent skills training. DBT aims to support clients
      in achieving "a life worth living" by reducing self-destructive behaviours and scaffolding
      self-regulatory skills while acknowledging the inherently difficult experiences individuals
      have endured (Valentine, Bankoff, Poulin, Reidler, & Pantalone, 2015). DBT has proven to be
      effective in treating a wide range of mental illnesses characterized by self-regulatory
      deficits (Valentine et al., 2015; Tomlinson & Hoaken, 2017; Behavioral Research & Therapy
      Clinics, 2018). DBT content also shares many characteristics with evidence-based
      interventions aimed at promoting childhood self-regulation (Maag, 2016; Bierman & Motamedi,
      2015), and because of this, the parenting component of the BRIDGE Therapy program is matched
      to the four DBT modules; mindfulness, interpersonal effectiveness, emotion regulation, and
      distress tolerance. Throughout the program, data will be collected weekly on attendance,
      DBT/parenting skill implementation through the use of diary cards, and at weeks 2, 9, 15 on
      child behavior and symptoms of depression (see secondary outcome measures).

      After the completion of the 20-week BRIDGE Therapy Program participants will come in for a
      second laboratory assessment (T2) which will follow identical procedures to those outlined in
      T1.

      Participants will be compensated for their time at each assessment on an ascending pay scale.
      They will be provided with $30.00 compensation for their intake interview, $60.00 for
      assessment 1, and $90.00 for assessment 2. The ascending pay scale is provided to encourage
      retention and has been used in previous projects by the primary researcher and collaborators.
      Furthermore, systematic efforts will be taken to reduce barriers to treatment and encourage
      retainment. Participants will be aided in transportation costs (i.e. bus tickets) and
      provided with meals and childcare services while in group therapy sessions and for lab
      visits.

      Control Group:

      A sample of household income and age-matched mother-child dyads not exposed to maternal
      mental illness will be recruited and participate in identical intake and assessment (T1)
      procedures to the ones described above. The primary goal of the income-matched control
      families is to provide comparison information about baseline differences in child
      characteristics associated with maternal mental illness that informs the directionality of
      expected intervention effects.

      Planned Analyses:

      The investigators will examine the extent to which our measures are related using
      correlational analyses. The investigators will use Mplus software to examine multivariate
      analyses. Mother age, child age, and child gender will be examined as covariates. Child
      gender will also be examined as a moderator in domains that have a theoretical and evidence
      base.

      Objective 1. When group differences emerge, structural equation models will characterize the
      extent to which maternal self-regulation predicts child characteristics and parenting
      mediates effects. Chronic stress exposure will also be examined as a moderator of
      associations. Objective 2.To measure the effects of the intervention repeated measure
      analyses will be used to examine the changes in our primary measures for mothers and children
      in the BRIDGE Therapy program. Next, exploratory analyses will be used to determine the
      extent to which changes in maternal function predict changes in each child outcome.
      Structural equation models will be employed to identify the relative contributions of
      maternal characteristics to changes in child outcomes as well as moderating (i.e. chronic
      stress, child gender) and mediating (i.e. parenting) paths of interest.

      Expected Outcomes:

      The BRIDGE Therapy Program is a novel intervention that is designed to target self-regulatory
      deficits and prevent the inter-generational transmission of mental illness due to these
      deficits. The program addresses the gaps in the literature by targeting parenting skills and
      both mother and child mental health outcomes. Although this is just the pilot study of the
      program, data from this project will be used to influence further development of the program
      so that outcome measures can be further improved. By taking a rapid-cycle approach to the
      development of materials along with the precise evaluation of the mechanisms involved, the
      investigators are setting the stage for the program to be adapted to meet the needs of
      at-risk families and to be tested in a large-scale RCT. Furthermore, by evaluating the
      processes involved in self-regulation for children exposed to maternal mental illness and how
      they respond to the intervention will inform us of how maternal mental illness impacts
      development. The ultimate goal of the project is to develop a dual-generation program that
      can prevent the intergenerational transmission of mental illness and improve outcomes for
      at-risk families.
    
  