
    
      Surgery performed during general anesthesia induces a stress response partially through a
      catabolic energy state. As a result, serum glucose may rise to levels which have been
      associated with major morbidity and mortality. In patients undergoing cardiac surgery,
      typically "tight glycemic control" strategies are used to prevent hyper- and hypo-glycemia in
      the perioperative period, before the effects of perioperative hyperglycemia begin to emerge.
      In one study a high percentage of patients in the control group had intraoperative blood
      glucose levels over 225. After one hour of surgery: 20%, after two hours: 28%, after three
      hours: 31% and in the post-anesthesia recovery room: 52% of patients. These high levels of
      glucose could be associated with significant post-operative morbidity such as wound infection
      and pneumonia as shown in the cardiac surgery population.

      Glucose alterations induced by psychological stress have been studied in rats but not in
      humans.

      Midazolam is a short acting benzodiazepine that depresses central nervous system. It is
      indicated for anxiolysis, amnesia and sedation. We hypothesize that the administration of
      midazolam may be beneficial in suppressing the catabolic energy state, maintaining normal
      glucose levels during this stressful period. This commonly available inexpensive drug, which
      is tolerated well by the majority of patients, may be useful in maintaining normal glucose
      levels and minimize adverse postoperative outcomes, such as wound and urinary tract
      infections and pneumonia.

      We propose a prospective, single blind (subject only) randomized study to measure glucose
      levels in non diabetic patients undergoing both ventral and inguinal hernia repair. Patients
      scheduled for hernia repair will be approached on the morning of surgery (on E yellow) and
      following the completion of the informed consent process, a preoperative capillary glucose
      reading will be performed via the portable Abbott Freestyle™ Glucometer. Subjects with a
      preoperative reading of greater than 110 will be excluded from the study. Prior to the
      administration of any medication, we will ask all subjects to complete the State Trait
      Anxiety Inventory for Adults (STAI Form Y-1 and Y-2). This is a research instrument for
      anxiety in adults. It is comprised of 40 questions at a 6th grade reading level. It is
      designed to differentiate between the temporary condition of "state anxiety" and a long term
      personality trait. We will determine whether the subjects' perioperative glucose level
      correlates with the his/her score on the STAI.
    
  