
    
      Statement of the problem Despite all the technological advancements in the dental profession,
      fear toward dentistry remains a major concern and potentially distressing problem in daily
      practice (Oliveira et al. 2014).

      Dental fear is a normal emotional reaction to one or more specific threatening stimuli within
      the dental situation and Intra oral injection is considered one of the most fear-provoking
      stimuli in the dental setting. Excessive or unreasonable fear or anxiety can influence daily
      living and result in prolonged avoidance of dental treatment leading to a public health
      dilemma (Shim et al. 2015).

      People with high dental fear, children and adults, may prove difficult to treat, require more
      time, and present with behavioral problems which can result in a stressful and unpleasant
      experience for both the patient and treating dental practitioner (Armfield & Heaton 2013).

      Rationale Intra-oral injections have been shown to be among the most fear-provoking stimuli
      in the dental setting.(Berge et al. 2016) Dental patients with fear and anxiety may also
      become dependent on pharmacological approaches for the management of their care, particularly
      if they do not receive treatment for their anxiety (MCGoldrick et al. 2001).

      Assessment of high intra-oral injection fear is of paramount impact in offering the affected
      patients appropriate treatment , such as cognitive behavioral therapy and applied tension.
      (Berge et al. 2016) Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) is a goal-orientated talking therapy
      which aims to help people manage their problems by changing how they think and behave in
      relation to their problems. CBT incorporates a variety of different cognitive and behavioral
      strategies which aim to help the patient modify the unhelpful behaviors or thoughts
      maintaining their anxiety. (Marshman et al. 2018) Applied tension is a treatment method that
      is used with patients with blood-injection-injury phobia to alter their physiological
      response to the feared stimulus. The method includes repeated muscle tensing when in the
      presence of feared stimuli to counteract the drop in blood pressure and prevent vasovagal
      syncope.(Mednick et al. 2012) During Dental Procedures Some children may experience vasovagal
      syncope, proper history taking from those patients will help the dentist get prepared for
      such a probability.(Vika et al. 2008) Some adjusted behavior management techniques are used
      in order to prevent fainting, for example, applied tension (Vika et al. 2008)
    
  