
    
      Nowadays, treatment strategies for patients affected by metastatic pancreatic ductal
      adenocarcinoma (PDAC) are still very scant. Gemcitabine and fluoropyrimidine based
      chemotherapy regimens are standard I line chemotherapy. Recently, landmark genome-wide
      studies revealed the existence of a distinct subpopulation of PDAC with highly unstable
      genomic properties, due to mutations in DNA Damage Repair genes (DDR), in particular BRCA1/2
      mutations. Germline mutations cause a deficiency in deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage repair
      due to inhibition of DNA double-strand breaks repair by the mechanism of homologous
      recombination. Cancer cells rely on DNA repair to survive the damage induced by genotoxic
      stress and DNA repair enables cancer cells to accumulate genomic alterations that contribute
      to their aggressive phenotype. BRCA1/2 abrogation and homologous repair deficiency (HRD)
      confer sensitivity to DNA damage-inducing drugs, in particular those inflicting cytotoxic DNA
      crosslinks that interfere with DNA replication. The sensitivity of BRCA1/2-mutated tumors to
      platinum compounds has been validated in multiple pre-clinical and clinical studies.
      Nevertheless, similar lesions are induced by DNA-alkylating agents, which include
      mono-functional (e.g. mitomycin C) or bifunctional alkylators (e.g. chlorambucil). Small
      molecule inhibitors of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) have been recently developed and
      they showed an interesting activity and efficacy in breast, ovarian and pancreatic cancer
      tumors. Although platinum drugs and PARP inhibitors show initially good responses in the
      clinic, most patients acquire resistance to these drugs. Chlorambucil shows high selective
      toxicity against human cells and xenograft tumors with compromised BRCA1/2 function. Patients
      affected by metastatic ductal adenocarcinoma, pretreated with at least one previous
      platinum-based chemotherapy, will be treated with oral chlorambucil for 42 consecutive days
      After restaging, responder patients and those with stable disease will receive for 14
      consecutive days every 28 days until disease progression (RECIST 1.1 criteria) or unbearable
      toxicity, patient refusal or medical decision.
    
  