
    
      This study is a single center, open-label phase 1 clinical trial designed to determine the
      safety of escalating doses of autologous activated T lymphocytes (ATLs) expressing the
      chimeric antigen receptor specific for the kappa-light chain of human immunoglobulins (CAR.κ)
      in subjects with relapsed/refractory kappa-positive (κ+) mantle cell and indolent non-Hodgkin
      lymphomas (NHL). During dose finding, up to 12 subjects will receive a single infusion of ATL
      product expressing the CAR.κ encoding the CD28 co-stimulatory endodomain (CAR.κ.28). The
      starting dose will be 5.0 × 105 cells/kg. Up to 3 dose levels of CAR.κ.28 cells will be
      tested with at least 3 subjects enrolled in each dose cohort before dose escalation is
      considered based on the incidence of dose limiting toxicity (DLT). Prior to receiving the
      cell product, subjects will undergo lymphodepletion with fludarabine and bendamustine or
      cyclophophamide. Dose escalation will be guided by the modified 3+3 design. Any dose level
      may be expanded to 4-9 subjects to obtain more data at that dose or to include subjects for
      which insufficient cells are manufactured to enroll on their assigned higher dose level. If
      due to the expansion the estimated DLT rate at a dose is ≥0.33, the study would not escalate
      to the next highest dose level and the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) would be exceeded. If
      needed, an expansion cohort will enroll up to 8 subjects at the RP2D to further assess safety
      and efficacy of CAR.κ.28 cells. Secondary endpoints include evaluation of progression free
      survival (PFS), response rate (RR), duration of response (DoR) and overall survival (OS). The
      persistence of CAR.κ.28 cells in the peripheral blood will be assessed as an exploratory
      objective. The final RP2D including expansion data will be the dose with the DLT rate closest
      to 0.2.

      The adoptive transfer of T cells targeting the kappa light chain (CAR.κ) is a promising
      treatment for patients with relapsed/refractory κ + NHL and has shown encouraging preclinical
      activity [37]. The CD8α stalk incorporated into CD28 signaling domain within the CAR, may
      improve the persistence of the CAR.κ T cells. Therefore, subjects in this study are being
      infused with this newly modified version of CAR.κ.28 so that persistence and efficacy will be
      improved compared to the older version of the CAR.κ molecule.

      We hypothesize that CAR.κ.28 will be well tolerated in subjects with relapsed/refractory
      indolent and aggressive lymphomas positive for the kappa light chain and will show efficacy.
      We also anticipate that CAR.κ.28 will show fast expansion in the peripheral blood in the
      first 2 - 3 weeks, but also longer term persistence than the previous version of CAR.κ.28.

      In this phase 1 single center study, peripheral blood will be collected for production of
      CAR.κ.28 cells prior to conditioning chemotherapy in subjects with relapsed/refractory κ+
      indolent lymphoma including follicular lymphoma grade 1-3b, splenic marginal zone lymphoma,
      extranodal marginal zone lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue, nodal marginal zone
      lymphoma, and mantle cell lymphoma. During the approximately 1-2 months necessary for CAR-T
      cell production, subjects may undergo standard of care treatment ("bridging therapy") per
      physician's discretion. Subjects must sign consent forms before cells are procured and again
      prior to undergoing lymphodepleting chemotherapy and cellular treatment. At 2-14 days
      (preferably 2-4 days) after lymphodepletion with bendamustine and fludarabine, we will infuse
      the CAR.κ.28 cell product. Subjects in this study will receive CAR.κ.28 cell product in one
      of the three planned dose escalation cohorts. Dose levels of CAR.κ.28 cells administered will
      range between 5.0 × 105 cells/kg and 2 × 106 cells/kg. These doses have been evaluated in
      previous phase 1 studies of CAR-T cell lymphocytes [37-39] including a phase 1 trial
      targeting the kappa light chain on malignant B cells in which the construct included the CD28
      co-stimulatory endodomain [37]. An expansion cohort will enroll up to 8 subjects at the RP2D
      to further assess safety and efficacy of CAR.κ.28 cells. In all subjects, we will measure the
      persistence of CAR.κ.28 cells in the peripheral blood at different time points by measuring
      the level of the transgene and by phenotypic analyses.

      OUTLINE

      Cell Procurement Peripheral blood, up to 300 mL (in up to 3 collections) will be obtained
      from subjects for cell procurement. In subjects with inadequate lymphocyte count in the
      peripheral blood, a leukapheresis may be performed to isolate sufficient T cells. The
      parameters for apheresis will be up to 2 blood volumes.

      Lymphodepleting Regimen Subjects will receive a "pre-conditioning" cytoreductive regimen of
      bendamustine 70 mg/m2/day administered IV followed by fludarabine 30 mg/m2/day administered
      IV over 3 consecutive days. These agents will be administered per institutional guidelines.
      Prophylaxis (e.g., hydration, antiemetics, etc.) needed prior to fludarabine and bendamustine
      chemotherapy will be provided per institutional guidelines. At the discretion of the clinical
      investigator, subjects with a known history of intolerance to bendamustine may be considered
      for lymphodepletion with cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2/day administered IV followed by an IV
      dose of fludarabine 30 mg/m2/day administered over 3 consecutive days. These agents will be
      administered per institutional guidelines.

      Cell Administration The cellular product consisting of CAR.κ.28 cells will be administered by
      a licensed healthcare provider (oncology nurse or physician) via intravenous injection over 5
      - 10 minutes through either a peripheral or a central line. The volume of infusion will
      depend upon the concentration of the cells when frozen and the size of the subject. The
      expected volume will be 1-50cc.

      Post lymphodepletion, subjects who meet eligibility criteria for cellular therapy will
      receive CAR.κ.28 cells within 2 - 14 days, but preferably within 2-4 days, after completing
      the lymphodepleting chemotherapy regimen.

      During dose finding, a single dose of CAR.κ.28 will be given after lymphodepletion. The cell
      dose levels that will be evaluated are outlined below.

      Expansion Cohort, CAR.κ.28 will be given after lymphodepletion. Subjects will receive the
      RP2D.

      Duration of Therapy

      Therapy in LCCC1811-ATL involves a single cell infusion of ATLCAR cells. Treatment with at
      least one infusion will be administered unless:

        -  Subject decides to withdraw from study treatment, or

        -  General or specific changes in the subject's condition render the subject unacceptable
           for further treatment in the judgment of the investigator.

      Duration of Follow-up Subjects will be followed for up to 15 years for RCR evaluation or
      until death, whichever occurs first. In addition to this follow-up, subjects removed from
      study treatment for unacceptable adverse events will be followed until resolution or
      stabilization of the adverse event.

      Subjects who experience unequivocal disease progression and start alternate therapy after
      receiving a cell infusion still be required to complete abbreviated follow up procedures.
    
  