
    
      This study is designed to analyze the response of diffuse, intrinsic brainstem glioma (DIPG)
      to Antineoplaston therapy in 5 separate patient cohorts, which are defined by age and prior
      therapy. The primary endpoint is objective response (OR), but the determination of OR in DIPG
      is problematic. Determination of OR using the Macdonald, RANO, and RECIST criteria relies on
      postgadolinium TI-weighted MRI images of enhancing disease. However, DIPG shows variable
      enhancement and has a non-enhancing component as seen on T2/FLAIR-weighted MRI images. Recent
      reviews have proposed OR assessment in diffuse low grade gliomas using modified RANO criteria
      and in recurrent glioblastoma using RECIST + F (T2/FLAIR-weighted images).Neither of these
      methodologies have been validated.

      This single-arm Phase 2 study of the efficacy of Antineoplaston therapy in DIPG will utilize
      both bidimensional assessment of enhancing DIPG (RANO), a validated primary endpoint, and
      unidimensional assessment of enhancing + non-enhancing DIPG (RECIST + F), an exploratory
      endpoint.

      This Phase 2 protocol has a strategy for early assessment of response rates with procedures
      for termination of enrollment for lack of efficacy. A minimax two-stage design is utilized.

      Ten patients with enhancing disease will be enrolled in stage 1 for each cohort. If none of
      the 10 patients in a particular cohort achieves an OR based on bidimensional measurements, no
      additional patients with enhancing disease will be enrolled into that particular cohort.
      However, if 1 of the 10 patients with enhancing disease in a particular cohort achieves an
      OR, then an additional 10 patients with enhancing disease will be enrolled in stage 2 of the
      minimax design for that cohort, yielding a maximum of 20 patients with enhancing disease for
      that cohort. As exploratory endpoints, complete response (CR), partial response (PR), and
      progressive disease (PD) rates, as well as 6-, 12-, and 24-month overall survival (OS) will
      be analyzed.

      Patients with no enhancing disease will also be enrolled into each cohort but will not count
      against the numbers designated in the two-stage minimax design. An exploratory endpoint for
      these patients will be 6-, 12-, and 24-month OS.

      Other exploratory endpoints will be determination of OR, CR, PR, and PD based on
      unidimensional measurement of the enhancing + non-enhancing components of DIPG (RECIST + F).

      At completion of this study, the efficacy of Antineoplaston therapy in each cohort and the
      desirability of its further development in any particular cohort will be determined in
      discussion with the FDA.
    
  