
    
      Study population To evaluate the epidemiology and prognosis of uterine cancer in Taiwan, we
      will conduct a nationwide analysis through linking national cancer registry database. Every
      citizen in Taiwan has a life-long identification number to link individual information,
      including health status. The Taiwan household registry database provided by Department of
      Health will be the source population. National household registry and death certificate will
      be adopted to ascertain the live status of study subjects, and provided individual
      demographic characteristics. All individual linkages between databases will be conducted
      according to the study protocols, i.e. databases will be linked by corresponding
      identification number, name (Chinese characters) and birthday, and all data included in this
      study will be analyzed without individual identification information. The agreement of
      utilizing the databases in the study was obtained from the Bureau of Health Promotion in
      Taiwan.

      Incident and death cases ascertainment Patients with uterine cancer, including uterine
      carcinoma, uterine sarcoma … etc., will be identified from computerized linkage to the Taiwan
      national cancer registry with International Classification of Diseases for Oncology Third
      Edition T-code C540-C543. Histological types will be identified from morphology code in the
      cancer registry database. Women affected by uterine cancer and found death due to uterine
      cancer (International Classification of Diseases 9th edition code 182) in deaths certificate
      will be defined as death cases.

      Statistical Analyses The numbers of person-years at risk of developing and dying for uterine
      cancer will be calculated. Incidence rates will be calculated by dividing the number of
      uterine cancer cases by the person-years at risk of developing uterine cancer. Mortality
      rates will be calculated by dividing the number of uterine cancer deaths by the person-years
      at risk of dying from uterine cancer. The association between mortality and age, histology,
      time periods will be estimated through Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and Cox's proportional
      hazards model. It is defined as significant difference statistically when p value is less
      than 0.05.
    
  