
    
      Thoracotomy surgeries, both open and video assisted, are often carried out in the lateral
      decubitus position. This necessitates the flexion of the surgical table into an inversed 'v'
      shape to optimize surgical access to the operative side.

      However, this position is also associated with mechanical injuries of the shoulder joint
      ligaments and pulling on the structures of the brachial plexus. With the dependent position
      of the patient's head, the neck is laterally flexed and has potential to cause mechanical
      injury as well. Normal cervical flexion range of motion is about 20-45 degrees, although this
      may be restricted in patients with cervical spine pathology or in the elderly. Ipsilateral
      shoulder pain (ISP) post thoracic surgery is a recognized complication and can be difficult
      to treat. While referred pain from the phrenic nerve is the well-studied cause, some
      literature noted that ipsilateral shoulder pain of the musculoskeletal type is more intense
      than referred ipsilateral shoulder pain. Rarer complications are not well reported but may
      include paraplegia and winging of the scapula. Positioning is also more challenging in obese
      patients, accompanied by a higher risk of position related complications.

      The current method of positioning involves stacking of towels under a head support. To the
      study team's knowledge, no pre-formed head and neck support exists that can cope with the
      required surgical position, movements during the flexing and unflexing of the surgical table,
      as well as the different physical attributes of different patients.

      The study team is concerned regarding the inherent dangers to patient safety, such as
      slippage or instability of a stack of towels, and the need for at least 3 personnel to help
      support the patient's head and neck adequately during positioning. With the anaesthetist
      preoccupied with holding the patient's head during positioning, there is the potential for
      inattention to other important issues such as haemodynamic changes. Existing methods of using
      a bean bag have fallen out of favor in our institution due to restriction of surgical access,
      bulkiness of the bean bag, need for a suction pump, and risk of pressure injury. The bean
      bag's main application is for maintaining the body in a lateral position, not for head and
      neck support.

      Hence, the study team conceptualized the adaptive head and neck support pillow to meet this
      need and address patient safety concerns. Beyond thoracic surgery, it is hoped it will have
      applications in other situations requiring lateral decubitus positioning with flexion of the
      surgical table, such as nephrectomies.
    
  