
    
      A. Objective

      Suicide occurs across demographics and psychiatric disorders, killing at least one million
      individuals worldwide each year. In contrast to other injury-related death such as homicide
      or motor vehicle accidents, suicide rates have increased, particularly among middle-aged
      adults. Clinicians have a limited ability to predict imminent suicidal behavior and few, if
      any, efficacious treatments are available to treat suicidal patients. Advances in the
      treatment of the suicidal patients have been hampered by an incomplete understanding of the
      neurobiological underpinnings of the suicidal crisis, as suicidal thoughts and behaviors have
      not been clearly linked with specific neural circuits.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate possible biomarkers of suicidal thoughts and behaviors
      in individuals currently experiencing a suicidal crisis. In taking a dimensional approach to
      suicide research, we will be able to study phenomenology across Research Domain Criteria
      (RDoC) units of analysis, from genes through circuits to self-report and experimental
      paradigms. Through this approach, we can identify potential neurobiological risk factors for
      both short and long-term suicide risk. As a secondary aim, we will use ketamine to identify
      biomarkers of ketamine response in a sample at acute risk for suicide.

      B. Study Population

      Five participant populations will be recruited into this protocol in order to encompass the
      continuum of suicide risk. A total of 325 individuals will be enrolled in the study.
      Participant populations are individuals with the following conditions: 1.) recent suicidal
      ideation with intent and/or suicide attempt (Group 1- active crisis , n= 65); 2) a past
      history of suicide attempt, but no suicidal behavior in the last year (Group 2, n= 65,
      attempters ); 3) anxiety or mood symptoms, but no recent or past suicidal thoughts or
      behavior (Group 3, n= 65);

      4) healthy controls with no psychiatric or suicide history (Group 4, n= 65); and lifetime
      suicidal thoughts with intent (Group 5, n=65, ideators ).

      C. Design

      The research protocol will occur across three phases: baseline, ketamine response and
      optional repeated infusions. All participants will first be consented into Phase I, which may
      last up to seven days. This baseline phase will entail multimodal assessment, using
      pathophysiological markers (blood draw, lumbar puncture), neuroimaging (fMRI, MEG),
      polysomnography, clinical ratings and experimental paradigms (shock experiments).
      Participants will receive their regularly scheduled daily medications, but will not receive
      additional treatment (including new prn medications, such as benzodiazepines for management
      of anxiety or agitation) during this brief baseline phase. After completion of Phase I,
      eligible participants from Group 1 only (active crisis) will be offered participation in
      Phase II, the ketamine response phase. This phase, which will last up to four days, consists
      of a single, open-label trial of ketamine (0.5 mg/kg). The focus of this phase will be
      identification of potential biomarkers of antisuicidal ketamine response. Participants who
      complete Phase II will be offered Phase III, which will involve repeated ketamine infusions
      over two weeks (2 times/ per week for 2 weeks). Psychiatric medication adjustment will be
      permitted during Phase III.

      After participation in Phases I-III, participants in Groups 1-3 and 5 will be offered
      standard clinical treatment (excluding healthy controls), or participation in another
      protocol. In standard clinical treatment, adjustment of psychiatric medications and
      commencement of psychotherapeutic interventions will be permitted. Finally, participants in
      the first three groups (excluding healthy controls) will receive follow-up evaluations at six
      months and 1 year after completion of Study Phase I.

      D. Outcome Measures

      In Phase I, the outcome measures will be underlying psychiatric, psychological, neuroimaging,
      sleep and biological differences between the participant groups. In Phase II, the outcome
      measures will be reductions in suicidal thoughts and depressive and anxiety symptoms at 24
      hours post-ketamine infusion.
    
  