
    
      The menopause implies the permanent cessation of menstrual bleeding. In western medicine,
      this is associated either with the spontaneous failure of normal ovarian function, or it may
      also result from surgical removal of the ovaries or as a consequence of chemotherapy or
      radiotherapy. In western medicine, the usual treatment of the menopause is the use of
      oestrogen replacement therapy. However, treatment with oestrogen may result in unwanted side
      effects such as breast soreness and nausea. In addition, the long-term safety of oestrogen
      treatment has not been established. Oestrogen is therefore a valuable treatment for the
      menopause, but it is not without side effects. It remains to be seen whether Chinese Medicine
      as described in this proposal can prove to be an effective, safe and well tolerated treatment
      for the menopause. Dang Gui (Radix Angelicae Sinensis) is one Chinese herb that is
      recommended for the treatment of menopausal symptoms. Huang Qi is also used in the treatment
      of the menopausal symptoms to tonify Qi. We have now shown a beneficial effect of Danggui
      Buxue Tang on vasomotor symptoms in postmenopausal Chinese women (Re: CREC Ref. No.
      CRE-2002.152-T). However, we could not show a difference in the reduction in severity of
      symptoms between Danggui Buxue Tang and placebo. We now wish to confirm our initial findings,
      and we hope to obtain more reliable data by (1) only including women who have never used any
      type of treatment for their menopause and (2) by recruiting women who have more severe
      symptoms of the menopause.

      Chinese Herbal Medicines containing Dang Gui and Huang Qi have been used for many years to
      treat menopausal women. There are few data on possible adverse effects of treatment with
      Chinese Herbal Medicine containing Dang Gui as well as Huang Qi..

      The objective of present study is to investigate the dose response relationship to assess an
      optimal dose suitable for clinical use. The trial will be designed as a multiple-dose
      escalation clinical trial to obtain accurate information on the efficacy and safety when used
      for menopausal women. Since previous study has already confirmed that the dose used was
      efficacious, the main purpose of the study is to look for an optimal dose for the treatment
      of menopausal symptoms.
    
  