
    
      BACKGROUND: ABBREVIATED-MINDFULNESS BASED INTERVENTION (A-MBI)

      By the age of 40, 1 in 2 Canadians have been or are presently experiencing mental health
      issues. In particular, anxiety and mood disorders are the most prevalent lifetime mental
      health illnesses, affecting 11.6% of the population. Mindfulness based treatments (MBTs) have
      strong evidence for improving patient wellness through reduction of anxiety and mood symptoms
      in clinical populations. Although efficacious, 'traditional' MBTs are very demanding in terms
      of time and homework a relevant factor when considering the recent calls for wait time
      reductions in psychotherapeutic mental health services. These programs take 30+ hours
      (including 2-3 hr. weekly sessions across 8 weeks, plus a 1-day retreat) and expect 45-60
      min./day of meditation homework. The goal of this project is to test the effectiveness of an
      abbreviated MBI in reducing anxiety and/or mood disturbances and improving patient
      well-being.

      MBTs use a non-stigmatizing approach, combining secularized eastern meditative practices with
      western psychological advances to improve stress-management and self-care. Participants learn
      to generate less distress, engage more positively and fully in their lives and experiences,
      and respond more adaptively to challenges instead of reacting in automatic and unhelpful
      ways. Participants in MBI often describe the intervention as transformative. Professional
      experience and new insights into MBTs suggest that these 'tradition' treatment programs can
      be further abbreviated to develop a effective and accessible clinical intervention. This
      abbreviated MBT has been developed, which if effective will curtail wait-times and increase
      patient treatment annually.

      RATIONAL & HYPOTHESIS/RESEARCH QUESTION

      Rational

      Patients face barriers to accessing psychotherapy, including long wait-times and/or protocols
      that are too demanding for many patients. Traditional Mindfulness-Based Therapies (MBTs) are
      highly studied and well-recognized treatment options to reduce anxiety and mood symptoms -
      demonstrating repeated efficacy in clinical populations. However, the high demands of
      clinical time and homework are a barrier to many patients. Further, longer clinical
      interventions mean fewer patients being treated per hour of clinician's time, and therefore
      longer wait-times. Clinical experience and new insights into MBTs suggest that these
      'tradition' treatment programs can be further abbreviated to develop an effective and more
      accessible therapy. If this Abbreviated MBT is demonstrated to be clinically effective, it
      can reduce barriers to mental health care by reaching more patients in a more timely fashion.

      The specific objective of this study will be to evaluate a novel and potentially highly
      effective strategy to reduce symptoms of depression, anxiety and improve quality of life
      among outpatients in the chosen pilot site, the Odette Cancer Centre.

      Hypothesis/Research Question

      The overall study hypothesis is that patients participating in an Abbreviated MBT will show
      improvement in self-reported measures of clinical primary (Depression, Anxiety) and secondary
      (well-being) outcomes. Improvement will be determined by effect size (magnitude of change
      ≥0.2) based on the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and Beck Anxiety Inventory (BDI).

      Study Significance

      The current pilot study will explore the effects of an Abbreviated-MBT on symptoms of
      depression and anxiety in an outpatient clinical sample; if effective: a) this would be the
      first known pilot study to consider and demonstrate efficacy of an Abbreviated-MBT in a
      clinical outpatient population; b) this treatment could increase the volume of patients
      treated by up to 3x, reduce wait-times by 2-3 fold, and reach a broader group of patients,
      including those for whom the investment of time of traditional MBT is too prohibitive.
    
  