
    
      Extubation readiness of the enrolled infants will be determined solely by and at the
      discretion of the medical team. All enrolled infants will be checked to re-confirm
      eligibility prior to extubation. Those enrolled infants who are ventilated on EMV
      (endotracheal mechanical ventilation) with an airway pressure of 8-11 cm H2O at the time when
      they are deemed extubation-ready by the team will be eligible for randomization. Once
      eligibility for randomization is assessed, the study coordinator will notify the research
      team who will immediately perform a bedside functional echocardiography to assess cardiac
      output and PDA (patent ductus arteriosus) status. In addition, the lung compliance (as
      measured by the ventilator) will be recorded. If a PDA exists and is found to be
      hemodynamically significant, then the infant meets one of the exclusion criteria and will be
      ineligible for randomization.

      Once eligibility is confirmed, infants will be randomized using sequentially numbered sealed
      opaque envelopes. The sequence of the randomization will be pre-determined using a computer
      generated algorithm, and sealed envelopes will be created by study coordinator. Once
      randomized, the infants will be extubated to the "higher" CPAP group (CPAP level 2cm H2O
      higher than extubation EAP) or "equivalent" CPAP group (CPAP level equal to the extubation
      EAP) based on their allocation.

      After ensuring that the infants are stable for one hour (based on pre-defined clinical
      instability criteria) cardiac output will be measured using bedside functional
      echocardiography by members of the research team blinded to the allocation. To ensure
      blinding the research coordinator will cover the relevant digital display of the
      ventilator/CPAP machine (with opaque craft paper and tape) immediately prior to the
      echocardiography. Other aforementioned outcomes will be recorded by the blinded investigator
      using standardized data collection forms. Once all outcome data are collected, the infants
      will cross-over to the opposite arm of the trial and a similar assessment protocol will be
      followed after one hour. The study protocol will be considered completed when the second set
      of measurements is obtained and further respiratory management will be guided by the medical
      team.

      SAFETY ASSURANCE At any point during the study, emergence of any one of the clinical
      instability criteria will prompt the nursing staff to notify the medical team who would
      immediately assess the infant. If the infant shows signs of clinical instability the medical
      team will evaluate the infants' clinical condition as per a pre-defined checklist. When all
      the troubleshooting points mentioned in the checklist are addressed by the medical team and
      the infant is deemed clinically unstable, the infant would be immediately removed from the
      study protocol and parents of the subject will be notified. To ensure that no other factor
      affects the hemodynamic status of the infants during the study, the total fluid intake would
      remain the same and no caffeine citrate would be administered during the period of pre and
      post extubation assessment of cardiac output.
    
  