
    
      The main goal of this project is the development of a military-ready, sensitive and rapid eye
      tracking diagnostic device for individuals with mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI). The
      device will also be tested for its efficacy in diagnosing fatigue and identifying aging
      effects. We will use a predictive visual tracking paradigm to dynamically capture the
      attentional state and correlate the subject's performance with the degree of disruption in
      the attention network caused by mTBI, aging and fatigue. The device will be tested for its
      diagnostic capabilities based on its selectivity, reliability, sensitivity and validity for
      individuals of varying ages (with and without mTBI) and in military personnel who have
      undergone 26 hours of sleep deprivation.

      Testing will be conducted at two sites:

        1. Civilians with mTBI; and civilians with adult attention deficit hyperactivity disorder
           will be tested by trained staff of the Brain Trauma Foundation (BTF) at Weill Cornell
           Medical College (WCMC) in New York City. The ages of the enrolled individuals will range
           between 18-55 years in order to examine aging effects.

        2. Enrolled service members will be tested at the United States Army Research Institute of
           Environmental Medicine (USARIEM) in Natick, Massachusetts. These service members will be
           healthy volunteers without a history of mTBI. Some of these subjects will undergo 26
           hours of sleep deprivation during which they will be tested at specific time points.

      Our objectives are:

      1. Prove that the eye-tracking concept can be brought from a successful laboratory device to
      a specific, reliable, selective, and valid diagnostic tool.

      1.1. Test reliability by examining the test-retest reliability measures of EYE-TRAC;

      1.2. Test selectivity by testing the ability to differentiating the effects of fatigue,
      aging, and mTBI on EYE-TRAC measures;

      1.3. Test validity by determining the relationship between measures of attention and working
      memory based on the EYE-TRAC and validated measures of sustained attention and working
      memory;

      1.4. Test specificity by measuring the spectrum of TBI injury using MRI-DTI and correlate
      with EYE-TRAC.
    
  