
    
      Potential subjects will be identified at the orthopedic presurgical clinic, the anesthesia
      preoperative clinic or the Day Surgery Unit. The electronic medical record (Epic) will also
      be used for prescreening potential subjects. Recruitment and consenting at will occur at
      anesthesia preoperative clinics, Day Surgery Unit. A computer generated randomization list
      will be used for randomization list. The research intervention of this study will take place
      within the standard clinical context. The patient will receive an ACB regardless of their
      participation in this research in accordance with their anesthetic plan and their desires The
      experiment will be conducted as follows: A 20-point grid will be drawn on the subject's leg
      that will receive medial foot, ankle or leg surgery. Two baseline measurements will be taken
      prior to administration of the adductor block: distribution of sensation using pinprick
      (Neuropen) method, and muscle contraction strength using a dynamometer. The number of grid
      cells with sensation will be counted and recorded. The randomized block will be administered
      allowing 20 minutes for anesthetic to take full effect. Post-block measurements include
      pinprick in each of the grid cells, where patient will indicate whether sensation is felt or
      not. The cells where sensation is perceived will be circled and number of cells will be
      recorded. After sensation is recorded, maximum voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) will
      again be measured with the dynamometer to record the maximal contraction strength. Within 24
      hours of surgery, the subject will be asked to rate their pain on a scale of 0-10, and will
      be recorded again after discharge, in conjunction with opiates required to reduce pain. A
      more detailed explanation of experimental steps can be read below.

      20-Point Grid: The 20-point grid will be marked starting with anatomical landmarks at the
      knee joint: the medial inter-knee joint where the tibia meets the femur, the mid medial
      patella, the mid lateral patella, and along the same line at the semitendinosus tendon at 5
      cm posterior from that point. Then 5 cm intervals will be plotted progressing cephalad to a
      total of 15 cm.

      Neuropen test:

      Prior to administration of randomized blockade technique a pinprick test will be administered
      using a Neuropen on a scale of 0-1, with 1-normal sharp sensation and 0=dull change of
      sensation. Mechanical stimulation with pinprick testing is routinely used to test nociception
      in the bedside neurologic examination. Sharpness can be considered a surrogate for
      nociception because whereas sharpness is not necessarily painful, mechanical thresholds for
      sharpness closely parallel those for pain. The subject will be asked to determine whether the
      stimulus feels sharp. The number of grid-points with a change in sensation from baseline will
      be recorded at baseline and 20 minutes after the block.

      MVIC:

      Additionally, MVIC will be measured by a handheld dynamometer (Lafayette Instrument Company,
      Lafayette Indiana) to determine muscle strength at baseline and after the adductor block. The
      patient will be in a seated position with the thigh parallel to the floor and the knee at a
      90-degree angle with the feet off the floor. The dynamometer is applied to the leg 5 cm above
      the transmalleolar axis and perpendicular to the tibial crest. The patient is instructed to
      extend the leg at the knee with sustained maximal force for 5 seconds. This will be repeated
      3 times with 30 seconds rest between each movement, and the force will be recorded (Newtons).

      Adductor Canal Blockade The adductor canal block will be performed using a linear HFL38xp or
      a linear HFL38x ultrasound probe (X-Porte or M-Turbo; SonoSite; Bothell, Washington). The
      site that is to receive the ACB will be sterilized with chlorhexidine gluconate 2% and 70%
      isopropyl alcohol prep. A skin weal of lidocaine 1% (2-5mL) will be delivered. A Tuohy needle
      (17 gauges) will be inserted through the skin wheal under ultrasound guidance towards the
      target nerve location. Ropivacaine 0.5% 15ml will be injected for either adductor canal
      locations.27 Pain Scores and Opiate Consumption A follow-up visit will be performed in person
      for inpatients or via phone for outpatients within 24 hours from discharge to assess for pain
      control, and monitoring side effects. It will take 10 minutes. Adverse events will be
      monitored during the 24-hour period of the study.

      Potential Risks Potential risks include loss of confidentiality or mild discomfort associated
      with the pinprick for sensory testing. Risks that are involved with administration of
      ropivacaine are primarily damage to surrounding tissues, including nerves, and may cause
      bleeding or infection from injection or an unknown allergy to ropivacaine that develops
      during the administration of the drug. There are no additional physical or psychological
      risks that may result from participation in this research protocol since patients will have
      determined that they desire perineural blockade before study inclusion is even proposed.

      Subject Safety and Data Monitoring Any serious adverse reaction, including allergy and local
      anesthetic systemic toxicity, will result in immediate discontinuation of study related
      procedures and treatment as necessary. Serious adverse events will be reported to the
      Institutional Review Board. The data already obtained from a participant who has had a
      serious adverse event will be analyzed according to intention-to-treat principle.

      If non-inferiority between the two neurosensory blockade techniques is significantly detected
      at 50% enrollment (or enrollment of 34 patients), the study will be stopped. The study will
      also be stopped in the event that there is overwhelming statistical evidence at interim
      analysis that the two blocks are different, or in the very small chance that there are
      multiple adverse events in the study population.
    
  