
    
      In humans, cholesterol is acquired from dietary sources and is produced de novo in the liver,
      intestine, and various other tissues. Normally, the balance among cholesterol synthesis,
      dietary intake, and degradation is adequate to maintain healthy cholesterol plasma levels;
      however, in subjects with hypercholesterolemia, elevation in low-density lipoprotein
      cholesterol leads to atherosclerotic deposition of cholesterol in the arterial walls
      (atherosclerosis) and subsequent coronary heart disease. Thus, it has been established that
      lowering the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol plasma concentrations effectively reduces
      cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Additional lipid risk factors for coronary heart
      disease include elevated triglyceride, very low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and
      low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels, and low levels of high-density lipoprotein
      cholesterol.

      Despite changes in lifestyle and the availability of potent lipid-lowering agents,
      cardiovascular disease continues to be the major cause of death in Western Europe and North
      America. Serum cholesterol levels exceeding 5 mmol/L (193 mg/dL) are common in adults in
      Britain and much of Europe, the United States, Australia, and New Zealand, representing a
      serious public health concern.

      Currently, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (ie, statins) are the
      first-line monotherapies prescribed for the treatment of dyslipidemia, after diet and
      therapeutic lifestyle changes alone fail to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol to
      desired levels. Statins reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglycerides,
      increase high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and improve endothelial function. Treatment
      with statins reduces the risk of a vascular event by about 30% in subjects with and without
      symptoms of arteriosclerosis; however, many subjects fail to reach recommended levels of
      low-density lipoprotein cholesterol reduction after receiving low-dose statins as a
      monotherapy. Consequently, the dosage of statins is often increased or an additional
      treatment is added; the latter has become an important therapeutic option for achieving
      increasingly stringent lipid targets set forth by international therapeutic guidelines.

      Simvastatin, a long-established treatment for dyslipidemia as monotherapy or in combination
      with other drugs, is a lactone that, once hydrolyzed, inhibits 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl
      coenzyme A reductase. At the molecular level, the rate of synthesis of cholesterol depends
      primarily on the highly regulated activity of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A
      reductase.

      TAK-475 (lapaquistat acetate) is a squalene synthase inhibitor currently under development at
      Takeda for the treatment of dyslipidemia. This study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of
      lapaquistat acetate taken with simvastatin in subjects with hypercholesterolemia. Total
      participation time in this study is expected to be up to 24 weeks.
    
  