
    
      The primary aim of this prospective, international audit of practice is to identify risk
      factors for failure of epidural blood patch (EBP) in the Obstetric population after
      accidental dural puncture (ADP) with an epidural needle. Other aims are to describe the
      epidemiology, management principles, side effects and complications of ADP and longer-term
      effects of ADP on patients undergoing Obstetric anaesthesia and analgesia. Expectation is
      that this audit of practice will provide important information in understanding the reasons
      for failure of EBP and subsequently to better manage parturients affected by this
      debilitating complication.

      Postdural puncture headache (PDPH) is the most common serious complication of accidental
      dural puncture (ADP), and feared by every Anaesthesiologist. It is associated with
      significant peri-partum maternal distress, and poor bonding with the baby, which in turn
      leads to physical disability for the mother and psychological and social implications for the
      whole family. It is estimated that about 10,000 parturients in Europe may have an accidental
      dural puncture (ADP) each year. Attitudes and practices in the management of ADP are based on
      small studies, and sometimes driven by experience rather than evidence. Although several
      methods have been described in the literature to treat PDPH, one common method used is an
      epidural blood patch (EBP). This is believed to be successful in about 60-80% of parturients
      on the first attempt, but results from most studies are based on a small numbers of patients.
      The reasons and predisposing factors for success and failure of different management
      strategies, specifically EBP, therefore needs to be investigated and described. Large
      observational studies on post-dural puncture headache in the Obstetric population are
      singularly absent from the literature.
    
  