
    
      Depression is a widespread mental disorder which can result in severe impairment and reduced
      quality of life for those affected. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is the approach with
      strongest empirical support, and is often recommended as treatment for depression, as in the
      NICE Guidelines for Depression from 2009. However, research indicates that not all patients
      respond to CBT, indicating a need to expand the range of available evidence-based
      psychotherapies, and mapping the mechanisms of change in existing treatments.

      Emotion focused therapy (EFT) is one promising treatment for depression with empirical
      support for its efficacy. A previous study found equal outcome in CBT and
      Process-Experiential treatment/EFT for depression, but more studies are needed to replicate
      these findings across cultural contexts. The main aim of this study is to investigate whether
      there are significant differences in the therapeutic effect of EFT compared to that of CBT
      for patients with moderate and major depressive disorder in a Norwegian outpatient setting.

      Although several psychotherapeutic approaches have shown efficacy in the treatment of
      depression, no psychotherapeutic interventions is beneficial for all patients. There is a
      need for research that investigates what treatments works for whom, based on patient
      characteristics and preferences. The present study will investigate whether patient
      characteristics moderate treatment outcome, both within and between treatment conditions. In
      addition, qualitative interviews will be conducted to get a deeper understanding of what
      clients find helpful and challenging within the CBT and EFT condition, and to explore the
      experience of patients who drop-out of the treatment process.

      In order to further develop psychotherapeutic treatments and increase their effectiveness,
      there is a need to identify processes that are related to good and poor outcome.
      Process-outcome studies are commonly used for this purpose. The present study will
      investigate and compare characteristics of psychotherapy processes in both the CBT and EFT
      conditions and how these are related to outcome.

      Study design and Method

      The study will be conducted as a randomized controlled trial (RCT) in order to compare the
      efficacy of EFT to CBT. RCT's are considered the gold standard for efficacy studies.
      Participants will be recruited from the Norwegian mental health program "Return to work", a
      publicly funded treatment program where patients with common mental health issues receives
      outpatient psychotherapeutic treatment to reduce and prevent sick leave.

      The present study will address the following research hypothesis and questions:

        1. EFT and CBT will not result in significantly different outcome in the treatment of
           patients with moderate and major depressive disorder.

        2. Patient characteristics (severity of depression, adverse childhood experiences and
           clients' initial ability to make sense of their experience) will moderate treatment
           outcome for both conditions.

        3. Will therapeutic processes (therapeutic alliance, therapist empathy, clients' ability to
           make sense of their experience and emotional processing) mediate treatment outcome
           equally for both conditions?

        4. What do patients in both conditions describe as helpful and unhelpful aspects of
           treatment?

        5. How do patients in both conditions describe their own change or lack or change after
           treatment?

        6. How do patients that choose to drop out of treatment describe the processes leading to
           that decision?
    
  