
    
      Treatment protocol:

      This clinical study was conducted following the approval of the research ethics committee for
      experimental and clinical studies at the National Institute of Laser Enhanced Sciences, Cairo
      University, Egypt (approval number CU-NILES/16/20 May 2020) with the principles outlined in
      the Declaration of Helsinki for human subject experimentation being followed. Informed
      consent will be obtained from the patients, and the privacy rights will be continuously
      observed.

      This study will be conducted on 60 patients with COVID 19 of all ages and both sex.

      Patients will be divided into 3 groups:

      Group 1: photobiomodulation This group included the use of laser watch and laser acupuncture

      Laser watch Patients will be subjected to low level laser (diode laser 980nm) for 30 minutes,
      the recommended dose based on previous study is 20 J for 3 to 7 days.

      The laser device:

      Laser watched applied at the wrist on the radial artery.

      Laser acupuncture Patients will receive laser acupuncture using pulsed infra- red laser,
      wavelength 880 / 905/980 nm, spot size diameter of 5 mm frequency 2500 Hz, average power 15
      W, energy of 225 mJ applied for 2 min per point and pulse width of 100 ns and area = 0.2 cm2.
      Patients will receive one session daily for 7 days.

      Laser acupuncture was applied at the following points (World Health Organization 2008). The
      points where the laser acupuncture will be applied are demonstrated in the following figures:

        -  For cough and chest tightness, wheezes and congestion: LU1, 2, 5, 7, 9, 14 (fig.1) For
           improving immunity and blood circulation, also for dyspnea and GIT manifestation also,
           breaks up blood stagnation in the chest: ST36

        -  Affects the throat, chest, lungs: CV12, CV4 Sore throat, coughing, & asthma: KI3 Fig

        -  Laser acupuncture device could be applied simultaneously on all points same time by
           special multi-channel device (fig3)

      Group 2 (photodynamic therapy) Methylene blue injection USP 1% will be used as a
      photosensitizer in PDT.

        -  0.1 to 0.2 mL of 1% solution per kilogram of body weight Methylene Blue (methylene blue
           injection) will be injected intravenously very slowly over a period of several minutes
           to prevent local high concentration of the compound from producing methemoglobin (low
           concentrations will convert methemoglobin to hemoglobin and will be activated by light).

        -  After one hour apply Light dose: 100 - 200 J/cm2 50-100 mW/cm2. (50 mW/cm2 increased the
           phototoxic response as well as fractionated light application).

        -  Session will be done twice per week

      The laser device:

      Laser watched applied at the wrist on the radial artery. Group 3: positive control This group
      will include patients who are subjected to conventional treatment Evaluation and assessment
      All patients will be subjected to thorough examination with complete personal and clinical
      history and will do the following before and after treatment: PCR, CBC, CRP, ESR, D dimers,
      liver enzymes, and Ferritin, CT chest

      Endpoint Treatment will be stopped if no improvement occurred after one week

      Statistical analysis

      All statistical calculations were done using computer programs SPSS (Statistical Package for
      the Social Science; SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL) v.16 for Microsoft Windows. Continuous variables
      were tested for normality by the Shapiro-Wilk normality test. Values are presented as mean ±
      standard deviation, or in the case of non-normally distributed data as median and
      inter-quartile range. For comparison between paired parameters (before and after treatment),
      paired t-test or the Wilcoxon matched-pairs signed-rank test were used according to data
      normality. For comparison between independent groups, the chi-squared test was used to
      compare percentages between different groups of patients. Normally distributed data were
      analyzed using independent samples t-test. Non-normally distributed data were analyzed using
      the Mann-Whitney U-test. p values <.05 were considered statistically significant.
    
  