
    
      This is a prospective, dual parallel arm human subject study aimed at determining the
      relationship between level of sedation (consciousness) and features of multi and uni-sensory
      evoked potentials with the ultimate goal of developing novel means of detecting consciousness
      under anesthesia with potential for application to other clinical settings such as brain
      injury. For this purpose, the investigators have chosen two anesthetics with fundamentally
      distinct mechanisms of action: propofol and ketamine.

      The study will involve healthy compensated volunteers. On the day of the study, an EEG cap
      will be applied to the participant for monitoring brain activity and an intravenous line will
      be placed for drug administration. Blood pressure, ECG, pulse oxymetry, and end-tidal carbon
      dioxide (from nasal cannula) will be monitored. Supplemental oxygen will be administered
      using a nasal cannula. Subjects will then perform the behavioral tasks in the awake state for
      approximately 1 hour.

      After this phase is complete, participants will receive either propofol or ketamine (chosen
      permuted block randomization) using a clinician bolus/infusion strategy titrated to Richmond
      Agitation-Sedation Scale score of -1 (see above). Once the desired sedation level is
      achieved, subjects will once again complete the behavioral tasks. After the completion of
      this phase (approximately 1 hour) the anesthetic dose will be increased to attain Richmond
      Agitation-Sedation Scale -3 to -4. At this level of sedation subjects will not be able to do
      the behavioral task and only the evoked potentials will be recorded. Upon completion of this
      phase (approximately 1 hour), sedation level will be decreased to return the subject to a
      Richmond Agitation-Sedation Scale of -1 and once again the tasks will be repeated.

      Finally, the anesthetic infusion will be stopped. Once the Richmond Agitation-Sedation Scale
      score of 0 is attained, participants will once again perform the behavioral task
      (approximately 1 hour). This will conclude the experimental phase of the trial. Subjects will
      be monitored until clinically established discharge criteria are met. This includes adequate
      respiration, blood pressure, oxygen saturation and activity level. No formal follow-up is
      required; however, subjects will be called 24 hours after study completion.
    
  