
    
      Introduction Acute diverticulitis (AD) is present in 10-25% of patients with diverticular
      disease, being most common in sigmoid colon, with around 200.000 hospitalizations yearly . As
      much as one fifth of patients are younger than 50 at the moment of diagnosis and around 5%
      under the age of 40 .

      Confirming the diagnosis requires the utilization of imaging studies, therefore, American
      Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons (ASCRS) established that computed tomography (CT) is the
      standard method for the diagnosis of AD, with a sensitivity of 98% and a specificity of 99%.
      The tomographic findings vary according the severity of diverticular disease, which is
      categorized through a modified Hinchey classification system. Approximately 10-15% of AD
      patients may develop complications that imply the onset of abscesses, fistulas, stenosis,
      obstruction and/or perforation.

      Recently, interest has been raised in the role of biomarkers in diverticular disease as
      non-invasive, reliable, inexpensive tools that may help in the early diagnosis of complicated
      AD, such as C-reactive protein (CRP), useful marker in the prediction of the level of
      inflammation and severity of AD.

      In 2001 identified the neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) as an inflammation marker in
      critical patients, defining as the absolute neutrophil count divided by the absolute
      lymphocyte count. Over the last decade, NLR effectiveness has been recognized in various
      pathologies, both benign and malignant; finding that the levels of neutrophils rise as a part
      of the inflammatory cascade, whereas lymphocytes diminish during sepsis, making a novel
      subclinical biomarker with a prognostic value in oncological, cardiovascular and infectious
      diseases, among others. The NLR may be obtained from the blood count data, which represents a
      lower cost regarding other known biomarkers. It was also demonstrated that high values of NLR
      are associated with severe abdominal infections and worse outcomes, reason why it started to
      be applied as a predictor to evaluate results in surgical patients.

      Currently, the debate on usefulness of NLR as a predictor of complications in AD remains
      open, specially, the relation to the severity of the disease, the clinical impact and the
      necessity of minimally invasive or emergency surgical procedures.

      On the other hand, its diagnostic efficacy has not been studied even in our field. Up until
      now, there are only four studies published in Ireland, Israel, and South Korea. The purpose
      of the study was to determine the usefulness and diagnostic accuracy of NLR in complicated
      acute diverticulitis (cAD).

      Material and methods Study population A descriptive, retrospective cohort and analytical
      study was undertaken. Medical histories and an electronic database from General Surgery
      Service were reviewed. All the patients over the age of 18 with AD diagnosis through CT were
      included, since January 2013 until January 2018 in a University Hospital of Cordoba,
      Argentina, with third level reference.

      Patients were excluded if they had chronic diseases, susceptible to modify the immune
      inflammatory response, extra-abdominal infections, immunosuppression and neoplasias, and
      those who supplied incomplete data in their electronic clinical histories.

      Study of variables Demographic variables (sex and age), days of inpatient stay, level of
      severity in diverticular process (objectified by CT) were analyzed. It was recorded the value
      of serum leukocyte, neutrophil, and lymphocyte concentration, Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate
      (ESR), CRP and NLR at the moment of consultation on call.

      Variable definition NLR: It can be obtained from the blood count (the absolute neutrophil
      count divided by the absolute lymphocyte count) CRP: normal value under 5 mg/l. Statistical
      analysis The categorical variables were expressed as frequency (percentage), the continuous
      variables as mean value (standard deviation, SD) or median (range) according to the
      distribution of data; Mann Whitney test was used to compare the continuous variables,
      Chi-square and Fisher's tests were used to compare categorical variables among patients with
      simple acute diverticulitis (sAD) and cAD. A value of p<0.05 was considered as statistically
      significant.

      ROC (Receiver Operating Characteristic) curves were used as diagnostic tests to evaluate the
      diagnostic accuracy of NLR as predictor of complicated AD, determining sensitivity (Se),
      specificity (Sp), positive predictive value (PPV) and negative predictive value (NPV). Youden
      index was used to find the cut-off point with the best diagnostic yield for NLR in cAD. SPSS
      26 software and GraphPad 7 software were used for statistical analysis.
    
  