
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the effect of estramustine, mitoxantrone, and vinorelbine vs isotretinoin,
           interferon alfa, and paclitaxel on PSA response in patients with metastatic
           hormone-refractory prostate cancer.

        -  Determine the toxic effects of each regimen in this patient population.

        -  Determine the effect of each regimen on pain, fatigue, and quality of life in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the objective response rate among the subset of patients who have
           bidimensionally measurable disease to each regimen after treatment.

        -  Determine the effect of each regimen on peripheral blood mononuclear cell BCL-2 in these
           patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      disease (measurable vs nonmeasurable and elevated PSA). Patients are randomized to one of two
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive vinorelbine IV over 10 minutes on days 2 and 9 followed by
           mitoxantrone IV over 10 minutes on day 2 only. Oral estramustine is administered every
           12 hours on days 1-5. Courses repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of unacceptable
           toxicity, disease progression, or administration of the maximum cumulative dose of
           mitoxantrone.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral isotretinoin and interferon alfa subcutaneously on days 1
           and 2 and paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on day 2 weekly for 6 weeks. Courses repeat every 8
           weeks in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, on day 2 of courses 2, 4, and 6 (arm I), on day 22
      of course 1 and day 1 of courses 2 and 3 (arm II), and then at completion of treatment.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 70-114 patients (35-57 per arm) will be accrued for this study
      within 14-23 months.
    
  