
    
      Hematopoietic stem cell/bone marrow transplantation (HSCT/BMT) is a high-risk, complicated
      procedure that is poorly understood by patients, posing a challenge for informed
      decision-making. One study found that 69.7% of patients needed more information about HSCT to
      make an informed decision. Furthermore, for most patients who seek HSCT/BMT as treatment,
      transplantation is the only viable option for long-term, disease-free survival. In light of
      limited options, it is often assumed that patients will choose to undergo transplantation by
      default, which might undermine efforts to ensure that patients are fully informed. Given the
      context in which the decision to undergo transplantation are made, there is a clear and
      present need to ensure that patients are properly informed about HSCT/BMT.

      Unfortunately, this need does not seem to be adequately met. For example, studies have shown
      that patients tend not to remember rates of risks and complications. One study found that
      after completing HSCT, patients recalled a mortality risk rate lower than those provided by
      physicians at their initial consultation (20% vs. 30%, respectively). Findings such as this
      highlight the need to improve the informed consent process for patients confronting the
      decision to undergo HSCT/BMT.

      The present study aims to improve the informed consent process by proposing a new approach to
      patient-physician communication, called Giving Information Simply and Transparently (GIST),
      that will train physicians to speak more understandably, with the goal of improving patients
      understanding of the procedures they intend to pursue. This approach is based upon Dr.
      Valerie Reyna's Fuzzy Trace Theory which posits that patients focus on the bottom-line gist
      of information when formulating their treatment preferences. Patient understanding will be
      tested via assessments administered after their consultation visit, 30 days after initiation
      of chemotherapy, and 100 days after initiation of chemotherapy.
    
  