
    
      This study will collect high-quality data on how practicing obstetricians across the U.S.
      currently manage patients showing signs and/or symptoms of preeclampsia and how the results
      of Progenity's test change clinical decision making. Data from this study will better
      illuminate the clinical use cases with the most significant impact on clinical decision
      making (and thus the largest potential clinical utility) and the associated physician
      characteristics (e.g., age, practice setting, training) associated with test adoption.

      This study leverages simulated patient cases called Clinical Performance and Value vignettes
      (CPVs) in a proven methodology to rapidly measure physician care decisions. CPVs are a unique
      and scalable tool that standardizes practice measurement by having all providers care for the
      same (virtual) patients. With all providers caring for the same patients, the CPVs generate
      unbiased data that yields powerful insights into clinical decision making and how these
      decisions change with the introduction of a new product or solution. Data from the CPVs can
      quickly demonstrate the clinical utility of a solution, be published in peer-reviewed
      literature, inform marketing strategies and positively impact coverage and reimbursement
      decisions.

      The study is a prospective cohort trial with five steps:

        1. Enrollment: The study will enroll 110 practicing obstetrician/gynecologists (OB/GYNs) in
           the U.S. who are determined to be eligible by an eligibility screener.

        2. Provider survey: Once providers are enrolled in the study, they will be asked to
           complete a questionnaire describing their practice and professional background.

        3. Randomization: The 110 OB/GYNs will be randomized into equally-sized (55) control and
           intervention arms.

        4. Education: The intervention-arm OB/GYNs will receive educational materials duplicating
           what physicians would receive in the real-world market as they adopt the Progenity
           technology. These materials are comprised of a slide deck and/or a fact sheet.

        5. CPVs: Physicians will then complete the four CPV patient simulations in random order.
           Cases will be identical across the intervention and control arms, except that the
           intervention arm will receive Progenity PE test results at an appropriate point in each
           simulated case. All cases are presented on an online platform, participants are provided
           with unique weblinks, accessible via any internet-connected computer.
    
  