
    
      The "Targeting Effective Analgesia in Clinics for HIV" (TEACH) Study will test the
      effectiveness of a collaborative care intervention directed toward HIV physicians to improve
      the management of chronic opioid therapy (COT) and reduce the misuse of prescription opioids
      among HIV-infected persons.

      The intervention is composed of the following elements: 1) collaboration with an IT enabled
      nurse care manager; 2) physician education and academic detailing; and 3) facilitated access
      to a specialist in addictions to help manage the most challenging HIV-infected patients on
      COT. The nurse care manager will utilize an electronic registry to assist physicians in
      implementing guideline-driven care including opioid treatment agreements, urine drug testing
      (UDT), random pill counts and checking of online Prescription Monitoring Programs (PMPs).
      Physicians in the control group will receive information summarizing guidelines for COT but
      will not have access to the support of the TEACH intervention. This study is multi-site and
      will be conducted at Boston Medical Center and Grady Hospital (teaching hospital of Emory
      University). The 2-site study will use a cluster randomized trial design, randomized at the
      level of the physician, and compare primary outcomes over one year. The Specific Aims are to
      test the effectiveness of the TEACH collaborative care program to achieve the following: Aim
      1 - to test whether the TEACH collaborative care program improves HIV physicians' adherence
      to guidelines for prescribing COT compared to standard practice; Aim 2 - to assess whether
      patient level outcomes improve as a result of the TEACH intervention; Aim 3 - to test whether
      the intervention increases HIV physicians' satisfaction with prescribing COT; and Aim 4 - to
      assess whether the intervention improves virologic control among HIV-infected patients who
      are on COT. If effective, implementation of the intervention in HIV clinics will enable
      physicians in clinical teams to deliver chronic opioid therapy according to established
      guidelines with more confidence, potentially resulting in less prescription drug abuse and
      improved HIV outcomes.

      There are two distinct components to the study. The intervention, outlined in this Clinical
      Trials Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) summary, involves consenting physicians
      as participants in a randomized controlled trial of an intervention and, via a waiver of
      informed consent, extracting patient level data on the physicians' patients from the
      electronic medical record. The patient cohort component, which is outlined in a separate
      Clinical Trials PRS summary, will involve recruiting and consenting patients in the HIV
      clinic on COT to be participants in an observational study, which will involve interviewing
      them to collect self-reported data and conducting medical chart reviews.

      If effective, implementation of the TEACH intervention in clinics will enable physicians who
      provide primary care to HIV-infected patients in clinical teams to deliver chronic opioid
      therapy according to established guidelines with more confidence, potentially resulting in
      less prescription drug abuse and improved HIV outcomes.
    
  