
    
      Prescription opiate use disorder (OUD) is common in the United States, with high morbidity
      and mortality. Despite the availability of opiate replacement therapies, many individuals
      continue to abuse opiates and relapse rates remain high. Uncontrolled pain and opiate craving
      are both commonly reported by OUD individuals attempting abstinence, and likely contribute to
      relapse. As such, development of novel treatment strategies targeting pain and craving would
      have important clinical implications.

      Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is a non-invasive brain stimulation
      technique which is currently FDA-approved as a treatment for major depressive disorder. TMS
      is actively being pursued as a treatment for chronic pain disorders as well as for substance
      use disorders. In chronic pain patients, there is promising data suggesting that treatment
      with excitatory rTMS to the dorsolateral pre-frontal cortex (DLPFC) can have an anti-pain
      effect. A single session of excitatory DLPFC rTMS can decrease the perception of laboratory
      induced pain, decrease the amount of self administered morphine following open gastric bypass
      surgery and decrease the affective and sensory components of pain following laparoscopic
      gastric-bypass surgery. While the effects of a single session last for only approximately 1
      hour, repeated sessions appear to have an additive and more durable effect, and following 15
      sessions, the subjective experience of provoked pain has been shown to decrease by as much as
      37%. In addition to the literature in laboratory induced pain, there is also preliminary data
      suggesting that rTMS may be an effective treatment for chronic pain disorders. In substance
      use disordered populations, the use of rTMS has garnered significant attention as an
      innovative tool to decrease craving [see reviews:. Several single session rTMS studies have
      demonstrated that applying excitatory rTMS to the DLPFC can decrease cue-induced craving in
      nicotine, cocaine, and alcohol use disordered populations. As expected, single session
      studies have only found small temporary reductions in craving; however, these promising data
      have led to preliminary clinical trials using multiple sessions of rTMS in alcohol, nicotine
      and cocaine use disorders. The largest such clinical trial (n=130 smokers) demonstrated that
      13 sessions of DLPFC rTMS resulted in six month tobacco abstinence rates of 33% .

      To date there has been limited work examining the effect of rTMS on craving or pain in
      individuals with OUD. Drawing from the published literature suggesting that excitatory rTMS
      applied to the DLPFC can reduce both pain and craving, our group completed a preliminary
      sham-controlled crossover study in prescription OUD patients with chronic pain. Our data
      suggest that a single session of excitatory DLPFC rTMS acutely decreased opiate cue induced
      craving and thermal pain sensitivity in this group. The promising results from our single
      session trial parallel the single session results found in nicotine and cocaine use
      disordered populations which subsequently translated into positive multiple session clinical
      trials. As such, it follows that a trial utilizing multiple sessions of rTMS in OUD patients
      may yield positive results.

      40 participants (20/group) admitted to an inpatient community treatment facility for opiate
      detoxification will be given 18 sessions of either active or sham rTMS applied to the DLPFC,
      in an accelerated fashion over three days (6-sessions each day).
    
  