
    
      Influenza virus infection causes significant morbidity and mortality each season. More than
      90 million doses of influenza vaccine are administered in most seasons. All of these vaccine
      doses, except about two million, are administered by intramuscular injection. Surprisingly
      little research has been done to evaluate appropriate intramuscular injection technique.

      A small proportion of the population for which annual influenza immunization is indicated may
      self-defer because of the pain associated with the administration of the vaccine. Injection
      is a procedure that causes minor pain. Ice packs are often used for local anesthesia.
      Decreasing pain associated with intramuscular injection by decreasing needle temperature
      could be an inexpensive, simple way to decrease injection fear and increase immunization
      rates.

      To test our hypothesis, we will use a double blind controlled study design. Study
      participants will receive two injections. One injection will contain 0.5ml of next season's
      influenza vaccine. The other injection will contain 0.5ml normal saline. Each study
      participant will be randomly assigned to order of injection and to frozen or room temperature
      needle. (Figure 1) We include two injections to increase the amount of information that we
      can obtain from the study. In addition to determining if frozen needles decrease discomfort
      associated with injection of influenza vaccine, we may be able to make our study more
      generalizable if frozen needles also decrease the pain associated with a normal saline
      intramuscular injection. Further rationale for the study design covers that we are unable to
      administer the same injection at two sites to the same person during the same visit varying
      only the temperature of the needle. To minimize variability, both injections will be
      administered by the same immunizer who will be blind to the study group assignment. We will
      maintain blinding of the immunizer by having the person preparing the injections hand the
      filled syringes to the immunizer uncapped since the immunizer would likely be able to feel
      the cold of the frozen needles during the needle uncapping. A 1 inch 23 gauge needle (safety
      injection device; Eclipse by BD, Franklin Lakes, NJ) will be used for all participants under
      90kg. A 1 ½ inch needle will be used for all larger participants. We will ask each individual
      to rate the pain of each injection using a standard 10 point pain scale.1 Each participant
      will be asked which injection was less painful and if he/she can tell us if a frozen needle
      was used for either or both injection. Members from the research team will call or email
      subjects 2-4 days after the administration of the injection. During this phone call, subjects
      will be asked to rate their current pain at both injection sites. They will also be asked if
      they notice any redness around the injection site. This additional phone call will help to
      determine if needle temperature affects delayed injection site reactions (minor soreness
      and/or redness around the injection site lasting 1-3 days after the injection) in addition to
      immediate effects.

      To determine if there is an effect on influenza vaccine if administered with cold needles, we
      will measure antibody response to influenza vaccine. Blood will be drawn immediately
      following the administration of the intramuscular injections and pain scoring from a subset
      of study participants. Sub-study participants will return in 2-4 weeks for a second blood
      draw to measure post-immunization antibody concentrations.
    
  