
    
      For more than a decade, the NICHD Neonatal Research Network (NRN) has conducted surveillance
      of early-onset sepsis (EOS) infections in very low birth weight (VLBW) infants, as part of
      its very low birth weight registry. Although overall rates of EOS have remained stable over
      time, the relative importance of different pathogens has changed.

      In 2002 the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American College of Obstetricians and
      Gynecologists, and the Centers for Disease Control & Prevention revised their recommendations
      for reducing mother-to-child transmission of group B streptococcal (GBS) infections. The new
      guidelines recommend universal screening of pregnant women at 35 or more weeks' gestation and
      intrapartum antibiotics for all GBS-colonized mothers (an estimated 30% of mother-to-be in
      the United States). With the current widespread use of maternal antibiotics, concerns have
      been raised about the possible emergence of non-GBS pathogens as causes of early-onset
      sepsis. Several studies have reported a change in EOS pathogens, with the emergence of
      gram-negative and antibiotic-resistant infections, primarily among VLBW infants.

      This observational study expands the NRN's prior work on infection in VLBW infants,
      conducting surveillance of all infants born at network centers who are diagnosed with
      early-onset sepsis and/or meningitis. The study will: establish current hospital-based rates
      of EOS among term and preterm infants in the era of intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis;
      monitor the organisms associated with EOS and meningitis; compare asymptomatic and
      symptomatic infants by gestational age and pathogen; and monitor sepsis-associated mortality
      rates by pathogen group. Cases will be identified by the medical care team or through
      research team review of patient, microbiology, or infection control/hospital epidemiology
      records.

      Secondary analyses include:

      Serotypic, phylogenetic, virulence and drug-resistance characteristics of contemporary GBS
      and E. Coli isolate collections will be studied.

      Assessing the proportion of neonates born to mothers with chorioamnionitis who are
      asymptomatic at birth, but later develop signs and/or symptoms of early-onset neonatal GBS
      and non-GBS disease.
    
  