
    
      Adverse drug events (ADEs) are among the most common and serious medication use concerns
      among older patients in primary care practices, yet they are often preventable. This
      translational research into practice (TRIP) pilot study uses a randomized trial to evaluate
      the effect of a site-level intervention in a sample of practices in medically underserved
      communities within the Upstate New York Practice Based Research Network (UNYNET). These sites
      are located in rural and urban areas and include an over-sample of minority patients. The
      specific aims of this study are to:

        1. Examine the feasibility of objectively assessing the impact of a CRM (adapted Crew
           Resource Management approach proven successful in aviation as well as some inpatient
           medical settings) intervention on reducing medication errors among geriatric patients in
           primary care settings; and

        2. Assess office staff internalization and application of CRM principles for reducing
           geriatric medication errors in primary care settings by examining changes in safety
           attitude constructs achieved

             1. with a practice enhancement assistant (PEA) and

             2. without a PEA.

      Outcomes measured for Aim #1 will be change in number, severity, consequence, and stage of
      process of preventable ADEs. Outcomes for Aim # 2 will be change in safety climate, teamwork
      climate, stress recognition, and working conditions.

      Fifteen sites will be randomized into one of three intervention arms: usual care, CRM only,
      or CRM plus a PEA. A random sample of charts of older adults (aged >64) with cardiovascular
      disease will be reviewed for adverse drug events over prior-year periods at baseline and
      post-intervention endpoints. Participatory research methods will be used to assess provider-
      and staff-identified barriers to implementation. This study will test the feasibility of
      incorporating PEA's into the practice setting to improve geriatric medication safety. The
      information gathered will serve as a basis for an ongoing translational research program that
      will lead to an RO1 application.
    
  