
    
      The project presented is an open and controlled exploratory prospective study, assessing
      metabolic concentrations in putamen and NST left and right of treatment-naïve de novo
      Parkinsonian patients compared to healthy subjects. Patients will be included consecutively
      following the screening. Since this study is cross-sectional, a single visit will be made. De
      novo PD patients will be pre-selected in the departments of Neurology of the CHU of
      Clermont-Ferrand and Poitiers.

      The inclusion visit will be carried out during a consultation during their usual follow-up in
      the departments of Neurology of the CHU of Clermont-Ferrand and Poitiers.

      The following data will be noted: age, sex, level of study, duration of disease progression,
      ongoing treatments, medical history.

      Patients verifying the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be definitively included and
      their consents will be collected.

      De novo PD patients will undergo their NMR examination in the department of radiology, 7T MRI
      at the Poitiers hospital.

      Patients will report to MRI and the following measurements will be performed:

        -  measurement of motor disorders by the UPDRS scale, the Hoehn and Yahr and Schwab and
           England score;

        -  acquisition of NMR images and spectra. The experimental time will be 30 minutes for the
           UPDRS scale and 30 minutes for the NMR exam.

      Recruitment of the subjects in the control group will be carried out in the patients' family
      and in that of the staff of the departments of neurology and radiology.

      They will be matched to de novo PD patients according to age, sex and level of education. In
      practice, after pre-screening the control subjects, they will be informed about the protocol,
      their consent will be collected. The following data will also be noted: age, sex, duration
      and level of study.

      After verification of the inclusion and exclusion criteria, the witnesses will take the NMR
      examination in the Radiological Department, 7T MRI at the Poitiers University Hospital
      Hospital.
    
  