
    
      Background: Sleep apnea syndrome (SAS) currently affects 10% of general population. It is
      characterized by the occurrence during the sleep of the upper airways closure which cause
      repeated asphyxia. It is a public health problem due to its cardiometabolic complications.
      Indeed, the absence of SAS treatment increases cardiovascular mortality by 12% at 10 years.

      The main physiopathological mechanism is the activation of cardiovascular sympathetic control
      (the short-term regulation of blood pressure which bring in the sympathetic nervous system)
      An exposure to intermittent chronic hypoxia (caused by SAS) bring an increased of muscle
      sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) contributing to elevated blood pressure Continuous Positive
      Airway Pressure (CPAP) can partly reduce this risk by decreasing elevation of blood pressure
      caused by the SAS. It has recently been demonstrated that all CPAP devices are not
      equivalent. Indeed, the auto-adjusted CPAP treatment induces a reduction in blood pressure
      lower than the reference treatment fixed CPAP.

      To this extent it is interesting to conduct a new randomized trial comparing these two
      treatments with vascular sympathetic tone. This will be assessed by peroneal microneurography
      recording.

      Objective: Compare Muscle Sympathetic Neural Activity (MSNA) by microneurography after one
      month of fixed versus auto-adjusted CPAP treatment in OSA patients naive from pressure
      therapy Methods: Prospective study, single-site, randomized, double-blind, parallel, one
      month controlled trial. After the diagnosis of sleep apnea, patients will be randomized for
      one month treatment with fixed ou auto-adjusting CPAP. Measurements of MSNA, heart rate
      variability and catecholamines will be held before and after treatment.

      An interim analysis will be performed after the inclusion of 24 patients based on group
      sequential design
    
  