
    
      Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) is a very common virus that causes infection of the airways
      and lungs. It is the leading cause of chest infections (pneumonia and bronchiolitis) in young
      children, and is a major cause of admission to hospital and childhood death worldwide. Lots
      of research trials are being done into ways of preventing and treating RSV, however there is
      still no RSV vaccine approved for routine use. One possible way to protect the mother and
      young infant from RSV infection is a vaccine given to women during pregnancy, which would
      pass protection to their unborn child. This may help to prevent RSV in the child's first few
      months of life when they are most vulnerable to infection. There are two vaccines that are
      currently being tested in pregnant women around the world, including the UK.

      There are two main aims to this study:

        1. To pre-emptively gauge the knowledge of RSV and potential acceptability of such vaccines
           amongst pregnant women and healthcare staff working in midwifery and obstetrics, as well
           as their attitudes (facilitators and barriers) to being involved in hypothetical future
           research trials.

        2. We also wish to gauge the attitudes to routinely recommended vaccines in pregnancy
           (pertussis and influenza)

      The investigators propose to undertake a questionnaire-based study of randomly selected
      pregnant women and healthcare staff (over 16 years of age) at four English teaching
      hospitals. Pregnant women attending for ward reviews or antenatal clinics will approached and
      asked to complete an anonymous paper questionnaire lasting around 10 minutes. Healthcare
      staff will be approached in person, or via email, and asked to complete a slightly different
      questionnaire lasting around 5-10 minutes. No follow up will take place. Using statistical
      software, the investigators hope to identify factors that might affect patients'
      understanding of RSV and attitudes to being involved in hypothetical future trials and
      receiving routine vaccination
    
  