
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Although hypertension is a predisposing factor for end stage renal disease, the underlying
      hypothesis of this study was that in select African-American families genetic factors
      predisposed them to develop ESRD in the face of hypertension. An inherited basis for H-ESRD
      was supported by familial clustering of H-ESRD among African Americans that could not be
      explained by socioeconomic status, access to medical care, and the prevalence of diabetes and
      hypertension.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      DNA samples were collected, identified, and clinically characterized from African-American
      sib-pairs (and other family members with hypertensive end-stage renal disease). This aspect
      of the study was based on the fact that Dr. Freedman, the principal investigator, had already
      developed a unique "family history of end-stage renal disease" database independently funded
      by the End-Stage Renal Disease Network Six. This registry served as a very large and unique
      collection of African-American end-stage renal disease patients. He began with a candidate
      gene approach for linkage to hypertensive end-stage renal disease in his patient samples
      using a variety of growth factor genes, genes involved in sodium transport and vascular tone,
      as well as human homologues of rodent genes that had, or were to be identified in the future
      as contributing to ESRD in that organism. If this initial first pass of candidate genes
      failed to demonstrate linkage to hypertensive end-stage renal disease, a systematic
      genome-wide scan was to be performed with available simple sequence length polymorphisms
      (SSLP) and other polymorphic markers. Hypertensive end-stage renal disease is a condition of
      enormous clinical and economic importance and identification of associated or causative
      renal-failure genes would form a genetic basis for the detection of high-risk individuals and
      assist in development of intervention and treatment strategies to prevent this condition.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  