
    
      For individuals with SSc, skin and tendon involvement of the hands with significant
      functional impairment is nearly universal. Hand function limitations impact disability more
      than any other aspect of the disease. However, given the challenges of conducting
      high-quality, adequately powered clinical trials and disseminating disease management tools
      in a rare disease context, proven rehabilitation interventions, including those for hands,
      are typically not available to rare disease patients. To address this gap, the Scleroderma
      Patient-centered Intervention Network (SPIN) was founded to (1) assemble a large,
      multinational cohort of SSc patients as a framework for large-scale rehabilitation and
      self-management intervention trials; and (2) to develop, test, and disseminate effective
      disease management tools to patients with SSc.

      The SPIN Cohort currently includes over 2000 English- and French-speaking patients from over
      40 sites in Canada, the USA, France, and the United Kingdom. SPIN Cohort patients complete
      outcome measures via the internet upon enrolment and subsequently every 3 months. SPIN
      utilizes the cohort multiple RCT (cmRCT) design as a framework for conducting trials of
      interventions. SPIN Cohort patients consent to allow their data to be used for observational
      research, to assess intervention trial eligibility and, if eligible, be randomized. They also
      consent that if eligible and randomized to usual care, their data can be used to evaluate
      intervention effectiveness without them being notified that they have been randomized to the
      usual care group and not offered the intervention. Thus, in SPIN trials, trial status is
      masked for patients in the control arm, but not the intervention arm.

      The SPIN-HAND trial will evaluate the effect on hand function and HRQL of offering SPIN's
      online hand exercise program, in addition to usual care, to Cohort patients who have at least
      mild hand function limitations. The SPIN hand exercise program was designed by SPIN experts
      in rehabilitation, behavioural therapies, and e-health interventions, as well as patient
      representatives in SPIN. The program core consists of 4 modules that address specific aspects
      of hand function, including (1) Thumb Flexibility and Strength (3 exercises); (2) Finger
      Bending (3 exercises); (3) Finger Extension (3 exercises); and (4) Wrist Flexibility and
      Strength (2 exercises). The program also integrates tools to support key components of
      successful self-management programs, including goal-setting and feedback, social modeling,
      and mastery experiences. 586 SPIN Cohort participants will be enrolled in SPIN-HAND. Eligible
      patients will be able to use the online intervention in English or French, have at least mild
      hand function limitations (Cochin Hand Function Scale (CHFS) ≥ 3) and have indicated high
      interest in using an online hand exercise intervention (≥6 on 0-10 scale).

      Randomization will occur at the time of patients' regular SPIN Cohort assessments. Eligible
      patients, based on questionnaire responses, will be randomized automatically with a 3:2
      ratio, using a feature in the SPIN Cohort platform, which provides immediate randomization
      and complete allocation sequence concealment. A 3:2 ratio is being used in order to increase
      the number of patients who receive the intervention and to support secondary analyses that
      examine compliers versus non-compliers.

      Trial outcomes will be assessed immediately pre-randomization and at 3 months, 6 months, 12
      months, and 24 months post-randomization via the SPIN Cohort for both patients randomized to
      be offered the intervention and patients who receive usual care only. The primary outcome
      analysis will compare CHFS scores between eligible patients offered the intervention and
      those not offered the intervention at 3 months post-randomization. Secondary outcomes will
      include patient-reported health status, usage logs, user satisfaction, and HRQL.

      Statistical analyses will be done blind to trial arm allocation. For the primary analysis, an
      intent-to-treat approach that compares all patients randomized to be offered versus not
      offered the intervention will be used. Intervention effects will be estimated using a
      generalized linear model, adjusted for baseline CHFS scores, recruitment centre, sex, age,
      disease duration, and diffuse versus limited SSc status. Missing data effects will be
      investigated using multiple imputation.

      Analysis of secondary outcome variables and time points will be done similarly. In addition,
      complier-average causal effect analysis will be used to estimate effects among patients who
      accept the intervention offer compared to similar patients in the usual care group. Analysis
      of usage log data will be conducted to understand the association of uptake and use patterns
      with intervention effect.
    
  