
    
      Lack of physical activity is a behavioural risk for non-communicable diseases. The World
      Health Organization (WHO) reported that physical inactivity and unhealthy diets are two of
      the four main behavioural risk factors that contribute to non-communicable diseases.
      Globally, people who are overweight and obese, particularly if these people are physically
      inactive. They are at risk for morbidity and mortality.

      Hong Kong-specific data demonstrates that many people cannot meet World Health Organization
      targets for physical activity. The Hong Kong Behavioural Risk Factor Survey reported that,
      for the seven days prior to the survey, about half (52.0%) of adults aged 18-64 had not done
      any moderate physical activity. Overall, only 37.5% of the respondents met the WHO's
      recommended physical activity level of at least 150 minutes of moderate or 75 minutes of
      vigorous physical activity a week for adults.

      There is emerging evidence of effective behavioral interventions to decrease sedentary
      behavior. Some studies focused on reducing screen time or active workstations that encourage
      standing at the computer. Others focus on increased use of stairs instead of lifts. These
      interventions used behaviour change techniques such as goal-setting and behavioural
      self-monitoring. As previous approaches have not shown promising results, new approaches are
      needed to reduce sedentary behaviour and increase exercise or physical activity.

      The goal of the study is to evaluate the effectiveness of a family-focused, interactive, and
      theory-based intervention to reduce the sedentary behavior and increase physical activity of
      the participants.

      The intervention is to use Zero-time Exercise, the positive psychology theme "Appreciation
      and Gratitude", and role modelling approach to get sedentary people to start exercising,
      increase levels of physical activity, family communication and well-being of the participants
      and their family members. The intervention aims to encourage positive and sustainable health
      actions among participants and their family members.

      Needs assessment and focus group interview will be conducted before program design and after
      conducting the training, respectively. Process evaluation will be performed to evaluate the
      process of each component of the program. Qualitative and quantitative assessments will be
      used to evaluate the effectiveness of this Zero-time Exercise intervention.
    
  