
    
      BACKGROUND: More than 75% of all children with sickle cell anemia (SCA) are born in
      sub-Saharan Africa annually. The hallmark of SCA is haemolytic anaemia and or pain crisis
      that often require hospitalisation. Interventions to reduce the complications, which are
      prerequisites for frequent hospitalisations, are needed urgently. Vitamin D deficiency is
      common in children with SCA and is associated with recurrent vaso-occlusive crisis, blood
      transfusion, hospitalisation and infections. Routine vitamin D supplementation is not
      practiced in the care of sickle cell disease patients yet it has been associated with
      improved bone health and bone mineral density, reduced chronic pain and improved quality of
      life.

      HYPOTHESIS: Vitamin D supplementation will lead to a lower incidence of hospitalisation than
      placebo in Ugandan children with SCA.

      METHODS: The study will be a randomized, placebo-controlled, double blind clinical trial in
      which 331 Ugandan children with SCA aged 6 months to 12 years inclusive will receive vitamin
      D (60,000IU granules monthly) and another 331 a placebo (identical to vitaminD in appearance)
      for 3 months. The primary study outcome will be incidence of hospitalisation. Secondary
      outcomes will include incidence of vaso-occlusive crisis (VOC), acute severe respiratory
      illness, Vitamin D related Severe adverse events and requirements for blood transfusion
      IMPACT: If this trial shows a reduction in hospitalisation, it will be the basis for a
      multi-site pre-post intervention clinical trial to assess real-world safety and efficacy of
      Vitamin D in African children with SCA. The monthly administration is easy, and since vitamin
      D is inexpensive, this trial has the potential to improve the health of hundreds/ thousands
      of African children with SCA through reduction of infection-related morbidity and mortality.
    
  