
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare recurrence-free survival (RFS) between patients with renal cell carcinoma
      randomly assigned to perioperative nivolumab in conjunction with radical or partial
      nephrectomy with patients randomized to surgery alone.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate for differences in recurrence-free survival associated with perioperative
      nivolumab compared to surgery alone among the subset of patients with clear cell histology.

      II. To compare the overall survival between the two arms. III. To describe the safety and
      tolerability of perioperative nivolumab.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To correlate the primary tumor's expression of programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 (PD-L1)
      with outcome.

      II. To correlate the expression of PD-L1 on tumor tissue at nephrectomy and recurrence with
      outcome.

      III. To archive images for potential central confirmation of recurrence and for future
      correlative work with American College of Radiology Imaging Network (ACRIN), including
      markers predicting outcome or response.

      IV. To prospectively collect tumor and biologic specimens (e.g., serum, peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells [PBMCs]) for future correlative studies.

      V. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of nivolumab and explore exposure response
      relationships with respect to safety and efficacy.

      VI. To characterize the immunogenicity of nivolumab.

      QUALITY OF LIFE OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate differences in change from baseline in patient-reported symptoms and
      toxicities among patients randomized to treatment with nivolumab compared to surgery alone.

      OTHER EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore descriptively the efficacy of treatment with nivolumab in patients with
      non-clear cell (including unclassified) histologies.

      II. To characterize the effects of nivolumab on bone metabolism and bone density.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 14 days for 2 cycles. Patients then undergo partial or radical nephrectomy 7-28
      days later. Patient then receive nivolumab over 30 IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14
      days for 6 cycles, and then every 28 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients enrolled after Amendment 4 receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Patients
      then undergo partial or radical nephrectomy 7-28 days later. Patients then receive nivolumab
      IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 9 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients undergo partial or radical nephrectomy within 8 weeks after registration
      followed by observation.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 3 years, and every 12 months for 5 years.
    
  