
    
      Millions of older adults with low incomes live in federally-subsidized housing and are at
      disproportionate risk for nursing home admission. Effective approaches for improving aging in
      place for this vulnerable population are needed. The objective of this study is to pilot test
      the feasibility and preliminary effectiveness of a telephone-based intervention to improve
      aging in place for older adults living in subsidized housing. In the first phase of this
      study, the investigators used methods of implementation science to adapt an existing
      intervention, Function Focused Care for Assisted Living, to the unique setting of affordable
      housing. Function Focused Care is a philosophy of care in which assisted living staff members
      engage residents in functional and physical activity during all care interactions. Prior
      research supports the effectiveness of Function Focused Care for maintaining function and
      increasing physical activity among older adults in assisted living settings.

      In the first phase of this study, the investigators interviewed subsidized housing
      stakeholders - including residents, staff members, and caregivers - to identify barriers,
      facilitators, and needed adaptations to Function Focused Care for Assisted Living. The
      investigators used the findings from these interviews to adapt the intervention. In this
      2-month pilot study, the investigators will use a wait-list control design with site
      randomization to assess the feasibility and preliminary effectiveness of the adapted
      intervention. The investigators will recruit individuals with and without mild cognitive
      impairment or mild dementia and will examine whether the study outcomes differ by cognitive
      status. The findings from this study will provide new information about how to optimize
      function and physical activity among older adults with and without cognitive impairment
      living in subsidized housing.
    
  