
    
      We will recruit 20 subjects from our healed Perthes' population. We will use dGEMRIC imaging
      to identify regions of cartilage degeneration in the femur and acetabulum. Both hips will be
      imaged so that we can use the unaffected side as a control. We will apply dGEMRIC imaging,
      which allows the composition of cartilage (specifically, the concentration of
      glycosaminoglycans [GAGs], important structural proteins in the cartilage) to be assessed.

      The MRI protocol consists of intravenous injection of 0.4 ml/kg dose of gadopentetate
      dimeglumine 2- [Gd-DTPA2-] contrast agent (Magnevist, Bayer) 90 minutes prior to imaging. Due
      to the need to image within a relatively narrow window of time, each hip of each subject must
      be imaged on separate days. The subject will be asked to walk for 10 minutes after receiving
      the contrast agent injection to facilitate equilibration of contrast agent into the hip
      joint.

      The scans will be performed at UBC's High Field Imaging Centre on the 3T Phillips Intera
      scanner. Dr. Wilson has access to this scanner for his research. The scanning protocol is as
      follows: 3D IR-TFE sequence with TR/TE/Flip of 4.7 ms/1.6 ms/30 o and seven inversion times;
      1600, 1200, 800, 400, 200, 300, and 100 ms. In-plane resolution is 0.7 mm with a slice
      thickness of 3 mm. Total imaging time is approximately 1 hour (at each visit). The T1
      calculated image will be obtained using validated, custom written software (IGOR). The
      resulting image provides a map approximating glycosaminoglycan concentration and,
      consequently, cartilage degeneration.

      The MRI will not be done under sedation. MRIs are performed under sedation at BCCH for
      children under age seven. Subjects in this study will be between the ages of 7 and 18. The
      contrast agent, Gd-DTPA2- is routinely used in children in the clinical setting.

      Radiographs used for comparison are obtained as part of standard of care follow-up protocol.
    
  