
    
      Background: Highly communicable and virulent diseases such as severe acute respiratory
      syndrome (SARS) and "avian influenza", the ongoing threat of other emerging infectious
      diseases, and the prospect of bio-terrorism have become part of the new reality for health
      care workers (1). Recent experience with SARS has demonstrated that front-line health care
      professionals who perform or assist with aerosol generating procedures are at particularly
      increased risk of infection.

      At present, no data exists addressing the question of self-contamination during the removal
      of personal protective systems used in a health care setting. The latest suggested donning
      and removal procedures have not been validated with respect to the issue of selfcontamination
      due to deficiencies in contact precautions.

      The failure of a personal protective system or the donning and removal procedures for a
      personal protective system may be associated with significant consequences in terms of the
      morbidity and mortality of front-line health care workers. It is imperative that the rate of
      self-contamination for these two personal protective systems be assessed.

      The purpose of this study is to determine if a difference exists between the rate of
      self-contamination due to deficiencies in contact precautions for individuals wearing either
      Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) or the Powered Air Purifying Respirator (PAPR).

      This will be a prospective, randomized, controlled, crossover study.

      Institutional Ethics Committee approval will be obtained for this study. Fifty participants
      will be required for the study. Participants will be recruited from the Department of
      Anesthesiology attending and resident staff, other physician groups requiring PAPR training,
      and the Department of Respiratory Therapy. Recruitment will occur in conjunction with annual
      training in the use of the PAPR. Individuals will be informed of the purpose and procedure of
      the study and written consent will be obtained. Individuals will be excluded if they refuse
      to provide written consent to participate in the study.

      Participants will wear operating room scrub attire as their base clothing layer.

      They will be randomized to don either the PAPR or PPE. They will then repeat the process
      using the other personal protective system immediately after the study protocol has been
      completed using the first personal protective system.

      PPE will consist of an N95 respirator, goggles, face shield, bouffant hair cover, fluid
      resistant surgical gown, and fitted sterile gloves. Although the CDC has omitted a head
      covering as part of their PPE, the MOHLTC directives stipulate that a head covering must be
      worn when performing high-risk procedures in patients that require enhanced respiratory and
      contact precautions. A head covering (bouffant hair cover) will therefore form part of the
      PPE used in this study. The CDC recommendations state that goggles can be worn for eye
      protection. A face shield can be used in addition to the goggles but this is optional. The
      MOHLTC directives state that goggles and a face shield must be worn during high-risk
      procedures in patients that require enhanced respiratory and contact precautions. Goggles and
      a face shield will therefore form part of the PPE for this study. Therefore the donning and
      removal instructions for the PPE that will be used for this study will differ in sequence
      from those published by the CDC. The donning and removal procedures that will be used for
      this study more closely follow the sequence recommended by the MOHLTC and are indeed an
      enhanced version of those directives.

      PAPR will consist of a body suit and shoe covers, PAPR hood and power unit, N95 respirator,
      goggles, face shield, bouffant hair cover, fluid resistant surgical gown, and fitted sterile
      gloves. The MOHLTC has stipulated the use of donning/removal coaches for the PAPR. Neither
      the CDC, the MOHLTC, nor our institution have stipulated the use of donning/removal coaches
      for the PPE. The intent of this study is to examine the protective systems. The donning and
      removal procedures that form part of the protective systems may either contribute to or
      minimize self-contamination rates and must be assessed under the actual conditions of use. In
      order to best simulate the actual conditions that health care workers will be subjected to
      and to best evaluate donning and removal procedures and practices we have also decided not to
      employ a donning/removal coach for the PPE. Accordingly, during donning and removal of PPE
      participants will be given standardized written instructions outlining the donning and
      removal procedure but will not be coached.

      Participants will be given standardized written instructions and coached by a respiratory
      therapist during donning and removal of the PAPR. The standardized written instructions for
      donning and removal of both the PPE and PAPR are attached in Appendices A and B.

      All participants will be timed and videotaped during the protective system donning procedure.
      Timing will commence when the participants are instructed to begin reading 3 their written
      donning instructions for PPE or when the dressing coach says "begin" for the PAPR. Timing
      will cease when the participants have completed donning the final item of the protective
      system being tested. Videotaping will occur in order to record and assist in the detection of
      any protective system donning procedure violations. A donning procedure violation will be
      defined as having occurred if the participants perform a donning maneuver out of sequence or
      touch a piece of protective equipment out of sequence. Participants will be "contaminated"
      using a solution of fluorescein (1ml of a 25% solution diluted in 100cc sterile water) in a
      standardized fashion. A Devilbiss atomizer (Model DV-15-RD, Sunrise Medical Products,
      Carlsbad, California, USA) will be used to apply 5ml of fluorescein solution to the their
      front face shield and torso. We have chosen these contamination sites in order to simulate
      areas that would most likely be contaminated by the large respiratory droplets aerosolized by
      a patient that is either coughing or reacting to intubation attempts or any other high-risk
      respiratory procedure.

      The atomizer nozzle will be held at a distance of 30cm from the participants' face-shield and
      will be applied from their shoulder level. The spray stream will be directed at the
      participants' nose and then aimed inferiorly towards the their umbilicus in an upwards and
      downwards sweeping motion while keeping the atomizer oriented in the participants'
      mid-saggital plane. Application will occur until the atomizer reservoir is empty. During this
      application the participants' eyes will be closed. "Invisible" Detection Paste (Sirchie, 100
      Hunter Place, Youngsville, NC) will be applied to the palmar aspects of the participants'
      hands and anterior and posterior forearm to the elbow. Although the paste is labeled
      "invisible detection paste" it becomes visible when viewed under ultraviolet (UV) light. 15ml
      of paste will be used. We have chosen to use detection paste on the forearms and gloves of
      the study participants as these are the areas most likely to come in contact with any patient
      requiring enhanced contact and respiratory precautions. Participants will be videotaped,
      photographed with a digital camera, and assessed with a UV lamp (Burton Medical Products Inc,
      21100 Lassen Street, Chatsworth, CA. 91311 USA) following contamination to ensure that
      standardized contamination of their front face shield, torso, forearm, and palmar aspect of
      the gloved hands has been achieved.

      Participants will then follow the standardized written removal procedures for the protective
      system that they are wearing. They will be timed and videotaped during the protective system
      removal procedure. Timing will commence when the participants are instructed to begin reading
      their written removal instructions for PPE or when the dressing coach says "begin" for the
      PAPR. Timing will be paused during assessments with the UV lamp. Timing will cease when the
      participants have completed removing the final item of the protective system being tested.
      Videotaping will occur in order to record and assist in the detection of any protective
      system removal procedure violations. A removal procedure violation will be defined as having
      occurred if the participants perform a removal maneuver out of sequence, touch a piece of
      protective equipment out 4 of sequence, or touch any part of their body other than a piece of
      protective equipment prior to performing final hand disinfection. Participants will be
      assessed with the UV lamp at specific intervals during the removal procedure in order to
      detect any visible contamination. Participants in PPE will be assessed with the UV lamp
      following removal of the outer PPE protective layer (outer fitted sterile gloves, fluid
      resistant surgical gown, and faceshield).

      Final assessment will occur after removal of the inner PPE protective layer (N95 mask,
      goggles, bouffant hair cover, inner fitted sterile gloves). Participants in PAPR will be
      assessed using the UV lamp after removal of the outer PAPR protective layer (PAPR hood and
      power unit, outer fluid resistant surgical gown, outer boot covers, outer fitted sterile
      gloves). They will then be assessed after removal of the middle PAPR protective layer (body
      suit, middle sterile fitted gloves, boot covers).

      Final assessment will occur after removal of the inner PAPR protective layer (N95 mask,
      goggles, bouffant hair cover, inner sterile fitted gloves). An evaluator blinded to the
      participants' protective system will perform final assessment.

      All areas of the participants' base clothing layer and any exposed skin and hair will be
      inspected after removal of the final protective layer. This will include the participants'
      face. Contamination episodes will be counted and the contamination area will be calculated in
      cm2.
    
  