
    
      Twenty-five subjects with a recent diagnosis of type 2 diabetes will be recruited. Detailed
      inclusion and exclusion criteria are provided below.

      The whole intervention has been divided in 3 treatments A, B and C, performed every 2 weeks
      in randomized order for each subject. In every treatment, subjects will attend to the Unit of
      Human Nutrition of the ICTAN-CSIC in fasting state and they will receive a high-sugar
      high-fat breakfast. Treatment A will be used as control and will only consist of breakfast.
      Treatment B is characterized by the administration of a mixture of cocoa and carob solved in
      milk together with breakfast. In treatment C, volunteers will consume the same amount of
      product 10 hours before attending to their visit, where the breakfast will be administrated
      once again. Food and drinks provided in the three visits (including milk used in treatment B)
      will be similar. The aim of treatment B is to elucidate the role of intact polyphenols, while
      treatment C will evaluate the effect of microbial-derived polyphenol metabolites.

      Blood samples will be collected before breakfast and at times 60-120-180-240-270 min. Urine
      will be collected during their permanence at the Unit of Human nutrition of the ICTAN-CSIC.
      Feces will be collected as soon as they are generated after receiving treatments A and C. The
      following determinations will be performed in blood samples collected at different periods:
      glucose, insulin, triglycerides, uric acid, GLP-1, hepatic enzymes. Urine and feces will be
      used to evaluate phenolic metabolites. Additionally, a satiety test will be provided. It is
      expected that cocoa and carob supplementation, as compared to the control treatment, causes
      significant modifications in all the parameters indicated. Nevertheless, the primary outcome
      of this study is the decrease in postprandial insulin.
    
  