
    
      The Delta system is intended to deliver electrical modulation signal to the carotid body, to
      result in cerebral vasodilation and blood flow augmentation in the brain, for treatment of
      patients suffering from vasospasm post aSAH.

      In this clinical trial the Delta system in intended to be used on patients who have their
      ruptured aneurysm secured, hospitalized in the neuro ICU (Intensive Care Unit) and are
      anesthetized and intubated, diagnose as suffer from cerebral vasospasm, who fulfill all the
      inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion as detailed in the study protocol.

      The system is intended to be used for up to 7 days under hospital supervision that is
      routinely provided for stabilizing patients following SAH and securing aneurysms. Follow up
      period is 30 days after end of treatment.

      The Delta system is comprised from two main elements: Electrical Stimulation Unit (ESU) and
      Delivery kit.The ESU is a reusable external autonomic stimulator unit, cable and graphic user
      interface (GUI) software based on a PC tablet. The delivery kit is a disposable stimulating
      leads shaft and accessories.

      The procedure includes insertion of the leads shaft over a guiding needle via patient neck,
      so electrodes are positioned adjacent the carotid bodies. Therapy parameters are set by the
      physician and monitoring is continued during patient hospitalization to determine when
      therapy can be discontinued and shaft removed.

      Twenty three (23) patients will be recruited to the study, including 3 roll-in patients. The
      study is an open label, uncontrolled, non-randomized, multicenter feasibility study. This
      study will recruit male and female adult patients with aSAH secondary to rupture of an
      aneurysm, secured by coiling or clipping, and in WFNS grades I-IV. Only anesthetized and
      intubated patients will be recruited for the study.

      This study evaluates the safety and performance of the Delta system. The potential benefits
      and risks of participation in this study are clearly identified in the informed consent form
      and are to be explained to the subject prior to participating in the study.

      Study treatment - The Delta system is inserted by minimally exposure of the carotid
      bifurcation. The system electrically stimulates the carotid body chemoreceptors, aiming to
      achieve sustainable cerebral vasodilation for inducing enhancement of cerebral perfusion and
      thereby minimizing ischemia and consequently prevent delayed neurological deficit. Treatment
      with the delta system is intended for up to seven (7) days.

      Manufacturing and assembling the Delta system is done in certified facilities. Further
      information and complete details regarding device materials, specifications, design, quality
      assurance, etc. can be found in the Investigator's Brochure.

      Risk to benefit rational - reverse vasospasm and increase cerebral blood flow (CBF) is the
      major component of cerebral perfusion augmentation, results in reducing the rate of vasospasm
      complication. The Delta system may provide vasospasm subjects with a novel treatment option.
      Based on the Delta system design, the extensive pre-clinical tests conducted with the system
      and the comparison to other similar devices and alternative treatments, the company believes
      that the system is safe for use and beneficial for reduction of delayed cerebral ischemia
      complication that are vasospasm related.

      Statistical analysis plan - Sample size for this study is determined by the secondary end
      point.

      Sample size of N=20 achieves:

        -  88% power to detect CBF decrease of ≥ 15% in at least one of the affected cerebral
           arteries measured by TCD.

        -  88% power to detect increase in artery diameter of ≥15% in at least one of the affected
           main cerebral arteries measured by DSA or CTA.

        -  99% power to detect CBF increase of ≥20% measured by CerOx monitor system or Licox®
           monitoring system.

      All with an estimated standard deviation of 0.2 and with alpha of 0.05, using a one-sample
      t-test analysis. The sample size also serves the qualitative analysis of the primary end
      point.

      A t-test is any statistical hypothesis test in which the test statistic follows a Student's t
      distribution if the null hypothesis is supported. It can be used to determine if two sets of
      data are significantly different from each other for continues parameters (such as artery
      diameter) , and is most commonly applied when the test statistic would follow a normal
      distribution if the value of a scaling term in the test statistic were known. The estimation
      for the significant clinical difference as well as the assumed standard deviation was based
      on previous experience with the device. When the scaling term is unknown and is replaced by
      an estimate based on the data, the test statistic (under certain conditions) follows a
      Student's t distribution.

      Data management plan - Data management will be directly provided or contracted by the sponsor
      and compliant to the requirements of ISO 14155:2011. The Sponsor or its designee will provide
      the investigator with a Case Report Form (CRF) booklet for each subject enrolled in the study
      and will train the site personnel in the correct manner of recording data. The appropriate
      CRFs will be completed and signed by the Investigator as appropriate. All CRFs will be
      completed in a legible manner in blue or black ink. Any corrections will be made by drawing a
      single line through the incorrect entry, entering the correct information, and initialing and
      dating the change. Data entry boxes or spaces should not be left blank, but instead should
      indicate: NA for not applicable, ND for not done or "-"for missing or not available data. The
      original signed forms, not copies, will be returned to the Sponsor. All clinical data
      generated in the study will be submitted to the Sponsor or its designee for quality assurance
      review, data entry, and statistical analysis. All forms will be reviewed for completeness.
      Any recording errors will be corrected by contact with the appropriate clinical site.
      Double-entry routines will be utilized to reduce data entry errors, and computerized editing
      routines will be used to identify unusual data entries for verification prior to statistical
      analysis.
    
  