
    
      Therapy-related myeloid neoplasms (t-MNs) are a group of hematologic diseases that arise
      after chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy for a previous cancer or rarely autoimmune
      diseases.

      The revised 2016 World Heath Organization (WHO) classification defines t-MN as a subgroup of
      acute myeloid leukemia (AML) comprising myelodysplastic syndrome (t-MDS), acute myeloid
      leukemia (t-AML), and myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasms (t-MDS/MPN) .

      Two forms of t-MN have been recognized. Alkylating agent/radiation-related t-MN usually
      appears 4 to 7 years, which is frequently associated with unbalanced chromosomal
      abnormalities involving chromosomes 5 and/or 7, as well mutations or loss of TP53 ( tumor
      protein 53).

      In contrast, a combination of different topoisomerase II inhibitor-related t-MNs is
      associated with a high incidence of recurrent balanced translocations involving chromosomal
      segments 11q23 (KMT2A), 21q22 (RUNX1), and PML-RARA [1].

      T-MNs are characterized by a subset of molecular mutations including SRSF2, SF3B1, U2AF1,
      ZRSR2, ASXL1, STAG2, and TP53.

      RNA splicing is a process that produces mature mRNAs by excising introns and splicing exons
      from pre-messenger RNA. The spliceosome mutations induce an abnormally spliced mRNA species
      and compromising hematopoiesis.

      One of the potential candidate genes involved in the RNA splicing pathway is serine and
      arginine rich splicing factor 2 (SRSF2). SRSF2, located on chromosome 17q25.1, and plays a
      role in preventing exon skipping, confirming the accuracy of splicing and regulating
      alternative pre-mRNA splicing. Many studies have already reported the potential prognostic
      value of SRSF2 mutations, which have an adverse prognostic impact on survival and disease
      progression.

      Somatic mutations recently identified in patients with de novo AML and MDS, such as those of
      epigenetic regulators, spliceosome machinery and SETBP1, are rare, with the exception of
      SRSF2.

      TP53 mutations have been associated to the occurrence of cytogenetic abnormalities and poor
      response to chemotherapy that are typical of t-MN.

      On the other hand, several studies have shown that the presence of isochromosome 17q i(17q)
      abnormality is associated with wild-type TP53 and mutations in SETBP1 and SRSF2.

      Also, somatic loss of one copy of the long arm of chromosome 7 del(7q) is associated with
      unfavorable prognosis and can co-occur with the SRSF2 mutation in patients with MDS and AML.
    
  