
    
      Patients with pre-existing MI are at higher risk of major cardiovascular events (MCE).
      Current studies mainly focus on cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk assessment in general
      population without a history of CVD. Because of high prevalence of ischemic heart disease,
      especially in developing countries such as Iran, this group of patients form a large
      high-risk population. Factors such as life styles, habits, and psychosocial features are
      adjustable factors which have been less studied in relation to MCE in MI patients worldwide.
      Psychological factors are especially most important in patients with a pre-existing CVD and
      can account for worse outcomes independent of other pathological factors. The cardiovascular
      events are multifactorial and control of traditional risk factors such as hypertension and
      hyperlipidemia cannot efficiently reduce MCE. Identification and comprehensive assessment of
      MCE risk factors is essential for reducing MCE and thus better management of patients. The
      effect of different factors on MCE could be analysed using risk assessment model. To the best
      of our knowledge, this is the first comprehensive study of life style and psychological risk
      factors in CVD patients and the first time to perform MCE risk assessment modelling in MI
      patients.

      The predictors recorded in this study are categorized in three main issues: 1) lifestyle,
      including: nutritional status, physical activity, tobacco smoking and drug abuse, sleep
      quality, and sexual function assessed by relevant questionnaires. 2) behavioral and
      psychological factors, including: depression, psychological distress, health anxiety, health
      related quality of life, type D personality, coping strategies, sense of coherence and
      medication adherence also measured by appropriate questionnaires. 3) Traditional risk
      factors, including: hypertension, diabetes, and hyperlipidemia which will be extracted from
      medical and laboratory records of patients and questionnaires. All predictor variables will
      be assessed in every year follow-up for three years during the study.
    
  