
    
      Borderline personality disorder (BPD) is a serious and debilitating psychiatric condition
      characterized by instability in relationships, emotions, identity, and behaviour. Affecting
      2-6% of the general population, BPD is associated with high rates of self-harm (both suicide
      attempts and non-suicidal self-injury), mortality by suicide, and consequent heavy use of
      public health resources, making it one of the most expensive psychiatric disorders to treat.
      Psychotherapy is recognized as the first-line treatment for BPD, of which dialectical
      behaviour therapy (DBT) has demonstrated the strongest empirical support. Although DBT is
      efficacious for self-harming individuals with BPD, and increasingly available over the past
      10 years, demand for DBT exceeds existing resources.

      Within the current climate of rising health care costs and limited resources, the length (12
      month) and intensive nature (entailing multiple treatment components) of standard DBT are
      major barriers to its adoption. Subsequently, most DBT programs have lengthy wait lists.
      Inadequate accessibility of treatment is not specific to Canada; it is a global problem. In
      clinical practice, DBT is often abbreviated, or clinicians deliver only the components that
      they believe are most appropriate, despite an evidence base almost entirely consisting of
      studies of 1 year of DBT. There are no data on the optimal length of treatment.

      Therefore, the primary aim of this proposal is to examine the efficacy of an abbreviated
      course of DBT (including all components of treatment) compared to the evidence-supported 12
      months of DBT. Our principal question is: How do the clinical outcomes of 6 months of DBT
      (DBT-6) compare with the standard 12 months (DBT-12) for the treatment of chronically
      self-harming individuals with BPD? Assessments will be conducted at pretreatment and at
      3-month intervals until 24 months (i.e., 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21, and 24 months).

      Hypotheses: (1) Patients in the DBT-6 arm will show reductions in the frequency of self-harm
      across the treatment phase and one-year post treatment follow-up phase no worse than those
      measured with patients in the DBT-12 arm. (2) Patients who present with high rates of
      self-harm and impulsive behaviours will have reductions in the frequency of self-harm
      behaviours that are no worse than those in the DBT-6 arm and the DBT-12 arm, over the course
      of both the treatment phase and the 1-year post treatment follow-up.
    
  