
    
      Aphasia is a disturbance of language, primarily caused by brain injury to the left cerebral
      hemisphere. Aphasia treatments include speech and language therapy and pharmacologic therapy,
      but several studies have found that these treatments are not completely effective for
      patients with aphasia, leaving them with residual deficits that significantly add to the cost
      of stroke-related care. Additionally, the amount and frequency of speech and language therapy
      delivered may have a critical effect on recovery. Therefore, there is a need for new
      treatments or adjuncts to existing treatments, such as brain stimulation interventions, that
      have the potential to show greater improvements in patients with aphasia. One such new
      approach for non-invasive brain stimulation is transcranial direct current stimulation
      (tDCS).

      This study will examine the effects of tDCS during speech therapy to further examine which
      method or methods is best for patient recovery. Patients enrolled in the study will undergo
      language testing that covers a broad range of language functions. Functional Magnetic
      Resonance Imaging (fMRI) will be completed before and after speech therapy intervention arms
      to investigate the neural processes affected by tDCS and speech therapy.

      Study design:

      Patients will be randomly assigned to one of 2 speech therapy groups in a double-blind,
      partial crossover design. Patients will receive one of two different speech therapy treatment
      interventions to focus on specific processing deficits. Participants will undergo
      neuropsychological evaluation and fMRI assessment before receiving targeted or active-control
      anodal-tDCS for 10 therapy sessions. Participants will then be re-tested using the behavioral
      assessment measure and fMRI before crossing over to either receive the tDCS intervention they
      did not already receive, within the same speech therapy arm. They will complete a final
      behavioral assessment and fMRI at the completion of the treatment.
    
  