
    
      This proposed study is designed identify for the genetic causes of rare diseases. This study
      does not involve the use of investigational medication or devices. No randomization will take
      place. Participants enrolled into the study will be asked to provide blood or saliva samples
      for DNA testing. Samples will be collected by one of two methods;

        -  If the participant has had a clinical genetic test performed, the results/data will be
           collected from the University of Kentucky (UK) clinical molecular pathology laboratory
           or from the medical records. If the cause of the disease is not identified on clinical
           genetic testing, the investigator will reanalyze the clinical genetic testing data or
           use the blood or saliva sample leftover from the clinical genetic testing for additional
           experiments using new methods to identify the cause of the disease.

        -  If no sample leftover from the clinical genetic testing is available, the investigator
           plans to collect about 2 teaspoons of blood or saliva from the participant at their
           first visit to the site.

      This study plans to enroll 1000 participants from the University of Kentucky Medical Center.

      The investigator plans to store any blood or saliva DNA samples collected for future research
      studies involving rare genetic diseases. The stored blood or saliva DNA samples will not be
      released to anyone outside the study.

      Stored samples will be labeled with a unique study identifier and will be maintained in the
      investigator's research laboratory located at the University of Kentucky, Department of
      Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, 800 Rose Street, Lexington, KY 40536.

      There is no limit on the length of time that the samples will be stored. The investigator may
      keep using the stored samples indefinitely unless the participant decide to withdraw from the
      project.

      Participants may withdraw or cancel their permission for the use for their stored samples at
      any time. However, any samples and health information already obtained from their use will
      not be destroyed.

      There will be no additional costs or charges to the participant for allowing the investigator
      to store and use their left over blood or saliva samples and there is no benefit to the
      participant for allowing the investigator to store their samples.

      Participants will not be paid for donating their samples. The samples and information that
      the participants are donating will no longer belong to them. The research may lead to new
      medical knowledge, tests, treatments or products. These products could have some financial
      value. There are no plans to provide financial payment to either the participant or their
      relatives should this occur.
    
  