
    
      More than five decades have passed since the identification of the etiologic agent of
      hepatitis B and yet this infection is a challenge for public health worldwide. The
      development and availability of the first hepatitis B vaccines, still in the 1980s, was a
      milestone for the prevention of the hepatitis B virus, and currently known as the gold
      standard strategy for the elimination of this infectious disease.

      In several countries, the introduction of the immunobiological occurred gradually, by age
      groups and risk groups, and in general, started with newborns and children. In Brazil, only
      in 2015, a free offer of the hepatitis B vaccine expanded a population aged 50 years or
      older. This universal immunization strategy has contributed to reducing the incidence and
      changing the epidemiological profile of HBV worldwide. At the beginning of the 21st century,
      it was already possible to shift the epidemiological curve of the infection to parasitize
      with 50 years or more.

      Consider this scenario of vulnerability to HBV in older adults, it is important to highlight
      some aspects. The increase in life expectancy around the world is real data and must be
      evaluated. In addition, contemporary aging is accompanied by an increase and improvement in
      sexual performance, overcoming myths about "asexual old age" and outdated stereotypes about
      sexuality for an adult population in the middle and late stages. On the other hand, sexual
      risk behavior in older people being observed, including unprotected sexual intercourse,
      multiple sexual partnerships, sexual intercourse with a sex worker, among others. Studies
      have been increasing the high prevalence of Sexually Transmitted Infections, especially
      hepatitis B in the elderly.

      Given this situation, hepatitis B vaccination is the most assertive tool for preventing HBV.
      However, even in countries that expand the offer of the vaccine to the entire population,
      poor performance of the hepatitis B vaccine in older groups remains a challenge for public
      health and is the object of this study.

      A study conducted by Meeren and collaborators, characterized the relationship age vs. age.
      vaccine response to hepatitis B in immunocompetent adults. The protection index identified,
      considering all age groups, was 94.5%. However, there was a continuous reduction in
      seroprotection associated with age, ranging from 98.6% for young adults aged 20-24 years to
      64.8% for the elderly (≥65 years). In addition, this study suggested that the aging of the
      immune system starts in adulthood and is intensified after 50-60 years of age.

      In the United States, research conducted with competence aged ≥50 years, showed lower rates
      of seroconversion compared to younger people, with protection rates ranging from 68% to
      82.2%. Another study carried out in this country, elucidated the risk of non-response to the
      anti-HBV vaccine in 63% for products ≥40 years old (p = 0.046).

      Finally, in Brazil, an investigation conducted by Caetano et al. with settlers in Goiás, also
      illustrated a low responsiveness to the hepatitis B vaccine in the older population. In the
      age group aged 40-49 years, seroprotection was identified in only 61.9% of the participants,
      and for the age group aged 50-59 years the rate of seroresponse was even lower, only 55.9%
      protective titles of anti- HBs. Another study with this same population in Mato Grosso do
      Sul, showed an average age above 40 years for our non-responders.

      Thus, the program that supplants this limitation is necessary, until the cohort of children
      immunized at birth from a late adulthood. The use of third generation vaccines for this
      population seems to be difficult to implement due to the high cost of this immunogen. In this
      way, more frequent or more concentrated doses of the second generation vaccine can be a safe
      alternative for the older population.

      To our knowledge, there are no data showing the efficacy of doses of enhanced hepatitis B
      vaccines for older adults, and the purpose of this study is to investigate and compare the
      immunogenicity of the hepatitis B vaccine in adult adults aged 50 years and over, using
      conventional doses (20μg) versus (vs) booster doses.
    
  