
    
      Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a common, life-threatening pulmonary process
      which frequently requires mechanical ventilation and has a hospital mortality as high as 40%.
      No specific pharmacologic therapy has proven efficacy to treat ARDS. Corticosteroids have
      been investigated as a treatment for ARDS with conflicting results. Two sub phenotypes of
      ARDS have been described. One is hypo-inflammatory, associated with lower levels of
      circulating cytokines and therefore greater ventilator free days and a lower mortality. The
      second sub-phenotype is hyper-inflammatory with elevated cytokine levels, elevated acute
      phase reactants such as ferritin and c-reactive protein (CRP).

      Many patients infected with the novel Coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2), the causative agent of
      CVOID-19, present with an exaggerated inflammatory response which leads to the
      hyper-inflammatory sub-phenotype of ARDS. These patients may derive great benefit from
      corticosteroids. Accordingly,this study will determine the safety and estimate efficacy of
      targeted corticosteroids in mechanically ventilated patients with the hyper-inflammatory sub
      phenotype of ARDS due to COVID-19

      Hypothesis: Early administration of dexamethasone to patients with the hyper-inflammatory
      sub-phenotype of ARDS due to COVID-19 pneumonia is a safe intervention which increases
      ventilator free days

      Approach: This is a single-center, phase 2a, pragmatic, randomized, double-blinded,
      placebo-controlled study accessing the safety and efficacy of dexamethasone for mechanically
      ventilated patients with ARDS due to COVID-19 infection. Primary outcome will be ventilator
      free days at day 28.

      Understanding the safety and efficacy of corticosteroids in ARDS due to COVID-19 pneumonia
      could have dramatic implications for critically ill patients. Patients who present with an
      ARDS sub-type characterized by exaggerated inflammation may particularly benefit from this
      intervention. Corticosteroids may represent a simple and safe treatment for patients with the
      most severe form of COVID-19 infection and has the potential to save thousands of lives.
    
  