
    
      Patients at MMC undergoing transapical transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TA TAVR)
      routinely receive a paravertebral block for analgesia. This has the added benefit of
      providing a unilateral sympathectomy which may be analogous to a stellate ganglion block,
      albeit via a different technique. In a recent retrospective chart review, TA TAVR block
      patients showed a decreased rate of new onset POAF. Furthermore, when studying whether
      pre-emptive stellate ganglion block increases the patency of radial artery grafts in coronary
      bypass surgery, researchers found a statistically significant decrease (p = 0.048) in atrial
      fibrillation and the use of anti-arrhythmic agents. Unfortunately, this was a secondary
      outcome in a small patient population and, while suggestive, the study was not sufficiently
      powered to draw a definitive conclusion. Importantly, however, they reported no complications
      related to the block in the fifty patients who received an intervention. Lastly, an
      additional study demonstrated the safety and feasibility of stellate ganglion mapping and
      ablation during CABG while also suggesting a clinically significant effect on POAF, but used
      a permanent, technically complex and time intensive procedure.

      The investigator's hypothesis is that perioperative SGB in cardiac surgery is clinically
      efficient and efficacious. To address this, the investigator will:

        1. Recruit 49 patients to undergo perioperative SGB during prior to cardiac surgery (CABG,
           CABG/Aortic Valve Replacement, Aortic Valve Replacement).

        2. Monitor the safety of SGB using post procedure surface ultrasound of the neck and active
           solicitation on Post-op Day (POD) 0 and 1 for identified complications, in addition to
           routine clinical monitoring.

        3. Assess clinical feasibility of SGB by measuring procedural efficacy and efficiency:

             1. Efficacy will be measured using post procedure hand temperature; success is
                indicated by an increase greater than 1 degree Celsius.

             2. Efficiency will be measured as the time to complete the block and the time added to
                the standard anesthesia induction sequence, as a proportion of total time in the
                operating room.

      Significance: If the investigator is able to demonstrate that perioperative SGB in cardiac
      surgery is safe and clinically feasible, the next step will be to design a study to
      investigate the effect of SGB on POAF incidence (and thereby its attendant morbidity,
      mortality and costs) in this clinical population.
    
  