
    
      Imatinib (IM) treatment has been the standard of care for chronic phase (CP) chronic myeloid
      leukemia (CML) and approximately 50% of CP CML patients who received IM treatment achieve
      complete molecular response (CMR) at 6-7 years.(Hochhaus A et al. Leukemia 2009;23:1054-1061,
      Hughes et al. Blood 2008;112:334) The recent data from a study aimed to assess whether IM can
      be discontinued in patients with a CMR lasting at least 2 years showed the probability of
      persistent CMR at 12 months was 41%, and suggested IM can be safely discontinued, at least in
      some patients with sustained CMR. (Mahon et al. Lancet Oncol 2010;11:1029-1035) However, to
      define whether discontinuation of IM treatment can be safely employed, further validation and
      much longer follow-up are needed.

      Aims This prospective study is performed to identify safer and more concrete indicators of
      successful discontinuation and explore contributing factors for sustained undetectable
      transcript.

      Primary Objective:

        -  To evaluate the probability of persistent undetectable molecular residual disease (UMRD)
           and MR4.5 at 12 months after discontinuation

        -  To measure the duration of persistent UMRD and MR4.5 after discontinuation

        -  To identify contributing factors for sustained undetectable transcript

      Secondary Objective:

        -  To evaluate the probability of major molecular response (MMR) loss

        -  To evaluate the time taken to lose MMR at 12 months after discontinuation

        -  In patients with loss of MMR, the probability of re-achieving MMR/MR4.5

        -  To measure the time taken to re-achieve MMR/MR4.5 after IM resumption

        -  To identify contributing factors for sustained re-achieve MMR/MR4.5

      Trial Design This is a prospective, multicenter, non-randomised IM discontinuation study.

      Response Evaluation After discontinuation, molecular response was monitored using RQ-PCR
      assay every month up to 6 month follow-up, every 2 months up to 12 month follow-up, and every
      3 months thereafter. The loss of MMR, MR4.5, and UMRD were defined on 2 consecutive
      assessments.

      If loss of MMR occurred, IM treatment was re-introduced. Written informed consents were
      obtained for all patients
    
  