
    
      The main purpose of this study is to compare the diagnostic performances of the ULD scanner
      with those of the standard X-ray when looking for fractures of the dorsolumbar region, the
      pelvis, proximal femur or the extremities, in an emergency situation in adults, once the
      diagnosis of fracture has been ascertained by the classical standard-dose scanner (gold
      standard). The statistical analyses will be performed with the help version 9.4 or subsequent
      versions of SAS software (SAS Institute, Cary, NC, USA) and/or version 3.5.1 or subsequent
      versions of R software (R Development Core Team (2018). R Foundation for Statistical
      Computing, Vienna, Austria).

      The secondary objectives of this study are to:

      A. Compare the diagnostic performances of the two examination methods under study (ULD scan
      vs. standard X-ray) in the search for bone structure anomalies, damage to the soft tissues,
      damage to the joints and/or discopathies at the site(s) involved.

      B. Compare the diagnostic performances of the two examination methods under study) (ULD scan
      vs. standard X-ray) in the search for fractures of the site involved. C. Evaluate the
      diagnostic agreement between two readers (senior radiologist and junior radiologist) for each
      of the two examination methods under study (ULD scan vs. standard X-ray).

      D. Compare the radiologist's self-declared impression of each of the two examination methods
      under study (ULD scan vs. standard X-ray) in terms of subjective quality: overall image
      quality, diagnostic quality of the examination method and the level of confidence in the
      diagnosis made, overall and for each of the two readers (senior and junior).

      E. Compare the doses of X-rays administered for each of the two examination methods under
      study (ULD scan vs. standard X-ray).

      F. Compare the interpretation time for each examination method under study (ULD scan vs.
      standard X-ray), globally and for each of the two readers (senior and junior).

      For the evaluation of the diagnostic performances (main objective and secondary objectives A
      et B), only the senior radiologist's interpretation will be considered.
    
  