
    
      Background

      Coronary atherosclerosis is responsible for the initiation of acute myocardial infarction
      with plaque rupture leading to acute coronary thrombosis and myocardial infarction. Current
      treatment in the acute phase involves re-establishing vessel patency by percutaneous coronary
      intervention supported by anti-thrombotic therapy. Thereafter, statins,
      angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and beta-blockade all have prognostic benefit but no
      treatments have been successfully developed to target post-infarction inflammatory pathways.

      Necrotic cardiac muscle elicits an inflammatory cascade that serves to clear the infarct of
      dead cells and matrix debris. Human cardiac muscle has negligible regenerative capacity and
      ultimately inflammation leads to replacement of damaged tissue with a fibrotic scar.
      Enhancing reparative mechanisms following the inflammatory reaction to myocardial infarction
      may reduce cardiomyocyte injury, attenuate adverse remodelling and improve clinical outcome.
      A better understanding of the early post-infarct healing phase will also facilitate cell
      therapy strategies to engraft stem cells or stimulate regeneration. In order to achieve this
      goal, the investigators must better characterise the inflammatory processes that follow
      infarction and myocardial necrosis in humans.

      Inflammatory cell mediated injury and healing in the infarcted myocardium

      Neutrophils Inflammation within the infarcted myocardium is associated with induction of
      endothelial adhesion molecules and enhanced permeability of the microvasculature. Up
      regulation of chemokines including interleukin (IL)-8 and monocyte chemoattractant protein
      (MCP)-1 attracts neutrophils and monocytes to the site of injury. Early reperfusion therapy
      amplifies this inflammatory cell influx and accelerates the healing response through
      proliferative and maturation phases. Neutrophil adhesion to endothelium of infarcted
      myocardium occurs within minutes of reperfusion. Ischaemic cardiomyocytes are further injured
      by adherent neutrophils that release reactive oxygen species and destructive proteases
      including human neutrophil elastase (HNE) and proteinase 3. HNE has a wide range of
      substrates including matrix components elastin, fibronectin, and collagen types III and IV.
      Activated neutrophils also occlude microvessels and increase endothelial permeability
      contributing to myocardial oedema. Capillary plugging and obstruction by activated
      neutrophils contributes to failure of microvascular perfusion and increased infarct size
      within the 'no-reflow' zone. Neutrophil depletion reduces this phenomenon and infarct size
      following reperfusion in pre-clinical models.

      Monocyte-derived Macrophages

      Recruitment of monocytes into the infarcted myocardium is followed by maturation and
      differentiation into macrophages: a process dependent on growth factors such as
      macrophage-colony stimulating factor (M-CSF). Macrophages have multiple roles within the
      infarct including (i) phagocytic clearance of dead cells and debris, (ii) production of
      growth factors and cytokines that stimulate fibroblast growth and angioneogenesis, and (iii)
      matrix turnover through the production of matrix metalloproteases and their inhibitors.
      Macrophages are resident within 24 h of infarction and persist for up to 4 weeks. During this
      period, macrophages regulate infarct healing with the initial development of granulation
      tissue and subsequent scar formation. Murine studies suggest that distinct monocyte subsets
      regulate these different processes. Monocytes arriving within the first 3 days mature into
      macrophages that scavenge necrotic debris through inflammatory mediator expression,
      proteolysis and phagocytosis while monocytes arriving later on give rise to macrophages which
      promote reparative processes such as angioneogenesis and extracellular matrix deposition.
      Apoptosis is the primary mechanism determining longevity of neutrophils within sites of
      inflammation and infarction. Engulfment and clearance of apoptotic neutrophils by macrophages
      produces potent anti-inflammatory signals including release of transforming growth factor
      (TGF)-β. Combined with clearance of pro-inflammatory matrix fragments, these processes drive
      the switch to tissue repair and resolution of the post-infarct inflammatory response.

      MCP-1 expression is increased in ischaemic myocardium following reperfusion and this accounts
      for a substantial proportion of the monocyte chemotactic activity. MCP-1 knockout mice
      exhibit delayed macrophage infiltration in the healing infarct with a prolonged inflammatory
      phase and delayed replacement of injured cardiomyocytes with granulation tissue. The MCP-1
      deficient mice have similar size infarcts but attenuated remodelling compared to wild types.
      MCP-1 mRNA levels are increased 40-fold within non-infarcted myocardium and blockade of MCP-1
      signalling with a deletion mutant of MCP-1 markedly reduced macrophage infiltration both
      within the infarct and non-infarcted myocardium. Widespread myocardial inflammatory cell
      infiltration beyond the non-infarcted zone has been observed in human autopsy specimens.
      Blockade of MCP-1 signalling is associated with improved survival rates and reduced left
      ventricular dilatation as well as reduced tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-α gene expression in
      the non-infarcted myocardium. These studies indicate that macrophage activity outside the
      infarct zone may contribute to adverse myocardial remodelling following myocardial
      infarction.

      The inflammatory response to myocardial infarction is necessarily complex to coordinate the
      development of a healing scar from infarcted tissue. The role of the macrophage differs
      depending on differentiation and location within the myocardium. Therapeutic manipulation of
      this healing process will only come from understanding mechanisms and targeting reparative
      pathways. Indiscriminate immunosuppressive therapy in this setting may result in harm as
      observed in trials with methylprednisolone in acute myocardial infarction.

      Magnetic Resonance Imaging in Tracking Cellular Inflammation

      Iron oxide particles can be used as a contrast medium in magnetic resonance imaging since
      they can alter the magnetic properties and relaxation of tissues after application of
      radiofrequency pulses. Such contrast media consist of an iron oxide core within a dextran
      coat. They can be classified as "superparamagnetic iron oxide particles" (SPIOs) consisting
      of particles over 30 nm in diameter, or "ultrasmall superparamagnetic iron oxide particles"
      (USPIOs) which are under 30 nm in diameter. USPIOs are taken up by cells of the liver,
      spleen, bone marrow and lymph nodes. They have the capacity to extravasate through
      capillaries and be phagocytosed by tissue inflammatory cells of the reticuloendothelial
      system. These cells are predominately macrophages, but neutrophils have also been shown to
      take up USPIOs. This model of USPIO-enhanced MRI can highlight areas of inflammation in
      models of vertebral osteomyelitis, aortic atherosclerosis, arthritis-induced hyperperfusion,
      autoimmune encephalomyelitis, nephritis and nephropathy, cerebral ischaemia and renal
      ischaemia.

      Pilot Data in Patients With Acute Myocardial Infarction

      The investigators have undertaken preliminary proof-of-concept studies examining the
      possibility of using USPIOs to image the myocardium in patients having sustained a recent
      acute myocardial infarction. To date, the investigators have studied 16 patients following ST
      segment elevation myocardial infarction treated with reperfusion therapy and undertaken
      serial magnetic resonance imaging scans. By undertaking T2* maps of the myocardium before and
      24-h after USPIO administration, the investigators calculated the R2* value (the inverse of
      T2*) and represented this as a colour-coded R2* map. This demonstrated a 2-3 fold increase in
      the R2* value in the infarct and peri-infarct area. As a negative control, the investigators
      have observed little or no change in the R2* value in myocardium remote from the site of
      ischaemia or skeletal muscle. The liver demonstrates marked uptake of USPIOs with a 3-4 fold
      increase in R2* value.
    
  