
    
      The majority of the intervention will be delivered in primary care settings on low-cost
      touch-screen computers through multi-media audio-narrative and video messages. Studies have
      not tested the effectiveness of tailored communications specified to stated "implementation
      intentions" for improving CRC screening. A randomized design will test a comparison of
      generic information versus a multi-media tailored intervention that specifically addresses
      each participant's screening test preference, current CRC screening decisional state
      (Precaution Adoption Process Model), and specified to stated "implementation intentions" (the
      "when," "Where," and "how" details of screening.) Behavioral intervention materials in
      English and Spanish will be developed with the help of cultural experts, pilot tests, and
      interviews that will test salience and cultural appropriateness of audio, video, and graphic
      messages for low-income minorities and whites. The study will be conducted with 460 patients
      eligible for CRC screening and recruited while presenting for care in urban clinics. All
      participants will receive baseline touch-screen administered assessment and, depending on
      stated preference, be offered either immunochemical fecal occult blood test (iFOBT-InSureTM)
      or a colonoscopy. Participants will be randomized to either "C" (comparison group-computer
      delivered generic CRC information) or "TI2" (active intervention-computer delivered tailored
      messaging based on individual PAPM stage, behavioral constructs, and "implementation
      intentions"). A brief office exit survey will assess patient-provider discussions of CRC
      screening and satisfaction with computerized message materials. A 90-day post randomization
      follow-up telephone call assessment with all participants will reassess PAPM stage and
      perceived CRC screening barriers.

      The primary outcome will be CRC screening completion at 90 days. Secondary outcomes will
      assess 90-day PAPM stage and perceived barriers among participants preferring various
      screening methods (iFOBT, Colonoscopy). This intervention will provide information on the
      utility of embedding a low-cost technologically advanced "implementation intentions" based
      behavioral intervention in primary care practice.
    
  