
    
      An extensive body of research documents adverse effects of being a caregiver for a relative
      with AD on a broad range of psychosocial and biological indicators of stress, including
      increased hassles and depression (Russo & Vitaliano, Experimental Aging Research 1995;
      21:273-294 ) and the metabolic syndrome (Vitaliano et al, Journal of Gerontology:
      Psychological Sciences 1996; 51:290-299). Interventions to reduce psychological distress in
      caregivers have not produced clinically meaningful results thus far (Shulz et al.
      Gerontologist 2002; 42:589-602) and no intervention trials have included assessment of
      biomarkers of stress. Logistic obstacles make it hard for caregivers to participate in
      treatments that require them to come to a treatment site outside the home; thus,
      interventions with caregivers are hard to deliver. The Williams LifeSkills Video (WLV) is
      based on the LifeSkills Workshop, which has been shown in randomized clinical trials to
      reduce hostility and blood pressure in post-MI patients (Gidron et al. Health Psychology
      1999; 18:416-420) and to reduce a broad range of psychosocial risk factors as well as blood
      pressure and heart rate during both rest and stress conditions in post-CABG patients (Bishop
      et al., American Heart Journal 2005;150:602-609). The WLV was developed with support from an
      NIMH SBIR Phase II grant and presents 10 skill modules -- 1) increased awareness of thoughts
      and feelings arising in stressful situations; 2) evaluation of those thoughts and feelings to
      decide whether to try to change them or to take action to try to change the situation; 3)
      deflection skills to change one's thoughts and feelings; action skills to change stressful
      situations, including 4) assertion, 5) problem-solving, and 6) saying no; and relationship
      skills - 7) speaking clearly, 8) listening, 9) empathy, and 10) increasing the positives -
      using dramatizations of scenarios in which the skill is first not used and then used to
      produce a better outcome. A randomized clinical trial evaluating it in stressed community
      volunteers showed that it is superior to a wait list control condition in reducing
      psychosocial (anxiety, depression and perceived stress; (Kirby et al.Psychosomatic
      Medicine,2006;68:816-823.

      In the research conducted in Phase I of this SBIR-supported study, we adapted the scenarios
      used for the 10 skills to represent more closely the real life situations faced by caregivers
      and we developed a telephone coaching manual. Now in Phase II of this study, we will produce
      the complete Caregiver LifeSkills Video (CLV) evaluate its effects on measures of
      psychosocial distress and biomarkers of stress in a randomized clinical trial with 120
      caregivers of a relative with AD or other major dementias. If successful in reducing the
      psychosocial and biological markers of stress that are elevated in caregivers, this new WLS
      product, the CLV, could have a major impact in reducing the health damaging effects of stress
      among the millions of Americans who are caregivers for relatives with AD and other dementias.
    
  