
    
      Patients who are seen in clinic for rotator cuff pathology will undergo treatment for their
      rotator cuff based on a shared-decision making process with the orthopedic surgeon,
      irrespective of this study. Once a treatment plan is in place, the patient will be introduced
      to this study and presented with the opportunity to participate. If the patient agrees, a
      formal consent process will take place in clinic and the patient will undergo initial,
      baseline testing of strength, range of motion, pain scores, and patient reported outcome
      scores.

      Therefore patients will be either in the nonoperative arm or the operative arm of this study.
      Within each arm, patients will be randomized via computer to be placed in either the blood
      flow restriction (BFR) cohort or the traditional (non-BFR cohort). Patients will
      prospectively undergo rotator cuff rehabilitation using BFR or conventional therapy by
      physical therapists with extensive experience in rotator cuff rehabilitation who will undergo
      training on use of BFR.

      The nonoperative group will be given identical rehabilitation protocols, with the only
      difference being the use of a BFR cuff during rehabilitation for the BFR cohort. Similarly,
      the operative group will be given identical rehabilitation protocols, with the only
      difference being the use of a BFR cuff during rehabilitation for the BFR cohort.

      Patients undergoing operative rotator cuff repair (RCR) will undergo preoperative
      rehabilitation prior to surgery for two weeks. Due to limitations of health insurance
      coverage of physical therapy sessions, the two weeks of preoperative "prehab" will consist of
      a structured home exercise program that is taught to the patient by a physical therapist
      during one session and recorded on a physical therapy (PT) diary by the patient during the
      two weeks leading up to surgery. Patients will be provided video instruction and training on
      how to conduct the exercises and this will also be done with and without the use of BFR
      depending on group allocation (via randomization). Additionally, warning signs for BFR cuff
      intolerance such as increased pain, swelling, numbness/tingling of the arm will be
      communicated to the patient. Following surgery patients will immediately be started in a
      formal physical therapy regimen as an outpatient. Therapy will consist of a structured
      program progressing from range of motion, to strength training and then functional tests.
      Patients will remain in their allocated BFR or non-BFR group.

      Protocol as follows, both groups will use the same protocol with the only difference being
      use of BFR:

      For surgical patients:

      • Preop: Patients will undergo a home program consisting of isometric exercises including
      shoulder extension, abduction, external rotation and internal rotation pushing against a
      wall.

      For both surgical and non-surgical patients:

        -  Post-op weeks 0-8: Passive shoulder range of motion (ROM) only

             -  Sling immobilization with active elbow, wrist and hand ROM

             -  Passive ROM only of shoulder including pendulums, supine elevation in scapular
                plane, external rotation with arm at side.

        -  8-12 weeks being more active range of motion

             -  Discontinue sling

             -  Being active exercises including prone row, standing internal/external rotation
                with bands, wall slides into shoulder flexion

        -  Weeks 12-20: Strength and function o Sidelying shoulder external rotation, increase
           resistance band exercises

      Throughout this protocol patients will have a pre-operative visit, an early 2 week post
      operative visit to check range of motion and wound healing, a six week visit to monitor range
      of motion and potentially clear for active ROM and sling discontinuation, and a three month
      visit prior to clearance to being return to more aggressive activity. Strength and range of
      motion will be recorded at each of these visits in order to assess the primary endpoint.

      Outcomes:

        -  Primary Outcome:

           o Strength to be measured via dynamometer at each clinic visit

        -  Secondary Outcomes:

             -  Range of motion via goniometer

             -  Pain via visual analogue scale (VAS) pain scale at each visit

             -  Patient reported outcomes scores at each visit

             -  Fatty infiltration and muscle atrophy measured via ultrasound and compared to
                pre-operative imaging

      Plan to recruit patients starting in June 2020. Will enroll patients and collect data from
      June-2020 to May 2021. Manuscript writing and submission to occur in June 2021.

        -  Data analysis: The primary endpoint of this study was a maximum repetition total work
           deficit of 15% between the BFR and control group as measured by dynamometer. This was
           based on previous data showing that a strength deficit of 15% represents a clinically
           significant difference that is not likely attributable to limb dominance. Work deficit
           was calculated in each group by comparing the operative leg with the nonoperative leg to
           obtain a deficit percent. A power analysis was performed before the study to assess the
           number of patients needed to detect a 15% total work deficit between the BFR and control
           groups. With a power of 80% (beta level ¼ 0.80, alpha level ¼ 0.05), a sample size of 34
           (17 patients per group) was obtained. Data will be provided to and analyzed by trained
           statisticians to determine differences in primary and secondary outcomes.

        -  All continuous data will be analyzed using independent 2-group t tests and reported as
           means ± standard deviations. Categorical data will be compared between the 2 groups
           using chi-square tests and reported as counts and percentages. A preliminary test to
           confirm the quality of variances will be conducted prior to utilizing the t test to
           confirm the appropriate statistical analysis. Nonparametric equivalents Wilcoxon
           rank-sum and Fisher exact tests will be used as needed for nonnormal distributions and
           low variable numbers, respectively. A multivariable regression analysis was performed to
           assess for potential confounding demographic variables.
    
  