
    
      There is strong consensus - based on robust randomized trial data - that routine
      pre-operative (pre-op) testing for cataract surgery is inappropriate (Keay et al, 2009; Keay
      et al, 2012; Schein et al, 2000; Chen et al, 2015). Because pre-op testing provides no
      benefit to patients, the American Academy of Ophthalmology named reducing routine pre-op
      testing for cataract surgery the #1 issue that patients and physicians should question as
      part of the Choosing Wisely™ campaign (Schein et al, 2012). Despite these widely endorsed
      evidence-based recommendations, most seniors undergoing cataract surgery still receive
      unnecessary blood testing, EKGs, and chest X-rays (CXRs); another substantial percentage even
      undergo non-indicated cardiac stress tests (Rumball-Smith et al, 2017).

      With cataract surgery being the most common medical procedure among Medicare beneficiaries
      (predicted 4.4 million per year by the year 2030) (Schein et al, 2012), widespread reduction
      of routine pre-op testing for cataract surgery would reduce costs, reduce exposure to
      unnecessary and potentially harmful tests, and allow millions of seniors to spend more time
      enjoying life rather than wasting their time receiving inappropriate health care.

      The investigators hypothesize that an interdisciplinary electronic health record (EHR)-based
      intervention that applies behavioral economics approaches (i.e., "nudges") will dramatically
      reduce pre-op testing for cataract surgery in a real-world clinical setting. The
      investigators propose to test this hypothesis by conducting a pragmatic randomized trial,
      implementing this intervention at UCLA Health (Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center), where
      ~3200 cataract surgeries are performed per year. The specific aims are to:

        1. Integrate three new BPA nudges into the UCLA Health EHR. The investigators will conduct
           a four-arm randomized pragmatic trial to compare the effectiveness of the nudges vs.
           usual care. Three distinct nudges were tailored to highlight the safety aspects of
           pre-op tests, the financial harms to the patient of experiencing pre-op tests, and the
           potential psychological harms to the patient of experiencing preop tests. The pragmatic
           trial will include three types of behavioral nudges to promote the desired reduction in
           low value care:

           Nudge 1:

             -  UCLA Ophthalmologists and Anesthesiologists ADVISE AGAINST routine pre-op testing.

             -  UCLA Pre-op Eval and Planning Center (PEPC) will order any needed labs on the day
                of surgery.

             -  Routine pre-op tests are inappropriate.

             -  Routine pre-op tests do NOT increase patient safety and go AGAINST local and
                national guidelines

             -  Hard stop before allowing the ordering of a pre-op test where physicians must
                provide accountable justification: "EXPLAIN WHY GOING AGAINST GUIDELINES"

           Nudge 2:

             -  UCLA Ophthalmologists and Anesthesiologists ADVISE AGAINST routine pre-op testing.

             -  UCLA Pre-op Eval and Planning Center (PEPC) will order any needed labs on the day
                of surgery.

             -  Routine pre-op tests are inappropriate.

             -  Routine pre-operative tests can increase the patient's out-of-pocket costs without
                improving the safety or medical outcomes of cataract surgery and go AGAINST local
                and national guidelines

             -  Hard stop before allowing the ordering of a pre-op test where physicians must
                provide accountable justification: "EXPLAIN WHY GOING AGAINST GUIDELINES"

           Nudge 3:

             -  UCLA Ophthalmologists and Anesthesiologists ADVISE AGAINST routine pre-op testing.

             -  UCLA Pre-op Eval and Planning Center (PEPC) will order any needed labs on the day
                of surgery.

             -  Routine pre-op tests are inappropriate.

             -  Routine pre-operative tests can cause aggravation and psychological stress for the
                patient without improving the safety or medical outcomes of cataract surgery and go
                AGAINST local and national guidelines

             -  Hard stop before allowing the ordering of a pre-op test where physicians must
                provide accountable justification: "EXPLAIN WHY GOING AGAINST GUIDELINES"

        2. Randomize providers who conducted a pre-op visit in 2019 and those who are expected to
           conduct such a visit during the 12-month study period to one of 4 study arms (usual
           pre-op care, Nudge #1, Nudge #2, or Nudge #3) and measure and compare the efficacy of
           each intervention. The investigators will measure and compare rates of testing before
           and after initiation of the randomization. Outcomes will be measured 12-months after the
           intervention start date.

      For the primary outcome, we will assess the change in the percentage of cataract patients who
      undergo one or more pre-op tests after 12 months, where the baseline comparison will be 2019.
      While we intended to the 12-month pre-period as the baseline, the COVID-19 pandemic had a
      substantial impact on cataract surgeries. We will compare the percentage of patients
      receiving pre-op testing in the pooled nudge arms to the usual care arm (primary outcome) and
      measure the efficacy of each individual nudge arm to determine whether certain behavioral
      economic framing techniques are more effective than others at reducing pre-op testing
      (secondary outcomes). Other secondary outcomes will include the change in the percentage of
      patients who received pre-op labs, pre-op EKGs, and pre-op CXRs. We will also evaluate the
      total number of pre-op tests patients received, same-day surgery cancellations, cost savings
      to the health system, and cost savings to the patient. To elicit the views and experiences of
      physicians, we will survey physicians randomized to all intervention arms to evaluate their
      experience with the EHR alerts.

      Reducing patient exposure to unnecessary care is central to improving patient outcomes and
      value. This project is fully aligned with UCLA Health leadership's current priority of
      supporting cross-departmental system change to improve quality of care, outcomes, and value
      for UCLA patients. Because of the close partnership between our UCLA Informatics
      co-Investigators and the EHR vendor (Epic), the low-cost intervention that we propose to
      implement and test will be easily disseminatable to all Epic-based health systems, and will
      have the potential to dramatically reduce inappropriate pre-op testing across the nation.

      EHRs are in their infancy, and the scientific community is only beginning to learn how to use
      them as tools to promote desired care processes (Meeker et al, 2016). This proposed pragmatic
      trial would break new ground in our understanding of how behavioral economics approaches can
      be used to tamp down on care that does not promote better patient outcomes.
    
  