
    
      Immunosuppressant therapy (IST) is the main treatment for SAA for patients who do not have an
      HLA-matched sibling donor available for transplant. But some patients with SAA do not respond
      to IST and some others relapse after IST. HCT using an unrelated but HLA-matched donor is the
      only curative option for these patients but many patients lack a suitable HLA-matched donor.
      St Jude is trying to increase donor options for these patients by using novel therapeutic
      strategies by combining two widely used of GVHD prophylaxis methods: i) selective T cell
      depletion and ii) use of post-transplant cyclophosphamide. This will allow expansion of the
      donor pool to include haploidentical donors as well as reduce the risk of GVHD. The goal of
      this protocol is to test whether combining these GVHD prophylaxis approaches will allow use
      of haploidentical donors, reduce risk of GVHD, reduce transfusion dependence and improve
      immune reconstitution.

      For this study chemotherapy, antibodies and radiation will be given to prepare the body to
      receive donor cells. Participants will then be given the donor cell infusion.

      Patients will receive two types of donor blood cell products - a progenitor blood cell
      infusion and then a donor lymphocyte infusion. Both the progenitor blood cell and the donor
      lymphocyte infusion will be processed in a laboratory at St. Jude using a machine called the
      CliniMACS™.

      In this clinical trial, participants will receive a special type of progenitor blood cells
      (called TCRαβ- depleted blood cells) from the donor.

      After the donor progenitor cells have started to grow within the body (engraftment),
      participants will receive a second product that contains mature immune cells. These immune
      cells called CD45RA-depleted lymphocytes or donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) will help fight
      infections in the body after the transplant and strengthen the developing immune system.
    
  