
    
      Overdoses and deaths due to opioid use disorders (OUDs) have been declared a public health
      emergency in the United States, bringing to light an urgent need for highly effective OUD
      treatments. There are currently five FDA-approved medication formulations, which relative to
      placebo have demonstrated effectiveness in helping patients attain abstinence from opioids.
      Nonetheless, patients' opioid abstinence rates are sub-optimal: even when treated with the
      newest extended-release formulations only about 40% of patients maintain abstinence during
      the first 6-months of treatment. Contingency management (CM; i.e., motivational incentives
      for achieving pre-defined treatment goals) is one of the only behavioral interventions shown
      to improve patient abstinence from opioids when combined with FDA-approved pharmacotherapy.
      Unfortunately, however, uptake of CM in OUD treatment centers remains low.

      The primary purpose of this study is to experimentally evaluate two different comprehensive
      training models to train opioid treatment centers in CM. A Type 3 Hybrid Trial will be
      conducted collecting data on both implementation and patient outcomes. Using a cluster
      randomized design, 30 OUD treatment centers across New England will be randomized to one of
      two comprehensive training conditions over a 5 year period. The control condition is the
      staff training strategy used by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration
      (SAMHSA)-funded network of Addiction Technology Transfer Centers (ATTC; i.e., didactic
      workshop + performance feedback + staff coaching). The experimental condition is the ATTC
      strategy enhanced by external leadership coaching (using a model called Implementation
      Sustainment Facilitation [ISF], i.e., leadership coaching focused on sustainment planning)
      and provider incentives (using a model called Pay for Performance [P4P]; i.e., monetary
      bonuses for achieving pre-defined implementation goals), hereafter referred to as E-ATTC.
      Elements of the E-ATTC condition were informed by our team's prior NIH-funded work evaluating
      organization-level implementation strategies. At each OUD treatment center, data will be
      collected at multiple intervals from 2-5 CM treatment providers (n=60-150 providers), 1-2
      organizational leaders (n=30-60 leaders), and 25 newly admitted patients (n=750 patients).
      Additionally, 25 patient charts per center (n=750 charts) will be randomly selected for
      review to examine sustainment. Data collection will include electronic medical record review,
      ratings of audio recordings by staff blind to condition, well-validated measures, and
      biological verification of abstinence.

      The Primary Aim of the study is to experimentally compare the effect of the two training
      strategies on implementation outcomes. Focal implementation outcomes include: CM Exposure
      (patient-level measure of number of CM sessions received during 9-month Implementation phase)
      CM Competence (provider-level measure of CM quality during month Implementation phase), and
      CM Sustainment (patient-level measure of number of CM sessions received during 12-month
      Sustainment phase). The Secondary Aim of the study is to experimentally compare the effect of
      the two training strategies on patient outcomes. Focal patient outcomes include abstinence
      from opioids and opioid-related problems.

      An Exploratory Aim is to test whether two organization-level variables (i.e., implementation
      climate, leadership engagement) partially mediate the relationship between implementation
      condition and the key study outcomes.

      Pursuit of these aims is significant given the potential to improve the treatment of OUDs in
      community settings, which is one of the greatest public health challenges currently facing
      our nation. Major strengths of the approach include the study's experimental design (cluster
      randomized trial), novel implementation strategy based on mixed-methods pilot data by the
      investigative team, large sample of organizations (N = 30), partnership with a SAMHSA-funded
      national training center, and rigorously measured implementation and patient outcomes.
    
  