
    
      This prospective randomised double blind study will be conducted on 90 patients undergoing
      primary total knee arthroplasties of American society of anesthesiologists physical status
      (ASA) 1-3 class. Patients will be educated regarding verbal rating score (0=no pain; 10=
      worst pain ever) and postoperative rehabilitation exercises by the physiotherapy.
      Preoperative motor power will be recorded by a physiotherapist in all patients. All patients
      will receive pre-operative multimodal analgesia with Tylenol, Naproxen, gabapentin and
      granisetron which will be continued for at least 5 postoperative days. Patients will be
      grouped according to the study arm as group 1 (periarticular infiltration of 100 ml of 0.3%
      ropivacaine with 30 mg of ketorolac, 10 mg morphine and 2.5µg/ml of epinephrine), group 2 (60
      ml of 0.5% ropivacaine with 30 mg of ketorolac, 10 mg morphine and 2.5µg/ml of epinephrine)
      or group 3 (60 ml of 0.5% ropivacaine with 30 mg of ketorolac, 10 mg morphine and 1µg/Kg of
      dexmedetomidine).

      Pre-procedural scan will identify suitable location to perform the three injections. The
      continuous adductor canal block will be performed under ultrasound guidance in the supine
      position with the leg in external rotation. The femoral artery is traced from the groin
      region under the Sartorius muscle until the superior geniculate artery is seen to take off
      from the femoral artery. This will mark the site of final catheter tip location. The probe
      will be rotated 900 and moved cephalad tracing the Sartorius and the femoral artery in the
      long axis till 8cms proximally which will be marked as the needle entry point. The
      intermediate cutaneous nerve of thigh usually travels as a dual nerve between the Sartorius
      and rectus femoris above the fascia lata which is identified at this point. Following sterile
      precautions, the skin will be anesthetized with 1% lidocaine and an 8 cm block needle will be
      inserted out of plane with the artery in short axis under the Sartorius. The needle will be
      initially directed laterally to lie above the fascia lata between the Sartorius and rectus
      femoris muscle and 5 ml of study drug will be injected while withdrawing the needle. The
      needle is then redirected to enter the fascia of the Sartorius to deliver an additional 5ml
      of the study drug. The needle is then advanced till the needle tip is seen to lie adjacent to
      the femoral artery under the Sartorius. Following this, the US probe is rotated to see the
      Sartorius in the long axis with the artery in the long axis underneath it. The needle is
      advanced hydrodissecting with 0.5% dextrose until the needle tip is positioned just proximal
      to the origin of the superior geniculate artery. A block catheter will be inserted 3cms
      beyond the tip of the needle under US guidance. Following this, 15 ml of test drug will be
      injected watching for confirmation of STUDY DRUG deposition around the artery. The final
      catheter tip location will be confirmed with color Doppler as well as pulse wave Doppler and
      is deemed adequately positioned if seen close to the artery. Following adductor canal block,
      sartorius will be traced to its origin at the anterior superior iliac spine and lateral
      cutaneous nerve of thigh will be blocked in the lacuna musculorum between the origin of
      Sartorius and tensor fascia lata muscle with 10 ml of the study drug. Following the anterior
      injections, an 8 cms block needle will be inserted near the medial femoral epicondyle under
      ultrasound guidance and 25 ml of test drug will be injected from the medial epicondyle to the
      lateral epicondyle between the bone and popliteal artery which constitutes posterior
      pericapsular injection. Hence, a total volume of 60 ml will be used.

      All patients will be enrolled on an intention to treat analysis basis and the block
      characteristics will be documented on all the aspects of the knee joint by a blinded observer
      comparing it to the opposite side. Motor power will be tested with a hand held dynamometer
      before and 20 minutes after the performance of the blocks. Proprioception and vibration will
      be tested and documented by the same observer before and 20 minutes after the blocks. All
      patients will receive spinal anesthesia with 15 mg of hyperbaric bupivacaine for the surgery
      with titrated sedation intraoperatively to a Ramsay sedation score of 3 with propofol 9mg/ml
      and 1mg/ml of ketamine. The patients will be assessed for pain during rest and activity
      immediately after the effects of spinal anesthetic wears off (Bromage score of 1), every 2
      hourly for 6 hours and at 6, 12 , 24, 36 and 48 AND 72 HOURS. All patients will be evaluated
      for their readiness to perform physiotherapy after full recovery FROM SPINAL ANESTHESIA
      (Bromage score of 1), lack of postural hypotension AS ASSESSED BY THE CAREGIVER AND THE
      PHYSIOTHERAPIST. The adductor canal catheter will be bolused with 10 ml of 0.2% ropivacaine
      once the patient reports >6/10 anterior knee pain and an infusion will be started at a basal
      rate of 6ml/Hr with patient controlled boluses (PCRA) of 4ml every 30 minutes as needed.
      Second rescue analgesia consists of oxycodone 5-10mg every 3-4 hourly. The predominant site
      of pain will be documented. All patients will be assessed for performance of "Timed up and
      Go" test at 6 postoperative hours and at discharge. Patients will be deemed to attain
      discharge readiness if pain and nausea are controlled on oral medications, absence of medical
      or surgical complications and are able to do five steps in the physiotherapy department. The
      number of patients that achieved the discharge criteria in each group prior to starting
      adductor canal infusion will be documented every 6 hourly. WOMAC scores will be collected
      from the orthopedic database pre-operatively and at three months postoperatively.

      Block performance time, pain scores on movement and rest, time to first request and the
      frequency of analgesic consumption, site of predominant pain, total analgesic consumption
      every 12 hourly and time to first physiotherapy will be documented. Intraoperative sedation
      requirement and intraoperative hemodynamics will be obtained from the anesthetic record.
      Motor strength will be evaluated with a dynamometer for maximum voluntary isometric
      contraction (MVIC) at 6 hours after the initial block, at 1800 PM on the day of surgery and
      thereafter at 0800 AM and 1600 PM for the next 72 hours. Time from the block performance/ end
      of infiltration to the first rescue analgesia will be determined as the total block duration.
      The time from the arrival in PACU to the attainment of discharge criteria will be determined
      as the time to readiness for discharge. Patient satisfaction will be documented on a visual
      analogue scale where 0 is totally dissatisfied and 100 is totally satisfied. Adverse events
      such as local anesthetic toxicity, symptomatic bradycardia (HR≤ 40), Significant hypotension
      (< 90mmHg systolic), neurological deficits, respiratory insufficiency will be prospectively
      collected. The failure rate and the number of attempts will also be recorded.
    
  