
    
      Alport syndrome (AS) is a progressive hereditary glomerular disease with the prevalence 1 in
      50,000. AS is caused by pathogenic variants in the COL4A3, COL4A4, and COL4A5 genes encoding
      type IV collagen α3, α4, and α5 chains, respectively. There are three modes of inheritance:
      X-linked Alport syndrome (XLAS), autosomal recessive AS (ARAS), and autosomal dominant AS
      (ADAS).

      Alport Syndrome causes progressive kidney damage. The glomeruli and other normal kidney
      structures such as tubules are gradually replaced by scar tissue, leading to kidney failure.
      Boys with Alport Syndrome, regardless of the genetic type, eventually develop kidney failure.
      These boys often need dialysis or transplantation during their teenage or young adult years,
      but kidney failure can occur as late as 40-50 years of age in some men with Alport Syndrome.
      Most girls with the X-linked type of Alport Syndrome do not develop kidney failure. However,
      as women with Alport Syndrome get older the risk of kidney failure increases.

      Currently, diagnosis of Alport Syndrome relies on careful evaluation of the patient's signs
      and symptoms, along with the family history. Hearing and vision should also be tested. The
      evaluation can also include a blood test, urine tests, and a kidney biopsy to determine
      Alport Syndrome. A genetic test is crucial to confirm the diagnosis and determine the genetic
      type of Alport Syndrome.

      There is no cure for Alport syndrome; however, symptomatic treatment can help relieve
      symptoms. Kidney transplantation is usually very successful in people with Alport Syndrome
      and is considered the best treatment when end-stage kidney failure is approaching.

      The aim of this study to identify biomarker/s for Alport Syndrome and to explore their
      clinical robustness, specificity, and long-term variability, in the attempt to offer access
      to earlier diagnosis and treatment monitoring.
    
  