
    
      This prospective interventional trial will be conducted in the delivery unit at OUS. The
      planned studies consist of five distinct phases with step-wise interventions; 1) baseline
      data collection, 2) introducing educational debriefing, 3) intensive run-in/rolling-refresher
      phase, 4) INSPIRE-D phase and lastly 5) evaluation phase.

      Phase 1: The baseline data collection phase

        1. Needs assessment/questionnaires from participating healthcare providers will be
           collected which include demographic data such as sex, age, education, and work
           experience, as well as exposure to resuscitation training, simulation, self-perceived
           confidence and suggestions for further training/educational topics.

        2. Observations of the newborn in the resuscitation bays will be done by video recordings
           and supplemented by resuscitation records, hospital quality improvement data and medical
           records. Data points to be collected of the newborn are demographics, gestational age,
           physiological parameters such as heart rate and respirations/oxygenation, Apgar score,
           interventions performed, and outcomes during and at discharge from hospital.

        3. The healthcare providers adherence to guidelines in neonatal resuscitation (both
           technical and non-technical skills like team collaboration) will be evaluated by
           examining the video recordings and scored by validated scoring systems formerly tested
           with good intra- and inter-rater reliability. The scoring systems is adapted to
           guidelines from the Norwegian Council of Resuscitation and retested for intra- and
           inter-rater reliability.

      Phase 2: Intervention Phase with Educational Debriefings

        1. Educational debriefings of healthcare providers involved in clinical situations with
           newborn resuscitation: Selected resuscitation events will be debriefed facilitated by a
           study team member with special competence in facilitation and an instructor in neonatal
           resuscitation. The debriefing will be held depending on clinical schedule and
           availability, to discuss process of care, performance, and provide education to
           multidisciplinary staff with advocacy/inquiry debriefing techniques.

        2. For healthcare providers; cont¬inued needs assessment and prospective observations by
           video-recordings in resuscitation bays to document quality of care.

        3. Baseline skills assessment will be collected using a novel manikin, the Newborn Lung
           Simulator. Healthcare providers will be presented for a mini-simulation with a
           compromised newborn and asked to perform high quality resuscitation. The performance and
           adherence to guidelines will be evaluated and retested after the intervention.

      Phase 3 - Intensive run-in of high frequency training and team reflection: "The rolling
      refresher phase"

        1. In this phase training triggers are identified at the start of each day shift. A careful
           consideration of perinatal factors of both mother and infant will identify "high risk"
           deliveries with babies who may need resuscitation. If no risk deliveries are identified,
           a random Healthcare Provider team among the present staff will be selected.

        2. "Just-in-time" and "just-in-place" training; the novel "Rolling refresher", will be
           introduced (target >80% of staff) at the beginning of day shifts. Health Care Providers
           caring for labouring mothers with training triggers will be identified and exposed to
           "low dose" simulation-based "just-in-time" and "just-in-place" skills training. The
           short training session (<10 minutes) will take place on-site in the resuscitation bay
           with relevant topics such as; timely assessment of need for intervention, effective
           assisted ventilations on a Newborn Lung Simulator. We will use observations from the
           video-films to target training with focus on rapid evaluation of respiratory distress,
           correct ventilation technique and use of pulse oximetry.

        3. Continued simulation training will be based on problem areas identified from baseline.
           Performance during simulation training will be evaluated and registered.

        4. Educational debriefings will continue, as in Phase 2

        5. Continued needs assessment and prospective observations in resuscitation bays to
           document provider confidence, simulation performance and quality of care during
           implementation of the INSPIRE-D bundle described above.

      Phase 4: Continued INSPIRE-D bundle. After successful implementation defined as >80% of staff
      having been through at least one "just-in-time and just in place" training session, all
      interventions above (phase 2 and 3) will continue on routine basis. Continued needs
      assessment of confidence and performance are repeated as described above.

      Phase 5: Evaluation. Evaluation of the INSPIRE-D bundle to identify and define key factors
      and processes that we prove necessary to ensure timely and effective neonatal resuscitation
      associated with improved newly born survival and neurologic outcomes.
    
  