
    
      Participation in the study lasts 7 days per patient.

      Both solutions are crystalloids who received MA in France for ISOFUNDINE, MA in Germany with
      pending MA in France for TETRASPAN, including an indication for infusion. Both solutions are
      consistent with the recommendations of intensive care of a traumatized brain: iso-osmolar and
      without glucose. The study is an emergency: the resuscitation of a head injury, for which the
      plasma by crystalloids may be delayed.

      J0: Day of Inclusion

      On arrival at the emergency operating room at the diagnosis of a serious head injury alone,
      the anaesthetist that supports the patient in an initial phase includes the patient in the
      study.

      A H0, it is holding the patient randomization and continued his rehabilitation with the lot
      of fluids allocated. If he wants to use macro-molecules, it may use HydroxyEhtylAmidons(HEA).
      Each batch assigned to a patient includes a crystalloids and HEA: witnesses arm includes
      saline solution and the HEAfusine while the interventional arm includes Isofundine and
      tetraspan. These treatment are indistinguishable and both provided by the laboratory Braun.
      They will be kept in operating emergency to be the most readily available, upon arrival of
      the patient. If the health of the patient requires a refill crystalloids emergency even
      before randomization did not take place, the clinician uses originally Saline and starts the
      protocol as soon as possible as soon as the patient him can take the few minutes needed to
      achieve inclusion. The first biological assessment include the determination of natremia, of
      kaliemia, of magnesemia, the ionized calcium, the lactatemia of albumin, the osmolarity of
      plasma and blood gases. These strengths are in Biological standard of care of a traumatized
      brain.

      Apart from the contribution of crystalloids, the rest is therapeutic to the discretion of
      clinicians. The indication of monitoring the intra-cranial pressure sensor
      intra-parenchymatous is left to the discretion of the clinician without obligation associated
      with the study. As requires the usual care of this pathology, the patient is then transferred
      to intensive care.

      J1 and J2

      In accordance with the Memorandum of service, a basic daily infusion of crystalloids (30 ml /
      kg / day) is prescribed to all patients during the first 48 hours. The crystalloids used for
      these basic inputs is the lot assigned at inclusion.

      If the indications of plasma referred to by hemodynamic boli solutes remain free indication
      of the doctor taking care of the patient, type of fluid used is the batch assigned to the
      patient (Isofundine-Physiologic serum), including the use of macromolecules that are
      available in the lot assigned to the patient (Heafusine-tetraspan).

      Biological monitoring TBI usually based on a biological assessment every 12 hours. It
      includes a ionograms blood and blood gases. On the same samples without extract a larger
      volume of blood, we collect specifically in biological assessments:

        -  ionized calcium, magnesemia, natremia, kaliemia.

        -  lactatemia.

        -  albumin.

        -  plasma osmolarity. No blood gases.

      Neurological based monitoring as requested by the clinician is changing the values of either
      the PIC transcranial doppler.

      The contribution of treatment under study stops at the 48th hour, after that time, the inflow
      of fluid is pursued in accordance with the wishes of doctors, and the type of product is
      imposed by the study .

      J7 or exit resuscitation

      The end of the study is the 7th day of inclusion (not trauma), or the day of release
      resuscitation if it precedes the 7th day. This is the end of the collection of clinical data
      and biological weapons. From J2-J7, no treatment and no record is imposed by the study. This
      is a simple monitoring period assessing the future clinical neurological patients.
    
  