
    
      Background:

      Many authors have demonstrated the efficacy of Physiotherapy in Respiratory attending
      respiratory difficulties associated with different types of pathologies (Chronic Obstructive
      Pulmonary Disease, cystic fibrosis, tumors), however the investigators did not find studies
      with scientific evidence demonstrating the effectiveness of these programs in children with
      Neuromuscular Diseases (NMD), whose quality and life expectancy depends largely on the proper
      handling of Bronchial secretions and delay the deterioration of respiratory function.

      The main objective of this study focuses on determining the effectiveness of physiotherapy
      for the treatment of respiratory breathing difficulties in children with NMD. Deducing other
      aspects such as the impact of this program on the number of visits to hospital emergencies
      department each year, hospital admissions and respiratory infections suffered by these
      children, and the need or not of antibiotics.

      Material and method:

      This research is an analytical, longitudinal, prospective, experimental, evaluator blinded
      study. It is controlled with two parallel groups, randomized clinical trial.

      The sample consisted of children diagnosed with NMD. For the evolution of different variables
      spirometric test was used for variables related to the function respiratory, and a tracking
      sheet designed by the researchers to collect the number hospital emergency visits each year,
      as well as hospital admissions, respiratory infections and need of antibiotics. These
      assessments were made before and after the start of program and during every four months.

      Patients were randomized to control or experimental group, no apply any Respiratory Physical
      Therapy treatment in subjects in the first group and performing a Respiratory Physical
      Therapy program in the second. This program was carried out once in week by the
      physiotherapist, and four times weekly at home, by family, during one year.
    
  