
    
      Age-adjusted melanoma incidence among Caucasians has risen from 7.5 to 21.9 cases per 100,000
      representing an increase of nearly 200% over 30 years. In contrast to other cancers (i.e.
      colorectal, prostate, cervical), melanoma is detected by intentional visual skin inspection.
      Intentional screening is the deliberate visual inspection of all cutaneous surfaces. However,
      fewer than 30% of primary care physicians (PCPs) reported training in skin cancer during
      their medical education. Early detection of melanoma by PCPs cannot be expected to improve
      without addressing both the PCPs' lack of training and their low confidence in examination
      skills pertaining to pigmented lesion exams. A focused intervention is required to improve
      PCPs' early detection of melanoma and mitigate the near-term consequences of an aging US
      population.

      Opportunistic surveillance requires skills in both unaided visual inspection of the skin and
      in dermoscopy of lesions. Dermoscopy-a hand-held magnifying device that assists with
      diagnosis-reduces the number of unnecessary biopsies and improves the clinical sensitivity of
      diagnosing melanoma. Studies show that Australian PCPs trained to use a "three-point
      checklist of dermoscopy," developed biopsy ratios of benign to malignant lesions of 8:1 in
      the general population, which is comparable to dermatologists using dermoscopy. In 2009, the
      American Academy of Family Physicians held their first dermoscopy course at their Annual
      Scientific Meeting, and there is continuing demand for similar courses. By making dermoscopy
      customary for PCPs, PCPs will be able to detect melanomas opportunistically and render care
      to the at-risk population of elderly for whom they provide care. Smart-touchscreen
      technologies can potentially provide a safe environment for medical trainees to learn
      procedural and screening skills that are rarely available opportunities in the clinic. As
      such, these technologies may lead to better health outcomes in future populations.

      In this study, eighty 3rd year medical and thirty 1st year physician's assistant students
      participate in a visual screening and dermoscopy curriculum aimed at improving the retention
      rate of the learned clinical skills. After a didactic lecture on melanoma screening,
      participants are randomized to either a control or an experimental study arm for the clinical
      skills workshop. The control arm represents our previously published clinical skills training
      workshop (IRB STU 0002705) in which participants interact with a simulated patient model
      presenting with pigment lesions and review dermoscopy images on a projector screen. In the
      experimental arm, the projector-based learning approach is replaced with a handheld
      touchscreen device (smartphone) preloaded with interactive melanoma screening tutorial. The
      smartphone provides instant feedback and remediation of improper clinical management
      decisions. Across both groups, all learning content remains similar. Further deliberate
      practice questions provided to the control arm are standardized while the experimental arm's
      questions are individualized based on weaknesses determined in the smartphone software.
    
  