
    
      Number of patients:

      Study: 200 patients: 50 in the first open label phase (june 2018 to dec 2018), then n=150 in
      the randomized phase starting in January 2019 Substudy on immune response analysis in a
      subset of patients: 40 patients and separated informed consent

      Primary outcome:

      Rate of seroconversion of neutralizing antibodies against each HPV vaccine genotypes namely
      6/11/16/18/31/33/45/52/58 among women seronegative at baseline for HPV vaccine genotypes, by
      measuring neutralizing antibody against the 9 vaccine genotypes of HPV at baseline, month 7.
      The measure will be performed on a 10 ml tube by chemiluminescence immunoassay (cLIA)
      technique in Merck laboratory .Comparison of that rate at month 7 (non inferiority defined as
      at least 80% of seroconversion in ARM A).

      Secondary outcomes:

        1. Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (Safety and tolerability of the
           vaccines).

           It will be evaluated by a specific questionnaire on a phone call made by the research
           team to the participant and scheduled at least 48 hours and maximum 7 days after each
           vaccine dose; the questionnaire will evaluate whether there is any complain regarding
           local reaction (pain, redness, swelling, pruritus), systemic reaction (fever, malaise
           and fatigue) or other side effect. In case of any usual complain > mild stage, or the
           presence of an unusual complain, the patient will be assessed by a visit and physical
           examination performed by the research team. The questionnaire has been elaborated
           according to the published data on safety evaluation of the 9-valent vaccine.

        2. The potential impact of vaccine administration on T-lymphocyte-CD4+ cell count and HIV
           viremia It will be assessed by measuring CD4 cell count and HIV viremia at baseline (any
           measure within 6 months before screening can be taken into account) and month 7. Any
           detectable HIVRNA >50 cp/ml will be reassessed on a second samples taken 2-4 weeks
           later. Any significant decrease in T-lymphocyte-CD4+ cell count (defined as a decrease
           by more of 5% in the percentage or >100 cells/µl) will be reassessed on a second sample
           taken 2-4 weeks later.

        3. Measure of the geometric mean titre of specific neutralizing antibodies against each HPV
           vaccine genotypes (6/11/16/18/31/33/45/52/58).

           It will be assessed before vaccination, 1 month after vaccination completion (month 7)
           and 12 months after vaccination completion (month 18).

        4. The cellular immune response The cellular immune response ill be evaluated in a subset
           of 40 patients (aged 18-40 years old) by measuring specific T-lymphocytes-CD4+ cells
           expressing CD40-receptor, interleukin-2 (IL2), interferon gamma (IFN-g) or Tumor
           necrosis factor (TNF-alpha ) against HPV 16/18/31/52 and 58. The analysis will be
           performed on a peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) sample of 30 to 50 ml taken at
           baseline and at month 7; a separate informed consent (IC) has to be signed for this
           sub-analysis.

        5. The incidence and prevalence rates of cervical HPV infections:

           Detection of HPV will be performed by molecular technique by the national reference
           center for HPV (AML, Antwerpen), performed on cervical swab taken by the gynecologist at
           baseline and month 18. The baseline gynecological sample might have been taken up to 6
           months before the vaccination. These swabs will be sampled in all participants with
           previous vaginal sexually activity. In case of no previous vaginal sexual intercourse,
           the samples will not be taken.

        6. The incidence and prevalence rates of abnormal cervical cytology:

           Cervical cytology will be performed by by the national reference center for HPV (AML,
           Antwerpen) on cervical swab taken by the gynecologist at baseline and month 18. The
           baseline gynecological sample might have been taken up to 6 months before the
           vaccination. These swabs will be sampled in all participants with previous vaginal
           sexually activity. In case of no previous vaginal sexual intercourse, the samples will
           not be taken.

        7. Completion of vaccine schedule. Comparison of the proportion of women achieving full
           course of vaccine administration in each arm, namely for ARM A receiving 2 doses and for
           ARM B receiving 3 doses.

        8. Proportion of patients needing a booster dose (i.e..a third dose) in ARM A If after 2
           doses of vaccine (ARM A), the month 7 antibodies analysis shows absence of
           seroconversion against one of the HPV genotypes contained in the vaccine, the
           participant will receive a third booster dose

      Number of visits:

      4 to 5 mandatory visits at baseline, month 2 (not if ARM A), month 6, month 7 and month 18
      plus 2 to 3 optional visits to be done in case of moderate or severe adverse reaction to
      vaccine administration
    
  