
    
      Although mechanical ventilation (MV) is life-sustaining, it comes with a cost. MV
      dramatically reduces diaphragm contractility, induces ventilator-induced diaphragm
      dysfunction (VIDD) and sometimes leads to weaning failure. VIDD includes reduced
      mitochondrial respiration and increased oxidative stress, muscle fiber damage and decreased
      diaphragm force production.

      In animal models, intermittent diaphragm contraction during MV support attenuates VIDD.
      However, there are only limited data addressing this problem in humans. Here, the study team
      propose to directly test the hypothesis that intermittent electrical stimulation (ES) of the
      human hemidiaphragm during prolonged cardiac surgeries with MV support prevents/attenuates
      VIDD in the active hemidiaphragm. Mitochondrial function is central to energy metabolism and
      skeletal muscle function in a chronically active muscle, such as the diaphragm. Although
      abnormal mitochondrial function is thought to precipitate VIDD in animal models, limited data
      are available concerning mitochondrial contributions to VIDD in humans. Of even greater
      importance, there are no interventions available to attenuate these defects in humans. Here,
      the study team will test the impact of an innovative experimental treatment, intermittent
      electrical stimulation (ES) of the hemidiaphragm during prolonged surgeries with MV, on
      mitochondrial function, single fiber contractile properties and catabolic muscle pathways in
      human diaphragm. Using a within-subjects experimental design, muscle samples from a
      stimulated hemidiaphragms will be compared with samples from the unstimulated hemidiaphragm.
      The study team will investigate mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress during
      prolonged CTS/MV, and the potential of ES to attenuate or prevent VIDD. Next, the study team
      will investigate the effects of ES on single fiber contractile properties and Titin
      integrity. Finally, the study team will study the effect of ES on proteolytic pathways
      (caspase, calpain and ubiquitin-proteasome) and ribosomal RNA markers of decreased protein
      synthesis implicated in VIDD.
    
  