
    
      Study Drugs:

      Panitumumab is designed to prevent or slow down the growth of tumor cells by blocking the
      proteins on the surface the cancer cell, called the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR).

      Nab-paclitaxel is designed to kill tumor cells by binding a chemotherapy drug paclitaxel to
      albumin, a protein made by the liver. The albumin gets into the cancer cell and releases the
      paclitaxel directly to the tumor.

      Carboplatin is designed to stop or slow cancer cells from growing by damaging the RNA or DNA
      (the genetic material of cells) that tells the tumor cells to grow.

      5-fluorouracil, epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide each work in different ways to stop the
      growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.

      Study Drug Administration:

      On Day 1 of Week 1, you will receive panitumumab through a needle in your vein over 60
      minutes.

      After Week 1, you will receive a total of 4 cycles of PNC. Each cycle is 4 weeks.

      During Cycles 1-3 (Weeks 2-13), you will receive PNC by vein once a week for 3 weeks,
      followed by a week of rest. You will receive PNC through a needle in your vein. The infusion
      will take 90 minutes.

      During Cycle 4 (Week 14 to 17), you will receive PNC on Day 1 of Weeks 14 and 15. On Day 1 of
      Week 16, you will receive only carboplatin and nab-paclitaxel.

      Starting on Day 1 of Week 18, you will receive FEC through a needle in your vein. The
      infusion will take 90 minutes. You will receive a total of 4 cycles, each 3 weeks long, over
      12 weeks.

      Surgery:

      After you have completed both PNC and FEC treatments, you will have the standard of care
      surgery performed. You will be given a separate consent form to read and sign.

      During surgery, breast tissue samples will be collected to identify tumors as routine
      procedure.

      Study Visits:

      Each week that you receive PNC or FEC therapy, before each dose of chemotherapy, blood (about
      1 1/2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      Before Week 2, an optional breast core biopsy will be performed to collect tumor samples for
      biomarker testing

      On Week 2, every 4 weeks after that until the end of PNC, and again before FEC, the following
      tests and procedures will be performed before each dose of chemotherapy.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs and weight, and
           breast exam.

        -  Blood (about 1 1/2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will be asked how well you are able to perform the normal activities of daily living
           (performance status).

      During Weeks 2 and 9, and before FEC therapy, the study doctor will take pictures of both of
      your breasts.

      Before FEC (after Cycle 4 of PNC) and again before surgery, the following tests and
      procedures will be performed:

        -  To check the status of the disease, imaging studies including mammogram, breast MRI,
           breast ultrasound, and digital photograph will be performed.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including vital signs, weight, and breast exam

        -  Blood (about 3 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will be asked about any symptoms that you may have.

        -  The ECGs and ECHO/MUGA scans will be repeated, when the doctor thinks it is necessary.

      This schedule may be changed if the study doctor thinks that it is necessary.

      Length of the study:

      You may remain on study treatment for up to 10 months. You will be taken off study early if
      the disease gets worse or you experience intolerable side effects.

      This is an investigational study. Panitumumab is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of EGFR-expressing metastatic colorectal cancer with disease progression. It's
      use in this study is considered to be investigational.

      Nab-paclitaxel is FDA approved and commercially available for the treatment of breast cancer
      after the failure of combination chemotherapy for metastatic disease or relapse within 6
      months of adjuvant chemotherapy. The use of Nab-paclitaxel in this study is considered to be
      investigational.

      Carboplatin is FDA approved and commercially available for the treatment of IBC.

      FEC is FDA approved for breast cancer in general, but not specifically for inflammatory
      breast cancer.

      The use of PNC and FEC together before surgery is investigational.

      Up to 40 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  