
    
      Treatment subjects:

      Patients will be identified and recruited when presenting with acute fracture to our medical
      center. Under routine care at our center, all cervical spine fractures are evaluated, either
      in person or via tele-consult for remotes sites, by a fellowship trained Orthopedic or
      Neurosurgical Spine surgeon at the time of injury/hospitalization. If deemed amenable to
      non-operative treatment, that patient is then referred to the spine fracture clinic for
      serial clinical and radiographic follow-up.

      The study will be introduced to the patient by a PI-delegated provider from the study team
      either during hospitalization or at their first visit to the spine fracture clinic -
      typically within 2 weeks of injury. Informed consent for this study may thus be obtained at
      one of two locations: (1) A majority (~75%) of these patients are admitted to the hospital;
      these patients will be introduced to the study by a PI-delegated provider who is key
      personnel on the study team, and may be consented while in the hospital. (2) Other patients
      may be identified and recruited from our Orthopedic Spine Fracture clinic, which is the
      referral repository for all non-operatively managed spine fractures within our health system.

      Patients with acute Anderson & D'Alonzo type II dens fractures, +/- C1 ring injury,
      identified on cervical CT scan, and recommended for non-operative treatment will be recruited
      for enrollment in the study. Acuity of the fracture will be determined by radiographic
      appearance, pain, and mechanism. Type II fractures are defined as involving the waist of the
      dens. For the purposes of this study, they will be defined as fractures meeting all of the
      following criteria: <25% of unilateral C2 superior articular process involvement and <2 mm
      extension caudally into the body of the dens. Fractures with bilateral superior articular
      facet involvement or extension beyond 2 mm into the body will be excluded.

      If a patient consents to participation in the study, baseline labs will be drawn. Patients
      will consult with an endocrinologist from the study team who will review labs and confirm
      their eligibility for the study. Lab values obtained during the screening process could
      exclude patients include an elevated PTH or hypercalcemia. Given the medical complexity,
      there will not be hard cutoff values for the labs but rather eligibility to participate will
      be left to the clinical judgement of our endocrinology investigator (fellowship-trained
      endocrinologist who is key personnel on the study).

      Eligible patients will receive standard treatment of 12(+/-1) weeks of rigid hard collar
      immobilization, as well as an 8-week course of 80 mcg abaloparatide during this time. Drug
      will be initiated as soon after the injury as possible, and at the latest 4 weeks from injury
      which will allow for completion of 8 weeks of drug administration during the period of hard
      collar immobilization. Teaching on drug administration will be provided for enrolled patients
      and their caregiver, if applicable, by designated study personnel prior to drug initiation -
      either while inpatient, or at the outpatient endocrinology clinic visit. Treatment subjects
      will otherwise receive the routine care that was provided to historical controls in terms of
      length of hard collar immobilization spine fracture clinic follow-up and radiographic
      evaluation. Treatment subjects will be followed with weekly phone calls by clinical personnel
      on the study team for the duration of the 8-week treatment.

      Study participants will be followed at the spine fracture clinic according to our usual
      protocol every 4 weeks +/- 1 week (from the date of injury) out to 12 weeks. All patients
      will fill out VAS Neck and Neck Disability Index (NDI) physical function questionnaires at
      each clinic visit. Pain medication usage (MME) will be collected at each clinic visit. The
      study will provide oral vitamin D supplementation if baseline labs are < 30 mcg/dL. If
      patients are currently on vitamin D, then they will continue and their current dose may be
      modified.

      DEXA scans will be obtained for all participants to assess baseline bone density. If a
      patient has had a DEXA scan for routine care within the 12 months prior to consent, that scan
      will be used as the baseline test and a separate test for research will not be ordered. If
      needed, baseline DEXA will need to be completed within 1 month of starting study drug.

      All radiographs for treatment subjects will be obtained as part of routine care. These
      include AP/Lateral at each of the 4 (+/-1) week and 8 (+/-1) week clinic visits, and
      AP/Lat/Flex/Ext at the 12 (+/-1) week clinic visits. Final (12 +/-1 week) flexion/extension
      radiographs will be evaluated for translational motion at the fracture site measured at the
      posterior cortex of the dens and evaluated by the following criteria: None, Minimal (<2 mm),
      Moderate (2-4 mm), Mobile (>4 mm). A non-contrast cervical spine CT scan at will be obtained
      for research purposes at UVMMC at the 12 (+/-1) week time point. Final fracture
      characteristics (obliquity, angulation, displacement) will be documented based on the 12-week
      CT scan. Amount of fracture healing will be assessed on CT by a radiologist by the following
      method: 1 mm coronal and sagittal sections across the fracture will be individually analyzed.
      The radiologist will reconstruct the CT scan to true orthogonal coronal and sagittal images.
      Each slice will be analyzed for the width of bridging bone as a percentage of the width of
      the facture line. The sum total of the widths of bridging bone, divided by the sum total of
      the fracture widths will be expressed as a percentage of total healing for that patient. This
      absolute % of bridging bone will be the primary outcome. Fracture characteristics (obliquity,
      angulation, displacement, comminution) on the injury CT scan will be documented for later
      post-hoc analysis. Additionally, we will also compare our study group results to the union
      rates documented in the existing literature.

      Control subjects:

      Our historical control group will be comprised of patients with type II odontoid fractures
      (defined above) who were previously treated in our spine fracture clinic. Patients will have
      been injured within the past three years, have completed 12+/-1 weeks of hard collar
      immobilization, and available to return for follow-up imaging. Potentially eligible
      historical controls will be identified by database query and chart/radiographs review of
      patients from the fracture clinic. These patients will be contacted initially via letter or
      email from a provider in the fracture clinic who helps to oversee it, with phone follow-up by
      designated research personnel. If patients are interested in study participation, written
      informed consent will be obtained in person at UVMMC by designated research personnel. After
      consent, control subjects will then complete a CT scan of the cervical spine for comparison
      to those from our study group. If a 4-view cervical XR was not obtained at their final spine
      fracture visit after injury (approximately 12 weeks after injury) as part of their routine
      care, a 4-view cervical XR will be obtained for the study. Additionally, they control
      subjects will complete VAS Neck and NDI physical function questionnaires.
    
  