
    
      Dystonia is an uncommon brain disorder in which there is abnormal muscle tone producing
      twisting, writhing movements and abnormal postures. It is associated with abnormal electrical
      activity in two groups of nerve cells in the brain called the globus pallidus internus (GPi)
      and the subthalamic nucleus (STN). Deep brain stimulation (DBS) has been shown to be an
      effective treatment in patients with medically refractory dystonia and is currently approved
      for both the GPi and STN targets under a humanitarian device exemption (HDE) for use in
      segmental and generalized primary dystonia as well as focal cervical dystonia. GPi DBS
      appears to be effective for medication-refractory focal and segmental dystonia affecting the
      cranial and cervical regions in open-label series, but recently GPi stimulation has been
      associated with subtle motor disturbances in previously non-dystonic body regions (i.e., arms
      and legs) in this population of patients. DBS of the STN has also been reported to be
      effective for treating generalized and cervical dystonia in small open label trials. STN DBS
      for cranial and cervical regions may provide similar efficacy in the treatment of dystonia as
      GPi DBS, but without unwanted stimulation-induced motor effects. Objectives of this study are
      to evaluate the safety and efficacy of STN DBS for dystonia. Up to twenty-five patients will
      be screened, consented, and enrolled in this study. All patients will undergo bilateral STN
      DBS for dystonia. Participants will be evaluated pre- and postoperatively with standard
      dystonia rating scale Toronto Western Spasmodic Torticollis Rating Scale (TWSTRS), and a
      patient questionnaire will be administered postoperatively to determine if patients are
      experiencing stimulation-induced motor adverse effects and will be logged for safety
      monitoring. This pilot study will provide preliminary open label efficacy outcomes for STN
      DBS in the treatment of primary dystonia and will help determine if this target should be
      compared to GPi DBS in a larger double-blind trial.
    
  