
    
      It is estimated that about 1 in 10 adult males suffer from erectile dysfunction (ED) on a
      long-term basis. Oral therapies, including PDE5I, may be considered first-line therapies for
      the majority of patients with ED because of potential benefits and lack of invasiveness. This
      is a prospective, randomized, single-blind, sham-controlled clinical study aimed to evaluate
      the safety and efficacy of low-intensity shockwave therapy on symptomatic ED patients in
      three distinct patient populations.

      The first arm of the study will be those men with erectile dysfunction as defined by IIEF
      score (International Index of Erectile Function-5). These men will either have PDE5i
      refractory or responsive erectile dysfunction. Subjects will receive either Sham treatment
      (no ultrasound energy delivered via a Sham probe) or LiSWT for erectile dysfunction. Follow
      up will occur at 1 month, 3 months, and 6 months following the end of treatment.
      Effectiveness will be measured by change in IIEF/SHIM (IIEF/SHIM-Sexual Health Inventory in
      Men, International Index of Erectile Function-5) score and EHS (Erection Hardness Score)
      score.

      The Sexual Health Inventory in Men (also referred to as International Index of Erectile
      Function-5) is scored as follows:

      22-25 No erectile dysfunction 17-21 Mild erectile dysfunction 12-16 Mild-to-moderate erectile
      dysfunction 8-11 Moderate erectile dysfunction 5-7 Severe erectile dysfunction

      The patient responds to the following questions:

      Instructions Each question has 5 possible responses. Circle the number that best describes
      your own situation.

      Select only 1 answer for each question.

      Over the past 6 months:

        1. How do you rate your confidence that you could keep an erection? Very low (1), Low (2),
           Moderate (3), High (4), Very high (5)

        2. When you had erections with sexual stimulation, how often were your erections hard
           enough for penetration (entering your partner)?

           Almost never or never (1), A few times (much less than half the time) (2), Sometimes
           (About half the time) (3), Most times (much more than half the time) (4), Almost always
           or always (5)

        3. During sexual intercourse, how often were you able to maintain your erection after you
           had penetrated (entered) your partner?

           Almost never or never (1), A few times (much less than half the time) (2), Sometimes
           (About half the time) (3), Most times (much more than half the time) (4), Almost always
           or always (5)

        4. During sexual intercourse, how difficult was it to maintain your erection to completion
           of intercourse?

           Extremely difficult (1), Very difficult (2), Difficult (3), Slightly difficult (4), Not
           difficult (5)

        5. When you attempted sexual intercourse, how often was it satisfactory for you? Almost
           never or never (1), A few times (much less than half the time) (2), Sometimes (About
           half the time) (3), Most times (much more than half the time) (4), Almost always or
           always (5)

      An increase or decrease from baseline indicates improving or worsening erectile function. The
      Erection Hardness score is another tool to evaluate erectile function and firmness. It is
      scored as follows:

      0-Penis does not enlarge

        1. Penis is larger, but not hard

        2. Penis is hard, but not hard enough for penetration

        3. Penis is hard enough for penetration, but not completely hard

        4. Penis is completely hard and fully rigid

      These patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio into either the Sham or active treatment
      groups in which a device called Duolith by Storz will be used to deliver shockwaves to the
      penile tissue. The Duolith device is FDA-approved for treatment of musculoskeletal disorders
      including plantar fasciitis but has more recently been investigated in erectile dysfunction
      in both the United States and abroad.

      The Duolith device is used to deliver low intensity shockwaves to the penile tissue. LiSWT
      (Linear Shockwave Therapy) utilizes energy in the ultrasonic range. The focused energy, when
      applied to tissue, has been postulated to improve stem cell recruitment and promote
      angiogenesis. This has been demonstrated in animal modes.

      The second population of patients will be those who are planning to undergo treatment for
      prostate cancer. In a similar manner, men will be randomized to either the Sham or active
      treatment groups. Men will be treated prior to undergoing definitive treatment for prostate
      cancer to assess the effectiveness in LiSWT as a means of erectile preservation prior to
      prostate cancer treatment.

      The third population of patients will be those who have undergone treatment for prostate
      cancer. The investigators will compare IIEF scores and EHS scores in men who have undergone
      prostatectomy or radiation therapy. Again, there will be a sham and treatment group.

      In addition to assessing the efficacy of LiSWT in these populations of men, the study aims
      also to substantiate the safety profile of the Duolith device. Safety is to be assessed by
      the frequency of side effects during treatment, as well as the occurrence of anticipated and
      unanticipated adverse events during and from treatment up to follow-ups. The average and
      standard deviation of all relevant variables, including demographic and baseline
      characteristics, primary and secondary outcomes will be calculated.
    
  