
    
      Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a rare disease, characterized by microvascular and immunological
      changes promoting extra-cellular matrix synthesis and widespread fibrosis. No treatment has
      yet proven any ability to alter the disease fibrosing process. Specific auto-antibodies are
      commonly found in this disease, and B lymphocytes are detected in cutaneous and pulmonary
      infiltrates. Studies derived from murine models suggest a role for B lymphocyte blocking
      strategies.

      This lead to observational trials of B-cell therapy using rituximab in SSc that provided
      encouraging results with no particular signal concerning tolerability. These trials included
      heterogeneous patients with variable disease stages and different involved organs, and were
      mostly unblinded, which preclude any definitive conclusion. However, they support the
      continuous development of this therapeutic approach.

      Taking up the early phase of the diffuse form of the disease is complicated by its rarity and
      the heterogeneous progression of its visceral complications. This raises the question of
      selecting a homogeneous group of patients to evaluate. The most convincing results for the
      use of rituximab in autoimmune conditions have been found in rheumatoid arthritis. Joint
      involvement is common in SSc with 75% of patients complaining about joint stiffness and pain,
      and 30% presenting with synovitis, tenosynovitis, or flexion contractures. No specific
      treatment has already addressed this issue, and it is generally proposed to use small doses
      of oral corticosteroids in association with methotrexate, by analogy with rheumatoid
      arthritis. We propose to evaluate the efficacy and safety of rituximab in SSc patients having
      active arthritis despite first line treatment. Improving the articular involvement would
      improve the quality of life f SSc patients and effectiveness of rituximab on skin and lung
      fibrotic involvements will be assessed as secondary outcomes to estimate the overall effects
      of this drug on SSc.
    
  