
    
      Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is the most frequent complication of diabetes mellitus and the
      leading cause of legal blindness in active populations of industrialized countries.
      Progression of DR has been up to now classified according to the ETDRS classification, based
      on a multicentric study that evaluated the effect of laser photocoagulation on advanced
      stages of DR. Although appropriate for late stages of DR, it does not grade progression well
      in the initial stages of the disease. Initial stages of DR require urgent characterization
      and their evolution should be well defined because some of the lesions are still reversible.

      The early stages of DR are characterized by 4 main alterations: microaneurysms (MA) and
      retinal hemorrhages, represented by red dots in the fundus, blood-retinal barrier breakdown,
      capillary closure and damage of neuronal and glial cells of the retina. Thus, there are both
      microvascular changes, with endothelial cell and pericyte damage with thickening of basement
      membrane, and neuronal changes.

      Based on previous studies, progression of DR does not occur at the same rate in all patients.
      Some never develop vision loss, whereas others rapidly progress to macular edema or
      neovascularization leading to vision loss. The understanding of the mechanisms that balance
      in different direction is of outmost importance. The duration of diabetes mellitus and the
      metabolic control are major risk factors for DR progression, but they are insufficient to
      explain the great variability observed in patients.

      Recent data indicate that MA turnover may be an appropriate indicator of DR progression. Our
      research group has identified different DR progression phenotypes. Phenotype A is
      characterized by a low MA turnover, phenotype B characterized by increased thickness and
      phenotype C with predominant ischemia, with a high MA turnover. These phenotypes were defined
      based on MA turnover (RetmarkerDR) and on central retinal thickness (RT) measured by Optical
      Coherence Tomography (OCT) and the model was able to correctly identify eyes at risk of
      progression. 61,8-76,7% of eyes with an increase RT in the central subfield, inner and/or
      outer ring allowed a MA formation rate ≥ 2 and/or a MA turnover ≥ 6. More recently, some
      genetic variants have been linked to the different phenotypes and may explain specific
      progression patterns.

      There is emerging evidence to suggest that retinal neurodegeneration is an early event in the
      pathogenesis of DR and that it could participate in the development of microvascular
      abnormalities. The understanding of the underlying mechanisms leading to neurodegeneration
      and the identification of the mediators between neurodegeneration and microangiopathy is
      essential.

      The Investigators aim to understand the extent of these cell abnormalities in the initial
      stages of DR and to characterize their progression.

      Analysis of retinal thickness using OCT offers non-invasive evaluation of retinal edema and
      can suggest an appropriate treatment target. The Investigators will use recent and innovative
      approaches as Spectral domain OCT (SD-OCT) with retinal layers segmentation to study
      neurodegenerative changes occurring in DR. OCT-Angiography and OCT-Leakage layer by layer
      analysis will be used for microvasculature and blood retinal barrier assessment.
    
  