
    
      Chronic diseases including cancer, cardiovascular disease, lung conditions and diabetes are
      the leading cause of mortality and morbidity in Canada and worldwide. These chronic
      conditions share common modifiable risk factors including physical inactivity, suboptimal
      nutrition, smoking and excessive alcohol intake. Cardiac rehabilitation centres in this
      Coalition have been providing primary and secondary prevention services for many years
      focused on these behavioural risks, and many of our participants with heart disease also have
      co-morbidities including cancer, diabetes and lung disease. Co-morbidities are a clinical
      reality, and we no longer deal with diseases singularly. Today, our client population is more
      diverse than ever and fiscal constraints call for the pooling of prevention resources to
      simultaneously address a range of chronic diseases impacted by common risk factors.

      Extending our reach to populations at risk of cancer and other chronic diseases, populations
      which are readily available and referable In Ontario, UHN/Toronto Rehab has a cancer program
      for women who have survived breast cancer as well as women undergoing cancer treatment.
      Discussions with Princess Margaret Hospital point to opportunities to extend programming to
      more cancer patients and people at risk of cancer. The ELLICSR arm of Princess Margaret
      Hospital, which focuses on helping survivors, has expressed interest in collaborating to
      reach family and friends of cancer survivors, for primary prevention. Likewise, the Odette
      Cancer Centre at Sunnybrook Hospital sees over 900 new women every year who are referred due
      to a family history of breast cancer. They have expressed to us that they can identify and
      will refer women at high risk of developing breast cancer into our proposed primary
      prevention program. Similarly, in Quebec, L'Hôpital du Sacré-Cœur de Montréal has one of the
      nation's highest rated lung cancer groups. Our Quebec partner, Centre de réadaptation
      cardio-respiratoire Jean-Jacques-Gauthier (CRJJG) has strong ties to this program. With
      funding, they will be able to reach and deliver prevention programmes to the family and
      friends of their lung cancer clients, an opportunity that exists because family and friends
      tend to be more engaged and open to the possibility of lifestyle change.

      This is why we have partnered with these cancer centres in this Coalition: to formalize our
      existing partnerships and focus our resources on the population at risk of cancer that is
      readily available and referable for primary prevention.

      The links that our Coalition partners have with primary care hold opportunities not yet
      seized. In Ontario, the Department of Family and Community Medicine at Sunnybrook has many
      patients at risk for, or with, multiple chronic diseases.

      The opportunity that exists to reach pregnant women with obesity-related risks is one that
      could be seized Canada-wide. The unfortunate reality is that obesity complicates about 50% of
      pregnancies today.

      The opportunity, and need, to impact a person's family and social circle Our program concept
      is founded on the idea that 'you really need to get the whole family' to sustain the
      long-term impact of prevention and change in behaviour. We know there is evidence that
      family/social support can help. A systematic review on childhood obesity identified promising
      strategies that included parent support and home activities that encourage children to be
      more active, eat more nutritious foods and spend less time in screen-based activities (Waters
      et al, 2011).

      As Lead Agency, the UHN/Toronto Rehab already runs a successful Cardiac Rehab @ Home program
      which is a six-month program that sees approximately 120 clients per year. The average client
      lives approximately 200kms away from the urban area, is younger, and more likely to be
      working, compared to on-site clients. An evaluation has shown that the program is effective
      with similar outcomes as an on-site program: clients made the same gains in cardiovascular
      fitness and were just as likely to adhere to the program. The study also showed that such
      programs are more cost-effective than on-site programs for participants living in remote
      areas (Scane et al, 2012).

      Deepening and broadening our reach to selected at risk populations already connected to us.

      Many of the core partners not only have links to their local communities but have years of
      collaboration with the community on prevention. Notably, our BC partner, the BC
      Cardiovascular Physiology & Rehabilitation Laboratory, has extensive primary prevention
      experience having worked with more than 300,000 participants in the past 10 years on
      community-based programs for children (school-based and out-of-school), workplace wellness
      (e.g. police and firefighters) and population groups at risk for chronic disease.

      Additionally, they have solid partnerships with Aboriginal communities throughout BC. Formal
      partnerships have been forged with Aboriginal communities throughout BC including extensive
      research in rural and remote communities.

      Through the Coalition's work and history with the Aboriginal communities, and because they
      know there is evidence that there are health benefits for Aboriginal peoples in participating
      in a community-based physical activity intervention , the ACCELERATION program could be
      delivered with relative ease to these communities in BC.

      The Centre de réadaptation cardio-respiratoire Jean-Jacques-Gauthier (CRJJG) provides
      prevention programming for patients with cardiovascular (heart disease and heart failure) and
      respiratory disease (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and asthma). One very unique
      aspect is the ongoing asthma prevention work of this coalition member. This adult asthma
      population are, on average, younger than most classical rehabilitation groups (ca. 40 years
      old) and, whilst not having overt cancer or cardiovascular disease, do normally display
      several risk factors, which provides a model of engaging and adapting the ACCELERATION
      program to these kinds of populations.

      Furthermore, the CRJJG is conveniently housed within the YMCA Cartierville. There is,
      therefore, already a strong partnership with the YMCA. The proposed program will allow our
      Quebec partner to deliver a prevention program to YMCA users with risk factors or a family
      history of chronic diseases. In addition, the YMCA Cartierville has a unique partnership with
      the local council where it provides free access to non-YMCA local community members, thus
      allowing the ACCELERATION programme to be delivered to a very diverse cultural and
      socio-economic community base.

      Finally, the CRJJG has specific expertise in motivational interviewing (MI) , which is a
      client-centred communication tool focusing on enhancing intrinsic motivation to change a
      particular behaviour, and exploring and resolving ambivalence about behavior change (Lavoie
      et al, 2012).

      At the Eastern end of Canada, the province of Nova Scotia has one of the highest rates of
      cardiovascular disease in the country with a prevalence of 6.4% (Heart and Stroke Foundation,
      2012). There is also an excess incidence and prevalence of lung, colorectal, prostate,
      melanoma and breast cancer (Canadian Cancer Society). This is one reason we chose to partner
      with Nova Scotia. Our partner runs the Community Cardiovascular Hearts in Motion (CCHIM)
      program which is a community-based exercise and health education program. Referrals are
      accepted from predominantly family doctors but also other specialists and allied health
      professionals including physiotherapists, nurse practitioners and diabetes clinics. Patients
      expand the complete vascular spectrum from primary care to all levels of secondary
      prevention. There is also a Heart Health Clinic available to assist those individuals living
      with more complicated and higher risk cardiac and pulmonary disease (tertiary). The successes
      of this program are translatable to the ACCELERATION program that targets people at risk of
      cancer and chronic diseases, as well as family and friends of people who have suffered an
      acute event associated with a chronic disease.

      Our Nova Scotia partner notes that there is strong representation of females in the primary
      prevention arm of CCHIM and most of these are obese with diabetes. The planned Ontario
      program with ante- and post-partum women at risk of obesity-related cancer is replicable for
      the Nova Scotia female population, and we would seek to transfer knowledge and replicate the
      program in Nova Scotia as well.

      There is also an opportunity to reach the underserviced black population. Incidence rate
      ratios for African Canadians relative to the general population of Nova Scotia were
      significantly elevated for circulatory disease, diabetes and psychiatric disorders (Kisely et
      al, 2008). Our Nova Scotia partner (CCHIM) sees opportunity in providing a virtual program
      for this population. CCHIM is in present development of translational research to move beyond
      the "bricks and mortar" to reach such patient populations who are in need of such a program
      by virtue of risk or established disease but cannot, or will not, attend. This will be run
      through the primary care physician and local health care teams (such as NP clinics, addiction
      services, etc). It will allow for adaptation and implementation when the patient is "ready"
      to engage (similar to smoking cessation as per the "Ottawa Model"). This approach will be
      adapted to the present project in an effort to expand its exposure further while evaluating
      the elements that are sustainable upon project completion.

      In Ontario, the South Asian population is the largest visible minority group in Ontario, and
      one with a higher prevalence of chronic diseases compared to other groups (Statistics Canada,
      2010; Fraser Health, 2013). They would benefit from a targeted program like ACCELERATION that
      is customized for them, and made culturally appropriate to their beliefs, values and customs.

      Deepening prevention impact in workplaces Two of our key partners (BC and NS) have existing
      partnerships with large employers.

      In BC, our partner has a formal research relationship with the City of Richmond. They
      evaluate the risk for chronic disease in approximately 200-300 City of Richmond workers each
      year. The proposed program will allow the introduction of a workplace wellness program for
      these workers. We estimate that with the awarding of this program that the current workplace
      wellness program will expand meeting the needs of family and friends of city workers meeting
      a direct mandate of the City of Richmond employers.

      Our Nova Scotia partner will engage their Capital District Health Authority (CDHA) workplace,
      drawing participants from a population of 10,000 employees. Having both a set program and a
      virtualization of the program will offer a unique opportunity to address both the benefits to
      at risk patients as well as the application of a program to the most common yet possibly the
      most difficult workplace sector to access.
    
  