
    
      Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease that affects 30,000
      Americans each year. Of these 30,000 Americans, it has been suggested that up to 50% will
      experience cognitive and behavioral changes in the form of frontotemporal dysfunction and up
      to 40% will meet criteria for frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Riluzole the only FDA approved
      agent for ALS extends a patient's lifespan by 2-3 months, and there are no proven therapies
      for the cognitive changes associated with ALS. More effective therapy for this universally
      fatal disease is desperately needed.

      Results from an open label pilot trial of 20 patients treated with memantine at 10 mg BID
      suggested that treatment with the combination of memantine and riluzole slowed ALS disease
      progression. This trial also showed that levels of specific protein biomarkers in the CSF at
      baseline correlated with the rate of disease progression. A concurrent phase II study
      performed by Dr Carvalho, found no effect with similar dosing; however, the study was limited
      in terms of power. Comments on previous failed drug trials in ALS have raised the concern
      that many ALS trials study a potential therapeutic agent at only a single dose and thus may
      miss the potential efficacy of non FDA approved doses; therefore, this proposed study will
      test a higher dose of memantine, 20 mg BID, in a double blind, placebo controlled, randomized
      trial of 90 patients with ALS to determine if a therapy of memantine, especially in
      combination with riluzole, can slow disease progression compared to treatment with riluzole
      alone or no treatment. The primary outcome measure will be the rate of disease progression as
      measured by the ALS Functional Rating Scale- Revised (ALSFRS-R). In addition the
      investigators will examine the cognitive deficits seen in ALS patients measured by the ALS
      Cognitive Behavioral Screen (ALS-CBS) and the Neuropsychiatric Inventory Questionnaire
      (NPI-Q). Finally the investigators will examine specific validated protein serum biomarkers
      to determine if there is a correlation between the levels of these biomarkers and the rate of
      disease progression. In particular the investigators will measure the ratio of phosphorylated
      heavy neurofilament to Complement 3 to see if this ratio is predictive of disease progression
      and if the levels change during therapy with memantine.

      This project will offer unique insights into this untreatable disease. If this study confirms
      earlier results and suggests that memantine, when used in conjunction with riluzole,
      significantly slows down the progression of the disease, as well as ameliorates cognitive
      deficits in patients with fronto-temporal dysfunction, it will set the groundwork for
      conducting a larger phase III trial.
    
  