
    
      Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy (CIDP) is a neurological and rare type of
      autoimmune disorder. Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) is the first-line treatment for CIDP
      which has been proven to be effective. For several years, published cases have suggested that
      the Sub-Cutaneous Ig (SCIg) may be an alternative treatment to IVIg in the treatment of CIDP.
      Compared to IVIg treatment, the SCIg can achieve more stable plasma IgG concentrations,
      suggesting a potential reduction in the dose exhaustion effect at the end of the cycle, but
      also fewer systemic effects. SC administration also enables more straightforward treatment to
      be given for ambulatory patients.

      Based on the PATH study (NCT01545076), a double blind placebo-controlled, randomised,
      prospective, international multicentre phase III study, Hizentra® obtained an extension of
      its marketing authorization for the CIDP indication as maintenance treatment after
      stabilisation with IVIg.

      However, in the "real-life" situation, the literature is still based at present on small
      series of patient or short-term follow-up periods.

      However, the methods for switching from the IV to the SC route and the characteristics of
      patients receiving this treatment are not known. In addition, SCIg administration remote from
      a specialist centre without assistance from a health professional no longer enables a more
      regular assessment of the patient in terms of tolerability and efficacy.

      The pHeNIx study, a national multicentre prospective non-interventional study, should help to
      describe the conditions of use for Hizentra® and the methods for switching from the IV to SC
      route in everyday practice, together with the tolerability and efficacy of treatment, which
      is monitored using a patient application (PRO: Patient-Reported Outcomes). The study duration
      is estimated to be 36 months in view of: a 24-month inclusion period and a 12-month follow-up
      period.
    
  