
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose and dose-limiting toxicities of vorinostat (SAHA) in
      combination with standard-dose idarubicin in patients with relapsed or refractory acute
      myeloid leukemia, acute lymphocytic leukemia, myelodysplastic syndromes, acute promyelocytic
      leukemia, or chronic myelogenous leukemia in blastic phase.

      II. Describe the clinical activity of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine the in
      vivo molecular effects of this regimen, including the effects on DNA topoisomerase IIα mRNA
      expression and on the induction of γH2AX, histone H3 and H4 acetylation, as well as changes
      in the gene expression profile.

      IV. Determine the pharmacokinetic characteristics of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE:

      This is a randomized, dose-escalation study of vorinostat (SAHA). Patients are randomized to
      1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive oral SAHA three times daily on days 1-14 and idarubicin IV over 15
      minutes once daily on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.*

      ARM II: Patients receive oral SAHA three times daily and idarubicin IV over 15 minutes once
      daily on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.*

      Note: *Patients completing 6 courses of therapy or who reach the maximum cumulative dose of
      idarubicin or an equivalent anthracycline and achieve clinical benefit may continue treatment
      with SAHA alone 3 times daily on days 1-14 of each course, in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of SAHA until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6
      patients experience a dose-limiting toxicity. An additional 10 patients are treated at the
      MTD.

      Patients undergo blood collection and bone marrow biopsies periodically during the study for
      pharmacologic, biomarker, and genetic studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4 weeks and then periodically
      thereafter.
    
  