
    
      Difficult tracheal intubation is one of the major reasons for anesthesia-related adverse
      events. Videolaryngoscopy has become an important part of the anesthesiology standard of care
      for difficult airway management in the past decades. This is especially relevant in children,
      as their airway anatomy differs greatly from adults because they are likely incapable of
      tolerating brief apneic episodes. Still, medical preconditions and procedural and technical
      factors related to difficult videolaryngoscopy have not been broadly investigated and not
      fully been understood.

      The primary aim of the PeDiAC study is to develop and validate a multivariable diagnostic
      model for the classification of difficult videolaryngoscopy (the 'PeDiAC classification') in
      children undergoing general anesthesia with tracheal intubation. Study planning and
      conduction are in accordance with the TRIPOD 'Transparent reporting of a multivariable
      prediction model for individual prognosis or diagnosis' statement. The secondary aim is to
      compare the diagnostic performance of the PeDiAC-classification with the Cormack-Lehane
      classification, which is the current clinical standard for assessing intubation via direct
      laryngoscopy. We conduct a prospective observational study that will include approximately
      800 pediatric patients within one year scheduling for tracheal intubation. Patients with age
      below 18 years will be considered to be eligible for inclusion. Procedural and surgical data,
      as well as medical preconditions, will be assessed systematically. After tracheal intubation,
      performed by the responsible anesthetist, the intubation process will be rated by the
      responsible anesthetist and an additional independent observer, and detailed information
      regarding procedural and technical factors related to videolaryngoscopy will be documented.
      All sampled independent variables will be considered to be potential candidate predictors for
      the multivariable regression model.
    
  