
    
      Objective The purpose of the study was to evaluate the accuracy of LaborPro fetal head
      station, fetal head position, and cervical dilatation measurements as compared to
      manual/digital examinations and to demonstrate that the LaborPro System is safe.

      Methods and Procedures The study population included of women admitted to either Maimonides
      Medical Center (NY, USA) or Bnai Zion Medical Center (Haifa, Israel) in the active phase of
      labor, with singleton pregnancy and vertex presentation. One hundred and ten (110) subjects
      were enrolled in the study. Two subjects were excluded from the study as one from Bnai Zion
      Medical Center had a system malfunction (PC failure) and one subject from Maimonides Medical
      Center changed her mind and refused to participate in the study. Sixty Seven (67) subjects
      (62%) were enrolled at Maimonides Medical Center and forty one (41) subjects (38%) were
      enrolled at Bnai Zion Medical Center. Subject's mean age was 28.2 years (ranging from 15.8
      years to 39.5).

      Each subject was examined and in cases in which the first exam (according to blinded
      physician assessment) was at an early labor stage (cervical dilatation < 3 cm), a second
      examination interval of at least 2 hours after the first one was recorded. In cases where the
      first examination was performed at a more advanced labor stages (cervical dilatation > 3 cm),
      a second examination interval was recorded at least 1 hour after the first one. Each set of
      examinations (LaborPro and two independent practitioners) of station, position and cervical
      dilatation was completed within 15 minutes. The two independent physicians were blinded to
      each other's results and to the LaborPro results. If labor duration enabled further
      examination, two to three sets of tests were performed for each subject. During labor, the
      attending physician, a midwife or nurse conducted manual trans-vaginal digital evaluations
      (TVDEs) according to standard practice with respect to frequency and method.

      During the manual TVDE, the clinician used the LaborPro finger sensor so that simultaneous
      LaborPro measurements of fetal head station finger tip (HSFT) and cervical dilatation (CDFT)
      were recorded. A trained ultrasonographer (physician, midwife or technician) also performed
      an ultrasound examination to yield the LaborPro data for measurements of head position (HP)
      and the head station (HSUS) with respect to BPD vs. Pelvic Inlet or with respect to fetal
      scalp tip vs. Pelvic Inlet.

      Study Endpoints Primary Endpoint The primary efficacy endpoints of the study are average
      differences between measurements of Head Station (HS) and Cervical Dilatation (CD) made by
      the device (LaborPro) and by TVDEs.

      Secondary Endpoint The secondary efficacy endpoint is the degree of agreement between the
      Fetal Head Position (HP) measured by LaborPro versus the one measured by TVDE.

      In summary, the labor parameters as measured by LaborPro compared to the gold-standard
      physicians' assessment result in an accurate representation of fetal head station (calculated
      from the pelvic inlet), cervical dilatation, and fetal head position. It therefore can be
      concluded that the LaborPro provides a clinically and statistically adequate estimate of the
      fetal head station (calculated from the pelvic inlet), fetal head position, and cervical
      dilatation. The safety profile of the LaborPro non invasive system is also demonstrated by
      the non occurrence of any device related adverse event.
    
  