
    
      Background:

      Hypercholesterolemia and statin use in Denmark

      Simvastatin is the most commonly prescribed statin, a class of drugs that inhibit
      hydroxyl-methyl-glutaryl (HMG) coenzyme A reductase, and thereby blocking biosynthesis of
      cholesterol in the liver. Simvastatin is prescribed for individuals with elevated low-density
      lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and/or total cholesterol, because these clinical parameters
      are viewed as a risk factor for cardiovascular-disease (CVD), even in the absence of other
      health problems or risk factors, such as previous myocardial infarction, diabetes or
      hypertension.

      Approximately 40% of the prescriptions for statins are issued for primary prevention of
      elevated cholesterol by general practitioners to patients without bodily symptoms or signs.
      Only the "cholesterol number" makes the risk of heart attack and stroke visible. The lack of
      symptoms is likely to be of importance for patients' adherence to treatment as is adverse
      effects. A number of factors, such as information in mass media and changes in daily life,
      may affect the decision to take the treatment

      Treatment guidelines for hypercholesterolemia:

      The guidelines indicate preventive treatment with statins is appropriate in individuals with
      >10% predicted risk of a major vascular event within 5 years, while, some, but not all
      opinion-leaders advocate a 5% threshold. Nevertheless, statin therapy failed to reduce
      all-cause mortality in a meta-study of 65,229 patients without CVD, some of whom had
      diabetes. Similarly, a Cochrane review analysis, which included some studies in which more
      than 10% of the patients had history of CVD, showed only 0.5% reduction in all-cause
      mortality, indicating that for every 200 patients taking statins daily for 5 years, 1 death
      would be prevented. These data suggest that more conservative use of statins to prevent CVD
      in otherwise healthy individuals at low risk for future CVD may be warranted.

      The downside:

      Rhabdomyolysis (skeletal muscle cell death) is an infrequent but serious side-effect of
      statin use, that can on rare occasion lead to acute renal failure and death (i.e., 1.5 deaths
      per 106 prescriptions). Statin use is much more frequently associated with muscle
      dysfunction, including myalgia (muscle pain), cramps, and weakness. The reported incidence of
      myalgia varies from 1% (pharmaceutical company reports) to as high as 75% in statin-treated
      athletes. Mild to severe myalgia is a strong disincentive to regular exercise, and because
      regular exercise is one of the critical life-style approaches to preventing CVD and reducing
      blood cholesterol, this is a significant down-side of statin use. Regular exercise is also
      effective in preventing and treating obesity and type 2 diabetes, which themselves are risk
      factors for CVD.

      The mechanism behind the myalgia is not known. However, the investigators behind this study
      has recently demonstrated that muscle mitochondrial function is impaired with statin
      treatment and the Q10 protein may play a key role in this. In addition, the statins also
      negatively affect the glucose tolerance, increasing the risk of type 2 diabetes.

      Research questions:

      The overarching research question is: why does statin treatment cause muscle pain? Does
      statin treatment impair (or even prohibit) physical exercise training? Furthermore the
      following questions will be investigated:

      A. Does statin treatment cause:

        1. Decreased muscle strength?

        2. Skeletal muscle inflammation?

        3. Decreased mitochondrial respiratory function? B. Abnormal glucose homeostasis?

      Re question A & B: If so, can physical training counteract this effect of statin treatment?

      Methodology:

      Cohort

      Patients that fulfil defined inclusion and exclusion criteria will be recruited from General
      Practice clinics in Copenhagen and news paper advertisements. The vast majority of these
      patients are being assessed on basis of the HeartScore risk estimation system that offers
      direct estimation of the ten-year risk of fatal cardiovascular disease in a format suited to
      the constraints of clinical practice. A staggered recruitment will be implemented.

      30 men (age: 40-70 years; BMI: 25-35 kg/m2) before initiation of a statin treatment as
      primary prevention are recruited. No other risk factors for CVD except elevated total
      cholesterol (>6 mmol/l) and/or elevated LDL cholesterol (>3,5 mmol/l) and mild hypertension
      (<160/100 mm Hg) must be present.

      The patients will be allocated (randomization by drawing a lot) to one of three groups:

        -  Physical exercise training and Simvastatin 40 mg/day and Q10 placebo

        -  Physical exercise training and Simvastatin 40 mg/day and Q10 400 mg/day supplementation

        -  Physical exercise training, Simvastatin placebo and Q10 placebo

      The intervention period is 8 weeks with a series of experimental days before and after.

      Experimental days (identical before and after the interventions):

      Information day: health examination, ECG and Maximal oxygen uptake take (VO2 max).

      Day 1 (overnight fasting, approximately 5 hours):

        -  Dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scan (body composition and body fat).

        -  Oral glucose tolerance test + score questionnaire for muscle pain/discomfort (incl.
           Visual Analog Scale)

        -  Isokinetic strength and Rate of Force Development (PowerRig and KinCom dynamometer).

        -  Repeated VO2-max-test

      Day 2 (overnight fasting approximately 7 hours):

        -  Muscle biopsy, vastus lateralis

        -  2 step Euglycemic, hyperinsulinaemic clamp.

      Training programme All training is supervised and takes place at the department. The training
      is aerobic, bicycle ergometer training (45 min/session at 60-70% of VO2max) three times a
      week for 8 weeks.
    
  