
    
      General description: The overall study procedure requires assessment of eligibility and
      safety for inclusion in the study (through a "screening questionnaire" and "health screening
      visit") and if eligible, a one day study visit ("Study visit").

      Screening questionnaire All subjects, whether they are interviewed during a clinic visit or
      call in response to fliers, will be give the pre-screening questionnaire. This will be given
      to people who voluntarily express interest in the study. Participants who do not disclose any
      conditions that would exclude them from participating will be invited to a health screening
      visit.

      Health screening visit The purpose of the pre-study health screening is to perform a more
      detailed assessment than is provided in the screening questionnaire to determine if potential
      subjects are eligible to participate in the study. A member of the research team will first
      read the consent form with the subject, describe the health screening and study visits, and
      answer any questions that the subject has regarding the nature of the study and/or study
      procedures. The screening visit will consist of the following:

        -  Reading and signing the study consent. The subject will be given a copy of the consent.

        -  Collection of information on demographics and current and past health history.

        -  Ascertain participants medical history through participant interview and a review of
           his/her medical record

        -  A physical exam, which will include measuring and recording vital signs (temperature,
           blood pressure, heart rate, breathing rate), height, weight (if not documented in
           medical record in past 3 months).

        -  Collection of a blood sample for laboratory testing, if required, as described in Table
           4.

        -  Pre-menopausal women of child-bearing potential we will undergo a serum pregnancy test,
           using a small amount of blood from the sample collected above.

        -  Ascertainment of current and recent past medications.

      If the subject is a patient at Tufts Medical Center, a research team member may access the
      potential participant's medical record after the subject has signed the consent form to
      further screen for potential exclusion criteria, ascertain laboratory test results that are
      necessary for determining eligibility, and confirm the medical history provided by the
      potential participant and medication list. If the participant is not a patient at Tufts
      Medical Center, then the research team member will obtain permission to obtain the
      participant's medical record from his/her physician.

      For non-pregnant women of childbearing age (pre-menopausal) who are sexually active, use of
      an acceptable birth control method will be required for participation. They will be requested
      to sign a statement of compliance prior to participating in the study stating that they are
      employing one of the below-listed forms of contraception between the screening and study
      visits.

        -  condoms with spermicide

        -  diaphragm with spermicide

        -  injectable contraceptives (Depoprovera)

        -  transdermal contraceptives (Ortho-Evra and Nuvaring)

        -  intrauterine device (IUD)

        -  permanent sterilization (i.e. tubal ligation, vasectomy, Essure)

        -  abstinence from sexual activity

        -  hysterectomy

        -  oral contraceptives

      If the study visit occurs 1 week or more after the health screening, the female subjects will
      undergo a second, urine-based pregnancy test on the morning of the study visit. Given the
      small dose of iohexol administered during the study visit, which is rapidly filtered by the
      kidneys, continued use of birth control following the completion of the study visit will not
      be required.

      If a potential subject is taking trimethoprim containing medications or cimetidine., the
      study physician will discuss with the attending physician whether it is safe for the person
      to stop these medications for one week prior to the study. If not, then the person will be
      excluded from participation. If a potential subject is taking non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
      agents or medications that block the renin-angiotension system, the study physician will
      discuss with the potential participant and the attending physician whether maintenance of
      stable dose of these medications is possible. If a change in the subject's medication regimen
      is required immediately prior to the study visit, the subject will be rescheduled for a later
      date.

      Eligibility will be determined by the principal investigator or other physician
      co-investigators based on the medical history obtained from the participant, and their
      medical records and the results of the laboratory test that were included in the medical
      record or obtained during the health screening visit). Eligible subjects will be contacted to
      see if they remain interested in participating in the study. A study visit date will then be
      scheduled. All subjects will receive a stipend for the health screening (see Section G.8).

      Preparation for a study visit: A urine jug and a detailed set of instructions for completing
      the 24 hour urine collection will be mailed to the subject.

      Subjects taking medications that interfere with creatinine whose physicians approved
      temporary discontinuation of the medication will be reminded by a phone call from the study
      coordinator to stop these medications 1 week prior to the study visit at this time. Subjects
      will also be asked not to take any multivitamins or calcium supplements on the day of the
      study as undigested tablet may interfere with the quality of the DEXA scan.

      A research team member will contact the subject by telephone 2-3 days before the visit to
      ensure that the subject fully understands the instructions for completing the urine
      collection and has ceased taking medications that interfere with creatinine. The research
      team member will request that subjects with diabetes to bring all medications, administration
      devices (e.g. insulin syringes or controlled delivery devices), and their personal blood
      sugar monitoring devices (i.e. glucometers) with them on the day of the study visit.

      A research team member will order the iohexol from the pharmacy.

      Study visit: Non-diabetic subjects will be requested to fast overnight and to avoid changes
      in non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents or medications that block the renin-angiotension
      system. Subjects with diabetes will be asked to eat a light breakfast the morning of the
      study visit. Subjects will be asked to maintain adequate oral hydration and to ingest two to
      three glasses of non-caffeinated beverages prior to arrival on the morning of the study visit
      to facilitate a timed urine collection during the study visit. If the subject feels that
      he/she is unable to void upon arrival, he/she will be given 2 to 3 additional non-caffeinated
      beverages and will be given approximately 1 beverage every hour for the remainder of the
      study visit.

      The 24 hour urine that was collected the previous day by the participant will be given to the
      research team member upon arrival for the study. If the participant forgets to collect then
      24 h urine or is in the midst of the collection, then the intra-study timed urine collection
      will be utilized for the analysis. If the participant has forgotten the container at home,
      arrangements will be made to collect the container within the next 2 days.

      The nursing staff will measure and record the subject's height, weight, blood pressure,
      temperature, pulse rate, respiration rate, confirm that the subject has not experienced any
      changes in physical/psychological health since the screening.

      The timed urine collection will begin when the participant first has the urge to void. The
      nursing staff will record the time of the first void and the participant will be asked to
      collect all urine voided during the remainder of the study visit in a collection container.
      To facilitate complete bladder emptying, the participant will be given a glass (approximately
      6 ounces) of a non-caffeinated beverage every hour until the end of the study visit. As
      outlined above, if three weeks or more has elapsed since the health screening, women of
      childbearing age will be administered a urine pregnancy test using an aliquot of the
      intra-study timed urine collection. Subjects with diabetes will be asked to check their blood
      sugar with their own equipment or the nursing staff at the CTRC will use the CTRC's
      equipment. The study physician will be informed of low or high blood sugars.

      A saline lock and/or intravenous line will be inserted at two different sites and a baseline
      blood and a separate sample for tissue banking (10 mL, optional) will be collected. After
      taking the baseline blood, 5 mL of iohexol(Omnipaque 300; 300 mg/mL of organic iodine) will
      be administered by a nurse at the Clinical and Translational Research Center (CTRC) over a
      period of approximately 15 seconds through an IV port, followed by a flush with approximately
      10 mL of 0.9% normal saline solution. This intravenous line through which the iohexol was
      administered will then be removed. The syringe will be weighted to the nearest tenth gram on
      the same scale before and after injection. Blood samples for plasma clearance measurements
      will be obtained from the second IV line, which will remain in place throughout the course of
      the study visit. To maintain the patency of the IV access, normal saline will be administered
      at a rate of approximately 20-30 c.c. per hour from a 500 c.c. bag of normal saline.

      The administration of iohexol will be considered time 0. Following the iohexol
      administration, blood samples will be taken at approximately 10, 30, 120, and 240 minutes
      from the second intravenous line. For participants with estimated GFR less than 45 ml/min per
      1.73 m2, as determined from the screening visit or the subject's medical record, a sample
      will be drawn at 360 minutes. The exact time of the sample will be recorded.

      After the 30 minute blood sample, participants will be fed a breakfast consisting of a
      standardized protein content. They will also receive a lunch of similar protein content.
      Subjects with diabetes will be given a meal that is consistent with their treatment regimen.
      Subjects will be asked to administer their medications and check their blood sugar levels
      during the course of the study visit as they would normally do, in the manner prescribed by
      their treating physician. If the subject is at the CTRC past 6 PM, he/she will also receive
      dinner.

      The Dual-Energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DEXA) scan may be scheduled prior to the start of the
      GFR measurement or following the entire GFR visit if timing is best for the participant and
      the DEXA scan. It may be performed on a separate day. Prior to the scan, subjects will be
      asked to remove any metal objects (e.g. belts, earrings, jewelry, etc). Subjects may be
      requested to void prior to initiating the scan. During the scan, subjects will be asked to
      lie flat on the table for approximately 5-10 minutes while the scan takes place.

      Participants are free to move around during the GFR test. At the conclusion of the GFR test,
      the second intravenous line will be removed. Subjects will remain at the CTRC for at least 30
      minutes following removal of the IV line. During that time, nursing staff will re-measure and
      record the subject's vital signs (height, weight, blood pressure, temperature, pulse rate,
      respiration rate). The participants will be asked to void prior to leaving the CTRC to ensure
      complete urine collection over the study visit. The nurse will record the stop time of the
      urine collection. Upon successful completion of a study visit, subjects will receive a
      stipend.
    
  