
    
      Organ transplantation has become an effective therapy for patients with end-stage organ
      failure at present. Since the launch of pilot voluntary organ donation after death of
      citizens in 2010, the voluntary organ donation has become the only legitimate source of organ
      transplants in 2015, and the transition from relying on the judicial channels to obtain the
      organs to voluntary donation of citizens has been successfully achieved in China, donation
      cases and the number increased year by year. At present, the annual number of organ
      transplantation in China has exceeded 10,000 cases, of which kidney transplantation and liver
      transplantation were in the lead, respectively with more than 5000 cases and 2000 cases.

      Rejection is still the most common cause of early dysfunction after organ transplantation,
      and the mismatching of major histocompatibility antigens (MHC, human MHC, also known as HLA)
      of the donor and recipient is the major cause of rejection after transplantation. Therefore,
      the importance of matching in organ transplantation has been widely accepted. HLA typing and
      HLA high resolution typing are becoming more and more common. At the same time, the latest
      international research shows that low-resolution HLA typing in organ transplantation also can
      cause significant rejection, while HLA high-resolution typing, the future trend, can improve
      the overall survival rate. Furthermore, NGS high-throughput sequencing will push HLA
      high-resolution classification to a new height.

      Besides HLA matching, recipients can set up specific immune tolerance to donor grafts which
      will significantly affect long-term survival after operation. A large number of experimental
      and clinical data have suggested that the microchimerism formation can successfully
      facilitate donor-specific immune tolerance after transplantation. Chimera refers to the
      condition of the cells from the donor and from the recipient coexist and move to each other
      as that the donor cells exist in the recipient body after receiving the allograft or
      xenograft transplantation and the recipient cells exist in the graft as well. Among them,
      microchimera refers to the low levels of donor cells (usually less than 0.01%) in the
      peripheral blood circulation of transplant recipients, which is commonly seen in the patients
      with solid organ transplantation. The concept of microchimerism was first proposed by Thomas
      Starzl in the Medicine School of University of Pittsburgh in the 1990s, which pointed out
      that between the microchimerism and transplant immune tolerance lie a possible cause and
      effect relationship. The long-standing presence of microchimerism can lead to the recipient's
      tolerance to the donor organ. The more passer-by cells the organ has, the more cells it
      shifts out, making it easier to form transplantation tolerance, which explains the phenomenon
      of the mildest rejection after liver transplantation.

      Several methods have been found to induce microchimerism, including donor-specific
      transfusion, donor bone marrow cell infusion, donor leukocyte infusion, spleen slice combined
      with organ transplantation and so on.

      The formation of microchimerism is probably one of the long-term survival mechanisms of the
      transplanted graft, and the detection of microchimerism after transplantation can effectively
      predict the immune tolerance and rejection of the graft, while there is no very effective
      quantitation method.. In addition, the relationship between microchimerism and
      immunotolerance remains questionable, such as to what level of the clinical microchimerism
      formation that suggests stable immune tolerance, and whether it is possible to determine the
      withdrawal of immunosuppressive agents by the detection of microchimerism and etc., these are
      urgent problems remained to be solved and clarified. Based on the Insertion Deletion (InDel)
      site combined with quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, the detection
      sensitivity can reach 0.001% to 0.01%, which can accurately quantify the microchimerism level
      and dynamically monitor microchimerism after the transplantation.

      At the same time, scientists from Stanford University in the United States continued to
      report in 2014 and 2015 that using a new generation of high-throughput sequencing technology
      (NGS) to detect the level of donor derived cell free DNA(cf DNA) in blood plasma of
      recipients after cardiac and lung transplantation. The investigators found that the level of
      donor-derived cf DNA was significantly increased when acute or chronic rejection happens,
      thus it could be used as a marker to reflect rejection or graft injury.

      It has been reported that microchimerization and donor-cfDNA levels are correlated with
      rejection after organ transplantation, but these studies are mostly based on a small number
      of cases and the results of which are qualitative or with low resolution value due to limited
      detection techniques thus can not provide a specific microchimerism rate.

      Therefore, The investigators need to clarify the role of microchimerism and the level of
      donor -derived cf DNA during graft injury as well as rejection after transplantation using a
      new generation of detection technology for multi-center study with large sample size.

      In this study, 950 cases of organ transplantation, of which 600 cases of renal
      transplantation, 300 cases of liver transplantation and 50 cases of lung transplantation will
      be recruited and detected. 8 ml peripheral blood will be collected in 1 tubes with EDTA
      anticoagulation. The time points of the collection are as follows: Patients with routine
      treatment after transplantation are preformed once a week for 1 month and then at 3, 6 and 12
      months after transplantation. In case of acute rejection, the additional blood will be
      collected once on the day of diagnosis, and once after 7 days treatment remission. All the
      samples were detected for microchimerism and cfDNA.
    
  