
    
      This study is a three-stage cluster randomized historically controlled crossover trial
      designed to evaluate the feasibility of the implementation of two AS strategies. Four
      community hospitals in the Duke Infection Control Outreach Network (DICON) will be recruited
      for this study. Ideally, hospitals will have no teaching affiliation, bed size <300, and no
      existing antimicrobial formulary restriction and preauthorization or post-antibiotic
      prescription review practices in place at study start.

      Data will be obtained from the four community hospitals in three stages. In stage 1,
      historical data from each hospital will be collected for the year prior to study initiation
      from all participating hospitals. These data are used as a control representing current
      practice. In stage 2, the four hospitals will be divided into two pairs based upon bed size.
      One hospital from each pair will be randomly assigned to a six-month period of antimicrobial
      restriction and preauthorization (Strategy 1; stage 2) followed by a six-month period of
      post-antibiotic prescription review (Strategy 2; stage 3). The other two hospitals will
      undergo Strategy 2 in stage 2 followed by Strategy 1 in stage 3 to help alleviate the concern
      for seasonal/temporal effects when comparing the strategies to each other. A one-month wash
      out will be performed between each stage. Three antibiotics will be specifically targeted for
      intervention: anti-pseudomonal carbapenem of choice at the study hospital, vancomycin, and
      piperacillin-tazobactam. Utilization of alternative antimicrobials, including
      fluoroquinolones, cephalosporins, and anti-methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (anti
      MRSA) systemic antimicrobials (e.g., nafcillin, daptomycin, linezolid, ceftaroline,
      clindamycin, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX)) will also be collected. All study
      hospitals will have electronic systems that track antimicrobial prescriptions through orders,
      electronic medication administration records (eMAR), bar-coded medication administration
      (BCMA), or dispensing data.

      Hospitals will have dedicated clinical pharmacist time for preauthorization or
      post-antibiotic review for the three targeted antibiotics in each arm of the study.
      Pharmacists (PharmDs) at each site will receive standardized training by study personnel in
      order to address common questions and anticipated arguments, and to establish a robust
      knowledge base regarding the targeted antimicrobials (anti-pseudomonal carbapenem of choice
      at the study hospital, vancomycin, and piperacillin-tazobactam). They will also be trained in
      conflict management.

      Study personnel will provide suggested criteria for appropriate use of each targeted drug.
      Hospital P&T committees will review, edit (if desired), and approve hospital-specific
      protocols for appropriate use criteria for each study drug. Pharmacists will be provided with
      specific clinical pathways for urinary tract infections (UTIs), community-acquired pneumonia
      (CAP), healthcare-associated pneumonia (HCAP), bacteremia, and "other" uses of targeted
      antimicrobial. Clinical pathways will be developed jointly by study personnel and based on
      Centers for Disease Control and Prevention pilot projects. Clinical pharmacists will
      determine appropriateness of therapy based on study clinical pathways, their baseline
      knowledge, and acquired knowledge derived by training from study personnel. Time spent
      performing the two stewardship strategies will be supported by grant funds. The designated
      pharmacist will be involved in two critical components of the protocol: a) completing the
      intervention and b) documenting the outcome of the intervention.
    
  