
    
      Perioperative PNI is a well-recognized but seriously under-investigated complication of
      general anesthesia. Arguably, such nerve injury may be viewed as being as devastating as
      spinal cord and cerebral injury, as the resultant functional disabilities may be very
      comparable.(1) Many such nerve injured patients require prolonged recovery and
      rehabilitation, while some result in long-term disability and/or litigation due to motor
      deficits and chronic pain.(2-5) In ASA Closed Claims Analysis PNI was the second most common
      cause of claims other than death.(6, 7) However, little progress has been made in the past
      three decades in developing a reliable intraoperative monitoring technique for early
      detection and prevention. SSEP monitoring is a potential option for preventing PNI. Abnormal
      SSEP is widely used as a surrogate outcome for PNI in research studies (8-11). Additionally,
      previous studies (12-17) investigating the use of SSEP for spinal cord or cerebral injury
      during neurosurgical procedures have incidentally found high incidences of abnormal SSEP
      (4-7%) due to mal-positioning that was corrected with repositioning; this suggested SSEP
      could be used to detect intraoperative PNI and that prompt intervention can reverse PNI.
      However, there have been no further prospective studies to evaluate the diagnostic value of
      SSEP, or its outcome benefit. This is largely because conventional SSEP is a bulky, expensive
      and labor-intensive monitoring modality, requiring a technologist for operation and
      interpretation.(18) Because of these budgetary and logistical limitations, as well as the
      relative lack of clinical evidence, SSEP is not performed routinely in most surgical centres
      solely for the purpose of PNI detection. The recent introduction of the Evoked Potential
      Assessment Device (EPAD®, SafeOp Surgical, Hunt Valley, MD) may be able to overcome these
      practical barriers. It is a novel, simplified, automated SSEP monitoring device (FDA
      approved). The key features of EPAD® are its compactness, ease of connectivity via Bluetooth,
      and its use of surface adhesive electrodes that remove the potential for needle-stick
      injuries. This device also incorporates an automated progressive signal optimization
      algorithm, several newly developed artifact rejection and electrocautery suppression
      technologies as well as an auto-interpretation diagnostic system. It eliminates the need for
      a designated technician and permits simplified and direct interpretation of the SSEP data for
      clinicians in the operating room. This device also enables display and storage of raw SSEP
      data permitting post hoc area-under-curve analysis. (Fig. 3) We have previously evaluated the
      clinical utility of this automated SSEP device in 33 cardiac surgical patients (19). This
      pilot study found that automated SSEP monitoring can be performed readily in a busy cardiac
      operating room. The raw signal quality is reliable and comparable to the conventional SSEP
      machine. These results indicate that this device is able to eliminate the practical
      challenges of performing SSEP monitoring and confirmed its feasibility for routine use.(REB#
      104826) Surgical-related nerve injury during TSA is one of the highest risk subspecialties
      leading to postoperative upper limb peripheral neuropathy with reported incidences of 1-4%
      (20-22). A previous cohort study10, using motor evoked potential and EMG to evaluate the
      nerve injury during TSA, reported an exceedingly high incidence of intraoperative alerts
      (56.7% of patients). Importantly, 76.7% (23 of 30) of nerve alerts were reversed with
      repositioning of the patients' arm and removal of the retractor. Another cohort study11 in
      shoulder rotator cuff repair reported an even higher incidence of nerve alert (76.5%). Both
      studies were received Neer research awards from the Orthopedic Society, however neither study
      has informed the outcome benefit nor has assessed the relationship between cumulative injury,
      baseline nerve reserve and postoperative neuropathy. Accordingly, we propose to perform
      single blinded, superiority, parallel design, prospective randomized controlled study to
      assess the efficacy of the automated SSEP device in preventing PNI during TSA and explore the
      dose-response relationship of PNI.
    
  