
    
      All patients with AIS meeting the following inclusion criteria will be eligible to
      participate in this trial: diagnosis of AIS; ages 10 to 17 years; major curve Cobb angles 15°
      to 20°; thoracolumbar, lumbar, or primary thoracic curve patterns; and Risser grade 0. Curves
      less than 15° will not be as clinically meaningful if they do not progress more than 5°.
      Curves 15° also allow for 5° of measurement error. Curves more than 20° will not be able to
      progress at least 5° before bracing is initiated according to SRS criteria (at 25°). Patients
      will be excluded according to the following exclusion criteria: scoliosis other than AIS,
      upper thoracic or double curve patterns, developmental disorders that prevent understanding
      and compliance with an exercise schedule, current or previous brace wear, and previous
      participation in a SSE program, previous spine surgery, inability to commit to performing a
      home exercise program for 15 minutes a day, 5 days a week, and inability to commit to attend
      at least 8 hours of PT within 6 months.

      Patient medical records will be reviewed for eligibility. If a patient is deemed eligible for
      inclusion in the study, a member of the research team will meet with the patient and his or
      her family to review the consent form in a private medical exam room. The family will be
      given ample time to review the consent form and ask any questions. If a participant chooses
      to participate, a consent form will be signed by both the patient and the legal guardian
      prior to any investigational procedures occurring. Once a consent form has been signed,
      patients will be randomly assigned by the TSRH on site statistician to one of the two
      following groups:

        1. Standardization of Physical Therapy:

           Physical therapists from Texas Scottish Rite Hospital, Boston Children's Hospital,
           Columbia University Medical Center, Norton Leatherman Spine Center, Johns Hopkins
           University, and Texas Children's Hospital who received training and certification in the
           Schroth-based (BSPTS) method have been recruited as members of the study team. Physical
           therapists at each institution will deliver a standardized exercise intervention.

        2. Study Groups:

      A) Scoliosis-Specific Exercise (SSE) Group

      Each patient assigned to the SSE group will attend at least 8 hours of supervised exercise
      training led by a Schroth-based certified physical therapist over the course of 6 months.
      Ideally, patients will be seen for 7 sessions:

        1. First session: 2 hours

        2. Session 2: 1 hour (1 week later)

        3. Session 3: 1 hour (1-2 weeks later)

        4. Session 4: 1 hour (2-3 weeks after Session 3)

        5. Session 5: 1 hour (3-4 weeks after Session 4)

        6. Session 6: 1 hour (1-2 months after Session 5)

        7. Session 7: 1 hour (1-2 months after Session 6)

      The exact number of training sessions and time frame will be determined by the patient's
      ability to perform the exercises. All therapists will use a standardized exercise
      prescription algorithm and performance checklist similar to Dr. Parent's Schroth scoliosis
      exercise study. Patients will perform a home exercise program for 15 minutes a day, 5 days a
      week, when they can independently execute their prescribed exercises according to the
      following criteria:

        1. Correctly move the pelvis so the body weight is over the base of support and neutral.

        2. Accurately set up exercises per curve pattern in different positions. Exercises progress
           from static to dynamic and passive to active corrections.

        3. Proficiently perform a minimum of 8 exercises integrating scoliosis-specific corrections
           which include auto-elongation to increase the spaces between the pelvis, vertebrae, and
           ribs. Various kinesthetic, mental imagery and proprioceptive strategies are used to
           further open concavities and depress convexities.

        4. Perform scoliosis-specific corrections during activities of daily living. The overall
           goal is for patients to maintain a corrective posture throughout the day.

      Patients will be asked to use a smartphone or tablet application (app) when performing the
      home exercise program which will be one method of tracking exercise adherence. A paper
      version of the app will be available to patients without access to a smartphone or tablet.

      Patients will also be sent electronically a weekly survey regarding home exercise adherence
      through a secure research database, the Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap). An
      exercise log initialed by the guardian will help families keep track of their exercise
      adherence and serve as a way to monitor exercise adherence for patients who may not have a
      smartphone, tablet, or computer.

      Patients will also be able to meet with the therapists at their return-to-clinic visits and
      every 2-3 months thereafter until their 1 year follow-up to assess performance quality,
      maintain motivation, and progress intensity. Patients will be withdrawn if they do not
      achieve 80% exercise adherence within 6 months.

      B) Control Group Patients randomized to this group will continue receiving standard-of-care
      treatment from their orthopaedic physician which includes regularly scheduled clinic visits
      and observation. Observation consists of no treatment of the scoliosis, only routine clinical
      assessment by the orthopaedic surgeon to detect curve progression every 3 to 6 months. Once
      all measurements have been collected at the patient's enrollment and one year followup,
      patients in this group will continue to be tracked through observation until skeletal
      maturity in order to record whether the patient experienced curve progression, was prescribed
      a brace, or proceeded to surgical treatment.
    
  