
    
      METHODS:

      Patient population. Patients with IPAH and SPAH (defined as a mean PAP >25 mm Hg at rest) not
      responding optimally to current medical therapy (defined as a reduction of <5mmHg in the
      resting mean PAP during medication, or unchanged 6-min walk test (6MWT) defined as increment
      of 6MW distance <50 m) will be eligible for the study. The patients will be informed that
      they have the right to withdraw their informed consent at any time. After signing a
      previously approved institutional written informed consent 20 patients with proven IPAH and
      20 patients with proven SPAH and 20 control patients (10 with IPAH and 10 with SPAH) will be
      randomly assigned to radiofrequency denervation of pulmonary arteries or to sham group.
      Patients of age <18 years, patients with structural heart diseases with left-to right
      shunting and/or with Eisenmenger syndrome will be excluded from the trial. Medical treatment
      before enrollment including a diuretics sildenafil or bosentan or digoxin or any other
      necessary medication will not be discontinued. Blood samples will be obtained for N-terminal
      brain natriuretic peptide (NT-BNP), troponin T, mbCK, CK and other usually accepted
      biological markers of pulmonary hypertension levels before, immediately after the pulmonary
      artery denervation (PADN) procedure, and at 3 and 6 months following the PADN procedure. For
      the assessment of potential anatomical complications at the sight of PADN a multisliced
      computed tomography angiography of pulmonary trunk and pulmonary arteries will be obtained
      before and 6 months after PADN procedure. Assessment of functional capacity (9) will be
      determined by the six-minutes walk test (6MWT), followed by an assessment of dyspnea using
      the Borg scale (10). The 6MWT will be performed at 3 month and 6 months following the PADN
      procedure. The World Health Organization classification (11) at rest and during exercise will
      be recorded by a physician blinded to the study design.

      Echocardiography will be performed at 3 month and 6 months following the procedure.
      Echocardiographic studies will be done using a Vivid 7 ultrasound system with a standard
      imaging transducer (General Electric Co., Easton Turnpike, Connecticut). All of the
      measurements will be performed according the recommendations of the American Society of
      Echocardiography (12). Digital echocardiographic data that contained a minimum of 3
      consecutive beats (or 5 beats in cases of atrial fibrillation) will be acquired and analyzed.
      Right ventricular (RV) systolic pressure is equal to systolic PAP in the absence of pulmonary
      stenosis. Systolic PAP is equal to the sum of the right atrial (RA) pressure and the RV-to-RA
      pressure gradient during systole. RA pressure will be estimated based on the
      echocardiographic features of the inferior vena cava and assigned a standard value (13). The
      RV-to-RA pressure gradient will be calculated as 4vt2 using the modified Bernoulli equation,
      where vt is the velocity of the tricuspid regurgitation jet in m/s. The mean PAP will be
      estimated according to the velocity of the pulmonary regurgitation jet in m/s. The tricuspid
      excursion index (Tei) (14) is defined as (A-B)/B, where A is the time interval between the
      end and the onset of tricuspid annular diastolic velocity, and B is the duration of tricuspid
      annular systolic velocity (or the RV ejection time). PA compliance for patients will be
      calculated as the stroke volume divided by pulse pressure (systolic PAP minus diastolic PAP).
      Hemodynamic measurements and blood oxygen pressure/saturation determinations from the RA, RV,
      and PA will be performed as previously described using right heart catheterization before and
      immediately after the PADN procedure. These measurements will be repeated at 24 h, 3 months
      and 12 months. Measurements of resting RA pressure, RV pressure, systolic/diastolic/mean PAP,
      PA occlusive pressure (PAOP), cardiac output (CO) and mixed venous oxygen saturation will be
      recorded. The pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) [PVR ¼(mean PAP- PAOP)/CO] and
      transpulmonary pressure gradient (TPG ¼ mean PAP- PAOP) will then be calculated. All of the
      measurements will be recorded at the end of expiration. Five criteria (15-17) will be used to
      evaluate whether a PAOP measurement was valid: 1) the PAOP was less than the diastolic PAP;
      2) the tracing was comparable to the atrial pressure waveform; 3) the fluoroscopic image
      exhibited a stationary catheter following inflation; 4) free flow was present within the
      catheter (flush test); and 5) highly oxygenated blood (capillary) was obtained from the
      distal portion in the occlusion position. If the PAOP measurement was unreliable, the left
      ventricular end-diastolic pressure will then be measured and used rather than the PAOP.

      The blood samples from the superior vena cava and PA will be obtained for the measurements of
      oxygen pressure and saturation. PADN procedure. A baseline PA angiography will be performed
      to identify the PA bifurcation level and calculate the PA diameter. An 8-F long sheath will
      be inserted through the femoral vein and advanced to the main PA (MPA). The PADN catheter
      will be advanced along this long sheath. After gently withdrawing the sheath and pushing the
      PADN catheter, the tip will be released from the sheath. Then, by slightly rotating and
      pushing the handle the tip will be positioned first at the ostium of the left PA (Level 1 of
      ablation, <2 mm distal to orifice. After ablation at this level, the catheter tip will be
      positioned at the ostium of right PA (Level 2 of ablation, <2mm proximal to the bifurcation
      level). Finally, denervation of main pulmonary artery will be done by pulling the denervation
      catheter back into Level 3 of ablation (<2 mm proximal to both ostia of right and left PA-s)
      into main pulmonary artery.Three criteria will be used to ensure that the electrodes were
      tightly in contact with the endovascular surface: 1) strong manual resistance when rotating
      the handle; 2) inability to advance distally or ease in, withdrawing proximally 3)
      angiographic confirmation and 4) actual electrode contact pressure (gm) readings provided by
      RF denervation system used. The procedure will be stopped if the patient complained of
      intolerable chest pain. The electrocardiogram and hemodynamic pressure will be monitored and
      continuously recorded throughout the procedure. Procedural success will be defined as a
      reduction in the mean PAP >10 mm Hg (as measured by the Swan-Ganz catheter), and there were
      no complications. The patients will be monitored in the intensive cardiac care unit for at
      least 24 h after the PADN procedure. Commercially available and approved radiofrequency
      technology for pulmonary vein isolation will be utilized for new clinical indication.

      Peri-procedural medications. An intravenous bolus of 5,000 U of unfractionated heparin will
      be given immediately following the insertion of the venous sheath. An additional
      approximately 2,000 to 3,000 U of heparin will be added if the procedural time exceeds 1 h.
      Following the procedure, oral warfarin will be prescribed and adjusted according to the
      international normalized ratio to be between 2 and 2.5 for all patients. If there would be
      contraindications for warfarin, aspirin (100 mg/day) and clopidogrel (75 mg/day) will be
      prescribed indefinitely. Immediately after the PADN procedure, all medications (diuretics,
      sildenafil, bosentan, beraprost, digoxin etc.) will be discontinued for 24h.

      Endpoints. The primary endpoints will be decrease in mean PAP and pulmonary vascular
      resistance at 3 and 6 months and improvement of functional capacity by the 6MWT. Clinical
      adverse events (including PA perforation/dissection, acute thrombus formation in the PA,
      all-cause death, rehospitalization due to PAH, and lung transplantation) will be secondary
      endpoints and will be assessed by an independent event committee. Statistical analysis.
      Continuous variables will be expressed as mean + SD. Differences in continuous variables
      between different time points in the PADN group will be analyzed using paired-sample Student
      t tests or Wilcoxon signed- rank sum tests, as appropriate nonparametric statistical methods.
      Each patient in the trial will serve as his/her own control before and after PADN and sham
      group patients as a control group of overall efficacy of the procedure. The categorical
      variables will be compared using the Fisher exact test. Statistical significance will be
      defined as a 2-sided p value < 0.05. All of the analyses will be performed using WinStat
      statistical software package for Microsoft Excel, version 2009.
    
  