
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine whether pre-operative treatment of HER-2 positive breast cancer patients
           with anti-HER2 therapy consisting of trastuzumab (Herceptin®) vs lapatinib ditosylate
           inhibits proliferation or increases apoptosis.

        -  To compare the effects of trastuzumab (Herceptin®), lapatinib ditosylate and the
           combination of lapatinib ditosylate and trastuzumab (Herceptin®) on the inhibition of
           proliferation or increase of apoptosis

      Secondary

        -  To determine whether pre-operative anti-HER2 treatment reduces serum angiogenic factors.

        -  To identify molecular predictors of biological response to anti-HER2 therapy

      OUTLINE:

      This is a multicenter study.Patients are stratified according to center. Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      PART 1: From Protocol versions 1 to 4:

        -  Arm I (control): Patients receive no neoadjuvant or adjuvant therapy. Approximately 14
           days after randomization, patients undergo either breast-conservation surgery or
           mastectomy.

        -  Arm II (trastuzumab [Herceptin®]): Patients receive neoadjuvant trastuzumab IV over 90
           minutes on days 1 and 8. Approximately 11 days after beginning of neoadjuvant therapy,
           patients undergo either breast-conservation surgery or mastectomy, and receive adjuvant
           trastuzumab on day 15.

        -  Arm III (lapatinib ditosylate): Patients receive neoadjuvant oral lapatinib ditosylate
           once daily on days 1-11. Within 24 hours after completion of neoadjuvant therapy,
           patients undergo either breast-conservation surgery or mastectomy, and receive adjuvant
           lapatinib ditosylate once daily on days 12-28.

      Patients also receive standard adjuvant systemic therapy, including endocrine therapy (for
      hormone-sensitive disease) and/or chemotherapy and radiotherapy.

      PART 2: From Protocol Version 5 (June 2013)

        -  Arm I (control): Patients receive no neoadjuvant or adjuvant therapy. Approximately 14
           days after randomization, patients undergo either breast-conservation surgery or
           mastectomy.

        -  Arm II (trastuzumab [Herceptin®]): Patients receive neoadjuvant trastuzumab IV over 90
           minutes on days 1 and 8. Approximately 11 days after beginning of neoadjuvant therapy,
           patients undergo either breast-conservation surgery or mastectomy, and receive adjuvant
           trastuzumab on day 15.

        -  Arm III (lapatinib ditosylate and (trastuzumab [Herceptin®] combination): Patients
           receive oral lapatinib ditosylate once daily on days 1-11. Within 24 hours after
           completion of neoadjuvant therapy, patients undergo either breast-conservation surgery
           or mastectomy, and receive adjuvant lapatinib ditosylate once daily on days 12-28.
           Patients also receive neoadjuvant trastuzumab IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 8 and
           receive adjuvant trastuzumab on day 15.

      PART 1 and 2:

      Patients also receive standard adjuvant systemic therapy, including endocrine therapy (for
      hormone-sensitive disease) and/or chemotherapy and radiotherapy.

      All patients undergo blood and tissue sample collection periodically for biomarker research
      studies comprising biomarkers of proliferation, apoptosis, and angiogenesis.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years and
      then annually for 10 years.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded by Cancer Research UK
    
  