
    
      Experimental design: The investigators plan to perform a randomized cross-over study at
      University of Louisville Hospital (ULH) ICUs from July 2019 to June 2020. The study will be
      submitted to the University of Louisville IRB for approval before any study activities are
      started.

      Performance Site: University of Louisville Hospital. The ICU departments will be randomized
      to participate in either one of the two research arms: control-then-intervention arm or
      intervention-then-control arm.

      Participants: All nurses, attending physicians, resident physicians, housecleaning staff,
      medical assistants, respiratory therapists, laboratory personnel (lab drawing) within
      experiment units.

      Control-then-Intervention arm: In each intensive care unit assigned to the
      Control-then-Intervention arm, all participants who regularly access the ICUs will wear the
      wristband while at work for 5 months. The functionality of the wristband will not be
      disclosed to the healthcare providers. Handwashing compliance data will be automatically
      collected, but data will not be shared with the healthcare providers or hospital management
      teams. After 5 months, a washout period of 2 months will be introduced to eliminate potential
      influences on healthcare providers' behaviors from the sensor system. Then, all healthcare
      providers will be educated on the functionalities of the CleanHands system with real time
      reminders now turned on. Healthcare providers will then have access to their own and
      unit-specific handwashing data. The unit manager and hospital administrators will be able to
      access all of these data and advanced analysis to make management decisions on infection
      reduction. This phase will last for 5 months. All personnel will be educated not to discuss
      the functionalities of CleanHands system with their co-workers to ensure adequate blinding.

      Intervention-then-Control arm: In each intensive care unit assigned to the
      Intervention-then-Control arm, all participants who regularly access to the ICUs will be
      educated on the functionalities of the CleanHands system with real time reminders turned on.
      Healthcare providers will then have access to their own and unit-specific handwashing data.
      The unit manager and hospital administrators will be able to access all of these data and
      advanced analysis to make management decisions on infection control. This phase will last for
      5 months. After 5 months, a washout period of 2 months will be introduced to eliminate
      potential influences on healthcare providers' behaviors from sensor system installation and
      implementation. Then, the real-time reminder functionality of the wristband will be turned
      off and no more education will be provided. Handwashing compliance data will be automatically
      collected but will not be shared with the healthcare providers. The unit manager and hospital
      administrators will now be blinded to the handwashing compliance results. This process will
      last for 5 months.

      Data collection: Handwashing compliance data are automatically collected by CleanHands. These
      data include all handwashing opportunities (defined as when a wristband is in pre-set
      proximity of the controller for 5 seconds or more), total cleaning solution dispensing
      counts, rates of
    
  