
    
      Study Design

      This is a prospective, single-blinded, randomized, multicenter study to evaluate the utility,
      safety, and efficacy of using PEER Interactive to inform the prescription of medications to
      participants with a primary diagnosis of a depressive disorder, with or without comorbidity
      of non-psychotic behavioral disorders, versus treatment as usual.

      This study is observational in nature, in that the participants in the control group will be
      treated according to treatment as usual and best judgment of the treating clinician. The
      participants in the experimental group will be treated with adjunctive information provided
      by the PEER Interactive Report. It is a controlled study in that the schedule of visits,
      procedures and measurements will be defined by the protocol in order to provide consistent
      data for both the control and experimental groups.

      Participants will be blinded as to presence/use of the PEER Interactive Report and will
      provide the primary efficacy outcome evaluation. All participants will be randomized into a
      control or experimental group. All participants will receive a quantitative
      electroencephalogram (QEEG). For those participants in the experimental group, the research
      staff will receive an Outcome Report from PEER Interactive. The clinician in the experimental
      group will use the PEER Interactive Report in the medication prescription process. For the
      control group, the research staff will not receive an Outcome Report. Outcome Reports for the
      control group will be sequestered for post-hoc analysis.

      The research staff will incorporate the information provided by the Outcome Report from PEER
      Interactive in their prescription decisions. PEER Interactive provides adjunctive information
      to assist the treating clinician in the clinical decision process. For the experimental group
      the research staff is expected to follow the guidance of the subject's PEER Outcome Report as
      regards to the participant's responsiveness to the on-label medications noted in the Report.
      Although the study staff is strongly encouraged to use the guidance in the medication
      decision, prescription of medication is a clinical decision and will be made by the research
      staff. A decision to not follow the guidance of the Report should be documented and
      explained. In some cases, the Report may indicate sensitivity for a medication to which the
      subject has not been responsive in previous treatment - or - if effective for the diagnosed
      condition may cause/have caused an undesired side effect e.g. rash, nausea, etc. The
      clinician must always consider subject history in the treatment decision. We expect the
      Report will indicate that the participant will not be responsive to the previous treatment,
      and therefore, the treatment should not be prescribed. The PEER Report informs medication
      decisions as a part of treatment. If the only medication indicated by the report is a
      medication the participant has had poor experience with; the participant should be treated
      with another medication indicated as responsive by the Report. In the event the Report
      indicates the participant is not responsive to any of the on-label medications in the Report,
      the treating clinician may prescribe according to best clinical judgment. The research staff
      will note the basis for all medication decisions in the subject's treatment/study file. The
      only change to standard of care is the use of the PEER Report to inform medication decisions
      for the experimental group e.g. If a participant is receiving psychotherapy/ counseling along
      with medical therapy prior to enrollment, the participant will continue with all other
      therapies as usual.

      Following the guidance of the PEER Outcome Report means prescribing any medication the report
      indicates the subject would be responsive to and not prescribing medications the report
      indicates the subject would not be responsive to. The PEER Outcome Report should be followed
      for up to two 'medication trials' to be considered as following the guidance of the report. A
      'medication trial' is defined as prescribing a new medication to treat the subject. This
      includes augmentation and/or switching to a different medication. Dosing adjustments are not
      considered a medication trial.

      The research staff, in collaboration with the sponsor, will evaluate and validate how closely
      the information provided by PEER Interactive correlates with post-hoc demonstrated subject
      medication responsiveness. The research staff, in collaboration with the sponsor will also
      evaluate if the information provided by PEER Interactive results in improved mental health
      and/or a reduction of risk as measured by a reduction in Psychiatric Specific Adverse Events,
      including suicidality.

      Essentially, there are two evaluations being made in this study. The first is an evaluation
      of the clinical utility of PEER Interactive where the health outcome of participants in the
      experimental group (those that receive information from PEER Interactive) will be compared to
      the outcomes of the control group (those subjects who did not receive information from PEER
      Interactive). The second is a validation of the PEER Interactive outcomes database which is
      intended to measure post-hoc the health outcomes of participants where the research staff's
      pharmacotherapy decisions agreed with the output of PEER Interactive. The chart below
      describes these evaluations.

      Focus Method Endpoints Outcome database validation Post-hoc observational Mean effect in the
      Agreement vs. non-Agreement group Clinical utility Prospective randomized Mean effect in
      Experimental vs. Control group

      A QEEG is required for this study. Therefore, all participants must be washed off medications
      for the QEEG. Though not standard clinical practice in all settings, this is a standard
      requirement of the QEEG process when a QEEG study is being performed to compare participant
      pathophysiology to a normative database composed of non-medicated participants.

      The participants will be followed for not less than 6 months after the initial treatment, or
      until the subject has achieved maximum medical improvement (MMI). Determination of MMI is
      made retrospectively e.g. we can only determine that a participant has achieved MMI following
      that participant's demonstration of stability on medication/in treatment as evaluated across
      at least two visits for example: the participant is not getting better/has stabilized and
      will, in the judgment of the clinician, not get better. The participant will be seen on a
      routine basis and assessments will be made at each interaction to evaluate the participant's
      improvement in mental health. The participants will be closely evaluated to determine if they
      are experiencing any psychiatric specific adverse events. The research staff is allowed to
      treat the participant according to their best medical judgment, which may include adding or
      changing medications, seeing the participant more frequently, or other interventions.
      Clinicians will be encouraged to use their best clinical judgment and best clinical practice
      guidelines to assess the need for transition to a new medication. All interactions and
      interventions will be recorded in the case report form (CRF). A second QEEG will be
      administered at the final/study termination visit. This second QEEG will allow for analysis
      to indicate treatment-related changes to the QEEG. An additional analysis will be performed
      to identify changes that might indicate suicidal ideation (Hunter, et al. 2010 and Iosifescu,
      et al. 2008). This information will be compared with findings from the participant's CHRT-SR7
      questionnaires.
    
  