
    
      Malaria accounts for 500 million febrile illnesses and more than a million deaths annually.
      The disease burden is heaviest in economically developing countries where it is estimated
      that up to 5 percent of the gross domestic product of sub-Saharan countries is consumed by
      the direct and indirect health costs of malaria. Researchers propose to conduct a Phase I
      dosage-escalating study to assess the safety and immunogenicity of 3 different dosages of
      erythrocyte-binding antigen 175 kDA region II-nonglycosylated (EBA-175 RII-NG) recombinant
      Plasmodium falciparum (Pf) vaccine adjuvanted with Adju-Phos (aluminum phosphate adjuvant):
      5, 20, and 80 micrograms (mcg), given in 3 doses at 0, 1, and 6 months by intramuscular (IM)
      injection to healthy young adults in a malaria endemic area (semi-immune adults). One dose of
      vaccine will be given at each time point. The primary objective is to assess the safety and
      reactogenicity (tolerability) of ascending dosages of EBA-175 RII-NG vaccine among healthy
      subjects given in 3 IM doses at 0, 1 and 6 months. The secondary objective is to evaluate the
      immunogenicity of the EBA-175 RII-NG vaccine by measuring anti-EBA-175 RII-NG antibodies
      using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), inhibition of Plasmodium falciparum growth
      in vitro, and inhibition of binding of EBA-175 RII-NG to red blood cells (RBCs). Participants
      will include 60 malaria semi-immune healthy subjects between the ages of 18 and 40 years,
      males and females, recruited from Accra, Ghana. Subjects will be randomized to receive 3
      doses of the vaccine or saline placebo by the intramuscular route in a 9:1 ratio at 0, 1 and
      6 months. The safety and immunogenicity of ascending dosages of the vaccine will be assessed.
      Eighteen subjects will receive vaccine at each of the following dosage levels: 5, 20, and 80
      mcg. Two subjects will receive placebo for each dosage level. Dosage escalation will proceed
      only after review of the 2-week safety data of the 2 initial doses of the prior dosage level.
    
  