
    
      Suicide is the ninth leading cause of death in Canada, and rates are exponentially higher
      among specific sub-populations of Canadians (Statistics Canada, 2015). Worldwide,
      approximately 800,000 individuals die by suicide each year (WHO, 2016). A number of
      interventions, such as psychotherapy, have been shown to effectively reduce suicidal thinking
      and behaviors; however, several factors often impede or delay access to clinical care. In
      order to reduce suicide, interventions must not only be evidence-based but also readily
      accessible and perceived as being helpful by patients (Pagura et al., 2009; Turecki & Brent,
      2015). Large, lecture-style, skills-based psychotherapy interventions where patients can join
      at any session can ensure timely access to services while being relatively unintimidating to
      patients. However, little research to date has examined the effectiveness of such
      interventions in reducing suicidality.

      There is a dire need to develop evidence-based clinical interventions that can be accessed
      rapidly by individuals during their time of highest need (Brown & Jager-Hyman, 2014). For
      example, the first few days and weeks following hospital discharge post-suicide attempt
      represents the period of highest risk for suicide completion, however, a staggering
      proportion of individuals do not have an outpatient mental health appointment within this
      timeframe (Glenn et al., 2015; Olfson et al., 2014). Further, studies have often not
      evaluated the effectiveness of suicide interventions in "real world" settings and where
      high-risk subgroups of individuals are included (e.g., substance users) and have not
      consistently used valid and reliable measures of suicidal ideation (Brown & Jager-Hyman,
      2014).

      The investigators are unaware of any study to date that has examined the effectiveness of
      rapid access, large-scale, psychotherapy classes in reducing suicidality in a crisis
      population.

      Primary Aim 1: To examine the effectiveness of rapid access, large volume CBT and
      DBT-informed psychotherapy classes in reducing suicidal ideation among individuals presenting
      with a mental health crisis.

      Hypothesis: The investigators hypothesize that participation in either class will reduce
      suicidal thinking, and that decreases in suicidal ideation will be greater among those
      patients completing the total number of classes.

      Secondary Aim 2a: To examine the effectiveness of participation in psychotherapy classes in
      reducing symptoms of general psychological distress, depression, anxiety, and emotion
      dysregulation.

      Hypothesis 2a: The investigators hypothesize that class participation will result in symptom
      decreases across all outcomes.

      Secondary Aim 2b: To identify the sociodemographic and symptom profile(s) of patients
      benefiting most from psychotherapy classes as well as the characteristics of patients for
      whom the classes are not helpful.

      Hypothesis 2b: The patient profiles deriving the greatest and least psychological benefit
      (i.e., changes in suicidality and symptoms) from these classes are more exploratory in
      nature.

      Design and Methods

      Participants: Patients accessing care for a mental health crisis at the Crisis Response
      Centre (CRC) or at hospital emergency departments in the city will be referred to the CRC's
      Urgent Follow-up Intensive Treatment Team (UFITT). The UFITT program is designed to be as
      inclusive as possible. Referral criteria include: 1) Being 18 years of age or older, 2) the
      ability to benefit from and participate in large psychotherapy groups (i.e., absence of
      active psychotic symptoms, ability to understand and read the class material, etc.), 3) not
      having mental health needs that would be better served by other community resources (e.g., a
      severe primary substance use disorder, intimate partner violence, etc.), and 4) not being at
      immediate risk of harming self or others (i.e., patient is safe to return home and to attend
      an appointment 1-2 weeks after the walk-in visit). Referrals are reviewed for appropriateness
      by the UFITT team and patients are subsequently invited to attend an information session in
      order to learn about the follow-up mental health services available. The majority of patients
      who attend an information session choose to be enrolled in one of the two available
      psychotherapy classes at the CRC. It is this subpopulation of patients who will be recruited
      for the proposed study, and we aim to recruit approximately 250 participants. Each
      participant will receive a $5 Tim Hortons Gift Card as a token of appreciation for their
      time.

      Consent Procedure: Prior to the start of the UFITT information session, the two study
      coordinators will describe the study to patients, and will inform them that research
      assistants will be available after patient appointments to meet with those who are interested
      in participating. Study procedures will be explained in more detail and written informed
      consent will be obtained following the information session appointment. Participants will
      additionally be asked if they would be willing to be contacted in the future. Patients who do
      not consent to participate in the study will receive usual care and follow-up as per UFITT
      guidelines.

      Study Design and Procedures: The proposed study will collect a prospective cohort of patients
      participating in the psychotherapy classes and will employ a pre-post design.

      UFITT patients currently complete a package of widely used, validated measures at the
      information session in paper and pencil format that assess symptoms in a number of mental
      health domains. This package of measures will serve as the baseline assessment in the
      proposed study. Immediately following the information session, patients meet briefly with a
      CRC staff member to discuss follow-up services and to receive recommendations related to
      which UFITT psychotherapy class is most likely to benefit them based on their questionnaire
      scores. Patients choosing to participate in either of the psychotherapy classes are typically
      provided with an appointment to a class within one week of their information session date.
      Patients are encouraged to attend psychotherapy classes weekly and at the completion of their
      last class, are re-administered a subset of the same outcome measures. In the development of
      the prospective cohort, the investigators will additionally administer the primary outcome
      measure, the Beck Scale for Suicidal Ideation (Beck & Steer, 1991), to all consenting study
      participants, which represents a validated and comprehensive assessment of suicidal thinking.
      In order to understand changes in suicidal ideation among study participants who both
      complete and 'drop out' from the classes, research assistants will contact those participants
      who stop attending classes in order to re-administer the measures by telephone. The data
      collection period will be approximately ten months.

      Intervention: Study participants will take part in one of two psychotherapy classes currently
      ongoing at the CRC. CBTm is a four session (90 minutes per session) introduction to cognitive
      behavioral skills for managing symptoms of anxiety and depression. The content includes an
      introduction to mindfulness, challenging maladaptive thoughts, behavioral activation,
      exposure, managing anger, problem-solving and goal-setting strategies, sleep hygiene, and
      healthy living guidelines. Managing Difficult Emotions is based on DBT, an intervention
      developed by Dr. Marsha Linehan (2014). It is an eight session (90 minutes per session)
      introduction to selected DBT skills related to mindfulness, emotion regulation, distress
      tolerance, and interpersonal effectiveness. Although both of these classes have been
      developed to target transdiagnostic psychological distress, several examples related to
      suicidal ideation and behavior will be used when teaching the skills. Classes are delivered
      in PowerPoint format, and class sizes typically range from 10 to 25 patients. Sessions have
      been developed to stand alone, and patients can join either class at any session. Patient
      participation is encouraged but not required.

      Analytic Plan: Data from the hard copy measures will be entered into an electronic database
      and statistical analyses will be conducted using SPSS v.22. A comprehensive
      intention-to-treat analysis will examine change in suicidal ideation - the primary outcome -
      as assessed by the Beck Scale for Suicidal Ideation. These analyses will include all study
      participants for whom pre-post scores can be obtained, including non-completers of the
      classes. Type of class (MDE vs. CBTm) and number of sessions attended will additionally be
      evaluated as predictors of decreases in suicidal ideation. A parallel analysis will be used
      to examine the effectiveness of class participation in reducing the secondary outcome
      measures, namely depression, anxiety, general distress, and emotion dysregulation symptoms
      from the baseline assessment to the last class completed.

      Sociodemographic factors (i.e., sex, age, marital status, employment status, level of
      education), nature of presenting problem at walk-in (e.g., increase in suicidal
      ideation/behavior, onset of psychosocial stressors, exacerbated trauma-related symptoms,
      depression/anxiety), and baseline symptoms of depression, anxiety, distress, and emotion
      dysregulation will be examined as predictors of suicidal ideation at follow-up using linear
      regression analysis. This analysis will identify the profile of patients who have benefitted
      the most and the least from psychotherapy classes, and will include both class completers and
      non-completers. The type and number of classes attended will also be examined in relation to
      suicidal ideation.
    
  