
    
      Diagnostic criteria for the cause of ascites - two independent cardiologists and two
      hepatologists will interview and examine the enrolled patients and review the clinical
      records, laboratory and imaging findings to adjudicate the correct final cause of the
      ascites. They will have access to all exams that patients undergo, including results of
      biopsies, laboratory tests, chest radiography, Doppler ultrasound, computerized tomography,
      magnetic resonance imaging, echocardiography and cardiac catheterism. Liver cirrhosis
      diagnosis will be biopsy proven or established on clinical basis in patients with known
      etiology of liver disease, peripheral signs of chronic liver disease, esophageal varices at
      endoscopy and a compatible imaging method. Heart failure will be diagnosed in patients
      fulfilling Framingham and/or Boston criteria and by rest echocardiography. Other causes of
      ascites will be diagnosed by appropriate laboratory and imaging tests and by histology when
      appropriate.

      SAAG, ascitic fluid protein concentration and type-B Natriuretic Peptide - will be assessed
      in all patients. BNP measurements will be carried out according to the instructions of the
      manufacturer in fresh samples (ADVIA Centaur BNP Siemens Inc, San Diego, CA, USA). This assay
      is a fully automated two-site sandwich immunoassay based on chemiluminescent technology,
      standardized with synthetic purified protein preparation of human BNP (aminoacid 77 to 108),
      for quantitative BNP within the range of <2.0 to 5,000 pg/ml. The BNP assay is reliable in
      presence of increased values of several biochemical parameters usually found in patients with
      decompensated cirrhosis. No interference in measurement has been reported from urea up to 200
      mg/dL, creatinine up to 2.5 mg/dL, unconjugated bilirubin up to 25 mg/dL, conjugated
      bilirubin up to 25 mg/dL, triglycerides up to 800 mg/dL, cholesterol up to 1000 mg/dL and
      from commonly used pharmaceutical drugs. For testing in whole blood, a 4 ml sample will be
      collected in an EDTA containing tube. A 10 ml of ascitic fluid will be collected at the same
      time by paracentesis before infusion of albumin or volume overload. Laboratory staff will be
      unaware of both the clinical diagnosis and routine laboratory results.

      Echocardiography - will performed at rest in all patients for assessing the following
      parameters: ejection fraction, left atrium diameter, systolic and diastolic left ventricle
      diameter and diastolic dysfunction.

      Base-line demographical,past medical history and laboratory test results of all patients will
      be recorded.
    
  