
    
      Interventions:

      Preoperative

        -  Full history, where demographic characteristics will be reported and examination to
           detect the size and mobility of uterus.

        -  Informed consent will be taken from patients.

        -  Trans-vaginal U/S to assess number, size, and types of myomas.

        -  Preoperative full labs (Hemoglobin, hematocrit, INR, liver enzymes and kidney functions)

      Intra Operative

        -  Preoperative antibiotics will be given before the beginning of the operation. The
           operations will be performed as standard through a midline or Pfannenstiel incision by
           the same consultant gynecologist to ensure consistency of study procedures. All patients
           will receive general anesthesia. After the skin incision, the subcutaneous fat and
           abdominal fascia will be opened crosswise, and the rectus muscle will be opened on the
           midline. The parietal peritoneum will be opened longitudinally to reach the pelvic
           cavity. Subsequently, a self-retaining retractor will be inserted, and intestine will be
           packed. The uterus will be inspected for the number, location, and shape of myomas.
           Other pelvic organs will be inspected for any associated pathology. When possible,
           uterine incisions will be performed on the anterior wall or fundus in order to reduce
           postoperative adhesions. The incision will be performed using monopolar diathermy.
           Intracapsular enucleation of myomas will be performed by gently dissecting between the
           myoma and the pseudo-capsule. The myoma will be gently enucleated out. Meticulous
           hemostasis will be secured by low-voltage coagulation of feeding vessels. Myoma bed will
           be closed by 1 or 2 layers of interrupted vicryl sutures (Vicryl 1-0 polyglactin 910;
           Egycryl, Taisier CO, Egypt). No mechanical tourniquet or local vasoocclusive drugs
           (e.g., vasopressin) will be used intraoperatively.

        -  The study will include patients scheduled for open abdominal myomectomy and will be
           divided into three equal groups.

        -  All the three groups will take a standard dose of 400 microgram of misoprostol rectally
           one hour before the operation.

      Postoperative

        -  Estimation of Hemoglobin 6 hrs postoperatively and next day morning.

        -  Monitor Vital Signs and need for blood transfusion.

        -  Send myomas for pathology.
    
  