
    
      Primary end point of the study is the variation in esophageal Pressure Time Product (PTPes)
      across the trials of HFNC at different flow rates (2and 3 l/kg/min) and CPAP by helmet.

      Study design

      Physiological crossover prospective study comparing three study trials (20 mins) delivered in
      computer generated random order:

      1- HFNC flow 2l/Kg; 2- HFNC flow 3l/Kg; 3- Helmet CPAP (fresh gas flow 35 l/min, CPAP 6
      cmH2O)

      Four 20 mins wash out period between trials are imposed to avoid the carry over effect one
      treatment on the following.

      Sample size calculation and statistical analysis

      The sample size was established to detect a difference at least of 30% in the primary end
      point, i.e. the PTP esophageal, with a Type 1 error of 0.05 and a desired power of 90%
      between HFNC trials compared with baseline value on oxygen mask (PTPes mean value 250 ± 65
      cmH2O/s with oxygen mask vs PTPes 173 ± 62 cmH2O/s with HFNC).

      The distribution data were determined using the Kolmogorov-Smirnov analysis. Normally
      distributed variables are expressed as mean (SD) while median and interquartile range are
      used to report non-normally distributed variables. Differences between variables across
      different treatment are tested by one-way ANOVA for repeated measures with post hoc
      Bonferroni comparison. Significance was taken as p < .05.

      Demographic data collection and patients monitoring

      At enrolment the following variable are collected: sex, age, weight, PRISM III, etiology of
      AHRF, comorbidities, hours before study, PICU and hospital outcome. All patients are
      monitored as follow: tcPO2, tcpCO2, SpO2, and EKG continuously; arterial blood pressure every
      15 min; COMFORT score.

      Experimental protocol.

      Patients are kept in semirecumbent position. Sedation, if needed, is provided according to
      PICU protocol (dexmedetomidine 0.5-0.7mcg/Kg/hour) to maintain a COMFORT score between 17 and
      26. The attending physician evaluated treatment failure or success during stabilization
      period and a PICU senior consultant not involved in the study was always present for
      monitoring and treating potential adverse events.

      Inspired Oxygen Fraction (FiO2). FiO2 is set to obtain a peripheral oxygen saturation > 94%
      and then kept constant during all the study for each devices.

      High Flow Nasal Cannula. In all patients, HFNC is delivered through specific pediatrics nasal
      prongs. FiO2 is chosen by the attending physician to target a peripheral saturation of 90-96%
      during oxygen facial mask breathing and kept constant during all phases. The set FiO2 during
      each phase is measured using a dedicated system connected to nasal cannulas.

      Helmet CPAP. Helmet CPAP is delivered by high fresh gas flow circuit with helmet. The
      pediatric helmet is made of transparent latex-free polyvinyl chloride and is secured to a
      soft collar that adheres to the infant's neck. One helmet port is connected to gas source and
      the other to an underwater CPAP valve. There are two safety systems: a pressure monitoring
      device with overpressure safety valve and an anti-asphyxia valve. High fresh-gas flow (.35 L/
      minute) was used to avoid CO2 rebreathing.

      Esophageal Pressure monitoring A nasogastric tube equipped with an esophageal balloon is
      advanced through the nose to reach the stomach and inflated with 1 ml air.

      The intragastric position is confirmed by the positive pressure deflections during
      spontaneous inspiration. The catheter is then withdrawn into the esophagus, as indicated by
      the appearance of cardiac artifacts and negative swings of pressure tracings during
      inspiration, and fixed. Waveforms of the esophageal pressure were recorded for 5 min at the
      end of each study phase and before starting the next one by a dedicated data acquisition
      system.

      Randomization. Concealed randomization is conducted centrally through a computer generated
      block-randomization schedule. A phone-call service is available h 24/7 for patients'
      assignments to related group. The attending physician is not involved in the study. Medical
      treatment for infants with acute bronchiolitis remains unchanged for the study purpose as per
      standard hospital protocol.

      Protocol interruption criteria. The experimental protocol will be interrupted in case of
      treatment failure and patient will be managed according to attending physician judgement
      (thus including an approach with non-invasive pressure support ventilation as intermediate
      step before endotracheal intubation). Criteria for endotracheal intubation includes:
      a-failure to maintain paO2>60mmHg with FiO2<0.6; b-clinical signs of exhaustion; c- need to
      protect airways and/or manage copious tracheal secretions; d-hemodynamic impairment.
    
  