
    
      Background of the study The respiratory rate (RR) is an important vital sign to be monitored
      in the emergency room, as it is a sensitive predictor of risk and critical illness . An
      increased RR is a sensitive and independent marker of increased mortality in patients with
      community acquired pneumonia and in unselected patients presenting to the emergency
      department (ED): This is why the RR is a component in many risk scores for prediction of
      adverse outcomes, such as the 'Confusion/Urea/Respiratory rate/Blood pressure/-Age 65 or
      older' (CURB-65) score, the Modified Early Warning Score (MEWS), Trauma Score, Revised Trauma
      Score, APACHE II (Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation) and PRISM (Paediatric Risk
      of Mortality ). Additionally, it is part of the Systemic Inflammatory Response Syndrome
      (SIRS) Sepsis-definition and definitions for weaning a patient from a ventilator (RSBI, Rapid
      Shallow Breathing Index, ). In some cases, measurement of the oxygen saturation is not
      sufficient as tachypnoea may not always have a connection to hypoxia . Hence, RR plays an
      important role in triage of patients presenting to the emergency room. Especially tachypnoea
      brings the need for more detailed monitoring and investigation. Tachypnea/Bradypnoea can be
      seen as a red flag and may indicate a big variety of diseases like heart failure, pneumonia,
      metabolic disturbances or pulmonary embolism. Recent studies could demonstrate that also
      trends of RR are reliable predictors of clinical outcome. Especially an increase in
      tachypnoea during hospitalisation is associated with high mortality A careful and exact
      measurement is essential. In emergency situations the RR is one component of the Emergency
      Severity Index (ESI) algorithm and a mandatory vital sign measured at decision point "D".
      However, its measurement is often omitted due to time constraints . Moreover documented
      pathologic RR in ER scenarios indicating hypoxia are often neglected leading to fatal events
      and contributing to deaths caused by medical errors.

      According to recommendations of the World Health Organization (WHO) the RR should be measured
      by counting the breaths over a period of 1 minute by counting how many times the chest rises.
      This should be done when the patient is at rest. This appears impractical due to time
      consumption and workload for nursing staff in an emergency department. Studies have shown
      that this fact is a main reason why RR is often not recorded and critical situations might be
      missed. A prospective study by Lovett et al. demonstrated that the measurement of RR by
      nursing staff and even by impedance plethysmography as a common used device have a low
      sensitivity in detecting brady- or tachypnoea. The vital sign measurements may also differ
      according to observer variability. The approach to use mobile devices for RR measurement has
      shown encouraging results to improve efficiency in comparison to traditional methods though
      the field of using mobile devices is still in an experimental stadium.

      The investigators aim to compare the results given by the camera-based measurements to the
      results given by capnography. The goal of the survey is to analyse the accuracy of
      measurements performed by the software.

      The investigators will recruit healthy volunteers without any history of pulmonary diseases
      for an analysis of RR monitoring. Upon agreement the investigators will measure the RR
      camera-based by a device and simultaneously count the RR by capnography as a reference
      method. The data will be collected through a standardised protocol and archived in an
      Access(R) database. Different settings (e.g. supine vs sitting) will be assessed. Results
      will be depicted in a Bland-Altmann plot. In a first step the investigators plan to do a
      feasibility study, after that, as a second step, they will continue to measure the RR in
      different positions and situations to simulate a situation similar to emergency conditions.
    
  