
    
      Self-management interventions have been successful in improving outcomes across a broad
      variety of chronic illnesses including arthritis, asthma, diabetes, and hypertension. Initial
      evidence of the effectiveness of self-management following limb loss is promising, but
      limited. Only one published trial to date has examined self-management for amputees. The
      Promoting Amputee Life Skills (PALS) project, conducted by members of the current study team,
      designed and implemented an 8-week group-based intervention to improve self-management
      following limb loss. The current proposal builds upon previous research that has demonstrated
      the efficacy of the PALS self-management intervention, but addresses important next
      questions:

        1. Is the PALS self-management intervention appropriate for Veterans, specifically
           considering the very high prevalence of diabetes and vascular disease?

        2. Can it be housed and delivered within a health care system as opposed to existing
           community support groups?

        3. Will the intervention be more effective for individuals who are new amputees?

        4. Will a shorter format that also incorporates an option for video teleconferencing retain
           the efficacy of the original PALS intervention?

      This study is a two-arm randomized controlled trial (RCT) to determine the efficacy of
      VETPALS. Study staff will screen and enroll Veterans with recent lower extremity limb loss
      within the last 6 months. Each participant will complete a baseline interview and then is
      sequentially placed into a cohort of 6-10 participants; each cohort will be randomized to the
      VETPALS group based self-management program (intervention) or an individual education support
      program (control). Once participants complete the randomized arm and follow-up assessments,
      they are free to participate in the other group. This ensures participants are offered both
      programs and are not deprived of a potentially valuable healthcare service.
    
  