
    
      Improving medication adherence is one of the greatest challenges in modern medicine. Despite
      decades of research on the topic, as many as half of patients with chronic diseases are not
      taking medications as recommended, and costs of nonadherence have been estimated at $290
      billion annually. One reason for this persistent finding could be that interventions rarely
      acknowledge medications within the larger context of the lived experience of illness. Drawing
      on hundreds of patient interviews, Corbin and Strauss showed that chronic illness is a
      fundamentally destabilizing influence that forces us to confront the potential limitations of
      our "new", chronically ill self. Accepting our illness may be a crucial step in embracing
      medication adherence and other self-management behaviors as ways to restore balance following
      this disruption. The Corbin and Strauss framework is not often used to develop and test
      interventions to improve medication adherence, and this is the central objective of this
      proposal.

      Medication adherence is especially critical in regions like rural Alabama, where residents
      have among the worst health outcomes in the US. Rates of cardiovascular mortality, diabetes
      and obesity are very high, but resources are scarce and the area's predominately black
      residents have deep-seated mistrust of the healthcare system (the region includes Tuskegee,
      site of the infamous syphilis study). This project was designed in collaboration with our
      community member partners and builds on a 5-year partnership of community-engaged research on
      diabetes peer coaching interventions and our experience with peer storytelling. The
      investigators will test the hypothesis that an intervention designed within the Corbin and
      Strauss framework can improve adherence and health outcomes compared to usual care. Our Aims
      are:

      Aim 1: With our community partners, using qualitative research methods, build on already
      developed culturally tailored education material to develop the medication adherence
      intervention. The intervention will consist of educational DVDs with integrated storytelling
      about how community members accepted their disease and overcame barriers to medication
      adherence, plus one-on-one telephonic peer coaching. Activities include conducting focus
      groups with patients; creating the DVDs and the coaching intervention protocol; training peer
      coaches; and pilot testing.

      Aim 2: Conduct a randomized controlled trial with 500 individuals with type 2 diabetes and
      medication nonadherence. The trial will compare the effect of usual care and the intervention
      on medication adherence and physiologic risk factors including A1c, blood pressure and low
      density lipoprotein cholesterol (primary outcomes), and quality of life and self-efficacy
      (secondary outcomes).

      This innovative approach would be a major shift in how patients are helped in under resourced
      areas living with chronic diseases commit to taking medications, improving health and
      eventually reducing health disparities.
    
  