
    
      The study will be a single-centre double-blinded, randomized, placebo controlled crossover
      study with Acetyl-L-carnitine or placebo. We plan to include 72 patients. The follow up
      duration will be 36 weeks. The study will be performed according to Good Clinical Practice,
      and relying partly on the International Headache Society Guidelines for controlled trials of
      drugs in migraine from 2012 and partly on the guidelines divulged by the IHS task force on
      trial guidelines for chronic migraine.

      After a screening visit including a neurological consultation, eligible patients will sign an
      informed consent declaration before they enter a 4 week run-in (baseline) period when they
      keep a headache diary. After 4 weeks they return for the second visit. If they have had 2 or
      more migraine attacks they are allowed to proceed in the study. If they have less than 2
      migraine attacks (required for proceeding in the study), they are allowed to extend the
      baseline period another 4 weeks. Those who then during the whole 8 week period have on
      average 2 or more migraine attacks per month are also allowed to proceed. Otherwise they are
      excluded from the study.

      Details of the treatment period The duration of each of the two treatment periods is 12
      weeks. During each period there will be one telephone contact at the start of each treatment
      period to remind patients to start with medicines, and one after 2 weeks to check compliance
      and side effects. In the second last week of every treatment period there will be a doctor
      and nurse visit with drug accounting and dispensing of new medicines for the next period. At
      this visit one will ensure that the patient has just enough medicines left to finish the
      period before the wash-out. As recommended in crossover studies, the participants enter a
      washout period of 4 weeks between the two treatment periods, to reduce the risk of carryover
      effect.

      Randomization Randomization will be generated using a computerized procedure. A randomization
      list containing 72 patient numbers is made before the start of the study, and the patient
      number is then indicated on a package with medicines for that patient. The study has a
      crossover design, and the two different treatment periods (active or placebo) can arise to
      two different treatment sequences (AP or PA). Patients are therefore randomized in blocks of
      4 where one of these two treatment sequences is assigned to each patient in random order.
      With 72 patients to be included, this means that 18 patients are randomized in each block. In
      each block, 50% patients have the treatment sequence AP, and 50% PA in a random order.
    
  