
    
      Overview of study layout

      The indicated prenatal visit weeks are approximate time points. The prenatal visit only needs
      to occur prior to the sample collection time point.

      Time point 1 (First interaction with patient). First trimester of pregnancy. Recruiting
      patients who have an Ob/Gyn appointment to start prenatal care. During this visit we will
      recruit women with confirmed pregnancy into the study. During the meeting with the Ob/Gyn,
      the study goals and layout of study will be explained to the patient. The patient will not be
      informed about the expected outcome of nocturnal light on uterine contractions and labor
      progression.

      The patient will be provided with the consent forms and given time to read and ask questions
      about the forms prior to signing. If the patient desires to read the consent form at home,
      and enroll later, that is also possible.

      After enrolling in the study, the patient will be given the below information to complete
      during week 11 of pregnancy in their home:

        1. Sleep, activity and saliva sample questionnaires (printout).

        2. Tubes and cooler to collect two saliva samples at home:

             1. Sample 1 is collected 0-3h after sunset

             2. Sample 2 is collected 0-3h after sunset in darkness

             3. Sample 3 is collected 0-3h after sunset with lights ON

        3. Note: Questionnaires are filled on the day of saliva collection. Patients will return
           the frozen saliva samples and questionnaires at their next in person Ob/Gyn visit or
           when they come to the Hoffmann laboratory in the third trimester.

      Time point 2. Week 20-22 of pregnancy, in person Ob/Gyn prenatal care visit.

      During visit with Ob/Gyn the patient will be given the below information to complete during
      week 20-22 of pregnancy in their home:

        1. Sleep, activity and saliva sample questionnaires (printout).

        2. Tubes and cooler to collect two saliva samples at home:

             1. Sample 1 is collected 0-3h after sunset

             2. Sample 2 is collected 0-3h after sunset in darkness

             3. Sample 3 is collected 0-3h after sunset with lights ON

        3. Note: Questionnaires are filled in the day of saliva collection. Patients will return
           the frozen saliva samples and questionnaires at their next in person Ob/Gyn visit or
           when they come to the Hoffmann laboratory in the third trimester.

      Time point 3. Week 28 of pregnancy-assigning patients into study groups. During the prenatal
      visit around week 28, the desired birth plan will be discussed with the patient. During this
      meeting, the patient will not know what group they are assigned, nor how we expect the light
      conditions to impact labor progression. The primary goal of this discussion is to determine
      if the patient is anticipating a planned C-section.

      The five study groups patients are assigned to are as follows:

      Group 1: Natural non-augmented labor with room lights ON. This is what is currently done in
      the hospital, and thus does not change any current medical practices.

      Group 2: Augmented labor with room lights ON. This group will be a subgroup of Group 1, as
      labor-augmentation cannot be planned for until the patient is in labor or labor needs to be
      augmented for medical reasons.

      Group 3: Natural non-augmented labor with reduced or red room lights. Group 4: Augmented
      labor with reduced or red room lights. This group will be a subgroup of Group 3, as augmented
      labor cannot be planned for until the patient is in labor or labor needs to be augmented for
      medical reasons.

      Group 5: C-section. Scheduled and emergency C-sections. Uterine samples will be collected in
      this group for ex vivo studies.

      Group assignments will be achieved through randomization as follows.

        1. Women anticipating a C-section are assigned to group 5.

        2. Women anticipating a vaginal birth are randomly assigned to Group 1 and Group 3. This
           will allow to have ½ women going through labor with lights ON, and ½ the women going
           through labor with reduced room lights.

      Note On a monthly basis, we will evaluate the number of women who have given birth in Groups
      1-5. Based on this we will readjust group assignments of women entering the study, to assure
      comparable group sizes in groups 1-5 to the greatest degree possible.

      Time point 4. Third trimester: Weeks 32-34 of pregnancy We will schedule 2 appointments
      during weeks 32-34 of pregnancy where the women are able to come to the Hoffmann laboratory
      at MSU. One appointment will take place around sunset and be of a duration of 2-3h, starting
      around 7-8PM. The second appointment will take place in the morning between 8AM and 12PM.
      This appointment will be of ~ 90 min.

      During each of these visits at the Hoffmann laboratory the study participants will:

        1. Be placed in the study room with a specific room light condition (bright white light or
           dim red light).

        2. Study participants will fill out the sleep, activity and saliva sample questionnaires.

        3. Study participants will have their uterine contractions measured for 60 min at the
           morning appointment and for 120-150 min at the evening appointment.

      For details of this visit see Annex 1 (last page of this document)

      Time point 5. Third trimester: Weeks 38-40 We will schedule 2 appointments during weeks 38-40
      of pregnancy where the women are able to come to the Hoffmann laboratory at MSU. One
      appointment will take place around sunset and be of a duration of 2-3h, starting around
      7-8PM. The second appointment will take place in the morning between 8AM and 12PM. This
      appointment will be of ~ 90 min.

      During each of these visits at the Hoffmann laboratory the study participants will:

        1. Be placed in the study room with a specific room light condition (bright white light or
           dim red light).

        2. Study participants will fill out the sleep, activity and saliva sample questionnaires.

        3. Study participants will have their uterine contractions measured for 60 min at the
           morning appointment and for 120-150 min at the evening appointment.

      For details of this visit see Annex 1 (last page of this document)

      Time point 6. Evaluate labor progression and duration in rooms with lights ON and reduced
      light.

      When the study participant is admitted to the hospital in labor, the following steps will be
      done:

        -  Room light will be adapted as indicated in patient chart, and room light-intensity
           measured.

        -  Continuously record uterine contractions.

        -  Collect saliva sample at admission, and every 2 h thereafter until 6h after birth.

      Additional steps for women having a C-section When a woman is scheduled to have a C-section
      (planned or emergency), Dr. Hoffmann is notified by phone or text to 858 344 8389 at the time
      of C-section scheduling. After delivery of the infant by C-section and removal of the
      placenta, a full-thickness myometrial sample is removed from the superior edge of the
      transverse uterine incision. The wedge-shaped sample, obtained by sharp dissection with a
      curved Mayo scissors, is approximately 1 cm wide and 5 cm long. The samples will immediately
      be placed in sterile containers and collected by a Hoffmann laboratory member for transport
      to MSU where they will be stored in the -80C freezer and used for uterine contraction
      analysis The myometrium sample is placed in a deidentified numbered tube and handed over to
      experimenter to allow processing. Dr. Hoffmann or a participating Hoffmann laboratory member
      will come to the hospital to collect the myometrium sample within 90 min after C-section
      completion.

      In home delivery In the scenario of home delivery, all data points prior to delivery will be
      included in the study. Home delivery will only impact the last study time point, as all data
      collections prior to delivery are the same for all the study groups.
    
  