
    
      Anemic patients from Mulago Hospital Complex who require fresh whole blood transfusion and
      with any of the following conditions will be considered for recruitment: cancer, general
      medical or surgical, obstetric hemorrhage, and/or sickle cell. Eligible patients will be
      randomized 1:1 to receive transfusions of Mirasol-treated FWB (n = 1,000) or standard issue
      FWB (n = 1,000) during the 10 week follow-up interval. The Ugandan Blood Transfusion Service
      collects and screens donor blood and will provide both Standard and Mirasol-treated blood for
      transfusion. Currently, all standard FWB is non-leukoreduced and tested by serology for human
      immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis B virus (HBV), and hepatitis C virus (HCV) and by
      rapid plasma regain (RPR) for syphilis in Uganda; any units that test positive are discarded.
      The intervention will treat standard FWB that has been screened for HIV, HBV, HCV, and
      syphilis with Mirasol PRT.

      The start of study treatment (Day 0) will be defined as the initiation of the first FWB
      transfusion. Recipient blood collected at pre-transfusion, Day 2, Day 7, Week 4, and Week 10
      will be compared with donor blood to evaluate for incidence of pre-defined TTIs: bacteria,
      HBV, HCV, hepatitis E virus (HEV), human herpesvirus-8 (HHV8), HIV, and malaria. Recipients
      will be evaluated for possible transfusion reactions at those timepoints, as well as 2 to 6
      hours after the first transfusion.

      The primary objective of the Uganda Mirasol Trial is to evaluate the efficacy of
      Mirasol-treated FWB to prevent transfusion transmission of emerging infectious diseases. The
      secondary objectives are to evaluate the impact of TTIs in Uganda and potential for Mirasol
      PRT, as well as to assess the feasibility and sustainability of implementing whole blood
      Mirasol pathogen reduction technology (PRT) in austere settings.
    
  