
    
      Inclusion criteria were considered: Patients with TKA indication, aged from 40 to 90 years,
      weight between 50 and 100 kg, body mass index between 18 - 36 and patients classified
      pre-operatory according to the American Anesthesia Association as ASA I or II.
      Non-cooperative patients, with cognitive incapacity to answer pain VAS, neuromuscular or
      peripheral neuropathies, chronically using opioid or who didn´t want to take part of the
      study were taken as exclusion criteria.

      The patients were separated in three groups at randomized by a computer program:

      Group A - control group - spinal anesthesia, Group B - femoral nerve block + procedure
      realized in group A and Group C - femoral and sciatic nerves block + procedure realized in
      group A.

      All the anesthetics procedures were realized by the same anesthetist. The standard anesthesia
      for the procedure was spinal anesthesia with injection of 12 to 15 mg of 0.5% isobaric
      bupivacaine. Patients of the control group (group A) were submitted to spinal anesthesia with
      0.5% isobaric bupivacaine, in isolation. Punctures in the femoral and popliteal areas were
      made to mask the femoral and sciatic block, respectively, with no infusion of any medication.
      The patients of the group B received, furthermore the standard anesthesia, the block of the
      femoral nerve guided by ultrasonography (Nemio 17 - Toshiba Systems Co. - Japan) and
      neurosimulation (Stimuplex HNS 12 - Braun - Germany) with 1 Hz stimulus frequency, 1.2 to 0.5
      mA energy. The technique used was femoral area puncture, at the level of the crural fold of
      skin, with a 0.5% (125mg) ropivacaine associated to 75 mcg of clonidine. For the patients of
      the group C, in addition to the femoral blocking, the anesthesia of the sciatic nerve at the
      top of the popliteal fossae was realized, also guided by ultrasonography (Nemio 17 - Toshiba
      Systems Co. - Japan) and neurosimulation (Stimuplex HNS 12 - Braun - Germany) with 1 Hz
      stimulus frequency, 1.2 to 0.5 mA energy. 0.5% ropivacaine was injected associated to 75mcg
      clonidine. As an adjuvant for analgesia, all the patients received analgesic and
      anti-inflammatory permanently in postoperatory, with availability of opioids for rescue if
      needed. The necessity of its use and eventual complications were registered until hospital
      discharge.

      The pain measurement was realized by the assistant author using a 10 points pain AVS (0,
      absence of pain, and 10 the worst imaginable pain) both ignoring which group the patient was
      part of. This measurement was realized during immediate pre-operatory, within 6, 12, 24, 48
      hours after surgery.

      Details of this study were approved by the Ethical Committee and written informed consent was
      obtained from each participant prior to the commencement of the study.
    
  