
    
      This is a study looking at the feasibility of conducting a larger definitive research trial
      looking at the effectiveness of high intensity interval training on lengthening time to
      recurrence of persistent atrial fibrillation in individuals who are scheduled for
      electro-cardioversion. Usual care for these participants is to go home and continue with
      their typical daily routine until their scheduled cardioversion. The investigators will test
      whether participating in 3-weeks of thrice-weekly high intensity interval training before
      electro-cardioversion can lengthen the time to recurrence of atrial fibrillation after
      electro-cardioversion in these individuals. Participants will be asked to come to the
      University of Ottawa Heart Institute for a baseline visit at which fitness (cycle ergometer),
      body composition (weight, height, waist circumference and percentage body fat), and habitual
      exercise levels will be measured. Participants will then be randomized to either the exercise
      group or the usual care group. Those randomized to the usual care group will go home for
      3-weeks and continue with their typical daily routine. Those randomized to the exercise group
      will return to the Heart Institute three times per week for 3-weeks to participate in a high
      intensity interval training cycle ergometer program prior to their electro-cardioversion. All
      participants will be asked to return at 3-weeks (and prior to their electro-cardioversion) to
      measure fitness (cycle ergometer), body composition (weight, height, waist circumference and
      percentage body fat), and habitual exercise levels. Following the electro-cardioversion, all
      participants will be asked to measure daily heart rate and rhythm using the AliveCor system
      which is compatible with their Smartphones/tablets/iPads, for up to 12-months or until they
      return to persistent atrial fibrillation. The entire study should last approximately
      24-months. Participants will be involved for a maximum of 52-weeks. The investigators are
      looking to recruit a total of 20 participants for the feasibility trial. The investigators
      hypothesize that recruitment rates, drop-out rates, and adherence to the intervention will
      support a larger definitive trial.
    
  