
    
      Mental health symptoms are common in new mothers. Despite the availability of effective
      screening and referral in the primary health system in Chile, very few women access treatment
      due to diverse barriers (i.e., long waiting lists and insufficient knowledge about postnatal
      depression and treatment). This highlights the importance of using a preventive approach.
      Currently in Chile there are no universal preventive interventions, although they are
      available internationally.

      Thus, this study seeks to assess if it's feasible and acceptable to offer an alternative
      intervention that can be delivered remotely by mobile phones, to support women in the early
      postpartum period by promoting confidence and reducing distress in first time mothers. By
      doing so, it will increase the number of available interventions to promote and prevent
      children´s early adverse experiences related to maternal mental health problems.

      This study accounts for the feasibility, acceptability and preliminary effectiveness of "What
      Were We Thinking" (WWWT) a psychoeducational intervention -delivered remotely via
      communication technologies- to prevent symptoms of postpartum depression and anxiety in new
      mothers. WWWT was developed in Australia and has been culturally adapted to be used in Chile.
      The m-health version of the Chilean adaptation of WWWT includes:

        1. Psychoeducational information for understanding and managing infant behavior and about
           parenting. Modules on understanding and managing infant behavior include information on:
           infant temperament, including such as differences in the reactivity, responsivity and
           regulation of young infants; amount and known and unknown reasons for infant crying;
           stimulation, over-stimulation and soothing; infant sleep needs and optimal sleep habits;
           the use of settling strategies to achieve these while supporting breastfeeding; and
           establishing sustainable routines of daily care: the feed, play, sleep routine. Modules
           on matters relating to parents include: gendered differences in the losses and gains of
           parenthood; differences in emotional needs and the potential for adverse reproductive
           events to have lasting psychological effects on women after the birth of a baby; and
           developing strategies to assist couples to address these in a non-confrontational
           manner. This information will be delivered through instant messaging services for mobile
           phones (i.e., Whatsapp) 3 times a week for four-week period. Each module will include a
           very brief video offering information regarding a specific topic, a proposed personal
           exercise and the invitation to assess the perceived usefulness of the information
           received. Some modules include links to external, complementary information from the
           Chilean Infancy Policy.

        2. Contact with the program trained facilitator. It will allow mothers to ask questions
           that arise from the topics addressed in the psychoeducational videos and share their
           personal experiences. The facilitator responses will focus on aiding the understanding
           and elaboration of the contents. This will be done through instant messaging service for
           mobile phones (i.e., Whatsapp). In the present study, the facilitator will be a mental
           health professional of the research team, that has been trained on the intervention
           model.

        3. Group virtual meeting. A virtual group meeting will take place with mothers and their
           partners (or significant others) and the program facilitator. The group meeting seeks to
           offer an instance were new mothers and fathers can share their experiences regarding
           their parenthood and the changes it has involved in their daily lives, as well as
           providing the opportunity for developing support networks among them.

      This pilot study will use a mixed design. The quantitative component will consist of a
      before-after design with control group including 90 adult mothers of child aged 6-8 weeks who
      receive health care in a primary health centers in Santiago. Mothers will be randomized into
      the experimental (EG) or control groups (CG) in a rate of 1:1. Mothers in the EG will receive
      the m-health version of WWWT intervention plus the usual treatment that primary health
      centers (TAU) provided to children. Participants in the CG will be subject to TAU. TAU for
      children under one year of age include routine health checks by health professionals (nurse
      or doctor), every month from 0 to 4 months of age, and at 6, 8 and 12 months of age. The
      objective of the routine health care check is to carry out a comprehensive evaluation of the
      child's development and growth, guide parents and caregivers regarding child development,
      health and upbringing of the child. Also, promoting exclusive breastfeeding, healthy
      mother/child bonding (by detecting relevant alterations in this area) and encouraging
      paternal participation in upbringing and care of the child. Finally, in the health check-ups
      at 2 and 6 months of age of the child, Edinburgh Postpartum Depression Scale is used for
      screening depressive symptoms in mothers. At risk cases are referred for mental health
      assessment and care. A waiting list procedure will allow the delivery of the intervention to
      control women once the data collection for the study has been completed.

      The participating mothers will be contacted in coordination with the health providers of two
      public primary health centers after the first newborn health check. All women who meet the
      inclusion criteria will be contacted by the research assistant to participate of the research
      project. Women who wish to participate will be randomly assigned to the EG or CG. Both groups
      will receive informed consent and will be assessed regarding sociodemographic
      characteristics, mother's symptoms of anxiety and depression, maternal self-efficacy and
      perceived social support. The participants in both groups will be assessed a week before the
      start of the intervention (baseline) and three months after its completion (follow-up). After
      the intervention is completed, the qualitative component of the study will be carried out to
      access of the users' acceptability and satisfaction. It considers 12 semi-structured
      interviews to members of the EG group. The maximum variation sampling strategy will be used
      according to the completion of the intervention. An open coding of Grounded Theory will be
      used to data analysis.

      The feasibility of m-health version of WWWT will be evaluated in terms of eligibility rates,
      recruitment rates and reasons for study refusals, feasibility to deliver the three components
      of the intervention, data attrition and follow-up rates by treatment condition. Their
      acceptability considers participant completion of the intervention rates, and a qualitative
      assessment of the users' acceptability and satisfaction. Quantitative indicators of
      feasibility and acceptability will be presented on frequency and/or percentage. Secondary
      outcomes will include: changes in maternal postnatal symptoms of depression and anxiety,
      change in parenting self-efficacy and perceived social support in both groups. Mixed-ANOVA
      analysis will be used to examine this variables differences between EG and CG whilst
      subjecting participants to repeated measures. Finally, differences in mother-infant quality
      of interaction between intervention and control group at the follow-up will be analyzed by
      independent t-test.
    
  