
    
      For large renal stone burdens and/or complex stones, Percutaneous Nephrolithotomy (PCNL) has
      become the mainstay for treatment, replacing open kidney stone surgery since it's
      introduction in 1976. However, PCNL is not without its complications, specifically
      infectious. The procedure carries up to 25% incidence of infectious complications with
      approximately 1% rate of severe sepsis even with completely sterile conditions. Therefore,
      the use of antibiotics becomes paramount, but to date there are no PNCL specific guidelines
      for the appropriate duration and class of antibiotics. This fact leaves the practicing
      urologists to their own subjective experiences to the guide them. In addition, in an age
      where there are increasing numbers of resistant microbes the judicious use of antibiotics is
      in even more paramount.

      The investigators of this project, purpose a randomized intention to treat prospective study
      to explore the duration and type of antibiotics in a larger population then previously
      studied. The investigators hypothesize that there will be no difference in complications
      between two groups: 1) 24 hours of perioperative antibiotics versus 2) Continued antibiotics
      until the removal of any external catheters. The investigators will model the antibiotics
      choices and duration after the 2013 American Urological Association, (AUA) Urologic Surgery
      Antimicrobial Prophylaxis recommendations, modified by our local antibiogram as necessary.
      The investigators' objective is to compare the clinical efficacy of a single-day protocol
      with a short-course protocol for PCNL. Our hope is to reduce the use of possibly unnecessary
      prolonged antibiotic use, reduce hospital costs and prevent the further propagation of
      resistant microbes.

      Antibiotic detail: cephalosporins or aminoglycoside + metronidazole or clindamycin and the
      alternative for allergies being aminoglycoside/ sulbactam or fluoroquinolone

      Looking at the same drugs and doses the variable is the timeframe of the medication
    
  