
    
      Screening Visit:

        -  Obtain signed Informed Consent document and HIPAA Authorization.

        -  Review past medical history in Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application
           (AHLTA) to verify the inclusion/exclusion criteria and including previous encounter,
           vital signs review, medication list, co-morbidities, demographics, problems list, prior
           obstetric history, and note any prior acupuncture received.

        -  Record: Date of birth, age, gender, race, ethnicity, last 4 of social security number,
           current email address.

      Randomization: Subjects will then be randomized into one of two groups by one of the Research
      Coordinators using a random number generator:

        -  Group 1: Standard of care only.

        -  Group 2: Standard of care plus Battlefield acupuncture at treatment sites Cingulate
           gyrus, thalamus, omega 2, shen-men, point zero in both ears (see figures 1-5). The 5
           needles will remain in each ear for up to 7 days or allowed to fall out on their own
           (the patient will be instructed not to remove the needles).

        -  Subject's ears will be cleansed with an alcohol swab

        -  Subjects will be given a handout of standard BFA Discharge Instructions including what
           an infection looks like and what to do in the event of an infection (see attached).

      Visit 1: Will occur after a minimum of 6 hours post vaginal birth (up until hospital
      discharge) to avoid disturbing maternal infant bonding or a minimum of 24 hours post
      caesarean section to avoid confounding with the anesthesia:

        -  Subject will be given treatment according to their randomization group.

        -  All subjects, regardless of randomization group, will be instructed to have no heavy
           meals, no excessive hot or cold foods, no heavy exercise or intercourse, and no alcohol
           for 6 hours.

        -  Satisfaction with post-partum pain management will be assessed with the following
           questions:

        -  On a scale of 0 to 10, how satisfied were you with your pain management after delivery?
           (dissatisfied 0 - 10 very satisfied)

        -  Would you use auricular acupuncture for future pain management? (Yes or no) (for those
           in the acupuncture group only)

        -  On a scale of 0-10, with 10 being the worst pain, what is your level of pain?

      In hospital data collection: Data will be collected each day until the patient has been
      discharged from the hospital. Subjects will be contacted either in person or via phone and
      the hospital stay will vary from patient to patient:

        -  We will review the subject's medical record and record RN Recorded Pain assessments,
           Delivery method (either Caesarean section or spontaneous vaginal delivery), Delivery
           complications (vaginal lacerations, use of episiotomy, operative vaginal delivery,
           shoulder dystocia, post-partum hemorrhage), Birth weight, Maternal Parity, and record
           what pain medications they are taking.

        -  We will ask subjects if they prefer to be contacted in-person or via telephone while in
           the hospital.

        -  Satisfaction with post-partum pain management will be assessed with the following
           questions:

        -  On a scale of 0 to 10, how satisfied were you with your pain management after delivery?
           (dissatisfied 0 - 10 very satisfied)

        -  Would you use auricular acupuncture for future pain management? (Yes or no) (for those
           in the acupuncture group only)

        -  On a scale of 0-10, with 10 being the worst pain, what is your level of pain?

        -  Are the needles still in place? If yes, how many in each ear?

      Post hospital discharge: Each day up until 10 days post Visit 1. Subjects will be contacted
      phone and the following information will be collected:

        -  Satisfaction with post-partum pain management will be assessed with the following
           questions:

        -  On a scale of 0 to 10, how satisfied were you with your pain management after delivery?
           (dissatisfied 0-10 very satisfied)

        -  Would you use auricular acupuncture for future pain management? (Yes or no) (for those
           in the acupuncture group only)

        -  On a scale of 0-10, with 10 being the worst pain, what is your level of pain? • We will
           record what pain medications they are taking including drug name, strength, and total
           doses since discharge from the hospital.
    
  