
    
      When children are scheduled to undergo an endoscopy, research assistants will contact the
      family to arrange for the Esophageal String Test (EST) to be performed within one week of the
      endoscopy. The string test involves swallowing a small capsule with a thin piece of string
      inside it. The string unravels as the capsule goes down into the stomach. The investigator
      would tape the end of the string to the child's cheek, leaving it there for one hour. At the
      end of the hour, the investigator would remove the string by gently pulling it out through
      the mouth. Prior to swallowing the EST, the patient will complete the PEESS form (Pediatric
      Eosinophilic Esophagitis Symptom Scores) to assess symptoms.

      The endoscopy and Endoscopic Reference System (EREFs) and EndoFLIP will be performed. The
      EndoFLIP is a slender probe covered by a smooth long balloon that is passed into the
      esophagus and slowly expanded with a salt solution. After standard of care endoscopic
      visualization, the FLIP, a 16 cm probe (Crospon) will be placed transorally and positioned 3
      cm distal to the lower esophageal sphincter. Esophageal cross sectional areas and intrabag
      pressure will be measured during stepwise distensions beginning with 5 mL and increasing to a
      maximum of 70mL or intrabag pressure of 50 mmHg is achieved, whichever comes first. FLIP is
      FDA-approved without age restriction and its use has been approved by our IRBs previously.
      Primary results will be reported as distensibility plateau (mm).

      Endoscopic severity: Endoscopic esophageal appearances will be scored using a validated EoE
      scoring system (EREFS). Five features of EoE will be scored: Edema (0-1), Rings (0-3)
      Exudates (0-2), Furrows (0-1), Stricture (0-1). Results will be reported as an inflammatory
      score (edema, exudates, furrows) and fibrostenotic score (rings, stricture). Functional
      Luminal Imaging Probe (FLIP):
    
  