
    
      The primary objective of CSP #595, "Respiratory Health and Deployment to Iraq and
      Afghanistan," is to assess the association of airborne exposures encountered during
      deployment with current measures of respiratory health among U.S. military Veterans who
      served in Iraq and Afghanistan.

      The purpose of the pilot study is to assess the feasibility and approach to conducting a
      large, multi-site Cooperative Studies Program (CSP) initiative to characterize the impact of
      deployment to Iraq and Afghanistan on the respiratory health of Veterans. The investigators
      will (a) determine the most efficient and feasible method for recruitment; (b) understand
      demographic, health-related, and military service-related factors influencing participation
      so that potential biases can be identified; and (c) demonstrate that the proposed individual
      exposure reconstruction techniques based on deployment history are feasible.

      Three aims are proposed: Aim 1: Using the Department of Defense (DoD) Defense Manpower Data
      Center (DMDC) master personnel roster, identify a representative sample of deployed Veterans
      who have served in Iraq and Afghanistan as well as a sample of non-deployed Veterans;
      identify the optimal methods for recruitment of participants to Phase 1 of data collection
      (mailed survey or telephone interview on self-reported health and military service history)
      and assess the willingness of Veterans to visit a nearby Veterans Health Administration (VHA)
      medical center to participate in Phase 2 in-person data collection, which includes more
      extensive self-reported health information, lifetime exposure ascertainment, and assessment
      of pulmonary function. Aim 2: Assess the Phase 2 participation rate of Veterans using VA
      Boston Healthcare System as a pilot study site. Aim 3: Using publically available exposure
      data and data from the DoD personnel file, demonstrate that the proposed individual exposure
      reconstruction techniques are feasible.

      The study is organized by the CSP Epidemiology Center program with the Seattle Epidemiologic
      Research and Information Center serving as the CSP coordinating center. The 2 participating
      sites are at the VA Boston Healthcare System and Durham VA Medical Center. The pilot study
      will provide information that will allow the planning of a national, large-scale health study
      to assess the residual effects of exposure to high levels of particulate matter while
      deployed. This will help inform VA health policy for Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans.
    
  