
    
      Patients One hundred one healthy patients whose ILTM were extracted for various reasons in
      Tokat Gaziosmanpaşa University, Faculty of Dentistry, Department of Oral and Maxillofacial
      Surgery were included in the study. All participants included in the study signed an informed
      consent form. The study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki, and the
      protocol was approved by Tokat Gaziosmanpaşa University Clinical Research Ethics Committee
      for the study (Project number: 19-KAEK-081).

      The patients' panoramic radiographs were examined, and the impacted teeth were divided into
      four groups as vertical, horizontal, mesioangular, and distoangular according to their
      angular positions. The radiographically found that patients with a follicular width of less
      than 2.5 mm were included in the study. The follicular tissues were also excised after tooth
      extraction. Soft tissue samples taken during surgical removal of ILTM were evaluated in the
      department of pathology.

      Histopathological evaluation The excision materials obtained for the study were subjected to
      routine tissue follow-up procedures in Tokat Gaziosmanpaşa University, Faculty of Medicine,
      Pathology Department. The samples were fixed in 10% formalin solution for 24 hours for light
      microscope examination and blocked using the routine paraffin blocking method. The
      preparations were prepared by obtaining sections with microtome from the blocks. These
      preparations were stained with Hematoxylin Eosin and evaluated under a light microscope. In
      the histopathological examination, squamous epithelium, keratinization, odontogenic
      epithelial residue, and fibrosis were evaluated as either present or absent, and inflammation
      was scored as 0-absent, 1-mild, 2-moderate, or 3-severe. During the microscopic evaluation of
      follicular tissues, soft tissue samples with stratified squamous epithelium were identified
      as cystic.

      The relationship between histopathological changes observed in the radiographically normal
      dental follicles and gender and the teeth' angular positions was statistically evaluated.
    
  