
    
      This is an open-label study (patients will know the names of the study drugs they receive),
      randomized (patients will be assigned 1 of 2 treatment sequences by chance) that is designed
      to examine the pharmacokinetics (blood levels) and to assess survival and safety of
      trabectedin when coadministered with rifampin in patients with advanced malignancies. Study
      drugs include trabectedin and rifampin. Trabectedin is a drug being developed to treat
      patients with cancer that will be administered intravenously (i.v.) through a catheter (tube)
      into a central vein over a period of 3 hours once every 28 days with and without rifampin.
      Rifampin is an antibiotic that may interfere with the action of trabectedin that will be
      taken orally (by mouth) as capsules. In addition, dexamethasone, a drug used to prevent
      nausea and vomiting in chemotherapy patients that may have protective effects on the liver,
      will be administered to patients before the administration of trabectedin. In the study, 3
      patients will initially be randomized sequentially to Treatment Sequence 1 or Treatment
      Sequence 2 to evaluate safety. If the safety and pharmacokinetic data collected from these 3
      patients is deemed acceptable, additional patients will be randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      sequences. Patients who complete the treatment phase of the study or who are discontinued due
      to rifampin toxicity, and who in the opinion of the investigator would derive an overall
      clinical benefit from further treatment with trabectedin, will have the opportunity to
      continue treatment with trabectedin in the optional extension phase. The dose and schedule of
      trabectedin may be modified by the treating physician in the optional extension phase to be
      more appropriate for the type of malignancy being treated. Patients will receive 20 mg of
      i.v. dexamethasone (or its equivalent) prior to trabectedin administration in all cycles.
      Patients randomized to Sequence 1 will receive rifampin 600mg 1X daily(6 doses)+trabectedin
      1.3 mg/m2 i.v. followed 28 days later by trabectedin 1.3 mg/m2 i.v. Patients randomized to
      Sequence 2 will receive trabectedin 1.3 mg/m2 i.v. followed 28 days later by rifampin 600mg
      1X daily(6 doses)+trabectedin 1.3mg/m2 i.v. Dexamethasone 20 mg i.v., or equivalent will be
      administered 30 minutes prior to trabectedin administration.
    
  