
    
      This clinical trial will evaluate the efficacy of a brief Internet-based cognitive-behavioral
      intervention for the treatment of impairing dental anxiety among those seeking dental care at
      the clinics of a university dental school. The primary objective of human subjects activities
      described in this protocol is to evaluate the efficacy of the Internet-based intervention for
      dental anxiety among patients presenting to the participating clinic(s). To achieve this
      overall objective, 2 primary objectives and 2 secondary objectives have been proposed:

      Primary Objective 1-Therapy Aides: To compare the efficacy of the intervention as
      administered by personnel with training and experience in cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT)
      to the efficacy of the intervention as administered by dental staff who have undergone a
      brief but specific training in the administration of the intervention. Efficacy will be
      indexed by measures of dental anxiety and fear completed at 1-month and 3-month follow-up
      assessments.

      Primary Objective 2-Intervention Efficacy: To compare the efficacy of the intervention,
      administered by either type of therapy aide (CBT personnel or dental staff), to an active
      control condition. Efficacy will be indexed by measures of dental anxiety and fear completed
      at 1-month and 3-month follow-up assessments.

      Secondary Objective 1-Tests of Moderators: To examine whether baseline levels of distress
      tolerance and pain sensitivity moderate the efficacy of the dental anxiety intervention,
      regardless of therapy aide, in comparison to an active control condition.

      Secondary Objective 2-Other Intervention Effects: To explore effects of the intervention
      beyond primary efficacy, including attendance at recall visits in the 12 months after the
      intervention; pain intensity; avoidance due to fear of dental procedures; and client
      satisfaction.

      Patients (N=450) between the ages of 18 and 75 attending the Temple University Kornberg
      School of Dentistry (TUKSoD) dental clinics and reporting high dental anxiety that causes at
      least mild impairment will be recruited and consented. To obtain the sample, the
      investigators will screen all patients who present to the Faculty Practice Clinic (FPC) of
      TUKSoD (as well as the Graduate Clinics of TUKSoD [Endodontology, Periodontology, Advanced
      Education General Dentistry], if necessary). Total participation time for each patient is
      approximately 4 months but could be slightly longer pending the interval between
      screening/baseline and the scheduled date of the dental anxiety intervention/dental
      appointment.
    
  