
    
      Ongoing, observational, multicenter, records review of patients receiving the ABIOMED, Inc.
      hemodynamic support device(s). To collect in-hospital data, a waiver of consent and
      authorization will be requested to avoid significant biases in data reporting due to the
      extremely high mortality. To collect the post-discharge data on subjects who survive the
      index hospitalization, an informed consent will be obtained from those subjects. Data will be
      collected through the review of existing medical records and subject telephone interview.
      Clinical follow-up as an office visit is not required for this study protocol. However,
      clinical follow-up and event-driven visits (e.g. re-hospitalizations) may occur as clinically
      warranted. At each follow-up time point, a telephone call to the subject will be attempted to
      obtain updated medical history and self-assessed cardiac function. In addition to the
      telephone call, the subject's medical records at the study site will be reviewed for
      cardiac-related clinic visits and/or cardiac-related re-hospitalization, including
      echocardiographic imaging. All data collected for this study will be reported on study
      specific electronic Case Report Forms (eCRFs) and entered into a controlled 21CFRPart11
      compliant Electronic Data Capture (EDC) System by the designee at the participating site.
      Monitoring of the study data will be performed according to the study monitoring plan.
      Monitoring may be performed on-site or remotely and will not be conducted by anyone involved
      in data collection. A Clinical Events Committee (CEC) may be formed by the Sponsor. If
      convened, the CEC, an independent adjudication body composed of cardiologists and cardiac
      surgeons will adjudicate whether the site-reported adverse events and/or MACCE meet the study
      definitions for these events, and the relatedness of the events to the procedure and the
      device. A Steering Committee composed of internationally recognized investigators and experts
      in the field of interventional cardiology, cardiovascular surgery, cardiac electrophysiology,
      heart failure and mechanical circulatory support was established to provide technical and
      scientific oversight of the study.
    
  