
    
      The submission database was validated for data reported through the data cutoff date for the
      submission database lock (SDBL). The SDBL data cutoff was 17 July 2015 for all participants
      except for 2 in the youngest age group, for whom the SDBL data cutoff occurred on 08 August
      2015. The data cutoff date for SDBL corresponds to the primary completion date for the study.
      The SDBL occurred on 31 August 2015.

      The study was stopped following SDBL and review of the topline information indicated that the
      primary and secondary efficacy endpoints were not met. Subsequently, the Sponsor requested
      that participants discontinue study drug immediately and that discontinuation visits for all
      active study participants be conducted as soon as feasible.

      After the data cutoff date for SDBL, the Sponsor continued to collect safety data through the
      final participants contact; some additional efficacy data were collected through the final
      visit. The last patient visit (LPV) occurred on 17 December 2015, which corresponds to the
      study completion date and led to the planned supplemental database lock (PSDBL) on 22 January
      2016. This supplemental data base was originally designed to capture additional blinded and
      randomized information to enhance safety data for labeling should the study have been
      positive.

      The safety information contained in this record reflects the entire safety information and
      reflects the information from the supplemental data base lock in January of 2016. The
      efficacy information contained in this record reflects the information collected through
      primary completion date in the submission database. Primary analyses of the major efficacy
      objectives were repeated using the entire double-blind period data from the PSDBL and did not
      change the original conclusions and were consistent with the results from the original
      efficacy analyses included in the SDBL.
    
  