
    
      This is a first-in-human, prospective, non-randomized, single arm study to confirm the
      efficacy and safety of the Talon Surgical Rook® Epicardial Access Kit to achieve guidewire
      access to the pericardial space. Patients who are clinically indicated to undergo a procedure
      that requires percutaneous access to the normal, non-distended, pericardial space will be
      considered for enrollment into this clinical trial. This may include, but is not limited to,
      patients who require pericardial access for epicardial ablation procedure or for pigtail
      catheter placement during pacemaker lead extraction. The study population will consist of
      both male and female patients of at least 18 years of age. In addition, eligible patients
      will have a life expectancy of at least 6 months based on a physician's assessment of the
      patient's medical condition. Patients who meet all inclusion and non-exclusion criteria, who
      are willing to comply with study follow-up requirements, and for whom documented informed
      consent is obtained, will be eligible for enrollment in the study. Enrollment occurs when the
      device enters the body.

      Patients who undergo attempted use of a study device (patient leaves procedure room with
      device having entered the body at some point during the procedure), regardless of whether or
      not the device was successfully used for pericardial access, will be followed through
      discharge or up to 4 days post procedure, whichever comes first.

      The study will include a minimum of 10 patients and up to 30 patients with the study devices
      used for pericardial access. Multiple study site may be utilized. The duration of
      participation for each enrolled patient who utilizes a study device for pericardial access
      will be through hospital discharge, or up to 4 days post procedure, whichever comes first.

      A study physician will utilize the Rook® Epicardial Access Kit to gain access to the
      pericardial space. The physician will follow the patient through hospital discharge, or up to
      4 days post procedure, whichever comes first, for adverse events, and other device or
      procedure related observations. The study coordinator or designated study personnel at the
      Principle Investigator's office will be responsible for collecting data from the procedure
      and hospital stay which will be necessary for completion of case report form for the index
      procedure and subsequent follow up.
    
  