
    
      Multiple diseases affect the liver's performance, including hepatitis' B and C viruses.
      Hepatitis infects the liver; ultimately leading to cirrhosis associated with complications
      (e.g. bleeding and death), termed decompensated cirrhosis. Hepatitis induced decompensated
      liver disease is likely to improve upon eradication of the virus as will liver function.

      Recently, Hepatitis C has seen new, more efficacious therapies, allowing functional outcomes
      to be evaluated following viral clearance. It has been shown this treatment regime is
      effective in eliminating the virus in 70% of patients but functional improvement to be 40%
      with the rest stagnating or becoming worse. These patients may have benefited from liver
      transplantation initially, followed by viral eradication therapy.

      Treatment of the Hepatitis B virus is to stop more copies to be produced within cells. This
      on the most part is successful and the liver recovers. However, after 5 years of treatment
      26% of people do not recover sufficiently and the ability to identify these early is
      important to their future management.

      Non-intrusive dynamic liver testing (DLT) may allow us to predict the functionality of the
      liver post treatment and may guide us in adequate management strategies. Indocyanine green
      (ICG) is a dye solely excreted by the liver into bile and used to measure its dynamic
      function. Transient elastography is similar to ultrasound and measures the degree of fibrosis
      within the liver.

      The investigators hypothesise the use of non-intrusive dynamic liver testing pre-treatment,
      will allow us to delineate patients early, who would benefit from the most intensive
      treatments (e.g. transplant), and spare those with less severe disease the risks and
      potential side effects.

      The investigators will perform a study pre and post-treatment for DLT. These will be
      amalgamated with currently-used scoring systems, in a multivariate analysis, to ascertain the
      values and thus best-treatment option for patients.
    
  