
    
      Objective: The Young Hearts Strong Starts Study was designed to test strategies to facilitate
      adoption of the Integrated Guidelines for Cardiovascular Health and Risk Reduction in
      Children and Adolescents among pediatric and family medicine providers. The study compares
      quality measures based on the guidelines for two dissemination strategies: a multi-faceted,
      practice-directed intervention or standard dissemination.

      Methods: Two primary care research networks recruited practices and provided support for the
      intervention and outcome evaluations. Individual practices were randomly assigned to either
      the intervention or control groups using a cluster randomized design based on network
      affiliation, number of clinicians per practice, urban vs. nonurban location, and practice
      type. In this design, the units of observation are individual children because outcomes are
      abstracted from medical records for individual patients. The units of randomization are
      physician practices. This results in a multilevel design in which patients are nested within
      practices. Implementation The intervention practices receive toolkits, including guideline
      summaries and slides, a patient and family behavior change workbook, and a clinical decision
      support tool. Guideline implementation was promoted through an introductory academic
      detailing session and the use of an ongoing e-learning group. The intervention strategy was
      further enhanced by aligning this project with the American Board of Pediatrics quality
      improvement Maintenance of Certification (MOC) requirements and offers voluntary MOC
      participation to participants. MOC participation includes the creation of a practice aims
      statement, monthly physician self-abstraction to track progress throughout the intervention,
      and participation in webinar presentations and sharing of best practices.
    
  