
    
      Older African American (AA) women have the highest prevalence of both obesity and frailty. In
      academic, expert-led interventions, obese, frail, older individuals both lost weight and
      improved their physical function. However, because of high personnel costs and nonexistent
      nationwide infrastructure, large-scale implementation of these interventions is impractical.
      The long-term goals are to eliminate the health disparities of obesity and frailty in older
      AA women. This proposal's overall objective is to determine the effects of a low-cost,
      community-based, peer-led weight loss program with a national infrastructure on obesity,
      physical function, and healthcare utilization in older AA women. To treat obesity and frailty
      in older AA women, it is critical to test a weight loss intervention that 1) has preliminary
      evidence of benefit; 2) is acceptable to older AA women; 3) is affordable; and 4) can be
      broadly disseminated. Take Off Pounds Sensibly (TOPS) is a national, nonprofit,
      community-based, peer-led weight loss program that meets these criteria. First, the
      applicant's retrospective database analyses of TOPS showed two important results: 1)
      Participants who renew their annual membership lose and maintain significant weight loss
      (SWL) for up to 7 years; and 2) Compared to their younger counterparts, older women are more
      likely to achieve SWL. Second, the applicant started three TOPS chapters for older AA women
      in a successful pilot study. Though the study ended in 2012, one of the chapters is still
      active almost 6 years later. Third, TOPS is affordable; it only costs $92 annually. Finally,
      TOPS has a nationwide infrastructure with chapters in all 50 states. Since obese, frail,
      older individuals in academic, expert-led weight loss interventions can improve their
      physical function, the central hypothesis is that a low cost, community-based, peer-led
      weight loss program with a national infrastructure can provide SWL, improved physical
      function, and lower healthcare utilization for AA women, an underserved, vulnerable
      population. The rationale for the proposed research is that TOPS and academic, expert-led
      weight loss interventions share components critical to successful weight loss; therefore,
      TOPS can deliver similar outcomes. The central hypothesis will be tested by pursuing the
      following aims in obese, frail, older AA women: Determine the effect of TOPS on 1) weight
      change and cardiovascular disease risk factors; 2) physical function and quality of life; and
      3) healthcare utilization. This project is innovative because it uses a "community to
      academia" approach to treat the health disparities; our study population focuses on older AA
      women with decreased physical function; our outcomes focus on weight, physical function, and
      healthcare utilization; and our unique study settings. The proposed research is significant
      because determining the real-world effectiveness of the TOPS program and its impact on
      weight, physical function, and healthcare utilization in AA women can have a widespread
      impact on the older population at large. Thus, it has the potential to reduce adverse
      geriatric outcomes among all older individuals.
    
  