
    
      The current study's objective is to determine the optimum time to measure intraoperative SPI,
      which correlates better with postoperative pain.

      Methods:

      The study will be performed at Fayoum university hospital after the local institutional
      ethics committee and local institutional review board's approval. The study design will be a
      prospective observational study.A total of 99 patients scheduled for elective abdominal
      hysterectomy under general anesthesia and their age range from 18-65 will be included in this
      trial.

      Exclusion criteria included; an age <18 years, significant dysrhythmia like AF or
      atrioventricular block more than1st degree, patient with a pacemaker,treatment with
      vasoactive medications, and any intraoperative t reatment with clonidine, beta-receptor
      agonists or antagonists, or anyother drug that can affect the sympathovagal balance.patients
      receiving neuraxial anesthesia will also be excluded.

      Anesthesia and pain management:

      All patients will fast 6 hours for solid food and 2 hours for clear fluids before the
      operation. After arriving the operating room, standard monitoring (Pulse oximetry,
      Noninvasive blood pressure, and Electrocardiogram)will be applied and continued all over the
      operation. An 18G peripheral cannula will be inserted.All patients will be pre-oxygenated
      with 100% O2 and premedicated with 0.03 mg/kg IV midazolam and10 mg metoclopramide.
      Intravenous induction of anesthesia will be performed using2mg/kg propofol, l-2µgm/kg
      fentanyl and0.5mg/kg atracurium. All patients will receive 1gm paracetamol IV as
      intraoperative supplementary analgesia just after the induction. An endotracheal tube will be
      inserted for all patients. Mechanical ventilation will be adjusted as volume controlled
      ventilation with 5cmH2oaiming to maintain end-tidalCo2 pressure of 30 to 40 mmHg by a mixture
      of O2with fiO20.5and air. Anesthesia will be maintained with isoflurane. SPI will be recorded
      5 min after skin incision and 10 min before recovery. Using anesthesia machine( carestatation
      650 l GE.3.4.2019) After recovery,Upon ability of communication, all patients will be asked
      to quantify their level of pain on a 0 - 10 point numeric rating scale (NRS) with (0= no
      pain, 1-3 mild, 4-5 moderate and 6-10 severe) three scores will be obtained with 5 minutes
      intervals and the highest pain score of the three will be recorded for further analysis
      (without affection of the routine pain management).

      All patients will be transferred to the obstetrics ward when they reach a modified Aldrete
      score ≥9. During the first 24 hours, all patients will receive IV paracetamol 1 g every 8
      hours for postoperative analgesia according to the obstetric department protocol. In addition
      to intravenous tramadol through PCA

      (concentration of 4 mg/ml) with 20 mg dose, 10 minutes lockout interval, and one hour limit
      of 50 mg.

      Measured parameters:

      SPI at 5 minutes after skin incision and 10 minutes before recovery, the highest pain score
      (NRS) in the PACU,total opioid consumption during the first 24 hours, Nausea and vomiting
      (will be assessed on a scale: 0 = no symptoms, 1 = only nausea, 2 = nausea and/vomiting),
      Respiratory depression (will be defined as respiratory rate lower than 10), Sedation (will be
      assessed using a sedation score where 0 = awake and alert, 1 = quietly awake, 2 = asleep but
      easily arousable, 3=deep sleep, responding to a painful stimulus) All these data will be
      collected by a separate anesthesiologist who will be blinded with the study.

      The primary outcome is to determine which SPI measurement is more correlated with
      postoperative pain. The secondary outcomes is to evaluate the correlation between the SPI
      measurements and opioid consumption in the first postoperative 24 hours and to define the
      cut-off value of SPI measurements
    
  