
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the safety of a repeat course of interleukin-12-primed activated T cells
           (12ATC) in combination with fluorouracil, sargramostim (GM-CSF), and interferon alfa-2b
           in patients with metastatic renal cell or colorectal carcinoma.

        -  Determine the clinical responses of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the efficacy of 12ATC in these patients.

        -  Determine whether there are changes in immunologic parameters related to 12ATC as
           measured by lymphocyte phenotype and cytokine secretion in these patients.

        -  Determine the correlation between clinical responses in patients treated with this
           regimen and in vitro immune functions of lymphocytes.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to disease type (renal cell carcinoma vs
      colorectal carcinoma).

      Patients receive sargramostim (GM-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) daily on days 1-5 and then undergo
      collection of autologous peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) on days 6 and 7 of week 1.
      The PBMC are treated ex vivo to form interleukin-12-primed activated T cells (12ATC).

      Patients receive fluorouracil IV over 24 hours on day 6 of week 2 and interferon alfa-2b SC
      and GM-CSF SC 3 times weekly on weeks 3-5. Patients receive 12ATC IV over 15-30 minutes twice
      weekly and interferon alfa-2b SC (at least 24 hours after 12ATC infusion) once weekly on
      weeks 6-8. Patients with complete or partial response or stable disease at 3 weeks after the
      last 12ATC infusion may receive an additional 8-week course as above.

      Patients are followed every 2-3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 2 years or at
      any time when the physical examination or symptoms are suspicious for tumor progression.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 60 patients (30 per stratum) will be accrued for this study
      within 2-3 years.
    
  