
    
      All included patients will undergo the following:

        -  History & examination

        -  Semen analysis preintervention.

        -  Scrotal duplex scan of testicular vessels and testicular size .

      Technique:

        -  All interventions will be performed in the endovascular OR with set on C-ARM.

        -  Patient's position and comfort are issues that are important initially.

      STEPS FOR SPERMATIC VENOGRAPHY AND VARICOCELE EMBOLIZATION

      Step 1: Vascular Access

      Access can be achieved via the internal jugular or femo¬ral veins. Our preferred method is to
      puncture the right internal jugular vein under ultrasound guidance.

      Step 2: Left Renal Vein Injection

      During left renal vein injection, the origin of the left spermatic vein is noted .

      Step 3: Left Spermatic Vein Catheterization

      The catheter is manipulated into the left spermatic vein. A varicocele is present if the
      contrast refluxes into the pampiniform plexus. If the direction of flow is antegrade, this is
      considered to represent a negative spermatic venogram.

      Step 4: Spermatic Vein Occlusion

      If varicocele is confirmed, the spermatic vein is occluded, preferably immediately above the
      internal inguinal ring and along its full length to within 2 to 3 cm of its origin. The use
      of liquid embolics with or without metallic coils has become the most common method.
      Embolization with coils alone without liquid should be avoided, even for "straightforward"
      cases due to a high rate of recurrence. It is important to look for collaterals throughout
      the procedure, which may only become visible after distal occlusion . These collaterals are
      the usual cause of technical failure or recurrence and therefore must be occluded. Options
      for occlusion methods are described as follows.

      Some practitioners place coils in the distal ISV before injecting glue. Coils in the proximal
      ISV are not necessary. Avoiding injection of glue into the scrotum is essential, either by
      previously placed distal coils or external compression. Overinjection of glue will result in
      extension into the renal vein or embolization into the pulmonary artery.

      Step 5: Right Spermatic Venography

      The same steps performed for the left spermatic vein are repeated for the right spermatic
      vein, except that the right spermatic vein usually arises directly from the infe¬rior vena
      cava. If reflux is demonstrated, embolization is performed in the same manner as on the left.
      The right spermatic vein arises from the inferior vena cava at an acute angle, which can make
      catheterization from the femoral route especially difficult.

      POSTPROCEDURE CARE

      The patient is kept in bed for 1 hour postprocedure. The patient is advised to take
      anti-inflammatory agents as needed and to avoid any activity involving the Valsalva maneuver,
      such as lifting, vigorous, or "hitting type" sports for 3 full days beginning the day after
      the proce¬dure. Most patients report a minor dull ache in the back or groin lasting < 2 to 5
      days. Fewer than 5% of patients will develop more severe pain lasting up to 14 days,
      requiring oral analgesics and anti-inflammatory agents and avoidance of vigorous exercise
    
  