
    
      Approximately 60% of people with multiple sclerosis (pwMS) suffer from upper limb
      dysfunction. The primary goal of this study is to implement a single-blind, randomized
      control trial (RCT) designed to compare the effectiveness of an 8-week home-based telerehab
      virtual reality (VR) program with conventional therapy in pwMS with manual dexterity
      difficulties. Secondary aims include; a) evaluating the impact of the programs on quality of
      life after the intervention and a follow up 1 month later; and b) evaluating the impact of
      the programs on adherence and satisfaction.

      Methodology. Twenty-four pwMS will be recruited to participate in the study which will be
      conducted at two established MS Centers: (1) The Sardinian Center for Diagnosis and Treatment
      of Multiple Sclerosis, Binaghi Hospital, Cagliari, Italy; (2) The Multiple Sclerosis Center,
      Sheba Medical Center, Tel-Hashomer, Israel. Participants will complete a total of three
      assessments focusing on upper limb functions. Both groups will receive 16 training sessions
      focusing on functional upper limb activities. The home-based telerehab VR intervention will
      comprise a custom-made software program running on a private computer or laptop. pwMS will
      perform several activities of daily living (ADL) functions associated with self-care,
      dressing and meal preparation.

      Conventional therapy will focus on task-related upper-limb treatments while in a sitting or
      prone position, indicative of the standard care in multiple sclerosis (MS). Following 8-weeks
      of training, participants will complete a further outcome assessment. The same tests will be
      conducted 1 month (as a follow-up) after completion of the intervention.

      Potential scientific contribution. The outcomes of this study have tremendous potential to
      improve the quality of evidence and informed decisions of functional upper limb activities in
      pwMS. If comparable results are found between the treatments in improving upper limb
      outcomes, this would suggest that pwMS can choose the program that best meets their personal
      needs, e.g., financial concerns, transportation or accessibility issues. Secondly, this
      information can be used by healthcare providers and medical professionals in developing upper
      limb exercise programs that will most likely succeed in pwMS and will then be disseminated to
      neurologists and other medical providers.

      Mode of cooperation and added value. The Italian group will be responsible for designing and
      implementing three new VR scenarios relating to functional activities of the upper limb. The
      new VR scenarios will be planned in conjunction with the Israeli group who will also play an
      active role in the quality assessment procedures of the developed elements. Both groups will
      participate equally in the pilot RCT. Roles include: recruitment and guidance of patients and
      therapists, implementing the telerehab VR system in the patient's home, assessment of outcome
      measures, data collection, analysis and interpretation of data and dissemination of the
      findings. An additional role of the Israeli team will be to prepare a user manual detailing
      how to use the system and providing clinical guidelines/recommendations for both the
      therapist and patient.
    
  