
    
      The aim of this trial is evaluate the implementation of early detection and the use of the
      WHO MOTIVE 'first response' treatment bundle for PPH on clinical, implementation and resource
      use outcomes. The investigators will evaluate the implementation through mixed-methods and
      carry out a health economic evaluation from the public healthcare system perspective. The
      investigators will use a multi-country, parallel cluster randomised trial design with a
      baseline control phase, along with mixed-methods and health economic evaluations. The trial
      is conducted in secondary level health facilities in five low- and middle- income countries.
      For this trial, the health facility is the randomisation unit. Health facilities are eligible
      for inclusion if they have 1000 to 5000 births a year and provide comprehensive obstetric
      care with ability to perform surgery for PPH. Pre-existing implementation of early detection
      or bundled approach are exclusion criteria. The research participants are all healthcare
      providers attending vaginal births in the study facilities. The E-MOTIVE intervention
      consists of three elements: 1) a strategy for early detection of PPH, which allows triggering
      of the 'first response' treatment bundle; 2) a 'first response' bundle called "MOTIVE", based
      on the WHO guideline recommendations and consisting of uterine Massage, Oxytocic drugs,
      Tranexamic acid, IV fluids and Examination & Escalation; and 3) an implementation strategy,
      focusing on simulation-based training, peer-assisted learning, local E-MOTIVE champions,
      feedback of actionable data to providers, calibrated drape with action line, and MOTIVE
      emergency kits. The control health facilities will deliver usual care with dissemination of
      the current guidelines.

      The primary outcome is a composite of the following three clinical outcomes: severe PPH
      defined as blood loss ≥1000 ml or postpartum laparotomy for bleeding or postpartum maternal
      death from bleeding. The two Key Secondary outcomes are postpartum haemorrhage detection rate
      (defined as recording of diagnosis of PPH by birth attendant) and compliance with the MOTIVE
      bundle. Secondary: blood transfusion, uterine tamponade, Intensive Care Unit admissions or
      higher-level facility transfers, and new-born deaths along with implementation and resource
      use outcomes.

      Eighty health facilities will take part in the study. Initially, all health facilities will
      enter an 11-month baseline period in which they will be following usual care. After this, the
      investigators will randomise 40 of the 80 health facilities (1:1 ratio) to the E-MOTIVE
      intervention for 11 months, allowing two months for transition. The other 40 health
      facilities will continue to follow usual care as per the baseline period for the entire trial
      duration (2 years). To allow us to perform the randomisation sequentially, if necessary, a
      minimisation algorithm will ensure a balance of the intervention and control facilities. The
      total sample size for the study will be 337,920 women. This sample size is expected to have
      over 90% power to detect a 25% relative reduction in the primary outcome from 2% to 1.5%
      after allowing for clustering. The number of clusters has been inflated by 10% to allow for
      drop out of health facilities and for varying cluster sizes. Randomisation will use a
      minimisation algorithm to balance health facilities by the number of vaginal births per
      health facility, country and the health facility rate of the composite primary outcome during
      the baseline phase.

      During the 11-month baseline phase, the investigators will conduct mixed method work to
      refine and optimise the E-MOTIVE implementation strategy by piloting it in three to four
      facilities per country over up to two adaptive cycles for addressing barriers and enablers to
      delivery and implementation, ahead of the intervention phase. The investigators will conduct
      a mixed-methods process evaluation to assess the extent to which the E-MOTIVE intervention
      has been implemented as intended. The implementation outcomes of interest are fidelity,
      adoption, adaptation, acceptability, and sustainability, as well as contextual influences and
      barriers and enablers to implementation. The investigators will also assess the
      cost-effectiveness of the E-MOTIVE intervention compared with usual care from a public
      healthcare system perspective for each country, as measured by incremental cost-effectiveness
      ratios for a) severe PPH prevented, b) laparotomy for PPH prevented, c) death from PPH
      avoided, and (d) quality-adjusted life-years prevented.
    
  