
    
      A two-arm nutritional intervention trial utilizing a cluster-randomized design will be
      implemented in the Department of La Libertad, El Salvador, in children from 6 to 59 months of
      age for 5 years. One arm of the trial will receive a cereal/legume extruded premix fortified
      with 21 micronutrients (amounts described in Intervention Type section) and the other arm
      will continue to receive the current standard of nutritional care that consist of a fortified
      cereal mix, vitamin A capsules, and prophylactic iron drops.

      The monitoring and evaluation of this trial will be integrated to an ongoing program
      implemented by a local NGO (FUSAL) that aims to reduce poverty and micronutrient deficiencies
      through a variety of strategies. The nutrition products for children under 24 months of age
      will be provided by El Salvadoran government health workers at the government's health
      facilities. FUSAL will also be in charge of distributing food products to children from 24 to
      59 months of age on a monthly basis at the community sites.

      The trial design includes clusters (census subdivisions with a unique number used by the
      Government of El Salvador to perform the country's census) that were randomized into one of
      the two treatments. To evaluate the impact of the nutrition interventions, the trial will
      have two different types of experimental designs:

        1. A repeated cross sectional design: to compare outcomes between groups after 1 year and
           on a yearly basis until the study is completed.

        2. Longitudinal design: children will be followed up over time for at least one year, until
           they turn 60 months and/or the study is completed, to evaluate incidence and recurrence
           of anemia, undernutrition and morbidity, and other outcomes.

      The investigators will test the following hypotheses:

        1. Children receiving the 21 micronutrient fortified supplement will have better health and
           growth than children receiving the nutritional standard of care.

        2. Those who receive the 21 micronutrient fortified supplement until 59 months of age
           continuously will have better health and growth compared to those who received the
           nutritional standard of care.

        3. The effect of the interventions will be most notable in those children who are
           stunted/anemic.
    
  