
    
      Urinary tract infections (UTI) are common in infants. The diagnosis of a UTI has important
      implications for follow-up, and delayed treatment can result in morbidity, including renal
      scarring and serious bacterial infection.

      Obtaining urine from pre-continent children can be difficult and time consuming, the method
      of collection must balance reliability, speed, low rate of contamination, and invasiveness
      The actual guidelines recommend suprapubic aspiration or bladder catheterization for
      collection of urine sample in pre-continent children, but these methods are invasive.

      The most common way to collect urines in infants is the use of a sterile collection bag. This
      is an easy technique, but time consuming and responsible for high rate of contamination,
      leading to false positives.

      According to the American Academy of Pediatrics, midstream clean-catch urine is an acceptable
      method to diagnose urinary tract infection. However, it is impractical in pre-continent
      children.

      Recently, two quick, safe and effective methods have been reported in the literature:

        -  The Quick-wee method: it consists in stimulating the suprapubic area with a cold and wet
           compress to obtain urines.

        -  The bladder stimulation method: the child is held under the armpits with legs dangling
           and a physician taps the suprapubic area and massages lumbar area alternatively.

      However, advanced age, high weight, and level of discomfort during bladder stimulation were
      significantly associated with failure to obtain urines.

      Futhermore, even if urine collection in pre-continent children most often concerns urinary
      tract infections, these techniques could also be used to look for a metabolic abnormality, an
      uropathy or a nephropathy (urine electrolyte concentrations, proteinuria, hematuria).

      The aim of the study is to compare the effectiveness of two non-invasive midstream urine
      collection methods in pre-continent children : "the Quick-Wee method" and "the Bladder
      stimulation method".

      The investigators will also compare in the two groups the time required to obtain urine
      sample, the comfort of the infant during urine collection and the quality of urines.

      Finally, for each technique will be analyzed the risk factors associated with failure in
      obtaining urine sample
    
  