
    
      Severe preeclampsia often presents with uncontrolled hypertension, which requires close
      monitoring of blood pressure and cardiac output. It will be very useful to know the cardiac
      output in this patient population, because it will guide the choice of antihypertensive drugs
      and measure their effect on cardiac output.

      Traditionally pulmonary artery catheters were used to measure cardiac output. There are
      numerous problems with using this method in severe preeclampsia. These include technical
      difficulty inserting the catheter in an awake, edematous pregnant patient, potentially
      causing a pneumothorax, damaging the carotid artery or insertion site infection. There is
      also an increased risk for cardiac arrhythmias. Apart from the risks, the accuracy of the
      thermodilution measurements can be influenced by factors such as timing of the injection
      within the respiratory cycle, temperature of the injectate, speed of injection, and placement
      of the catheter. A readily available, accurate non-invasive cardiac output measurement
      technique, that will provide reliable data with fewer risks, is needed.

      Doppler ultrasound (trans thoracic echocardiography) is the gold standard for measuring
      cardiac output non-invasively in pregnant patients. Unfortunately the method is operator
      dependant, not continuous and not always available when needed most.

      Recently a device called the FloTrac has been introduced that measures cardiac output
      minimally invasively. Attached to an arterial line it measures cardiac output every 20
      seconds via arterial waveform analysis. The standard of care for measuring blood pressure in
      severe preeclampsia requires the placement of an intra-arterial line. This group of patients
      is therefore ideal for measuring cardiac output with the FloTrac, especially since powerful
      intravenous anti-hypertensives are used to control blood pressure.

      Our hypothesis is that the FloTrac will be comparable to Doppler Ultrasound for measuring
      cardiac output in severely preeclamptic patients.
    
  