
    
      Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) are two clinical manifestations of the
      same entity, thromboembolic venous disease. This disease is frequent: the annual incidence of
      thromboembolic venous disease estimated between 1 and 2 cases per 1000 inhabitants per year
      in France, comparable to that observed in North America. This disease is potentially serious:
      the mortality from PE, the most severe manifestation of thromboembolic venous disease (one
      third of PE for two thirds of DVT) is 10% at 3 months, twice as high as that of myocardial
      infarction. However, the risk of PE in isolated DVT is major (more than 50% of cases). Thus,
      whether it is a PE or a DVT, anticoagulant treatment, a cornerstone of therapeutic
      management, must therefore be initiated urgently, without waiting for the results of
      diagnostic confirmatory examinations.

      The major complications occurring after a thromboembolic venous disease are venous
      thromboembolic recurrence (VTE) and the long-term consequences: post-thrombotic syndrome and
      the development of post-embolic pulmonary hypertension. VTE recurrence has significant
      mortality, particularly in the form of PE (15%, compared to 2% in the form of DVT). As for
      long-term complications of VTE, about 20-30% of patients with DVT develop post-thrombotic
      syndrome at 5 years (27), while 0.15% to 5% of patients with PE develop post-embolic
      pulmonary hypertension at 1 year.

      While major progress has been made over the past 20 years in terms of diagnosis, primary and
      secondary prevention, identification of risk factors for VTE and prognostic factors, however,
      two particular subgroups deserve to be specifically investigated: young subjects, whether
      women (hormonal exposure) or men (often idiopathic thromboembolic venous disease), and cancer
      patients. In the latter, the progress made on anti-cancer treatments is helping to modify the
      data on the risk of VTE as well as the duration of treatment of VTE in these patients.

      Thus, this prospective cohort covers two subgroups of patients with thromboembolic venous
      disease: young subjects (≤50 years) or those who have cancer.
    
  