
    
      During the last decades, the positive effects of aerobic exercise in patients with type 2
      diabetes have been well documented. Recently, resistance exercise has gained popularity in
      diabetic patients since several studies have indicated that this type of training is safe and
      induces favorable adaptations in physical fitness and metabolic profile. According to recent
      scientific evidence, a complete rehabilitation program for patients with type 2 diabetes
      should combine both strength and aerobic exercise; thus the American Diabetic Association in
      their latest guidelines recommends strength training as part of an exercise program at least
      two times a week.

      On the contrary to the well documented effects of physical training, there is lack of data on
      the negative alterations of detraining in patients with type 2 diabetes. The partial or
      complete loss of training-induced adaptations as a consequence of training reduction or
      cessation is well-documented by several detraining studies in healthy subjects, older
      individuals and patients with coronary artery disease.

      For example, the investigators know that even 6 days of physical inactivity reduces insulin
      action in well-trained runners which is attributed to the significant reduction in the muscle
      GLUT-4 level. Factors such as illness, injury, travel or vacation may interrupt the training
      process for longer periods, affecting the treatment in people with type 2 diabetes. For this
      population, it is important to quantify changes in physiological and metabolic parameters
      resulting from the cessation of exercise, since exercise training is a major therapeutic
      method.

      To the best of our knowledge, there is no data concerning the loss of physiological
      adaptations which occurs after exercise cessation in patients with type 2 diabetes, which
      have previously trained for a long period of time. The current study evaluated the effects of
      three months of detraining after nine months of a combined strength and aerobic training
      program on glycemic control, body composition, peak oxygen consumption (VO2peak) and muscular
      strength in patients with type 2 diabetes. Further, the investigators examined the extent of
      the regained adaptations after the resumption of training for a period of nine months.
    
  