
    
      The study is a prospective, randomized, double-blinded trial comparing three different doses
      of TXA (5mg/kg, 10mg/kg, 15mg/kg) in decreasing blood loss during and after total knee and
      total hip arthroplasty. Patients undergoing total knee arthroplasty and total hip
      arthroplasty will be analyzed separately, in sub-group analysis. The primary endpoint will be
      the change in hemoglobin from baseline to the first post-operative day (POD#1).

      Patients will initially be identified by their orthopedic surgeon if they meet the inclusion
      and exclusion criteria. They will be informed about the study and provided with the consent
      form in the office, which they will be able to review further prior to the date of surgery.
      If the patient wishes to participate, formal written consent will be completed by one of the
      study investigators or a member of the regional anesthesia team. Patients will then be
      randomized to one of three groups. The anesthesia team responsible for the subject patient's
      care will receive two twenty milliliter syringes of medication. The syringe labeled "Study
      medication #1" will be administered intravenously over 20 minutes beginning at the start of
      surgical skin preparation, and the syringe labeled "Study medication #2" will be administered
      over 20 minutes beginning at the start of surgical wound closure. The syringes for group 1
      (low-dose TXA) will each contain 5mg/kg TXA, diluted to 20 milliliters with saline. The
      syringes for group 2 (moderate-dose TXA) will each contain 10mg/kg TXA, diluted to 20
      milliliters with saline. The syringes for group 3 (high-dose TXA) will each contain 15mg/kg
      TXA, diluted to 20 milliliters with saline. The anesthesia team will document the total
      intra-operative estimated blood loss as well as the amount of blood in the suction canister
      at the end of the surgery (as calculated by volume in the suction bucket minus volume of
      irrigation used).

      The intraoperative course will be standardized for all patients included in the study. For
      total knee arthroplasty patients, the anesthesia will consist of a long-acting femoral or
      adductor canal peripheral nerve block, followed by a standardized spinal anesthetic using
      15mg of plain isobaric bupivacaine. For total hip arthroplasty patients, the anesthesia will
      consist of a standardized spinal anesthetic using 15mg of plain isobaric bupivacaine. In
      those patients for whom spinal anesthesia is contraindicated or refused, general anesthesia
      will be performed and these patients will be excluded from the study. All patients initially
      enrolled, but excluded secondary to administration of a general anesthetic will be analyzed
      via an intention-to-treat method. Administration of intravenous crystalloid solutions will be
      per the discretion of the anesthesia team participating in the intra-operative portion of
      each patient's care, and will be documented for purposes of this study by the anesthesia
      team.

      On PODs #0, #1 and #2, all patients will undergo standard post-operative blood work which
      includes a complete blood count. When working with physical therapy on POD#1 and POD#2,
      assessment of ability to sit, stand, and walk (yes/no) will be recorded. Assessment of pain
      scores via a VAS (0-10 scale, with 0 being no pain and 10 being the worst 05/26/2016 pain)
      will be recorded on POD#1 and POD#2. Assessment of subjective sense of overall wellbeing (a
      0-10 scale, with 0 being the worst patients have ever felt, and 10 representing pre-operative
      baseline) will be recorded on POD #1 and #2. Patients will also be monitored via clinical
      exam for incidence of seizure, transient ischemic attack, stroke, myocardial infarction, deep
      venous thrombosis, and pulmonary embolus in the first 48 post-operatively.
    
  