
    
      Patients are asked to fast before anaesthesia to reduce the risk that residual gastric
      contents could be regurgitated and aspirated into the lungs once anaesthetised. In animal
      studies, gastric contents that are less acidic (with a pH >1.8) have been shown to be less
      harmful when aspirated than those that are more acidic, even at higher gastric residual
      volumes. Recent European and UK guidelines have reduced the length of the recommended clear
      fluid fast to 1 hour for children, as there is no significant difference in GRV or pH in
      children fasted for 1 hour compared to 2 hours. It is therefore believed to present no
      additional risk of harm.

      Some anaesthetists administer oral paracetamol syrup to children pre-operatively as an
      alternative to intravenous administration of paracetamol during their surgery. The oral route
      has been suggested to be pleasant for children, cheaper, more convenient, and reduce the risk
      of drug errors associated with the IV preparation. Anderson et al found no significant
      difference in gastric volume or pH in children with a mean age of 8.5 years given paracetamol
      orally 90 minutes before surgery compared to children given paracetamol rectally. Burke et
      al. demonstrated that giving paracetamol orally up to 8 minutes before induction of
      anaesthesia was not associated with an increase in the volume of stomach contents, and that
      the pH of stomach contents was higher than in control subjects who did not receive
      paracetamol. This suggests that giving oral paracetamol before induction of anaesthesia may
      not present any increased risk of harm from aspiration. This was in the context of a mean
      fluid fast of 5 hours and a mean age of 5.1 years.

      To our knowledge, no studies have assessed the effect of oral paracetamol syrup on gastric
      residual volume (GRV) and pH in the context of the newly recommended reduced clear fluid
      fasting time of 1 hour. Neither has this been studied in children as young as 44 weeks
      post-conceptual age.
    
  