
    
      BACKGROUND/RATIONALE:

      The Veterans Administration system supports telemedicine (TM) to provide medical
      consultations between patients and physicians via videoconference. At present, little is
      known about the impact of such TM consultations on patient-physician communication and
      related health outcomes. Analyses of in-person (IP) medical encounters have shown that
      effective patient-physician communication is associated with improved health outcomes.

      OBJECTIVE(S):

      To determine whether the physical separation between patient and physician required during TM
      has an affect on patient-physician communication and related outcomes, including patient and
      physician satisfaction, patient compliance, and patient understanding of medical care.

      METHODS:

      In this clinical trial, 238 patients were randomized to receive either consultative care at
      the remote site via TM with a consultant physician located the Milwaukee VA (intervention) OR
      by an IP consultation with a consultant physician at the Milwaukee VA (control). The same
      group of consultant physicians provided both IP and TM consultations.

      Patients in both study arms had their medical encounter video recorded. We compared patterns
      and quality of patient-physician communication for the TM and IP encounters, using the Roter
      Interaction Analysis System. Data on patient and physician satisfaction with the encounter
      and patients' understanding of their medical problems were collected at the end of each
      medical encounter. Patient compliance (medication refill behavior) was assessed at 90 days
      post visit. The frequency of communication behaviors during the TM and IP encounters was
      compared using the analysis of a Linear Mixed Model. Comparison of patient satisfaction,
      physician satisfaction, patient compliance, and patient knowledge measures between TM and IP
      groups were conducted with similar Linear Mixed Models.
    
  