
    
      Quantitative measurements of hepatic and cardiac iron by single-breath-hold MRI T2* will
      allow us to determine the value of this technique as a non-invasive method of monitoring
      liver and cardiac iron content. By obtaining T2 measurements, we will be able to compare two
      different techniques for non-invasive iron assessment. With regard to the liver, we will
      correlate T2* measurements with the gold standard, LIC on liver biopsy. Because it is not
      feasible to perform cardiac biopsies to evaluate the degree of cardiac hemosiderosis, we will
      evaluate the relationships between cardiac T2* values and left and right diastolic function,
      left ventricular ejection fraction, left ventricular end-systolic volume and left ventricular
      mass index obtained by echocardiography and MUGA scans that are performed as part of the
      routine clinical care of these patients. In order to estimate whether cardiac T2* values are
      clinically relevant, we will also investigate the relationship between T2* values and the
      need for cardiac medication due to cardiac hemosiderosis. Cardiac and hepatic T2*
      measurements will also be compared to their visual appearances on T2* MR images in order to
      investigate the relationship between these two assessments. Cardiac and hepatic T2* and their
      respective visual appearances on T2* MR images will be compared with serum ferritin to
      evaluate the potential relationships among these measurements of iron overload.

      Amen T2* and T2 phantoms are devices that allow calibration of the MR measurements for
      absolute iron content. Phantoms are test tubes filled with aqueous solutions or gel compounds
      of materials that mimic various tissue relaxation times (T1, T2 and T2*). Phantoms are
      commonly used in MRI when quantification is desired. Our phantom will consist of a multitude
      of small vials which will be visible in the imaging plane. The relaxation times vary in the
      different vials of the phantom and are known very accurately, especially the T2 and T2*
      values, which vary over the physiological relevant range. This way the phantom can be used to
      calibrate the T2* values obtained from the patients heart and liver and eventually be
      correlated to absolute iron concentrations.

      If accurate, the T2* MRI technique would ultimately allow a non-invasive method of
      quantitatively assessing myocardial and liver iron accumulation, and could predict the degree
      of morbidity due to iron overload. This new technique could greatly improve the care of our
      iron overloaded patients by offering a practical and risk free method for evaluation of body
      iron load. We plan to apply this preliminary information into future studies in this area.
      Eventually we plan to use the T2* MRI measurements in longitudinal studies of patients with
      iron overload, both to assess their degree of iron burden and monitor chelation therapy
      treatments.

      Amen Dark blood applications are state-of-the-art in cardiac MRI and commonly applied. There
      is no risk associated with the dark blood preparation. Comparison of dark and bright blood
      measurements will show whether both sequences yield similar results and whether one technique
      is less susceptible to cardiac motion and associated artifacts, thereby offering a higher
      accuracy and a smaller error in the calculation of T2* and iron concentration.

      Information about the heart function can be obtained using MRI techniques, however this
      information needs to be validated in different populations, such as patients with iron
      overload. If MR data show a high correlation with echocardiography and MUGA functional data,
      subsequent protocols could be conducted where the functional information can be gained with
      an MR measurement, thereby avoid acquiring a MUGA scan and eliminating the exposure to
      radiation as well as streamlining the protocol by just adding a few additional measurements
      to an already scheduled MR iron scan. Performing cardiac measurement in a few patients using
      the MRI technique will allow us to expand the use of this technique for future and larger
      studies.

      Pulmonary hypertension causes progressive right ventricular dysfunction and severe
      respiratory symptoms (e.g., dyspnea, hypoxemia, poor exercise tolerance, etc.). The
      association of myocardium iron deposition and its relationship with pulmonary hypertension
      has not been investigated. Pulmonary hypertension is a prevalent complication among patients
      with hematologic diseases, especially those with a hemolytic component to the anemia. Because
      many of these patients are treated with blood transfusion and consequently develop iron
      accumulation in the heart, the investigation of the association of myocardial hemosiderosis
      and pulmonary hypertension is warranted.

      Finally, because little is understood about iron loading and unloading at the cellular and
      molecular level, we propose to perform tissue microarray analysis on liver biopsy samples
      obtained from children with iron overload. This powerful tool will help identify over- and
      under-expressed genes in the clinical scenario of iron loading, and later in the setting of
      iron mobilization in these overloaded patients. This pilot study will allow us to investigate
      differences in gene expression from patients with mild, moderate and severe iron overload, as
      determined by quantitative LIC on liver biopsy. Our approach will allow characterization of
      gene expression and analysis for patterns that reflect cellular responses to different
      degrees of iron overload. This study will not obtain "normal liver" controls from our
      population, since sickle cell patients without transfusional iron overload have no clinical
      indication for liver biopsy. It is hoped, however, that subsequent therapeutic protocols will
      also include microarray studies on liver biopsy samples. In this way, the current microarray
      analysis will serve as a "baseline" and patients will serve as their own controls for
      differences in gene expression. This will particularly be important for those patients
      undergoing successful chelation therapy that should lower LIC. Overall, an understanding of
      the genetic and biochemical events that regulate these iron loading and unloading processes
      could greatly improve our ability to treat patients appropriately.
    
  