
    
      A simple 20 patient study will be performed using the CG SCENERGY system. This fusion system
      will be used to perform image guided needle placements for patients undergoing percutaneous
      CT guided needle-based intervention (CT guided biopsy, CT guided drain placement within the
      abdomen or pelvis, and CT guided injection of muscle or nerve within the pelvis). Only
      patients who are already scheduled for a CT guided procedure will be screened. The study
      design is as follows:

        -  10 patients will have their procedure performed using the CGM SCENERGY US-CT fusion
           system and 10 patients will have their procedure performed using CT guidance only.

        -  Proper informed consent will be obtained

        -  Perform a CT scan with the optical adhesive skin markers in place. Markers are placed
           around the expected site of needle skin entry.

        -  The first 10 patients Group#1 (1-10) will be assigned to using the SCENERGY fusion
           system to complete the needle placement, and the next 10 patients Group #2 (11-20) will
           be assigned of continuing with CT guidance only to complete the needle placement.

        -  If in Group #1, the procedure will proceed as usual using the SCENERGY system to guide
           the needle to target. If in the Group #2, CT guidance will be used to place the needle
           to target.

        -  Once the needle is at the target, a confirmatory CT will be performed.

             -  If the target is reached (i.e., the software directed the interventional
                radiologist to the right place, e.g. for correctly biopsying a lesion), the trial
                is considered a "success" and the procedure continues as normal.

             -  If the needle is not in the right place, the trial is considered a "failure", and
                the procedure continues as normal without using the CGM software any further.
    
  