
    
      The goal of this exploratory pilot study was to develop and test the acceptability and
      feasibility of an innovative alternative high school-based intervention to prevent further
      weight gain and/or promote weight loss among a sample of ethnically and economically diverse
      adolescents. The proposed study will use a group randomized trial design and target boys and
      girls, ages 15-20 years old, attending six alternative high schools in the Minneapolis-St
      Paul metropolitan area. Alternative high schools are public or private schools that offer a
      nontraditional educational experience for at-risk students, such as dropouts, expelled
      students, truants and hard to reach learners who have not succeeded in regular school
      systems. Although low levels of physical activity (PA) and unhealthy dietary practices,
      behaviors regarded as a primary cause of the overweight/obesity epidemic among youth, are
      prevalent among teens attending alternative schools, school-based programs targeting these
      behaviors have not been tested and evaluated.

      Three schools were randomized to the intervention/treatment condition and three schools to a
      minimal intervention/comparison condition. Social Cognitive Theory and ecological theory
      provided the theoretical basis for the multi-component intervention, which included 1) a
      classroom-based experiential curriculum that incorporated school, family and community-linked
      activities to promote physical activity, healthy eating and limited television viewing, 2)
      environmental modifications of food and beverage offerings and physical activity
      opportunities at school and 3) a teacher-guided, youth-directed health advisory council to
      promote and support physical activity, healthy eating and limited television viewing.

      Student and school-level measurements were taken at baseline, 6 months post randomization and
      at the completion of the 18 month intervention. Student-level measures included a
      self-administered psychosocial survey, the 3-day Previous Day Physical Activity Report and
      moderate-to-vigorous physical activity levels of students as measured by an Actigraph
      accelerometer. School-level measures assessed the availability of physical activity
      opportunities and healthy foods at school.

      Hypothesis: Adolescents attending alternative high schools will report high participation
      rates and a high degree of satisfaction with a multi-component school-based intervention
      targeting students' PA, diet and TV viewing practices.
    
  