
    
      The rebellious chronic neuropathic pain of the lower limbs (including the sequelae
      lumbosciatica) causes a major functional repercussion and an impairment of the quality of
      life. Spinal cord stimulation (SCS) is offered when other treatments are ineffective or
      insufficient (K. Kumar et al., 2007). This technique has been used in routine care for over
      20 years, with a well-established clinical benefit for these indications, and recognized by
      HAS (see 2014 recommendations in appendix 1). Moreover, recent technical progress has made it
      possible to provide better user comfort for implanted patients, in particular with new
      stimulation methods that best adapt to the activities and feelings of the patients (De Ridder
      & Vanneste, 2016; V . Kumar et al., 2018).

      The therapeutic objectives defined between the candidate patient for EMS and the Pain team
      are part of a personalized rehabilitation and reintegration process. This is to reduce the
      pain felt by the patient but also the functional impact, by gradually resuming activity,
      taking into account the specific situation of each patient. Functional limitation depends on
      several factors, such as exercise deconditioning but also fear of movement that is essential
      to assess in patients who are candidates for EMS. Patient care involves an assessment made by
      a trained multi-professional team in which the role of the pain coordinator (IDEC) is
      central, with therapeutic education work through regular physical and telephone
      consultations. Self-administered questionnaires analyzing functional abilities, quality of
      life and pain are currently being used for the pre- and post-operative assessment of patients
      undergoing EMS. Although they are a diagnostic and decision-making tool, they nevertheless
      correspond to a subjective assessment of the patient of his abilities as he sees them, and
      not to an assessment of his actual objective abilities. Thus, despite the technical progress
      represented by the new stimulation methods, the perioperative assessment of patients treated
      for EMS lacks personalized tools.

      The recent development of technological tools that are easy to use on a daily basis, such as
      activity trackers and smartwatches, is an attractive option in chronic pathologies, but still
      insufficiently used in current medical practice. A review of the literature has shown the
      value of the use of activity trackers, particularly in postoperative follow-up and functional
      rehabilitation (Appelboom et al., 2016), and in low back pain patients (GORDON & BLOXHAM,
      2017 ). Another study evaluating the data collected by an actimeter integrated into a
      stimulation generator compared to the patient's verbal report on his activities reports an
      overestimation of the functional impact by patients in self-evaluation (Goudman et al.,
      2018). Likewise, a study on the evaluation of the quality of sleep highlighted a difference
      between the feelings reported by the patient, the self-questionnaires and the data recorded
      in polysomnography (Jaeger et al., 2019), with a trend to increase sleep disorders. All of
      these studies confirm the limits in terms of the reliability of declarative data and the need
      for objective measures to assess the symptoms of patients in chronic conditions.

      In addition, some of these devices have recently made it possible to evaluate the vmHRV
      (vagally-mediated Heart Rate Variability) index (Hernando et al., 2018). This physiological
      index has been studied for MOTIVE_Protocole_v1_20200610 HBD_2020_23 IDRCB 2020-A01731-38
      11/40 several years, and has shown its interest in various chronic pathologies such as
      depression, cardiovascular pathologies, fibromyalgia (Kemp et al., 2010). Thus, compared to
      healthy control subjects, patients with chronic pain have a decreased vmHRV index linked to
      lower vagal activity (Koenig et al., 2016). In addition, in chronic pain patients, a
      correlation was observed between taking analgesics, the impact of pain on daily life and a
      significantly reduced vmHRV index. Moreover, patients with little relief from drug treatment
      had the lowest vmHRV index (Koenig et al., 2015), thus showing a link between this index and
      the severity of chronic pain, its daily impact, l effectiveness of drug treatment. Likewise,
      a correlation has been demonstrated between the degree of catastrophization of pain in
      patients and the vmHRV index (Koenig et al., 2016). Finally, a recent review of the imaging
      data associated with the measurement of the HRV index suggests a link between functional
      connectivity and the activity of certain brain regions (ventral striatum, anterior cingulate
      cortex, medial pre-frontal cortex, putamen ), the ability to manage stress and emotions, and
      the HRV index (Thayer et al., 2012), thus proposing a neurovisceral integration model. The
      vmHRV index can therefore be considered as an objective marker in the assessment of emotional
      and physiological coping skills in a patient with chronic pain. This aspect is crucial in the
      evaluation and management of these patients, and more particularly when an invasive therapy
      is envisaged such as EMS.

      Finally, the development of certain imaging sequences makes it possible to study the
      anatomical (diffusion tensor sequences: DTI) and functional (functional MRI sequences)
      connectivity in regions of interest in patients, in particular at rest (Fox & Raichle, 2007).
      During nociceptive stimulation, the functional activation of certain regions of interest was
      demonstrated, grouped together under the term "pain matrix": insula, primary and secondary
      somatosensory cortex, thalamus, anterior cingulate cortex, pre- frontal, tonsil and
      peri-acqueductal gray matter (Apkarian et al., 2005; Leknes & Tracey, 2008). Chronic pain
      alters the functioning of neural circuits in these regions, leading to changes in
      connectivity and activity observable in neuroimaging (Baliki et al., 2012; Wood et al.,
      2007). A prospective study conducted in 39 patients has also shown the predictive character
      of some of these changes during the chronicization of pain in a cohort of patients suffering
      from subacute low back pain (Baliki et al., 2012): patients developing pain patients (which
      lasts beyond 6 months) immediately presented an alteration in the functioning of the neural
      circuits involved in motivation, with a stronger anatomical and functional connectivity
      between the nucleus accumbens and the medial pre-frontal cortex, compared to the patients
      recovering from the subacute episode. Since then, other studies have suggested a link between
      the process of pain chronicization and changes in the anatomical and functional connectivity
      of cortico-striated circuits involved in cognitive and motivational aspects (Navratilova &
      Porreca, 2014). Activation of the meso-limbic motivational and reward circuit has also been
      shown to be involved in the perception of pain relief (Leknes et al., 2011; Navratilova et
      al., 2012; Seymour et al., 2005) .

      The interest of these new cardiac markers (HRV), radiological (anatomical and functional
      connectivity in MRI) and activity (connected watch) in the management of patients eligible
      for stimulation medullary will be evaluate. The use of a connected watch continuously
      measuring activity (number of steps, distance covered), sleep (duration of deep and light
      sleep, number of nocturnal awakenings), and the HRV index could provide an objective
      assessment and complementary to the self-questionnaires and the usual interviews. The MRI
      profile of anatomical and functional connectivity in the regions of interest linked to
      chronic pain and motivation in patients treated for EMS, would allow to seek a link between
      functional outcome, motivation and the ability to adapt and manage stress.

      By combining the usual care of patients eligible for an EMS with measurements of the HRV
      index, objective measurements of activity (number of steps, quality of sleep), and
      connectivity measurements obtained on MRI, the collection of preliminary data to identify
      markers correlated with the effectiveness of EMS will be possible. Ultimately, these markers
      could be used to optimize the perioperative management of these patients.
    
  