
    
      The current low rate of vertical transmission of HIV in the U.S. limits the number and types
      of questions concerning transmission risk and pathogenesis that can be addressed by a single
      clinical trial. Specific U.S. Public Health Service guidelines recommend antiretroviral
      therapy (ART) during pregnancy to maximize health of women. However, data regarding the
      effectiveness and safety of and adherence to ART during pregnancy are limited. It is both
      appropriate and necessary for theInternational Maternal Pediatric Adolescent AIDS Clinical
      Trials Group (IMPAACT) to recruit pregnant women into a non-interventional, analytic,
      epidemiologic study to methodically collect clinical and laboratory data from them and their
      infants. This way, the IMPAACT can achieve the aims of evaluating management of HIV-infected
      women during pregnancy and determining the safety and effectiveness of ART and other
      interventions intended to prevent vertical transmission and/or improve maternal health. In
      addition, longitudinally collected core protocol data and repository specimens will enable
      future substudies.

      Participants receive no protocol specific treatment or other intervention as part of this
      study. The study involves the follow-up of HIV-infected women enrolled during pregnancy or at
      the time of delivery for 6 months postpartum and their infants for the first 6 months of
      life. There will be 8 study visits for enrolled participants and 6 study visits for infants.
      Data concerning ART use, adherence to medications, and review of symptoms relevant to side
      effects and toxicities are collected through administration of questionnaires at all maternal
      visits. Phlebotomy is conducted to obtain specimens for a repository and for required
      laboratory tests. During labor and delivery, maternal blood is obtained for lymphocyte subset
      and viral load assays and for repository storage. Collection of amniotic fluid at the time of
      cesarean section is encouraged. These collections are submitted to a central repository. Data
      for the core protocol are abstracted from the infant's medical record at the time of birth
      and at each postnatal visit.
    
  