
    
      Ischemic cerebrovascular diseases are associated with a high rate of mortality and disability
      rate, as a consequence, many related trials were conducted to perfect prophylaxis and
      treatment of ischemic stroke. 2/3 of cerebral blood supply is offered by Internal carotid
      artery(ICA) , due to high morbility and disability rate of carotid territory stroke, stoke
      caused by ICA stenosis is always emphasized by authors. With the development to the depth in
      this field, ischemic stroke in posterior circulation related to vertebral artery stenosis is
      gradually paid attention recently. Outcome from New England medical center posterior
      circulation registry study revealed that 20% of patients were found to have vertebral artery
      origin(VAO) stenosis, in 9% of these patients, no other cause of stroke was identified. The
      relative risk of having a stroke or dying in patients with VAO stenosis was 6 times than that
      of patients without VAO stenosis. Therefore, VAO stenosis need appropriate management to
      prevent potentiality of ischemic stroke.

      Nowadays there are three treatment alternatives for extracranial VAO stenosis: medicine,
      surgery and endovascular stent angioplasty. However, medical therapy mainly focus on
      prevention and delay of severe ischemic events other than radical therapy, and it's not
      always effective to improve symptoms of posterior circulation ischemia. Surgery are limited
      by its serious trauma and the combined postoperative morbidity and mortality rates ranging
      from 10% to 20%.Endovascular stent angioplasty was feasible in ICA stenosis as reported in
      literatures, and that promotes the utilization of stent in VAO stenosis in recent years.
      Related retrospective studies have demonstrated the safety and efficacy of vertebral artery
      origin stenting(VAOS) in VAO stenosis. In a Meta analysis that summarized 27 articles about
      extracranial vertebral artery stenting, Stayman observed that the rate of transient ischemic
      attack(TIA) and stroke within postprocedural 30 days was 1.1% and 0.8% respectively. Compter
      etc. are conducting a prospective case-control study to assess the safety and feasibility of
      VAOS, which final outcome is thought to be relatively authentic.

      However, some drawbacks in VAOS needs additional resolution, like embolization caused by
      plaque debris, high restenosis rate, vasospasm, vessel dissection. Especially, embolization
      is associated with not only plaque characteristic, but also anatomy of the vertebral
      arteries, which is potentially essential to high risk of plaque debris dislodgment. The
      origin of vertebral artery is characterized with small diameter and tortuous course. Dodevski
      analyzed 30 patients' vertebral arteries and found that 40% of patients' vertebral artery was
      tortuous, the diameter of the VAO on the left side was in the range between 1.60-5.2 mm, mean
      3.33 ± 0.89 mm, and on the right side from 1.64-5.40 mm, mean 3.19 ± 0.98 mm. Tortuosity and
      small diameter in VAO will increase operation difficulty and procedural time.
      Borhanisummarized 27 articles focusing on vertebral origin angioplasty and concluded that of
      the 808 patients underwent stent angioplasty, the combined rate of stroke and TIA within 1
      month after stenting was 6.9%.

      Concerning dislodgement of plaque debris, embolic protection device(EPD) is applied recently
      to decrease the risk of embolization. But utilization of EPD in VAOS is mainly based on its
      safety and feasibility in carotid artery stenting(CAS). In CAS, cerebral embolic protection
      devices can effectively reduce the incidence of transient ischemic attack, stroke and other
      related adverse events. The U.S. Safety Committee recommended stopping unprotected CAS,
      because the 30-day rate of stroke was 3.9 times higher than that of CAS with cerebral
      protection. However, VAOS is different from CAS, and its performance in CAS cann't serve as
      medical science evidence for distal EPD in VAOS. Firstly, the rate of postoperative
      restenosis after VAOS is higher than that of CAS, ranging from 20% to 66.7%.Secondly, VAO are
      characterized by concentric, fibrous, and smooth lesions with lower incidence of ulceration
      and intraluminal hemorrhage compared with extracranial carotid artery circulation[13].
      Thirdly, the microscopic structure of VAO is featured with elastic fibers and smooth muscles.
      These distinctions indicate that investigators should make a distinction between CAS and VAOS
      in terms of intravascular intervention. As to the use of EPD in VAOS, no Class Ⅰ evidence can
      verify the safety and efficacy of EPD and clinicians share discrepant opinions. Some authors
      thought that distal protection devices will suspend operation process, increase
      operation-related risk and may cause embolization during crossing lesion and retrieval which
      may be referable to transient shear stress. In addition, some patients are intolerable to
      flow cessation caused by distal EPD. Moreover, foreign case reports even noted that
      utilization of distal EPD was probable to induce vasospasm and difficult retrieval of distal
      EPD was finally managed by secondary surgery in some cases[14, 15]. However, small
      sample-size studies demonstrated it's safe and feasible to use distal EPD in VAOS. Qureshi
      etc.retrospectively analyzed clinical data of 12 patients underwent VAOS with filter
      protection, outcome revealed that no stroke and death events occured within 1 month
      follow-up. In a multicenter study, Edgell etc. contrastively analyzed the data of patients
      underwent VAOS with and without distal EPD, the rate of TIA and stroke within 1 month between
      the two groups showed no significant difference. Divani etc. analyzed plaque debris captured
      by EPDs in 14 patients who underwent VAOS with distal protection devices, the outcome
      revealed that relative to the size of the filter, the proportion of captured debris ranged
      from 0.1% to 22% in the VA filters, hence, Divani recommended the use of distal EPD in VAOS.

      In summary, the use of distal EPD in VAOS is debatable, no class I evidence can support the
      advantage of use of distal EPD in VAOS. Here, the investigators will conduct this
      prospective, single-center, randomize controlled trial aiming to analyzed the safety and
      efficacy of distal EPD in VAOS.
    
  