
    
      The use of imaging in the staging and restaging of colorectal cancers has been evolving and
      improving in the last two decades. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is an accepted modality
      for staging of rectal cancer, allowing an accurate identification of transmural invasion of
      the mesorectal fat and mesorectal fascia involvement. Computed tomography (CT) significantly
      lacks resolution of soft tissue contrast so that its utility in T staging of rectal cancer is
      limited. Due to the higher sensitivity and specificity compared with CT,Positron Emission
      Tomography/ Computed Tomography with 18F-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose (FDG PET/CT) is recommended
      for use in a metastatic patients.

      Pelvic MRI and 18F-FDG PET/CT are useful for staging and therapeutic management. Pelvic MRI
      allows for accurate definition of the distance to mesorectal fascia which is a predictor of
      the local recurrence rate, as well as for definition of the regional nodal status. 18F-FDG
      PET/CT also helps in evaluating the nodal status and is especially performed for the
      detection of distant metastases. MRI and 18F-FDG PET/CT are thus 2 complementary modalities
      for the initial staging of advanced rectal cancer.

      Neoadjuvant therapies are performed for stage II and stage III rectal cancer. It has been
      shown that neoadjuvant therapy decreases local recurrence and increases survival. Therefore,
      correct preoperative staging has a critical role in determining whether patients should
      undergo neoadjuvant therapy.

      The literature on the clinical use of FDG-PET/CT in colorectal cancer staging is fairly
      limited, but recent works have demonstrated some promise for optimizing the accuracy of
      initial staging by clarifying equivocal findings on conventional imaging in preoperative
      staging, and evaluating apparently limited metastatic disease before intervention .

      It was reported that the use of FDG-PET/CT in this study changed the planned treatment
      strategy in a total of 30% of the patients. A change from palliative to curative or vice
      versa was seen in almost 10% of the patients.

      PET/CT provides high accuracy for the detection and staging of liver lesions in CRC patients,
      PET led to a change in patient management in an average of 24 % of patients, including both
      exclusion from curative surgery and modification of the surgical approach.

      Risk of local recurrence is substantial and correlates to the extension and grade of the
      tumor and to the nodal status at initial presentation. The guidelines also highlight the
      usefulness of PET/CT for restaging in the setting of a serially elevated carcinoembryonic
      antigen level (CEA), negative results on conventional imaging, and potentially resectable
      metachronous metastases documented by CT, MRI, or biopsy.It was reported that a high
      sensitivity and specificity of 18F-FDG PET/CT in detecting recurrent CRC, largely regardless
      of CEA levels, as well as they concluded that 18F-FDG PET/CT have high diagnostic value and
      can be used as the first choice in the detection of recurrent CRC in patients with
      unexplained rising CEA, even in patients with a recent normal routine CT.
    
  