
    
      STUDY DESIGN- This is an open-label Phase I study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and
      immunogenicity of 3- injection vaccination regimen with an investigational plasmid DNA
      vaccine that encodes for H1 hemagglutinin (HA) of an H1N1 influenza virus. All study
      participants will be offered to receive an additional optional booster immunization with
      licensed inactivated monovalent H1N1 influenza vaccine.

      The hypothesis is that the DNA vaccine will be safe for human administration and will elicit
      an antibody response. The primary objectives are to evaluate the safety and tolerability of
      the VRC-FLUDNA057-00-VP DNA vaccine at a dosage of 4 mg administered in a 3-injection
      schedule. The secondary objectives are to evaluate antibody responses including induced
      antibody titer as measured by a hemagglutination inhibition (HAI) assay and to document the
      reactogenicity of the inactivated H1N1 influenza vaccine when administered to subjects
      previously vaccinated with the VRC-FLUDNA057-00-VP DNA vaccine.

      Exploratory objectives are related to further evaluation of the humoral and cellular immune
      responses, including the responses after each injection and after the boost with licensed
      H1N1 inactivated influenza vaccine.

      PRODUCT DESCRIPTIONS- The VRC-FLUDNA057-00-VP vaccine was developed and manufactured by VRC,
      NIAID and is composed of 1 closed-circular DNA plasmid with a CMV/R promoter that encodes for
      the H1 hemagglutinin from the Influenza A/California/04/2009 H1N1 virus, identified late in
      the 2008-2009 northern hemisphere (NH) influenza season that has been referred to as swine
      flu in news reports. Vaccine vials will be supplied at 4 mg/mL and each 4 mg dosage will
      require a 1 mL injection. Vaccinations with the H1 DNA vaccine will be administered
      intramuscularly (IM) in the deltoid muscle using the Biojector[R] 2000 Needle-Free Injection
      Management System (Biojector). Licensed inactivated monovalent H1N1 influenza vaccine will be
      obtained through the NIH Clinical Center (CC) pharmacy, for use as a booster injection, and
      administered with needle and syringe. The brand administered will depend upon what is
      available through the NIH CC.

      SUBJECTS- A total of 20 healthy adults in the 18-70 years age range will be enrolled;
      however, no more than 10 subjects will be in the 51-70 year old age range.

      STUDY PLAN- All subjects will receive 3 injections of the H1 DNA vaccine as shown in the
      schedule below. No more than 5 subjects may be enrolled in the first week of the study.
      Following the 5th enrollment, the remainder of subjects may be enrolled without restrictions
      on enrollment rate. All subjects that have no contraindications to the licensed - inactivated
      H1N1 influenza vaccine or to additional blood drawing will be offered the option to receive
      the licensed inactivated H1N1 influenza vaccine. The study includes 7 clinic visits and 3
      telephone contacts as well as 3 additional visits for subjects that opt to receive an
      inactivated influenza vaccine. Subjects who have received the inactivated H1N1 vaccine
      outside of the VRC Clinic after Study Week 12 may consent to contribute the additional
      research samples through completing the extra visits on the schedule for post boost
      evaluations. A target window for the inactivated H1N1 vaccine is shown in the schema below.
      However, given that all subjects will be at or beyond Study Week 12, the earliest mutually
      convenient date after the H1N1 vaccine supply and amended protocol become available is
      acceptable for administration of the optional injection. The added post-boost research sample
      collections will then be scheduled to occur relative to the date the H1N1 booster injection.

      Number of Subjects = 20

      VRC-FLUDNA057-00-VP 4 mg on Day 0; 4mg on Day 28 plus or minus 7; 4mg on Day 56 plus or minus
      7, at least 21 days between injections. Inactivated licensed H1N1 influenza vaccine
      (optional) Day 168 plus or minus 28 - 1 dose

      STUDY DURATION- Each participant will complete 32 weeks of clinical follow up.
    
  