
    
      -  Participants with advanced small-cell lung cancer, will be asked to fill out some
           quality of life questionnaires that help to measure their quality of life (QOL), mood
           and understanding of their illness. They will also be asked to identify an important
           person in their life, either a relative or friend, who they count on for help and
           support. The research staff will contact that individual and ask them to if they want to
           participate in the caregiver part of this study.

        -  Lung cancer participants will then be randomized into one of the two study groups:
           integrated palliative care or standard palliative care.

        -  Participants assigned to the Standard palliative care group will be referred to the
           Palliative Care Team at their doctor's or their request at any time. At that time the
           Palliative Care Team (PCT) will follow and treat the participant as they would any other
           cancer patient. Research staff will request the participant to fill out QOL, mood &
           illness understanding questionnaires about 12, 18 and 24 weeks after they sign the
           consent form. Their caregiver will be asked to fill out the FamCare form at 12, 18 and
           24 weeks.

        -  Participants assigned to the Integrated Palliative Care group will have an appointment
           with the Palliative Care Team within 3 weeks of being randomized. The palliative care
           physician will formulate a care plan based on the participant's and caregiver's issues
           and needs. The PCT will meet with the participant on a regular basis, a minimum of every
           6 weeks. These visits wil vary with the participant's needs and may include individual
           or group meetings with the physicians, nurse practitioners, social workers or chaplains.
           Research staff will ask you to fill out QOL, mood & illness understanding questionnaires
           about 12, 18 and 24 weeks after they sign the consent form. Their caregiver will be
           asked to fill out the FamCare form at 12, 18 and 24 weeks.

        -  Participants will be in this research study for about 24 weeks or 6 months. After this 6
           month period is over, care by the Palliative Care Team my continue but the participants
           will not be asked to fill out more questionnaires.
    
  