
    
      A large proportion of the population has substantial left ventricular dysfunction (LVD) and
      do not have symptoms (Stage B heart failure). For many of these patients, if identified and
      treated appropriately, it is possible to prevent the subsequent development of heart failure
      (HF). Although the current gold standard for detection of LVD is echocardiography, it is
      expensive and impractical for mass screening.

      Natriuretic peptides are attractive candidates for screening populations for asymptomatic LVD
      particularly because of high negative predictive values. Furthermore, some studies have shown
      that, in the right setting, screening with natriuretic peptides might prove cost effective in
      combination with echocardiography for patients with elevated levels.

      However, in common with many accepted screening strategies, there are no randomised studies
      which show that screening the population with natriuretic peptides for asymptomatic LVF
      alters the natural history of the condition.

      From a large, community based cardiovascular risk screening programme including more than
      13,000 patients, patients in the catchment area of St Vincent's University Hospital are
      invited to participate in the STOP-HF study. The objective of this work is to determine
      whether or not using natriuretic peptide screening in conjunction with specialist follow-up
      will reduce the prevalence and severity of LVD in a well-defined, at-risk, primary care
      population. It also aims to: evaluate the natural history of natriuretic peptides over time
      in this population; to clarify optimal screening cut-offs for the detection of LVD; to
      evaluate the clinical, pharmacological, biochemical, genetic and proteomic determinants of
      natriuretic peptides in this setting; to determine whether the clinical benefits of the STOP
      HF screening programme, if any, are cost effective.

      The study design is prospective, randomised and parallel group.

      The primary endpoint is the prevalence and severity LVD after 5 years of follow up. Secondary
      endpoints include: the natural history of natriuretic peptides; the relationship between
      natriuretic peptides and severity of LVD, death, hospital admissions; clinical, demographic,
      biochemical, pharmacological, genomic, proteomic, metabolomic determinants of natriuretic
      peptides; screening cost-effectiveness.

      Participants who fulfill entry criteria at baseline will sign an informed consent and will be
      randomised onto the Usual Care or Intervention Care arm of the study. Usual care is defined
      as continued management of the patient by the primary care services using standard risk
      factor monitoring and intervention strategies. Intervention Care is defined as a
      collaborative cardiovascular management between primary care and specialist hospital based
      services. All participants will receive an intensive education session from a cardiovascular
      nurse on their risk factors and advice on healthy dietary and lifestyle habits.

      There will be 2 years of enrollment with annual review and 5 years of follow-up to the
      primary endpoint. Permission has been received to extend the follow up period to 10 years.
      Regardless of randomisation, all patients receive full clinical and laboratory assessment at
      baseline and on completion of the STOP HF study (year 5). Additionally, all participants will
      receive echocardiography assessment during and at the conclusion of the study.

      Data collection:

      Data will be collected on all participants regarding their medical history and current
      medications. The source of data collection will be from medical records kept at the primary
      care practices and from patient interview. All participants will receive a booklet in which
      they will be asked to record any visits to their primary care practitioner, alterations in
      medications, new diagnoses and hospital admissions. Local hospital discharge records will be
      screened to detect any events throughout the course of the study.

      Clinical Assessment:

      At annual intervals, the cardiovascular research nurse will conduct clinical assessments on
      all participants including weight, abdominal girth measurement, blood pressure (triplicate
      measurements while lying in supine position), heart rate and observe for evidence of limb
      oedema. The nurse will also question the participants to investigate for symptoms of
      dyspnoea, angina, palpitations, orthopnoea, palpitations and fatigue.

      Blood sampling and handling:

      Peripheral venous blood samples will be drawn on all participants at annual intervals.
      Samples to assess natriuretic peptides will be drawn into vacutainers containing EDTA and
      samples to assess renal function, collagen turnover and lipid profile will be collected in
      vacutainers containing lithium heparin. BNP and Lipid profile assessment will be analysed
      using point of care meters, Biosite (Triage, USA) and Cholestech respectively. Each of the
      remaining samples will be centrifuged for 10 minutes and the serum will be then aliquoted and
      stored at -80°C before analysis of biochemical, genomic, proteomic and metabolomic markers.

      Echocardiographic Doppler analysis:

      Two-dimensional echocardiographic imaging, targeted M-mode and Doppler ultrasound
      measurements will be obtained in each patient. M-mode measurements are taken according to the
      guidelines laid down by the American Society of Echocardiography. All echocardiographic data
      will represent the mean of 3 measurements on different cardiac cycles. It is the aim of the
      STOP HF investigators that a single observer will conduct all measurements, recording archive
      images in a blinded fashion.
    
  