
    
      The study will be conducted over 18 months and will be conducted in two phases:

      Phase 1 In the first phase, we will determine the validity and reliability of Functional
      Outcome Measure by applying the Functional Outcome Measure to 20 subjects with homonymous
      visual field defects (VFD) due to a stoke, 20 stroke cases without visual field defects and
      20 normal individuals. They will be asked to perform the Functional Outcome Measure a second
      time within the following 1-2 weeks in order to evaluate test-retest reliability. The
      expectation is that those without VFD (stroke and normal individuals) will have good or
      excellent results on the Functional Outcome Measure, while those with VFD will have abnormal
      results, thus reflecting the ability of this instrument to record the impairment present in
      those with VFD. In addition, it is anticipated that the results will be similar after
      retesting, ensuring test-retest reliability. An interim analysis will determine if the
      instrument is valid and if all its components correlate with the magnitude of visual field
      loss (as measured by High Resolution perimetry). Once the validation of the instrument has
      been accomplished, the functional outcome measure will be amended as suggested by this
      analysis to include only the items that correlate well with VFD.

      The functional outcome measure will be administered either at the NovaVision, Inc. office
      (normal individuals) or in cooperating medical centers (stroke patients with or without
      visual field defect).

      Phase 2 In the second phase, the amended version of the Functional Outcome Instrument will be
      administered to individuals with VFD. Two groups will be studied: 100 cases which will
      perform Vision Restoration Therapy (VRT), and 50 controls that will not. The latter group
      will include the 20 patients with VFD studied in Phase 1. Both groups will undergo visual
      field testing with high resolution perimetry, and will complete the Functional Outcome
      Measure on 4 occasions: twice within a 2 week interval at baseline, once after three months,
      and once after 6-7 months, with one of the groups having completed therapy during this time.

      Visual field testing (high resolution perimetry) will be administered at cooperating medical
      centers. While patients undergoing VRT will perform the functional outcome measure once at
      the center and once on their VRT device at home, controls will perform their functional
      outcome measure at the medical center only, as they don't have access to a VRT device at
      home.
    
  