
    
      Prostate cancer (PCa) is the most commonly-diagnosed invasive cancer in Canada, with 24,000
      new cases predicted for 2015. The large majority of men (96%) will survive five or more years
      post-diagnosis. However, many PCa survivors live with side effects of the disease and
      treatment and may develop chronic conditions due to aging and/or cancer therapy. The
      PCa-related side effects can also impact men's interpersonal relationships. Effective
      interventions to promote health and well-being for PCa survivors are urgently needed.

      Evidence shows that nutrition can improve outcomes for PCa survivors; however, dietary
      interventions for prostate cancer patients are limited. Furthermore, all PCa-related
      interventions reported thus far are limited in one important way: they focus only on the
      patient/survivor. Yet, the impact of prostate cancer extends to the spouse as well. When it
      comes to lifestyle interventions, responsibility for health behaviours and food preparation
      typically falls on the wife, particularly in today's cohort of PCa patients. As such,
      engaging the partner is crucial to ensure success for the survivor, and provide benefits for
      the wife as well.

      Therefore, this is a feasibility study that tests the impact of an innovative intervention to
      promote healthy nutrition and weight control for PCa survivors and their partners.

      The objectives are to assess the feasibility of the intervention, specifically:

        -  Accrual, retention and adherence, and participant satisfaction

        -  Candidate measures for primary outcomes in future studies

      The study draws on Interdependence Theory and features of successful cooking class
      intervention research in other populations. Specifically, it uses hands-on cooking
      experience, combined with increased cooking skills and nutrition knowledge to build skills
      and self-efficacy; to be culturally appropriate and use simple affordable ingredients; and to
      involve the spouses.

      The dietary intervention will be offered to a total of 24 couples (48 individuals). The
      intervention includes 6 cooking and nutrition-related classes, that are held weekly in a
      university classroom kitchen with interactive demo and cooking components. Classes focus on
      learning through preparing theme-based recipes, with themes organized around prostate health.

      Feasibility outcomes are assessed throughout. Questionnaire-based outcomes are assessed pre-
      and post-intervention, anthropometric outcomes at first and last intervention session.

      The main intent is to evaluate how well the classes work and identify ways to make them more
      successful. At the end of the study, the investigators will know if this approach shows merit
      to be tested further through a randomized controlled trial.
    
  