
    
      With healthcare spending accounting for almost one-fifth of the U.S. economy and an even
      larger share of public sector budgets, there is substantial interest in innovations in
      healthcare delivery that can reduce the "over use" of resources that have no or low value to
      patients. As a result, there is a key need for rigorous evidence on scalable interventions
      aimed at improving the efficiency of the U.S. healthcare sector in general, and in the public
      sector in particular, which accounts for $1.25 trillion in annual healthcare spending.

      In particular, there is widespread concern in both the medical profession and the public
      sector of the cost and health risks of "over-scanning". Estimates suggest that as many as 30%
      of imaging in the U.S. are unnecessary. Medicare direct spending on "high-cost" scans (e.g.
      MRs and CTs) was about $10 billion in 2012, or about 2% of total Medicare costs ; the
      indirect costs are likely considerably greater, since imaging often triggers additional
      follow up care. It is also estimated that about 2 percent of cancers in the U.S. are due to
      CT use.

      Reflecting this concern, starting in 2018 Medicare will no longer reimburse for high-cost
      scans unless ordered using an "acceptable" Clinical Decision Support (CDS) system. Despite
      this upcoming policy change, the investigators know of no large-scale randomized trials on
      the impact of CDS for imaging.

      The intervention in this study provides Clinical Decision Support (CDS) for targeted
      high-cost radiology orders, (MR, CT, NM, and PET scans), to healthcare providers treating
      patients in settings affiliated with the Aurora Health Care system headquartered in
      Wisconsin. CDS is a tool embedded in an order entry system that provides information and
      guidance to providers on whether their intended order is "appropriate" and whether there are
      more highly recommended alternatives. The randomization is at the provider level: half will
      receive the CDS, while the remaining half of providers in the study will serve as the control
      group.

      The CDS will be delivered through the order-entry software, Epic, through ACR Select
      software, which is a leading decision support tool based on the American College of Radiology
      (ACR) Appropriateness Criteria.

      Recommendations that appear in the CDS tool are a digitized version of guidelines created by
      the American College of Radiology (ACR). The guidelines score the appropriateness of a scan
      order for a given health indication, where indications include common symptoms and diagnosis
      keywords, such as "acute headache." In particular, indication-scan pairs are assigned an
      "appropriateness rating" from 1-9. Scores 1-3 are 'usually not appropriate,' 4-6 are 'may be
      appropriate,' and 7-9 are 'usually appropriate.'

      To learn more about how CDS impacts ordering behavior, the investigators will investigate
      whether those exposed to CDS orders in ways that avoids CDS, such as placing them via
      clerical workers or choosing different indications. The investigators plan to analyze
      outcomes across different settings (Inpatient vs Outpatient and in the ED). Last, if the
      investigators find effects of CDS on ordering they will examine effects on utilization,
      including length of inpatient stays.

      The primary outcome is the number of imaging orders that would produce a best-practice alert
      suggesting a change. The investigators conducted power calculations using a 7-month
      intervention window and 6 months of pre-period data to calculate the lag of the dependent
      variable as a control. With this control, the minimum detectible effect is a 13% reduction
      compared to a mean of 11 scans over that time period.

      In addition, the investigators will investigate the number of scans (all high-cost, high-cost
      scoring 1-3, high-cost scoring 4-6, and substitution to low-cost scans. The investigators
      will also investigate whether treatment group orders in ways that avoids the CDS, such as
      placing them via clerical workers or choosing different indications. The investigators plan
      to analyze outcomes across different settings (Inpatient vs Outpatient and in the ED). Last,
      if the investigators find effects of CDS on ordering they will examine effects on
      utilization, including length of inpatient stays.
    
  