
    
      The primary objective of this project is to examine the short and long-term effects of an
      intervention focusing on three interrelated dimensions of health: improving sleep, increasing
      physical activity, and improving skills in emotion regulation. This intervention targets
      high-risk youth at a key neuromaturational period-early adolescence-when many individuals are
      experiencing new challenges to regulatory systems involved in sleep, activity, and emotion
      regulation.

      SPECIFIC AIMS:

        1. To examine the effects of the intervention on sleep, physical activity, and emotion
           regulation:

           Hypothesis 1a: The intervention will result in increased total sleep and more
           regularized sleep/wake schedules (as measured by Sensewear sleep/activity monitors and
           sleep logs in the home environment).

           Hypothesis 1b: The intervention will result in increased physical activity and less time
           per week in sedentary activity (as measured by Sensewear activity monitors and
           standardized physical activity questionnaire).

           Hypothesis 1c: The intervention will result in improved emotion regulation (as measured
           by a composite index derived from interaction tasks, as well as home and school measures
           of emotion regulation).

        2. To examine intervention effects on externalizing (problem behavior), internalizing
           symptoms, and peer relationships.

           Hypothesis 2a: The intervention will result in lower levels of externalizing and
           internalizing symptoms and improved relationships with peers as measured by parent,
           youth, and teacher reports.

           Hypothesis 2b: Intervention effects for lower levels of externalizing and internalizing
           symptoms and improved relationships with peers, if found, will be mediated by
           improvements in child sleep, physical activity, and emotion regulation.

           SECONDARY AIMS: In addition to these specific aims the following exploratory analyses
           are planned:

        3. To examine parent-child interaction as a mediator of change in child sleep, physical
           activity, and emotion regulation. Just as we are interested in the possibility that
           changes in child problem behavior and peer relationships are mediated by improvements in
           sleep, physical activity, and emotion regulation, we will examine aspects of
           improvements in sleep, physical activity, and emotion regulation that are mediated by
           improvements in the quality of parent-child interaction (e.g., parental involvement),
           based on both parent reports and observations of parent-child quality.

        4. To explore directional effects between sleep, daytime activity, daytime mood, emotion
           regulation, and affective and behavioral symptoms. For example, we will examine: a) if
           sleep difficulties will predict daytime measures of negative mood, irritability, and
           decreased physical activity the following day; or b) if daytime measures of stress and
           negative affect will predict sleep difficulties the subsequent night; c) if physical
           activity during the day will be associated with better sleep that night.

        5. To examine the impact of this intervention on measures of physical health (e.g., Body
           Mass Index and waist circumference) and academic function (e.g., days of school
           missed/tardiness and school performance).
    
  