
    
      The aim of the study is to discover if PTNS can be used to reduce the symptoms in those
      patients with tenesmus due to their pelvic floor disorders. These pelvic floor disorders
      include rectal cancer in situ, Anterior Resection Syndrome developed after rectal-cancer
      treatment, or gynaecological problems. Gynaecological problems that can cause tenesmus
      include radiotherapy for gynaecological cancer, ovarian cysts, pelvic organ prolapse and
      hysterectomy.

      Currently, there is a lack of treatment options available to manage patients with tenesmus
      and it is hoped that PTNS will provide a simple, non-invasive treatment to this wide patient
      group with distressing symptoms. Assessment of symptom improvement will be used by analysing
      the change in scores on the COREFO, e-PAQ and HADS questionnaires, which will be completed
      pre and post treatment. COREFO is a validated questionnaire which includes questions
      specifically relating to tenesmus. e-PAQ is a validated questionnaire which looks at all
      aspects of the pelvic floor (bowel, urinary, vaginal, sexual) along with quality of life.
      HADS is a validated questionnaire classifying the patient's degree of anxiety and depression
      as either "normal", "borderline abnormal" or "abnormal".

      There have been two pilot studies looking into the effect of PTNS in improving symptoms in
      Anterior Resection Syndrome patients. However, full papers have not been published of this
      data. These two studies assessed symptom improvement using questionnaires, but they did not
      use COREFO, e-PAQ or HADS, or include patients who currently have rectal cancer (i.e. not
      Anterior Resection Syndrome patients) or gynaecological problems and have the same tenesmus
      symptoms. Thus this makes this research an original proposal. e-PAQ is widely used in STH to
      assess pelvic floor symptoms, and thus its use here enables comparison with other patient
      groups who also have PTNS as a treatment option.
    
  