
    
      Cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) and cardiovascular surgery initiate diffuse activation of
      coagulation, inflammation and fibrinolysis that often has deleterious effects on patient
      outcomes, including bleeding, transfusion, myocardial dysfunction, renal failure, pulmonary
      dysfunction, prolonged intubation, ICU and hospital length of stay, stroke and neurocognitive
      dysfunction, and mortality.Pediatric patients are especially at risk for hematologic
      derangement related to CPB. Not only are infants and children subject to the same diffuse
      activations of coagulation, inflammation, and fibrinolysis as adults, but their size,
      immaturity, and circulatory abnormalities secondary to congenital heart disease increase the
      risk of loss of hematologic homeostasis. Since an infant's blood volume is much smaller than
      that of the prime in the CPB pump, hemodilution alone produces impaired hemostasis related to
      thrombocytopenia and coagulation factor dilution The incidence of each of these complications
      is variable and depends on the diagnosis, operation, time on CPB and other factors.

      Adequate anticoagulation during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) is essential to preserve the
      hemostatic system and ensure hemostasis after surgery. Heparin has long been the mainstay of
      anticoagulation for CPB, due to its ease of use, familiarity, and reversibility. For heparin
      to exert its anticoagulant effect, it must bind with an intrinsic cofactor, antithrombin III
      (ATIII) to inhibit enzymes of the intrinsic and final common coagulation pathways. It has
      been established that neonates have significantly decreased levels of ATIII relative to
      adults, and that this relative deficiency continues at least until 6 months of age. Children
      with congenital heart disease have further decreases in ATIII and other abnormalities of
      coagulation which may contribute to adverse outcomes. Given this ATIII deficiency, it is not
      surprising that heparin anticoagulation does not fully suppress coagulation during CPB.
      Neonates anticoagulated for CPB with heparin have ongoing activation of humoral and cellular
      coagulation with associated activation of inflammation and fibrinolysis. Improved
      anticoagulation may reduce activation of these cascades and improve outcomes. In addition,
      infants are at high risk for post cardiac surgery intervascular thrombosis. Baseline ATIII
      deficiency, and consumption of ATIII during bypass may contribute to a postoperative
      prothrombotic state esulting in this often fatal complication. ATIII supplementation may
      decrease this risk.

      ATIII is available as a lyophilized product derived from pooled human plasma. Treatment with
      ATIII has been shown to improve the anticoagulant effects of heparin and attenuate activation
      of hemostasis and inflammation during adult CPB, and to decrease the incidence of thrombosis
      associated with central venous cannulation in children. The incidence of central venous
      thrombosis in infants undergoing cardiac surgery has been reported as 5.8 - 22% in neonates,
      with a resultant mortality of 20%.

      The biologic half-life of antithrombin in healthy adult volunteers is 2.5 - 3.8 days.
      Pharmacokinetic data in neonates is not available, but biologic activity should certainly
      persist through the 2 highest risk periods:

      CPB, where activation of coagulation produces activation of inflammation, both cellular and
      humoral, and fibrinolysis.

      The early post-op period when patients typically become hypercoagulable as part of the stress
      response to surgery. Hypercoagulability places the patients at high risk for central
      line-associated thrombosis despite by heparin-containing flush solutions which are standard
      of care. Ensuring a near normal level of antithrombin appears to enhance the ability of the
      flush solutions to inhibit thrombin generation on the catheter.

      ATIII has been used in infants after cardiac surgery to prophylax against central venous
      thrombosis, for infants with necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC), and as treatment for neonates
      with congenital ATIII deficiency. Neonates appear to respond as expected to ATIII
      supplementation, with clinical efficacy for central venous thrombosis but not NEC. No
      complications unique to infants were reported in any of these publications.

      It is reasonable to expect that ATIII would be even more beneficial in infants less than 6
      months old.
    
  