
    
      The intervention proposed in this study is a stepped-care model comprised of three steps. The
      intensity of the intervention increases for participants with each of the following steps: 1)
      psychoeducation, 2) group therapy and 3) individual therapy. Recent evidence has shown the
      need for more tailored assessment and treatment methods for men suffering from depression as
      well as evidence showing the effectiveness of EFT (Emotionally-Focused Therapy)1. As such,
      the stepped-care model approach will be based on cognitive-behaviour therapy (CBT) and
      Emotionally-Focused Therapy (EFT). The research design is based on a quasi-experimental
      paradigm and a prospective observational cohort study.

      Background information In 2012, the Canadian Institute for Health Information estimated that
      6.8 million Canadians age 20 to 74 are affected by the following chronic conditions heart
      disease, high blood pressure, diabetes, asthma, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
      Strikingly, nearly 40% more men than women are likely to be hospitalized for all types of
      heart disease (HD) combined2. Mental health and physical health are fundamentally linked. It
      is three times more likely that a person with HD will experience depression when compared to
      people without HD2. Research on men's mental health in the context of HD, specifically in
      acute coronary syndrome (ACS), reveals an important relationship between HD and mood
      disorders, anxiety disorders, and trauma-related stress in men (MD/AD/TRS)3. Co-existing HD
      and mental illness contribute to worse health status and higher health care utilization
      rates3. This is problematic because men underuse mental health services and health services
      in general4. The principal reasons evoked to explain this are the lack of "male-friendly"
      health services, the functional view that men have of their bodies, and their perception of
      healthcare services as occasional "fix-it" cures4. Thus, while men appear to be at high risk
      for HD and for the spectrum of MD/AD/TRS that often accompany it and slow the rehabilitation
      from ACS, they are unlikely to receive preventative services, to seek and to receive
      appropriate timely interventions for their psychological distress and mental illness. This in
      turn, can jeopardize men's mental health, quality of life and physical health over the long
      term, along with their life expectancy. Indeed, the occurrence of MD/AD/TRS has been shown to
      impact the prognosis of ACS patients.

      In the context of this study an Acute coronary syndrome (ACS) encompasses multiple heart
      diseases having symptoms consistent with acute myocardial ischemia, including unstable angina
      and myocardial infarctions (MI) ("heart attacks") such as non-ST-segment elevation myocardial
      infarction (NSTEMI) and ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI)5. On the other
      hand, Mood disorder or depressive disorders (MD) includes a variety of depressive conditions
      that mainly cause an individual to not function normally from a mental and physical
      standpoint. These conditions all show symptoms of sadness, emptiness and irritable mood6.
      Anxiety disorders (AD) consist of the anticipation of future threats, which cause an
      individual to be overly cautious or avoidant and result in such actions as misguided or
      anticipatory muscle tension in normal-considered situations6. Trauma-related stress (TRS)
      describes a condition where the individual's exposure to an event has caused unusual,
      physical or mental, stress or trauma. The aftermath of these events can vary; with some
      having the individual experiences anxiety and fear, but more often they will show a hedonic,
      dysphoric, dissociative and aggressive symptoms6.

      Relevant Literature and Data The psychological effects of HD are seen at the patient level
      and their family (e.g. intimate partner)7-12. HD is related to decrease in sexual activity
      and sexual satisfaction, decrease in effective interpersonal communication, and increase in
      the amount and intensity of conflict in couple relationships13,14. This can be especially
      problematic for men, because they tend to become more intensely physiologically aroused
      (e.g., increase in blood pressure, cardiac reactivity, and limbic activation) for more
      extended periods of time during and after conflicts with their partners than do women15,
      which tends to lead them to shut down emotionally and to shut out their relationship partner
      in an attempt to re-establish psychological and physiological homeostasis16-18.Unfortunately,
      this type of "stonewalling"15 behaviour usually only serves to exacerbate couple conflict and
      leads to distressed conjugal relationships16-18. Clinically significant symptoms of
      depression and anxiety are known correlates of conjugal distress19-21. Furthermore, emotional
      isolation is also a known risk factor for the development of TRS22,23. Patients with
      MD/AD/TRS are at greater risk (two-fold) of major adverse cardiac events than those
      without24; and at risk of recurrent HD and mortality25. All of this may contribute to poorer
      prognosis of ACS patients with MD/AD/TRS.

      Despite findings from some small-scale studies that indicate positive effects of
      psychotherapy and pharmacological therapy on symptoms of depression and anxiety in the
      context of HD26-28, the results of large controlled trials are equivocal. The Enhancing
      Recovery in Coronary HD Patients (ENRICHD) study investigated MD, HD, social support and
      CBT29-32. Their finding showed that CBT helped to reduce symptoms of depression in MI
      patients in short term but the benefits waned after 30 months. Similarly, the Cardiac
      Randomized Evaluation of Antidepressant and Psychotherapy Efficacy (CREATE) study suggested
      that 12 weeks of Interpersonal Therapy (IPT) did not add to the effects of clinical
      management on depression in cardiac patients when combined with the antidepressant
      citalopram33. The psychological treatments that have been used to date thus appear to be
      lacking for cardiac patients with depression, which emphasizes the need for the development
      of ones that will have the desired effects on their psychological symptoms. Aside from the
      handful of studies cited above, published reports of treatments/care of MD/AD/TRS in the
      context of HD are virtually nonexistent. Thus far, all of the research in this area has
      focused on generic treatments for men and women that might neglect the specific needs or
      tendencies of either gender in terms of mental-health treatment.

      For aforementioned reasons, ensuring that men are properly informed, screened, and treated
      for MD/AD/TRS in the context of HD is essential. It is also imperative that the preventive
      approaches and the treatments they receive be tailored to their particular needs (e.g.
      goal-oriented focus with specific and attainable objectives)34. As previous literature
      pointed out, "The rationale behind the development of male sensitive approaches is that men
      generally have a harder time engaging in the activities germane to psychotherapy (e.g.,
      identifying and discussing feelings, considering the intra- and interpersonal impact of one's
      own behaviour and that of others, showing vulnerability, asking for help) than do women, for
      a host of reasons related to both biology and socialization ." Men are significantly less
      likely than women to seek any kind of help for common mental-health problems4,36. Most of the
      psychological services routinely offered tend to focus predominantly on symptom-management,
      with little attention to the interpersonal connections that attenuate the loneliness and
      isolation that contribute to MD/AD/TRS. A notable exception to this is IPT mentioned earlier.
      Furthermore, to the investigators knowledge, IPT has not been applied to cardiac patients
      with MD/AD/TRS, and it appears to be less effective for patients with little or no social
      support or with dysfunctional conjugal relationships26. Recognition of the importance of
      interpersonal relationships for mental health has led a handful of clinical researchers to
      integrate relational components into their treatments for depression, anxiety, and comorbid
      HD and to test their efficacy26,33,37,38. However, there has not yet been, to the
      investigators knowledge, any systematic attempt to tailor and apply relationship-focused
      treatments to the needs of men suffering from MD/AD/TRS as they recover from HD. These
      include a focus on the intra- and interpersonal skills known to coincide with psychological
      health (e.g., awareness and integration of primary affect into daily interactions in order to
      meet socio-affective needs, realistic thinking, engagement in rewarding behaviours) and
      presentation of these skills in ways that will resonate with male patients (e.g.,
      task-focused approach, appropriate rationale).

      Stepped-care models have been applied elsewhere for MD/AD/TRS treatment with general success
      and acceptability. Studies have shown that the stepped-care implementation was received
      positively in primary care settings39. It was also shown to be effective in reducing symptoms
      and improving functioning among TRS patients40. According to the literature, the stepped care
      model has also been used with cardiac patients and was acceptable, effective and
      accessible41.

      Clinical relevance of the project Currently, in the province of New Brunswick, there a few
      services offered or follow-ups available for ACS patients in relation to their mental health.
      Some cardiac rehabilitation centers in the province offer access to psychological services to
      ACS patients, but these are very limited compared to more intensive services such as
      stepped-care models. These services include access to information on depression and a more
      thorough Cardiac Wellness Program with access to a psychologist for patients who wish to
      pursue their rehabilitation42. In the past few decades, implementation of stepped-care models
      for the treatment of mood disorders have been seen globally43,44 and their adaptation deemed
      as cost-effective45-47.

      The MD/AD/TRS stepped-care intervention proposed in this study will contribute to adopt
      men-sensitive interventions and preventive approaches (information/education and early
      detection) and to emphasize the link between HD and men's relationships and interpersonal
      support by means of including identified significant people in their lives for their
      treatment. Modifications to the stepped-care model will be integrated based on findings from
      the qualitative study in phase 1 of the project which encompassed focus groups with men and
      interviews with health professionals. Some of these modifications include utilizing language
      that is men sensitive, giving a choice to men as to whether they would like to include their
      partners in therapy and providing training for therapists on the stepped care model.

      Objectives of the Phase 2 of the study Primary Objectives The primary objectives of this
      observational study is to assess the feasibility, acceptability and efficacy of the
      stepped-care model and thus to identify predictors of utilization, compliance and clinical
      trajectory of men following an ACS, experiencing or not a common mental illness (MD/AD/TRS).

      Secondary Objectives

      In addition, the study secondary objectives are:

        -  Improve the utilization of cardiac rehabilitation programs among men post-ACS.

        -  Assess changes of men perceptions towards masculinity and their relationship to their
           partners.

        -  Develop recommendations to support implementation and scaling-up the intervention in the
           province.
    
  