
    
      The financial burden and human suffering are devastating after stroke due to the lack of
      rehabilitation protocols that can restore normal brain and motor function. Conventional
      treatment does not restore normal motor function to many stroke survivors. The majority of
      available treatments are directed at the peripheral nervous system (arms/legs). Since stroke
      occurs in the brain and results in brain damage and dysfunction, a more direct approach may
      be to re-train the brain by directly treating the activation of brain signals that control
      movement.

      The purposes of this study are to determine if motor learning, functional electrical
      stimulation (FES), and brain computer interface (BCI) training are beneficial for restoring
      arm function in people who have had a stroke, and to determine if the surface-acquired brain
      signal [electroencephalography (EEG)] can be re-trained to provide more normal motor function
      in stroke survivors. The primary purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy of the
      motor learning tasks in stroke recovery.

      In the study, scientists will use two different and complimentary brain signal training
      components to restore more normal motor control of a motor task (elbow, wrist, or finger
      movement task). Specifically targeting, invoking, and training the surface-acquired EEG brain
      signal, and integrating brain signal training into motor learning training of upper limb
      motor tasks, may result in greater motor restoration when compared to a comprehensive motor
      learning intervention without EEG brain signal training.

      Eight people who had a stroke were enrolled in the experimental group. They received brain
      signal training and comprehensive motor learning based therapy.

      An additional 5 healthy adults were enrolled in order to study their ability to acquire brain
      signal control and the characteristics of their brain signal during the tasks that the stroke
      participants attempted.
    
  