
    
      Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) serves as an effective adjuvant or alternative modality for
      major depressive disorder, schizophrenia, or bipolar affective disorder refractory to or
      contraindicated to psychopharmacological treatment. Anesthetics have been introduced into ECT
      sessions to alleviate ECT-inducing discomfort sensation, tachycardia, arrhythmia,
      hypertension, and anxiety.

      Propofol is highly lipid soluble and able to rapidly cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB),
      which leads to rapid onset of sedation and hypnosis. Meanwhile, propofol has hemodynamic
      depressant effect and attenuates hypertensive surge during ECT. Characteristics mentioned
      above make propofol one of widely used anesthetics for anesthetized ECT. However, propofol is
      also well known for anticonvulsant property, which may inevitably interfere with seizure
      propagation by electroconvulsive stimulus and diminish consequent efficacy. Thus, dosage of
      electrical stimulus may be increased to achieve ideal seizure quality in this setting, which
      also leads to higher risk of subsequent cognitive impairment or other complications.

      Ketamine has also been widely used in the induction of anesthesia for the treatment of major
      depressive disease in recent years. It has been found to increase the permeability and
      therapeutic effect of antidepressants. Compared to traditional Barbiturate drugs or propofol,
      do not increase the threshold of electricity required by electroporation, which can reduce
      the time required for symptom relief of those drugs, It is a viable alternative induction
      drug. However, ketamine causes short-term dissociative symptoms, which may temporarily
      aggravate the positive symptoms of patients with schizophrenia after Electroconvulsive
      therapy, but the time of aggravation of positive symptoms generally does not exceed 30
      minutes.

      There have been many studies in the clinic, and it has been confirmed that ketamine combine
      propofol can be used for electroconvulsive treatment in patients with major depression and
      bipolar disorder, and even better Electroconvulsive quality can be obtained. Reduce the
      number of Electroconvulsive treatments and reduce the duration of treatment. However, the
      current literature has not yet verified the clinical benefit of ketamine combine propofol as
      an anesthetic induction drug in patients with schizophrenia who are receiving
      electroconvulsive therapy, and it is worthy of further study.

      In the investigator's clinical practice, the purpose of this experiment is to explore:
      compared with propofol base anesthesia alone, and the combine use of ketamine and propofol
      may reduce the threshold of seizure, improve the quality of Electroconvulsive therapy and
      shorten the course of treatment. The combine use and titrate the drugs helps to reduce the
      side effects of both ketamine and propofol (such as cardiovascular side effects and positive
      symptoms) , achieve better Electroconvulsive therapy and effects.
    
  