
    
      The study team has wide experience surveying primary care patients about medication problems,
      and has established that this is an important component of detecting and understanding ADEs
      among ambulatory patients. In the first study, 18% of primary care patients reported a
      problem due to a medication during the previous year, but this was documented in only 3% of
      medical records. A subsequent study found that 27% of patients reported a medication-related
      symptom, but that only 69% of patients discussed this symptom with their physician. Upon
      being notified via this automated pharmacovigilance, physicians changed therapy in response
      to 76% of these symptoms, and 21% symptoms that had not been previously discussed resulted in
      a preventable ADE and 2% resulted in a preventable ADE.

      During the prior CERT, the investigators developed an interactive voice response system
      (IVRS) that interoperates with the health system EHR, and demonstrated that IVRS can be used
      to monitor ambulatory patients to assess adherence, medication related symptoms, and ADEs.
      This study builds on that initial work.

      The safety of prescription drugs represents an ongoing public health concern. A study by the
      US General Accounting Office (GAO) found that 51% of all approved drugs have at least one
      serious ADE that was not recognized during the approval process, reflecting the careful
      selection and limited number of patients who participate in pre-approval trials. While
      pre-market studies detect commonly occurring ADEs and efficacy in rigorously selected
      participants, they are not designed to assess safety and effectiveness in the broader
      population of eventual users. While the FDA maintains a passive adverse event reporting
      system, it is estimated that only about 1% of all ADEs and 10% of serious ADEs are reported,
      and these case reports lack accurate denominators to estimate incidence. While efforts are
      underway to substantially expand capacity for active surveillance using electronic health
      records and claims data, these data may not fully capture the patient experience, as
      clinicians often do not fully document patients' symptoms.

      Accurate ascertainment of ADEs and effectiveness in clinical practice requires real-time
      systems that integrate patient-reported information with clinician decision-making.
      Telephonic IVRS are a low-cost, sustainable way of reaching out to primary care populations,
      independent of a visit. In addition to monitoring for ADEs, this technology could be used to
      systematically assess treatment outcomes that are not commonly documented in the medical
      chart such as functional status, sleep, and mood.

      This 5 year project will have three phases: (1) development and pilot testing of the
      integrated pharmacovigilance system; (2) implementation; and (3) assessment of the
      translation and dissemination of the system, including data collection from both patients and
      providers. The RE-AIM (Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation, Maintenance)
      conceptual model provides a framework to examine the success of translation and dissemination
      of this system, and will be used for the third phase of the project.
    
  