
    
      The investigators conduct this observational study to identify pre-, intra- and postoperative
      Electroencephalogram (EEG) signatures / intraoperative EEG states related to postoperative
      delirium (POD) and postoperative cognitive deficit (POCD) in elderly patients > 70 years.
      This includes the following tasks at five different time-points

        1. Pre-operative frontal EEG recording during anesthesia evaluation one day before surgery
           / anesthesia to develop an EEG marker to predict the development of POD. This includes
           the stratification of EEG data related to age, gender, and pre-operative cognitive
           function. Pre-operative POCD assessment (CANTAB connect, word pair recognition test,
           Mini Mental State Test, and Trail Making Test A and B) to classify cognitive capacity of
           each patient before start of anesthesia.

        2. Intra-operative frontal EEG recording from start of anesthesia procedure until discharge
           to the recovery room to identify EEG signatures / EEG states to predict the development
           of POD / POCD. This includes the stratification of EEG data related to age, gender,
           pre-medication, anesthetics, and analgesics used during anesthesia procedure.

        3. Post-operative frontal EEG recording during the recovery room stay to develop an EEG
           marker / identify EEG signatures to diagnose POD and predict POCD. This includes the
           stratification of EEG data related to age, gender, anesthesia procedure, and analgesics
           administered during the recovery room stay. POD will be assessed during stay in the
           recovery room by the NuDesc Score and DSM V criteria.

        4. Follow-up POD assessments until the 5th postoperative day, where the patient will be
           visited twice daily (8a.m.-10a.m. and 5p.m.-7p.m.) and assessed via DSM V / NuDesc
           criteria on the peripheral ward, or via Confusion Assessment Method for intensive Care
           Unit (CAM-ICU) criteria during an intensive care unit stay.

        5. Follow-up POCD assessments one day before and 3 months after surgery, where the patient
           will undergo a ~1 hour cognitive testing with the CANTAB connect.
    
  