
    
      Although SAMMPRIS trial has had an impact on the current treatment of intracranial
      atherosclerotic (ICAS), criticism regarding to its design were still raised and remained
      unsettled. In light of SAMMPRIS, medical therapy could not be good as it was; neither
      stenting for ICAD need to be abolished, but rather its role needs to be redefined by future
      prospective trials. Moreover, China is a developing country, and has the world's largest
      population. Since 2010, stroke has been the leading cause of death in China and confers a
      huge burden and effort on patients and health professionals. Compared with western countries,
      ICAS is the most common vascular lesion in patients with cerebro-vascular disease, and is an
      important cause of ischemic stroke and future recurrent events in China. However, its
      treatment strategy and long-term result has not been well determined. The health burden in
      China and ethnic difference of ICAS incidence as well as the willingness to continue clinical
      trials, support the need for ongoing CASSISS in China.

      Pre-CASSISS registry trial:

      A registration pilot trial was performed prior to CASSISS. It aimed to test the credentialing
      of interventionists and participating centers. From July 2013 to Mar 2014, 12 candidates were
      involved in a competitive registration study of recruiting 100 consecutive patients. The
      patients received stenting using Wingspan at each site. As for the candidate centers, the
      following aspects will be considered: stenting experiences, peri-operative complications, and
      the volume of stenting cases. Those met the following criteria were not involved into the
      subsequent randomization trial: 1) each center performed more than 5 procedures; 2) clinical
      results demonstrated the complication rates were more than 15% (stroke or death). At last, 4
      sites were excluded and the remaining 8 were certified and invited for the final
      randomization trial.
    
  