
    
      Pregnant women often maintain sexual activity, and research has shown that they may have a
      greater risk of acquiring HIV infection during pregnancy. Preliminary research has suggested
      that tenofovir 1% gel, a vaginal microbicide, may reduce the risk of HIV infection for women
      when it is applied at the time of sexual intercourse. However, safety data on the use of
      tenofovir 1% gel during pregnancy are limited. This study will enroll pregnant women who will
      use tenofovir 1% gel on a daily basis for 28 consecutive days during their pregnancy, which
      is a longer period of use than has been studied previously. The purpose of this study is to
      evaluate the safety of 1% tenofovir gel in HIV-uninfected pregnant women when used during the
      late first trimester and second trimester of pregnancy.

      Participants will be healthy, HIV-uninfected pregnant women and will be randomly assigned to
      use either 1% tenofovir gel or placebo gel once a day for 28 days or until delivery,
      whichever comes first. Participants will be further divided into four groups of varying
      gestational age ranges. These groups will be filled sequentially, starting with the later
      gestational ages (closer to the time of delivery) group first. Once the safety for this group
      is confirmed, groups of participants with earlier gestational ages will be enrolled.

      Length of participation in this study will vary depending on gestational age at the time of
      enrollment, but each participant will have visits at study entry; Days 7, 14, and 28; 2 weeks
      after the last dose of the assigned gel; and once every 4 weeks until delivery. Participants
      who have used the gel within 24 hours of arriving at the hospital for delivery also will have
      a delivery visit. At most visits, participants will give a medical history; undergo blood and
      urine collection; and have a physical exam, including obstetric (OB) abdominal and pelvic
      exams. Participants also will report adverse events and complete an adherence assessment. If
      a participant has a delivery visit, blood will be collected from the umbilical cord and
      delivery and infant information will be collected. All participants will attend a follow-up
      study visit 30 days after delivery.
    
  