
    
      Prolonged mechanical ventilation is associated with greater mortality, increased need for
      tracheostomy, prolonged length of critical care stay and higher costs. Risk factors
      identifying patients at greater risk of unsuccessful extubation include cough strength,
      endotracheal secretions and neurological status. These factors are synergistic and patients
      exhibiting two of the above determinants have an extubation failure rate of 81%. The risk is
      100% if all three are present as compared to 3% in a patient with no risk factors. Several
      strategies including administration of mucolytics, anti-cholinergics and corticosteroids have
      met with limited success or excessive toxicity. Thus, methods to improve the quality and
      quantity of secretions could be associated with decreased extubation failure and greater
      overall outcomes.

      The most recent study was a randomized, double blind, placebo controlled trial of 50
      critically ill ventilated patients with a previous history of COPD and tobacco use by Frass
      et al. Five C30 pellets of potassium dichromate or placebo were administered twice daily
      until extubation and it was found that those receiving the homeopathic formulation had
      statistically significant (p<0.0001) tracheal secretion reductions, earlier extubation times
      and shorter lengths of stay in critical care as compared to their placebo counterparts.

      Use of homeopathy in the critically ill would convey a number of advantages including lack of
      adverse effects or drug interactions, due to the dilute nature of the solutions, and be a
      cost effective adjunct to conventional therapy. In the previous trial of potassium dichromate
      in critical care patients, only patients with previous tobacco use and history of COPD were
      included. It is unknown whether those results could be extrapolated to the general critical
      care population.

      Therefore, this study will look at the safety and efficacy of homeopathic potassium
      dichromate (Kalium Bichromicum)vs placebo. A dosing schedule of five pellets every 12 hours
      will be utilized; this regimen was chosen based on previous evidence showing efficacy at this
      dose. Dosing will continue until the patient is extubated or chooses to withdraw from the
      study. Data collected will include baseline demographic data, quantity of sputum production
      (at baseline and per day), number of times suctioning required per day, duration of
      mechanical ventilation, rate of reintubation within 7 days following extubation, critical
      care length of stay, PaO2/ FiO2 ratios, PaCO2 twice daily, and number of therapeutic
      bronchoscopies.
    
  