
    
      Protanopia is an x-chromosomal inherited cone pigment disorder that related to the red
      cone,i.e. the L-cone function completely fails. The prevalence of protanopia in the male
      population is 1%. An incomplete impairment of the L-cone is called protanomaly. The
      prevalence here is also in 1% of the male population.

      In comparison to persons with normal vision red objects appear darker for persons with
      missing or functionally limited L-cones. This is particularly critical in road traffic, where
      red is used as a signal colour, for example in traffic lights or brake lights is used.

      The scientific questions that need to be investigated are as follows:

        1. At which contrast threshold (relative brightness) does a proband with protanopia
           recognize a brake light compared to a normal person?

        2. If the luminance determined is above the contrast threshold, what influence does the
           excess of the contrast or the determined luminance have on the reaction time?

        3. Are there differences with regard to the technology used in the brake light
           (incandescent lamp or LED)?

      For this purpose, a representative set of combination rear lamps, focusing on stoplight,
      taillight (and of the elevated brake light) in a static situation is created. The test setup
      is based on a driving pursuit scenario. The test person is positioned at a relevant distance
      to the combination of rear lamps.

      To determine the threshold contrast, an algorithm is developed to control the relative
      brightness of the brake lights and integrated into the test sequence control. In addition, a
      method for automated determining of the related reaction time is implemented.

      Two taillight technologies (incandescent lamp and LED) are examined at both ambient
      brightness levels: (i) "bright", i.e. photopic luminance level (Lu >> 10 cd/m2) and (ii)
      "dark", i.e. mesopic luminance level (Lu < 10 cd/m2).

      A comprehensive ophthalmological/optical examination (including visual acuity, ocular
      alignment, ocular motility, assessment of the leading eye, testing of the efferent and
      afferent pupillary system and biomicroscopic inspection of the anterior and posterior
      segments of the eye) is carried out. Comprehensive colour vision testing it performed with
      the HMC anomaloscope, Oculus Inc., Dutenhofen/FRG, including assessment of the loss of
      brightness sensation during anomaloscopic exam with max. red. stimulus . In addition,
      standardized semi-automated kinetic perimetry (SKP) along the horizontal meridian with an
      automated perimeter (Octopus 900, Haag-Streit Inc., Koeniz/CH) is performed. The ratio of the
      horizontal extent ("diameter") obtained with both, red vs. white stimuli, is measured and
      taken as a clinical parameter for quantifying the magnitude of the individual "protan colour
      vision deficiency".

      To illustrate the worst-case scenario, this study is limited to protanopic patients. It is
      intended as a pure comparative study between a "protanopic" patient group and a "normal
      vision" control group. The protanopic test subjects and the control subjects are matched with
      regard to gender and age.

      This study is carried out in a "within-subject design", i.e. all test persons go through all
      situations. In order to minimize sequence effects, the related test conditions are
      randomized.
    
  