
    
      Primary Research Question: Does resistance training (RT) significantly improve cognitive
      function, specifically executive function in older women with a Mini-Mental State Examination
      (MMSE) score equal to or greater than 24 (i.e., cognitively intact) compared with a stretch &
      relax (S & R; control) program?

      Secondary Research Questions:

        1. Are changes in cortical activation associated with RT-induced changes in executive
           function?

        2. Are RT-induced improvements in executive function associated with lowered physiological
           fall risk?

        3. Is there a dose-response on bone health with RT (resistance training)?

      RESEARCH PLAN:

      Study Design: A 12-month, single-blinded, randomized controlled trial. Participants: 155
      cognitively-intact (i.e., MMSE score > 24), right-handed, sedentary community-dwelling women,
      aged 65 to 75 years.

      Measurement: Measurements will take place at baseline, six month, and trial completion.
      Standard neuropsychological testing and physiological fall risk assessment will occur at all
      three measurement sessions. A subset of the participants (20 from each experimental group)
      will undergo fMRI assessment at baseline and trial completion only. Exercise Classes:
      Participants will be randomized to a 12-month, twice-weekly or once-weekly RT program or
      stretch & relax program (control). All exercises will be offered at a Vancouver YMCA with
      whom we have partnered previously. Sample Size Justification: The sample size of 50 per
      experimental group (i.e., N = 155) is based on the primary end point of this study, cognitive
      performance of executive function. SUMMARY: Falls are a major challenge for the senior
      population. To date, no intervention has significantly reduced falls among those with
      cognitive impairment. Our immediate primary goal is to test whether RT can improve cognitive
      performance of executive function; impaired executive function are associated with injurious
      falls. If this proposed exercise trial proves successful, the RT intervention will be trialed
      in the future in a larger study powered for falls.
    
  