
    
      Clinical burden of CVD: CVD is the leading cause of death in developed nations and the VA
      population is no exception. Despite decades of research, technical, and pharmacological
      advances, CVD remains a major public health problem. This is partly due to our impaired
      ability to identify subjects at greatest risk for CVD events and thus the best candidates for
      pharmacological risk reducing therapies, and partly due to incomplete use or efficacy of
      currently available therapies. Epidemiological studies have identified major risk factors for
      CVD including elevated LDL cholesterol, low HDL cholesterol, hypertension, smoking and
      diabetes. However, despite targeting individuals with these risk factors with aggressive
      pharmacological interventions, CVD remains a major public health problem. Furthermore, even
      in individuals with risk factors who are treated with pharmacological or lifestyle
      interventions the CVD event rates are higher than in those who never had the risk factors.
      Recent epidemiologic data evaluating the American Heart Association-identified cardiovascular
      health metrics reported that the prevalence of having CVD risk factors at ideal levels is <
      2%10; implying that >98% of the population are candidates for risk reduction. Clearly, health
      systems cannot cope with pharmacological interventions for such enormous target populations.
      Thus, additional risk stratifying markers are needed to identify those at highest risk for
      events and thus at greatest likelihood of benefit. Several biomarkers, including the acute
      phase reactants C reactive protein (CRP) and serum amyloid A (SAA) have been studied for
      their role in predicting CVD events. Both CRP and SAA are chronically elevated in individuals
      with obesity, metabolic syndrome (MetS), diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus and other
      chronic inflammatory conditions associated with increased CVD rates, raising the question of
      whether these biomarkers merely reflect underlying risk or play a causative role in CVD.
      Although emerging evidence has cast doubt on the role of CRP as a causative factor the
      investigators and others recently demonstrated that SAA is directly atherogenic in animal
      models. Thus, in addition to its role as a biomarker for CVD, SAA may play a causal role in
      CVD.

      SAA: SAA is a family of acute phase proteins synthesized primarily in the liver. In healthy
      individuals SAA concentrations are < 5 mg/L but during an acute phase response SAA can
      increase up to 1000 mg/L for a few days, then it rapidly returns to baseline levels. However,
      chronic inflammatory states such as obesity, MetS, diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis etc, are
      associated with persistently and significantly elevated SAA concentrations of 30-100 mg/L.
      Acute elevations in SAA are proposed to play a major role in response to injury and
      inflammation, participating in cholesterol delivery to injured tissues, recruitment of
      inflammatory cells, and induction of tissue repair cytokines. However, the chronic elevations
      of SAA now prevalent in modern society likely reflect a maladaptive response and numerous
      studies are now examining potential roles of SAA in disease pathology. Using murine models in
      which acute phase SAA is over-expressed, the investigators and others demonstrated direct
      increases in atherosclerosis development.

      SAA and apolipoprotein B (apoB) containing lipoproteins: SAA is a lipid binding
      apolipoprotein and lipid-free SAA has not been found in vivo. The dogma is that SAA is
      exclusively an HDL associated lipoprotein; however, the investigators and others have
      reported SAA on apoB-containing lipoproteins in both mice and humans. Several studies have
      reported on a complex termed SAA-LDL associated with components of MetS, remnant like
      particle cholesterol, smoking status, lifestyle interventions, and statin treatment. These
      studies suggest that SAA-LDL is a risk factor for CVD. In new preliminary studies the
      investigators demonstrate that SAA has a differential lipoprotein association in diabetes,
      and in post-prandial lipoprotein metabolism, and the investigators demonstrate that the
      presence of SAA on apoB-lipoproteins augments their proteoglycan binding, a key step in
      atherosclerosis development. Thus, emerging evidence suggests that the presence of SAA on
      apoB-lipoproteins may be a novel CVD risk factor, play a causal role in atherosclerosis, and
      thus be a therapeutic target.

      Post-prandial apoB-lipoprotein metabolism: The various lipoproteins are defined based on size
      and density criteria, as well as by their protein constituents. However, even within each
      lipoprotein class there is considerable heterogeneity, as the particles undergo continuous
      remodeling. Briefly, lipids consumed in the diet associate with apoB-48 to form chylomicrons,
      which are transported in intestinal lymphatics before entering the bloodstream. Various
      enzymes act on newly formed chylomicrons shifting lipids and proteins between chylomicrons
      and HDLs before the chylomicron remnants are taken up by the liver. The liver re-packages the
      lipids into VLDL particles containing apoB-100. The hydrolysis of VLDL results in smaller
      apoB-100 particles called VLDL remnants or intermediate density lipoproteins (IDLs).
      Collectively, these particles are termed triglyceride rich lipoproteins (TGRLs).

      Ongoing remodeling of TGRLs by various lipases leads to the formation of LDL. LDL can be
      taken up by peripheral tissues, including the vasculature, or by the liver. The
      sub-endothelial retention of apoB-containing particles initiates atherosclerosis.

      Post-prandial lipoproteins and CVD: Elevated levels of LDL cholesterol and low levels of HDL
      cholesterol are documented risk factors for CVD and contribute causally to atherogenesis.
      However, individuals with obesity, MetS and diabetes do not typically have elevated LDL
      cholesterol; their dyslipidemia is characterized by elevated triglycerides and low HDL
      cholesterol. The role of triglycerides as a CVD risk factor remains controversial; however,
      post-prandial triglycerides may be a more significant risk factor than fasting triglycerides.
      As humans spend most of their lives in the post-prandial state, there is ongoing interest in
      the role of post-prandial lipoprotein metabolism in CVD risk. However, most studies have
      relied on fasting lipoprotein samples; triglycerides are the lipoprotein component most
      affected by food consumption. The mechanisms accounting for the excess prevalence of CVD in
      MetS and diabetic subjects beyond that predicted by the traditional CVD risk factors remain
      unclear; however, insulin resistant states are characterized by increased intestinal apoB48
      production, increased TGRL production and delayed lipoprotein clearance, which may contribute
      to CVD prevalence. Retention of apoB- containing lipoproteins in the vascular wall by the
      ionic interaction between apoB and proteoglycans, leads to the initiation of atherosclerosis.
      Lipolysis of VLDL more than doubles its ability to cross the endothelium and deposit lipids
      in the subendothelial space. TGRLs have proportionately more triglyceride than cholesterol:
      however, their size means that they can deposit 5-20 times more cholesterol per particle in
      the subendothelial space compared to an LDL particle. Increased TGRL production and delayed
      particle clearance increases the likelihood of particle retention and cholesterol deposition
      in the subendothelial space. The investigators have novel preliminary data demonstrating that
      the presence of SAA on apoB-containing lipoproteins increases their proteoglycan binding. The
      investigators propose that the increased presence of SAA on apoB-containing post-prandial
      lipoproteins in insulin resistant states increases the atherogenicity of these particles and
      could be a mechanism accounting for the increased CVD prevalence in insulin resistant states
      such as MetS and diabetes.

      HDL metabolism: Like VLDL and LDL, HDL comprises a range of particles; however, HDL does not
      contain apoB, instead containing apoA-I. HDL is often separated into two major classes by
      size and density: the large HDL2 and the smaller HDL3. As discussed above, HDL undergoes
      continuous lipid interchange with various apoB-containing lipoprotein particles. A change in
      lipoprotein structure or composition by various enzymes is termed remodeling. HDL is
      typically thought to be an atheroprotective lipoprotein due to its ability to transport
      cholesterol away from the periphery back to the liver. In addition, HDL has a number of other
      beneficial properties including anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidative functions. In insulin
      resistant states HDL levels tend to be low, and some studies suggest its beneficial
      properties are reduced. Remodeling of lipoproteins affects their functionality and half-life;
      for example, the remodeling of HDL by CETP (which transfers triglycerides from TGRL to HDL
      and cholesterol ester from HDL to TGRL) predisposes HDL to enhanced catabolism and is thought
      to contribute to the lower levels of HDL seen in insulin resistant states. Although the
      paradigm is that SAA is a HDL associated lipoprotein, in preliminary studies the
      investigators have found SAA on apoB particles in insulin resistant persons in the
      post-prandial period. However, it is not clear how SAA associates with either HDL or
      apoB-lipoprotein particles.

      SAA lipoprotein association: In the setting of an acute phase response SAA levels can
      increase up to 1000-fold; however, even at these highly elevated levels SAA remains
      exclusively found on HDL particles. Thus, there is no evidence of a "maximum capacity" of HDL
      for SAA. How SAA associates with either HDL or apoB-lipoprotein particles is not fully
      understood. SAA is thought to be produced by the liver in a lipid-free form and bind
      lipoproteins extracellularly, or in plasma SAA has been shown to induce HDL biogenesis via
      ATP binding cassette 1 (ABCA1), which may be a major mechanism by which SAA associates with
      HDL. Murine studies using knockout mice demonstrated that in the absence of HDL, SAA was
      found on apoB-particles. However, the investigators and others have reported SAA on apoB
      particles despite the presence of HDL. In new preliminary studies the investigators found
      that the remodeling of HDL led to the liberation of both lipid-poor apoA-I and lipid-poor
      SAA, and that lipid-poor SAA associates with apoB particles. Thus, the remodeling of HDL,
      particularly in the post-prandial period, may lead to SAA shifting from HDL to apoB
      particles; alternately, SAA could associate with apoB particles during their hepatic
      secretion. Both HDL remodeling and hepatic apoB- particle secretion are increased in insulin
      resistant conditions.

      Role of lipoprotein-proteoglycan interactions in atherogenesis: There are several hypotheses
      as to what triggers the initiation of atherosclerosis, with the "Response to Retention"
      hypothesis well supported by biomedical evidence. As outlined in this theory, early fatty
      streak lesions are initiated by deposition of atherogenic lipoproteins (LDLs and TGRLs) in
      the subendothelial matrix by their retention by extra cellular matrix proteoglycans. Studies
      show that lipoproteins migrate in and out of the subendothelial space, but once bound to
      proteoglycans these lipoproteins are retained in this region, become more susceptible to
      oxidation and other modifications, and are taken up by macrophages leading to the formation
      of foam cells. TGRLs may be even more atherogenic than LDLs as they don't need modification
      to be taken up by macrophages, and deliver 5-20 times more cholesterol than LDL on per
      particle basis. The investigators have demonstrated the presence of SAA on apoB-containing
      lipoprotein particles in mice, and recently confirmed this in humans. In preliminary studies
      the investigators demonstrate that the presence of SAA on apoB-lipoproteins enhances their
      proteoglycan binding. The investigators propose that the presence of SAA on apoB-containing
      lipoproteins enhances their retention increasing atherogenesis.
    
  