
    
      Cocaine and alcohol abuse are strongly linked to HIV infection and transmission of the virus.
      Disulfiram has long been approved by the US FDA for the treatment of alcohol and recent data
      shows it to be effective in reducing cocaine abuse. Disulfiram and antiretroviral medications
      (ARV) are metabolized by cytochrome P450 3A and concomitant use of these drugs could
      potentially produce adverse drug interactions underscoring the need to identify and
      understand the clinical implications of these drug interactions in order to more effectively
      treat individuals with both HIV disease and cocaine and/or alcohol use disorders. This will
      be accomplished by conducting studies aimed at identifying whether pharmacokinetic or
      pharmacodynamic drug interactions of importance occur between disulfiram and medications
      frequently utilized in those with HIV/AIDS.

      Abuse of cocaine and/or alcohol has been shown to be a significant risk factor for HIV
      infections as a result of high risk sexual and drug use behaviors occurring in the context of
      use of these substances. Those with HIV infection and untreated cocaine and/or alcohol
      dependence are also at a high risk of transmitting HIV to others. Moreover, those with HIV
      disease and substance dependence often experience poor clinical outcomes as a result of
      nonadherence to HIV treatment regimens.

      Disulfiram (DIS) is an inhibitor of ALDH and has been reported to alter hepatic cytochrome
      P450 enzyme function important to metabolism of many drugs frequently used in the treatment
      of HIV/AIDS. Although approved for the treatment of alcohol dependence, DIS has been studied
      as a treatment for cocaine addiction in recent years. DIS at the standard 250 mg daily dose
      has been associated with significant reductions in cocaine use as well as alcohol use in
      those with histories of concomitant cocaine-alcohol abuse. DIS 250 mg daily has been shown to
      have a significant pharmacokinetic interaction with cocaine resulting in delayed cocaine
      clearance. In order to more fully access possible use of DIS treatment for cocaine and/or
      alcohol dependence in this population, it is important to determine if any excess risk is
      conveyed as a result of drug interactions that might occur between DIS and the ARV
      medications.

      This study will be using a standard clinical pharmacology study design using a within-subject
      design examining the two drug interaction studies between DIS (250 mg daily) and the
      following medications:

        1. Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, efavirenz 600 mg daily for 10 days

        2. Protease inhibitors atazanavir 400 mg daily for 8 days or ritonavir 200 mg daily for 8
           days

           Additional data will be collected and analyzed including:

        3. Clinical data on effects of these medications alone and in combination on cardiac
           conduction, hepatic function, and serum lipids will be obtained

        4. The safety of co-administration of alcohol containing HIV preparations (ritonavir) with
           DIS will be determined

        5. The effect of ARV on DIS function as determined by ALDH activity and DIS and metabolite
           concentrations will be determined using a control sample within-subject design (DIS
           doses of 62.5 mg and 250 mg daily) and between subjects design.
    
  