
    
      Inability of the surgeon to identify or localize the diseased PG can occur in 5 - 10% of
      cases resulting in failed parathyroidectomies (PTx). As a result, persistent
      hyperparathyroidism can occur in these patients resulting in unnecessary repeat surgeries
      that may be associated with increased morbidity and costs. Ultrasound imaging,
      99mTechnetium-sestamibi scintigraphy, and computed tomography (CT) have so far demonstrated
      variable efficacy in preoperative localization of diseased PGs and may not always correlate
      well with the surgical field of view as observed intraoperatively. Consequently, most
      surgeons rely on visual identification of PGs during surgery, whereby the accuracy of PG
      identification is eventually determined by her/his surgical skill and experience. When in
      doubt, a surgeon routinely confirms the identity of PG tissue intraoperatively by sending the
      specimen for frozen section analysis that typically requires a wait time of 20-30 minutes per
      sample and has additional costs.

      By easily being able to distinguish parathyroid from other tissues intraoperatively,
      postsurgical complications and associated costs may be reduced. The unique discovery of near
      infrared autofluorescence (NIRAF) in parathyroid tissues demonstrated that optical modalities
      that detect NIRAF can be utilized for non-invasive and label-free identification of
      parathyroid tissues with an accuracy as high as 97%. Since then, several research groups have
      explored the feasibility of localizing parathyroid glands using NIRAF detection with
      reasonable success, resulting in FDA clearance for marketing this optical technique. In this
      study, we plan to evaluate whether an FDA-cleared device called 'PTeye' (AiBiomed, Santa
      Barbara, CA) is beneficial or not, for the surgeon and patient during PTx operations. The
      results of such a study will help us to understand and assess the true impact of optical
      modalities such as PTeye on (i) improving the quality and efficiency of PTx surgeries and
      (ii) minimizing risk of postsurgical complications and related expenses.

      The aim of this prospective single blinded randomized study is to compare 2 groups of
      patients: PTx patients operated using NIRAF detection technology with PTeye as adjunct tool
      (NIRAF+) vs. patients operated without the adjunct technology (NIRAF-). The main objective of
      this study is to assess the benefit of intraoperative use of NIRAF detection technology via
      PTeye during PTx procedures with regard to PG identification, duration of surgery, number of
      frozen section analysis performed, number of intraoperative PTH assays sent and incidence of
      postsurgical complications, if any and history of ER visits or hospitalization or repeat
      surgeries due to persistent high blood calcium after PTx procedure, compared to standard of
      care.
    
  