
    
      A pharmacokinetic study of intravitreal Aflibercept injection vitrectomized and
      non-vitrectomized eyes with Wet age-related macular degeneration (the DRAW study).

      The primary objective is to investigate and characterize the intraocular pharmacokinetics of
      intravitreal aflibercept injection in vitrectomized and non-vitrectomized eyes with
      neovascular Age-related Macular Degeneration (AMD). The secondary objective is to assess the
      systemic pharmacokinetics of intravitreal aflibercept injection.

      Little information is known about the intraocular pharmacokinetics of intravitreal
      aflibercept injection in human eyes. In addition, the durability of intravitreal aflibercept
      injection in vitrectomized eyes is not known, since individuals with a history of vitrectomy
      have been excluded from clinical trials in neovascular AMD. There have also been no studies
      on systemic levels following intravitreal aflibercept injection, which would have
      implications for normal vascular hemostasis and wound repair in which vascular endothelial
      growth factor (VEGF) plays an important role. The proposed research will fill in these gaps
      in the knowledge base for intravitreal aflibercept injection.

      Two arms (non-vitrectomized, and vitrectomized) are included in the study to evaluate the
      intraocular and systemic pharmacokinetics of intravitreal aflibercept injection The study
      involves neovascular AMD patients divided into two groups: 5 patients with history of
      vitrectomy and 10 patients with no history of vitrectomy. Plasma blood and aqueous fluid will
      be collected at baseline, then 2mg of intravitreal aflibercept injection administered at time
      0 (day 0). At 4 hours post injection, plasma (blood) and aqueous fluid will be collected
      again, as well as on days 1, 3, 7,14, and 28. Intravitreal aflibercept injection levels in
      the samples will be assessed and compared among the two groups.
    
  