
    
      Patients will be recruited from the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center (UPMC)
      Neurosurgery Clinic and Operating Room Schedule. The primary surgeon will identify patients
      who would be eligible for inclusion, ask them if they would be interested in participating,
      and if so, the enrollment and consent process would be initiated. The participating
      neurosurgeons include Dr. Moossy,Dr. Kanter, Dr. Okonkwo, and Dr. Hamilton, all who have
      agreed to allow us access to their patients. Informed consent will be performed by Dr.
      Moossy, or the PI. Enrollment will be performed by the study coordinator and/or trained
      representative from the Acute Interventional Perioperative Pain Service (AIPPS). Enrollment
      will include review of eligibility, and detailed explanation of the study.

      Screening Visit:

      After patients are enrolled into the study at the preoperative neurosurgery clinic, a number
      of forms will be filled out by the participants: McGill Pain questionaire-Short form, pain
      medication review form, and the Pain Catastrophizing Scale (PCS) (Sullivan, 1995). PROMIS
      Emotional Distress-Anxiety Short Form and PROMIS Emotional Distress-Depression Short Form,
      Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale and Neuro-QoL Short Form v1.1 - Satisfaction with Social Roles
      and Activities will also be completed.

      Pre-Operative Visit:

      The participant will be asked to come into the Aiken Medical Building, Suite 407 on a date
      after the clinic visit but before their day of surgery for a Pre-Operative Visit.
      Investigators will work with the participant to determine their opioid dose regimen, and the
      participant will be asked to come into the Aiken Medical Building thirty minutes before their
      opioid dose is due and will be asked to bring with them their upcoming dose of pain
      medication. Prior to taking their pain medication, the participant will then be administered
      a cold-pressor pain sensitivity test. Heart rate and blood pressure will be recorded before
      and after the cold-pressor test. Once the cold pressor test is completed, the McGill Pain
      Questionnaire will be administered. After this questionnaire is complete, the participant
      will take the dose of opioid medication they have brought from home and are scheduled to
      receive and will wait in the clinic for 30 minutes for the pain medication to take effect.
      Once the 30 minutes is complete, the cold-pressor test will be repeated, heart rate and blood
      pressure collected before and after, and McGill Pain Questionnaire will be administered
      again.

      Surgical Visit:

      At the day of surgery, participants will be seen by team members of the Acute Interventional
      Perioperative Pain Service preoperatively. Patients will be randomized into the Ketamine
      Group or the Placebo Group.

      A standardized general anesthesia protocol will be used by the hands-on provider. All drugs
      used intraoperatively, including total hydromorphone dose, will be collected from the
      electronic chart.

      The amount of narcotics and non-narcotic analgesics administered in the operative and
      postoperative period will be collected from the electronic chart from day of surgery until
      discharge. Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) pain scores will be collected.

      Post-Op Visit:

      Patients will follow-up at Neurosurgery clinic at 10-14 days postoperatively. At this time
      daily opioid usage will be assessed and converted to morphine equivalents/24 hr. At this
      visit: pain medication review form, and the Pain Catastrophizing Scale (PCS) (Sullivan,
      1995). PROMIS Emotional Distress-Anxiety Short Form and PROMIS Emotional Distress-Depression
      Short Form, Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale and Neuro-QoL Short Form v1.1 - Satisfaction with
      Social Roles and Activities will also be completed by the participant.

      6-Week Follow-Up Visit:

      The participant will be asked to come to the Aiken Medical Building, Suite 407 approximately
      6 weeks after their surgery. Investigators will work with the participant to determine their
      post-operative opioid dose regimen. Prior to taking their pain medication, the participant
      will then be administered a cold-pressor pain sensitivity test, in a manner identical to that
      use during the pre-operative assessment.In addition to the McGill Pain Questionnaire-Short
      form, a pain medication review form, the Pain Catastrophizing Scale (PCS) (Sullivan, 1995),
      the PROMIS Emotional Distress-Anxiety Short Form, the PROMIS Emotional Distress-Depression
      Short Form, Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale and Neuro-QoL Short Form v1.1 - Satisfaction with
      Social Roles and Activities will also be completed.
    
  