
    
      Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) is a common and an increasingly recognized
      disorder in liver cirrhosis, correlating with its severity. The prevalence of SIBO, assessed
      by the quantification of the bacterial density in the small intestinal aspirate, ranges from
      30% to 73%. Multiple physiological derangements leading to SIBO appear in cirrhosis from
      decreased secretion of gastric acid, impaired mucosal immune response to decreased bile acid,
      and more importantly, intestinal dysmotility. The latter remains the most common predisposing
      factor in the pathogenesis of bacterial overgrowth. A recent pilot study using a wireless
      motility capsule (the SmartPill) demonstrated that patients with cirrhosis have significant
      delays in small bowel transit that is more pronounced in those with more severe liver
      disease. Altered small bowel motility in cirrhosis has been attributed to autonomic
      dysfunction, altered levels of circulating neuropeptides and the effects of inflammatory
      mediators on gut muscle and the enteric nervous system.

      Hepatic Encephalopathy (HE) is a spectrum of neuro-cognitive impairment in cirrhosis that
      range from abnormal neuropsychiatric testing without clinical evidence of disease (Minimal
      Hepatic Encephalopathy[MHE]) to varying degrees of overt clinical findings: Overt Hepatic
      Encephalopathy (OHE). MHE is found in 30-84% of patients with liver cirrhosis. The
      neuro-cognitive deficit noted in MHE could predispose patient to impaired quality of life
      (QOL) which translates into lower QOL scores, higher risk of falls, driving problems and
      difficulties maintaining employment. Previous studies have shown that SIBO is prevalent and
      strongly linked to the pathogenesis of MHE. Consequently, altering and modulating the
      intestinal microbiota with ammonia-lowering and gut-selective agents has been the target
      treatment strategy. Multiple prior studies have evaluated Rifaximin efficacy in MHE and have
      shown improvements across a variety of study clinical end points including neuropsychiatric
      and QOL tests. However, the precise mechanism of action of Rifaximin in MHE is unclear. The
      proposed mechanisms by which Rifaximin may lead to improvement of MHE may be beyond the
      bactericidal/bacteriostatic effect, resulting in changes in bacterial metabolic
      function/virulence, to an anti-inflammatory and immune-modulatory effect.

      The investigators hypothesize that Rifaximin may have an additional effect on small bowel
      motility that may be independent of its effect on bacterial overgrowth. The effect may not be
      necessarily through changes in patient's microbiome but rather through a pro-motility
      mechanism. The investigators intend to test this hypothesis by comparing the motility at
      baseline in cirrhotic patients with MHE and clinically significant portal hypertension,
      before and after treatment of SIBO with Rifaximin.

      Aims:

        1. To determine the therapeutic effect of Rifaximin on patients with CHE and underlying
           SIBO and as it is related to small bowel motility.

        2. To determine the effect of Rifaximin on small bowel motility by using the SmartPill.

      Study Design:

      This is a prospective and interventional study. It will be conducted at the Gastroenterology
      and Hepatology outpatient clinics of MetroHealth Medical Center/Case Western Reserve
      University. Approximately 40 patients with liver cirrhosis will be assessed for eligibility
      by their hepatologist. Eligible patients will be referred to an expert psychologist for
      neuro-psychometric testing to confirm CHE. Then the patients with diagnosed with CHE will
      undergo Glucose Hydrogen Breath Test (BT) for SIBO screening. Subsequently, wireless motility
      capsule (the SmartPill) for motility testing will be performed in all patients with positive
      BT. Thereafter, cirrhotic patients diagnosed with both CHE and SIBO will be prescribed
      Rifaximin 550 mg PO twice daily for eight weeks. At the end of the treatment period,
      neuro-psychometric tests will be repeated to evaluate the therapeutic effect on CHE. In
      addition, BT and the SmartPill will be repeated at the completion of the treatment period
      with Rifaximin in order to assess the effect on small bowel motility.
    
  