
    
      OUTLINE: This is a multi-center trial.

      SEQUENCING:

      DNA from archived tumor samples collected at the time of surgery (residual disease post
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy) will be extracted and sequenced. The resulting sequencing data will
      be interrogated for known genomic drivers of sensitivity or resistance to existing FDA
      approved agents.

      CANCER GENOMICS TUMOR BOARD (CGTB):

      Realizing that optimal treatment recommendations cannot be made based on sequencing data
      alone, the CGTB will be responsible for the final treatment recommendation. The CGTB will
      consider the genomic data along with the patient's prior treatment history, ongoing
      toxicities, and comorbidities. Preference will be given to the treatment identified by the
      sequencing data unless a significant clinical or safety contraindication exists for that
      therapy. All participants and investigators will be blinded to sequencing results and CGTB
      deliberations until the time of relapse.

      PARTICIPANTS WITH A CGTB TREATMENT RECOMMENDATION:

      Participants with a CGTB recommendation will be randomized to Experimental Arm A (genomically
      directed monotherapy) or Control Arm B (standard therapy).

      EXPERIMENTAL ARM A (GENOMICALLY DIRECTED MONOTHERAPY):

      Participants randomized to Experimental Arm A will receive an FDA approved drug at standard
      dose for four cycles (12-16 weeks total duration, depending on cycle length). Clinical and
      laboratory monitoring and dose-reductions will follow the FDA package insert guidelines.

      TOP GENOMIC ACTIONABLE BIOMARKERS/PATHWAYS AND DRUG RECOMMENDATIONS:

        1. PIK3CA, PTEN: Everolimus

        2. TOP2A: Doxorubicin

        3. PARP1, BRCA1: Cisplatin and Olaparib

        4. VEGFA: Bevacizumab

        5. TYMP: Capecitabine

        6. SSTR2: Octreotide

        7. MGMT: Temozolomide

        8. MYC: Paclitaxel

        9. EGFR: Cetuximab

       10. COX2: Celecoxib

       11. hENT: Gemcitabine

       12. MET: Crizotinib

      CONTROL ARM B (STANDARD THERAPY); Recently, a randomized phase III trial of over 900
      HER2-negative patients demonstrated an improvement in disease-free survival (DFS) and overall
      survival (OS) for the addition of 8 cycles of capecitabine in the post-neoadjuvant setting.
      The hazard ratios were also significant in the triple negative subgroup. Thus, capecitabine
      can be considered a standard option in this setting. As this represents only a single trial
      (with prior data not demonstrating benefit for the addition of capecitabine in the
      neoadjuvant nor adjuvant settings in unselected patients), observation can be considered an
      option as directed by the treating physician. While not recommended, other therapies can be
      used as deemed appropriate by the treating physician.

      In the event of disease progression on the control arm, patient sequencing results will be
      forwarded to the treating physician.

      PARTICIPANTS WITH NO CGTB RECOMMENDATION:

      Participants may have no CGTB recommendation either because 1) sequencing did not identify a
      matched drug or 2) the matched drug was contraindicated. These participants will be assigned
      to Control Arm B and treated as described above for Control Arm B. As the outcome of
      participants without an 'actionable' genomically directed therapy may differ, the primary
      analysis will include only participants randomized to Control Arm B.

      Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 0 or 1 within 14 days prior
      to study registration

      Life Expectancy: Not Specified

      Adequate laboratory values must be obtained within 14 days prior to study registration:

      Hematopoietic:

        -  Hemoglobin (Hgb) ≥ 9.0 g/dL

        -  Platelets ≥ 100 K/mm3

        -  Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) ≥ 1.5 K/mm3

      Hepatic:

        -  Bilirubin ≤ 1.5 x ULN (except in participants with documented Gilbert's disease, who
           must have a total bilirubin ≤ 3.0 mg/dL)

        -  Aspartate aminotransferase (AST, SGOT) ≤ 2.5 x ULN

        -  Alanine aminotransferase (ALT, SGPT) ≤ 2.5 x ULN

      Renal:

        -  Calculated creatinine clearance of ≥ 50 cc/min using the Cockcroft-Gault formula

      Cardiac:

        -  Left ventricular ejection fraction within normal limits obtained within 30 days prior to
           study registration. NOTE: Participants with an unstable angina or myocardial infarction
           within 12 months of study registration are excluded.

        -  No clinically significant arrhythmia or baseline ECG abnormalities in the opinion of the
           treating physician
    
  