
    
      Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is an intermediate stage between the expected cognitive
      decline of normal aging and severe dementia associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). In the
      United States about 20% of older adults have MCI, and approximately 15% per year of those
      with MCI will progress to AD. With our rapidly aging society, we are approaching a public
      health crisis for which we are not fully prepared. Impaired cognitive function in aging can
      have far-reaching and devastating impacts on functional status, ability to maintain
      independence, and overall quality of life. Unfortunately, the therapeutic options to slow
      progression of cognitive decline in aging are limited.

      Dual-task training that involves simultaneous cognitive and motor challenges improves certain
      domains of both cognitive and motor function in older adults with MCI. However, we do not yet
      know the optimal methods of delivering this high-impact potential therapy in community-based
      settings with unique limitations and strengths. Therefore, the aims are to; 1) test the
      feasibility of conducting a community-based dual-task (thinking while exercising) physical
      activity intervention among adults, 65 years or older, with MCI; and 2) examine the impact of
      dual-task training on attention and motor function among adults, 65 years or older, with MCI.

      To accomplish these aims the investigators will conduct an 12-week, dual-task training
      program using the SmartFit Multisensory Fitness System (Oxnard, CA) among older adults with
      MCI. Our group-based training program involves two 1-hour training sessions per week,
      designed to simultaneously engage the mind and body, while promoting self-efficacy. Attention
      and motor function will be assessed prospectively.

      The investigators anticipate that findings from this trial will inform development of methods
      to bring evidence-based, non-invasive therapies into communities in need, in order to
      preserve function, independence, and quality of life well into older age.
    
  