
    
      This research program aims to investigate the implementation and effects of a theoretical
      promising prevention method developed in a European research collaboration within a Comenius
      project (2012-2015) between 6 European universities (in Malta, Italy, Greece, Croatia,
      Portugal and Sweden) with the purpose of enhancing European children's resilience.

      RESCUR in Sweden is a RCT study of the Resilience Curriculum (RESCUR) that is taking place in
      Sweden 2017-2019. The Swedish name is "Jag vill, jag kan, jag törs!". The study is performed
      by Junis, IOGT-NTO's Junior Association, in conjunction with researchers at Göteborg, Umeå
      and Stockholm Universities and is being funded by the Public Health Agency of Sweden.

      The primary aim is to strengthen protective factors and promote childhood life changes for
      7-12 years who are relatives of people with addiction problems and to contribute to the
      support that Swedish society gives these children. This means a preventive intervention
      targeted towards those who have an increased risk of developing addiction problems and other
      problems that are consequences of their situation. A secondary aim at the universal level is
      to promote protective factors among children of the same ages, and to prevent the development
      of drug addiction in among children.

      In order to increase our chances of achieving the aims, we are implementing the project as a
      collaboration between practitioners and researchers. Our aim is also to increase the
      relevance of the project as well as the development of knowledge and improve practical
      implementation. Moreover, this can also provide an increased opportunity to disseminate
      experience also to other groups and activities after the method has been tested and evaluated
      based on the Swedish context and in the three priority areas - social services, a NGO and
      schools.

      The research includes five research questions:

        1. How can participants in the implementation of the program be recruited?

        2. How can leaders be supported to enable the implementation of the high-quality program?

        3. What is the significance of the program for children's development and mental health?

        4. Does the program work differently for different groups in relation to gender, social
           background, place of residence and age?

        5. Does the intervention work differently at a universal, selective or indicative level?

      Research questions will be studied through an implementation evaluation, using
      self-assessment forms, interviews and observations using an established "checklist", as well
      as through an impact assessment, which has a randomized, controlled pre-post design, and in
      which self-reports, interviews and adult reports of testing instruments are used. Our main
      target group for research is children who are seven to twelve years in Sweden and who are in
      one of the organizations school, social services or the value-based organization IOGT-NTO's
      Junior Association, Junis. A secondary target is the deliverers.

      The project is divided into three phases. The first phase involved planning and a preliminary
      study including the application for research ethics committee (first year). We started the
      project, formed a project team and appointed a project manager, worked on the manuals to make
      them more user-friendly, informed and marketed the project to organizations and
      policy-makers, recruited participants for the evaluation, finalized the project and research
      plan, including all measuring instruments. The ethical review board approved the research
      project.

      The project is based on close cooperation between Junis and the research group with a clear
      division of work and responsibility. The purpose of Junis's activities is to provide health
      promotion for children aged 7-15 years in an encouraging environment where the child's
      self-esteem and self-confidence grow together with secure and safe adults. The organization
      is be responsible for planning and implementing the program in all groups. The research group
      is responsible for the scientific study of implementation and effects of the program for the
      participants in groups and school classes that are part of intervention and control groups.
      The research is a randomized, controlled, longitudinal survey of the RESCUR program. This
      means a baseline measurements before the intervention begins and follow up at six months, one
      year and then two years.

      The second phase involves implementing the program "Jag vill, jag lkan, jag törs!" (RESCUR)
      in Junis' group activities, in groups through social services and in school classes in
      different municipalities and spread across the country (ie. in different housing areas). The
      third phase involves analysis and reporting from the project's implementation and its
      effects.

      The project will be carefully evaluated from two perspectives, implementation and impact. We
      will study the implementation through both self-assessment forms, reported by group leaders
      when the program has been used for half a year, and observations made according to a
      formalized checklist. The implementation of the method is fundamental in order to properly
      evaluate the effect of the method, which is the second part of the evaluation of the project.
      At the same time, we are also interested in directly studying the extent to which it is
      possible to implement the method as intended.

      The effect of the method on protective factors and resilience will be measured via a
      randomized, controlled pre-post follow-up design with two types of groups. We will study the
      effect of the method from both a statistical significance perspective and a practical
      relevance perspective [62]. We will use our waiting list to create a control condition. The
      waiting list group is offered to start the intervention one year after base line measurements
      has taken place. We make a pre-measurement before the intervention begins among the
      participants, even adult reports will be collected, as well as measurements after one
      semester, one year and two years.

      The controlled study has three different arms. In the case of schools, we have cluster
      randomize participants to one of two conditions, (A) intervention schools or (B) waiting list
      or control schools. Randomization has been done at school level. Thereafter, the baseline
      measurements were performed in both conditions, and after that, the intervention group began
      the action and measurements were made as described above (Table 1). One year after the
      baseline measurement intervention group (A) the waiting list group began the program.
      Measurements are finally made a year later.

      In the case of Junis's groups, it was not feasible to do a cluster randomization at the
      managerial level as the involvement of local chapters was more difficult to achieve. The
      groups will be led by regular June volunteers.

      As for the social service group, we will have the same arrangement and no waiting-list
      control condition. Here, a new round of groups is planned in the second year. On the other
      hand, we will have a follow-up measurement of the first wave's intervention groups in year 3
      for both Junis and the social services groups. The groups will be run by social workers.

      A calculation of the statistical power has been made for the interventions. In the universal
      intervention, an effect size of d = 0.3 and a power of 0.8 and the corresponding statistics
      are expected to test a group size of 176 in each group. The recruitment of schools for the
      evaluation of RESCUR has been completed. The data collection sites are recruited from
      different part of Sweden as well as in both urban and rural areas.
    
  