
    
      Background Stroke constitutes the primary cause of acquired disability in adults and the
      second cause of dementia following Alzheimer disease. The burden of disease may be
      substantial since 25% of the victims of stroke are younger than 65 years. Standard treatment
      is IV rtPA thrombolysis, within 3-4.5 hours of first signs. It has been shown that patients
      with a moderate to severe clinical score (NIHSS more than 10) have occlusion of proximal
      large vessels, resulting in a more adverse clinical outcome. Many studies have demonstrated
      that early recanalization after IV rtPA is more restricted, the larger and more proximal the
      artery. Recanalization of large arteries occurs more frequently and earlier (leading to
      better prognosis) with arterial than with venous access. Biochemical arterial treatment
      appears thus of greater efficacy in terms of recanalization of large vessels, but more
      inconvenient with respect to setup delays. Several systems for mechanical intracranial
      arterial thrombectomy of large trunks have recently been proposed and are now available.
      Results of short case series and prospective multicentric non randomized studies appear
      favorable. The thrombus obstructing the artery is reached by endovascular means and
      mechanically removed with the result that orthograde blood flow is re-established in the
      cerebral territory involved in the ischemia. Potential advantages of these mechanical systems
      on chemical thrombolysis are speed (a few minutes versus 1 hour) and absence of thrombolytic
      injection. Mechanical thrombolysis should thus lead to better results than injection of an
      arterial thrombolytic agent, as well as increase the time window for treatment. In addition,
      hemorrhagic complications should be reduced.

      Objectives

      In situations where IV rtPA thrombolysis is not optimal, that is in presumed embolic
      occlusions of large intracranial arterial trunks (terminal carotid, initial segment of the
      MCA, distal third of the basilar trunk) with a moderate to severe clinical state (NIHSS
      greater or equal to 8) and in situations when IV rtPA may be contra-indicated:

        -  To validate intra-arterial thrombectomy use during the acute phase of cerebral stroke in
           patients treated with IV thrombolysis or in patients for whom thrombolysis is
           contra-indicated.

        -  To determine whether a combined approach, standard treatment plus thrombectomy, is
           superior to standard treatment alone within 5 h of the appearance of symptoms, in
           patients with occlusion of proximal cerebral arteries following moderate to severe
           stroke (greater or equal to 8), evaluated at 3 months.

      Design EASI is a randomized, controlled multicentric trial, with a parallel comparison
      between standard and combined (standard plus thrombectomy) treatment. All adults presenting
      less than 5 hours after the beginning of symptoms with an NIHSS greater or equal to 8
      discordant with imaging data are eligible. Occlusion site, when available, includes
      intracranial carotid artery, M1 segment of middle cerebral and basilar artery.

      480 patients fulfilling eligibility criteria will be sufficient to demonstrate the primary
      hypothesis of a 15% difference in number of subjects with a favorable mRS (greater than 2) at
      3 months, with the assumption of a 25% efficacy (mRS less or equal to 2) for IV thrombolytic
      treatment at 3 months.

      Randomization may take place any time following admission, including during IV thrombolysis.
      The choice of early randomization, without knowledge of the clinical or angiographic results
      of IV thrombolysis fulfils several objectives: allow timely delivery of a proven treatment;
      prevent unnecessary exposure to angiography risks; set up thrombectomy as fast as possible
      for a maximal efficacy.

      IV thrombolysis is carried out according to standard practice. Mechanical thrombectomy is
      carried out with already approved devices, according to the manufacturer's instructions,
      following a diagnostic cerebral angiography.

      Follow-up includes brain imaging and the mRS at 3 months.

      Endpoint measures include:

        -  Clinical endpoints as measured by the neurologist, and include the NIHSS at baseline and
           the mRS at 3 months.

        -  Safety data: complications, death at 3 months, hemorrhage according to 24 hours CT scan.

      The primary efficacy endpoint is clinical: favorable mRS (less than or equal to 2) at 3
      months.

      The primary safety endpoint is rate of death at 3 months and rate of symptomatic hemorrhage
      at 24 hours.

      Secondary efficacy endpoints include:

        -  Comparison of ASPECTS score between baseline and 24 hours CT scans

        -  In thrombectomy group, blood flow in treated territory as measured by a TICI reperfusion
           score of 2 or 3 at end of treatment.

      Secondary safety endpoints include

        -  Rate of hemorrhage on 24 hours CT scan

        -  Frequency and severity of complications of standard treatment

        -  Frequency and severity of arterial complications in thrombectomy group

        -  Frequency and severity of complications at puncture site in thrombectomy group
    
  