
    
      Background Health system policymakers need timely access to synthesized research evidence to
      inform the policymaking process. No efforts to address this need have been evaluated using an
      experimental quantitative design. The investigators developed an evidence service that draws
      inputs from Health Systems Evidence, which is a database of policy relevant systematic
      reviews. The reviews have been: 1) categorized by topic and type of review; 2) coded by the
      last year searches for studies were conducted and by the countries in which included studies
      were conducted; 3) rated for quality; and 4) linked to available user-friendly summaries,
      scientific abstracts, and full-text reports. The goal is to evaluate whether a "full-serve"
      evidence service increases the use of synthesized research evidence by policy analysts and
      advisors in the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care (MOHLTC) as compared to a
      "self-serve" evidence service.

      Methods/design: The investigators will conduct a two-arm randomized controlled trial (RCT),
      along with a follow-up qualitative process study in order to explore the findings in greater
      depth. For the RCT, all policy analysts and policy advisors (n=168) in a single division of
      the MOHLTC will be invited to participate. Using a stratified randomized design, participants
      will be randomized to receive either the "full-serve" evidence service (database access,
      monthly e-mail alerts, and full-text article availability) or the "self-serve" evidence
      service (database access only). The trial duration will be ten months (two-month baseline
      period, six-month intervention period, and two month cross-over period). The primary outcome
      will be the mean number of site visits/month/user between baseline and the end of the
      intervention period. The secondary outcome will be participants' intention to use research
      evidence. For the qualitative study, 15 participants from each trial arm (n=30) will be
      purposively sampled. One-on-one semi-structured interviews will be conducted by telephone on
      their views about and their experiences with the evidence service they received, how helpful
      it was in their work, why it was helpful (or not helpful), what aspects were most and least
      helpful and why, and recommendations for next steps.
    
  