
    
      The use of electroporation has expanded over the last twenty years since its first clinically
      reported study in the treatment of head and neck cancer in 1991.

      In electroporation short high-voltage pulses are delivered directly to the tumour which
      transiently permeabilises the cell membranes enabling targeted cell death and also allowing
      otherwise non-permeant chemotherapeutic drugs to enter the cancer cells. The parameters of a
      successful electroporation process are determined by the strength of the electric field and
      the duration of the electrical field exposure. ePORE and EndoVE deliver electroporation
      parameters which successfully electroporate cells in the reversible electroporation range,
      whilst eliminating muscular contractions. Both devices are CE marked and will be used within
      the definition of their intended use.

      Currently over 150 sites in Europe are reported to be employing electroporation in the
      clinical management of head & neck, recurrent breast, malignant melanoma, colorectal, liver
      metastasis, pancreatic and inoperable glioma. The standard operating procedures for
      electroporation and electrochemotherapy were established during the EU funded ESOPE study
      which established the clinical application of electroporation in combination with cisplatin
      or bleomycin. The EndoVE device has already been used successfully in phase I studies in
      patients with inoperable oesophageal and colorectal cancer. No serious adverse events were
      noted with positive tumour regression observed after a single treatment.

      A patient recruited to the study will be requested to attend a pre-study visit where informed
      consent will be obtained before proceeding to review medical history and conduct a full
      clinical examination, full blood count, EKG and assessment of tumour volume via a CT. The
      procedure will happen no later than 28 days after the pre-study visit - Day 0.

      On the day of the procedure, a review of any changes which occurred since the pre-study visit
      will be conducted. The patient will be placed under General Anaesthetic or sedated before
      Bleomycin will be delivered intravenously. The patient will then be treated endoscopically
      with the EndoVE device. The EndoVE procedure should take no longer than 30 minutes. The
      patient will then be transferred to the step-down ward to monitor for any adverse events
      before being discharged. There will be a telephone follow up after 2 days, 7 days, 4 weeks
      and 8 weeks. The patient will be requested to attend the clinic for a 12-week follow up for
      clinical review,
    
  