
    
      Background: The current definition of preeclampsia is based on signs and symptoms without
      reference to the pathology. The majority of preeclampsia cases would come from placental
      dysfunction beginning early in pregnancy, even before the onset of clinical or biochemical
      events leading to the diagnosis. Defects in the development of the placenta (impaired
      transformation of the spiral arteries) would seem to lead to poor placental perfusion.
      Currently, the uterine artery Doppler is the marker used to predict placental perfusion in
      routine monitoring of the pregnant woman. However, other placental aspects, such as the
      ultrasonographic measurement of placental volume could also be useful for predicting
      preeclampsia. Also, several studies have shown that many blood markers (PAPP-A, PlGF, sFlt-1)
      detected as soon as the first trimester seem effective to predict the majority of early
      pre-eclampsia, those occurring before 34 weeks of gestation. However, the predictive value of
      these markers is not so strong regarding prediction of later preeclampsia, those occurring
      between 34-37 weeks and at term.

      Other studies show that some maternal factors, including the value of arterial pressure, BMI,
      maternal age, could contribute to screening for pre-eclampsia. Recent studies have also been
      interested in the maternal ophthalmic artery Doppler to try to predict preeclampsia even
      before the development of clinical symptoms.

      Our hypothesis is that each of these biomarkers may be specific to a certain type of
      pre-eclampsia (early or late; with or without intra uterine growth restriction). We believe
      that actual definition of preeclampsia includes heterogenous causes and that better
      understanding of this pathology would help practicians to offer a more individualised
      treatment to their patients.

      Objective: Our main goal is to characterize from a biophysical, biochemical, ultrasonographic
      and placental perspective the pathology of preeclampsia.

      Method: This case-control study will recruit:

        1. nulliparous women at 1st trimester of pregnancy. They will provide blood sample and U/S
           examination at 4 different times during pregnancy.

        2. nulliparous women at diagnosis of preeclampsia.

      Data that will be collected are:

      maternal age maternal BMI maternal ethnicity maternal mean arterial pressure (at
      recruitment/diagnosis and delivery) gestational age at recruitment/diagnosis and at delivery
      maternal serum PAPP-A, PlGF, endoglin, sFlt-1 (at recruitment and delivery) cord blood PlGf,
      endoglin, sFlt-1 fetal crown-rump length at 1st trimester (at recruitment) fetal growth
      (during pregnancy) Uterine arteries Doppler Cord arteries Doppler Maternal Ophthalmic
      arteries Doppler Placental volume newborn birthweight
    
  