
    
      This is a randomized double blind placebo controlled Phase 2 trial with a 12 patient lead-in
      to evaluate safety, prior to full enrollment to an additional 28 patients (for a total of 40
      patients) to assess efficacy of decitabine in the treatment of critically ill patients with
      COVID-ARDS. The patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive standard of care plus
      Decitabine or standard of care plus saline based placebo.

      Eligible patients will receive decitabine 10 mg/m2 daily for 5 days, 1 cycle only. This is a
      dose that is half the FDA approved dose for myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), and using a
      single cycle.

      If less than 2 of the first 6 (treatment arm) patients experience an unacceptable toxicity,
      defined as any treatment related grade III or higher adverse events, as per section 5.7,
      within 15 days of initiation of treatment, the drug is safe to continue. If the investigators
      observe more than 33% patients with unacceptable toxicity, the investigators will pause the
      accrual pending safety evaluation. After validating safety, the investigators will enroll
      additional 28 patients towards the primary efficacy endpoint. The investigators will monitor
      safety throughout the trial by monitoring clinical hematologic, chemistry, vital signs,
      respiratory parameters, medications, and clinical changes daily as per the schedule of
      procedures.

      Bio samples from peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) and Mini Bronchoalveolar lavage
      (BAL) will be collected and stored for secondary analysis and mini BAL will only be collected
      as an optional sub-study for patient consented to a separate study protocol either at
      time-point of for-cause clinically indicated bronchoscopy, or for subjects consented to a
      separate Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) interventional study, under the auspices of that
      protocol. For research bio specimens required after study drug initiation, a window period of
      +/-24 hours while inpatient, and +/- 4 days for outpatient monitoring will be permitted.

      These objectives will allow for the planning of subsequent phase 3 studies, and strengthen
      implementation of a multi-center randomized trial should this study confirm safety, and
      suggest efficacy of therapy.
    
  