
    
      Introduction: Nursing students' anger regulation functionally has increasingly gained
      importance. It is known that cognitive behavioral approaches and music can be used as
      effective tools for young adults. It is important that the rhythm component of music be
      integrated with the Gross Model of Emotion Regulation, which analyzes the emotional
      regulation processes on a cognitive-behavioral basis, and new interventional tools be
      developed, which can be regularly and easily accessed in psychiatric nursing. The study
      results will shed light on future studies in terms of using the Gross Model, integrated in
      musical rhythm studies, to manage functional anger in student nurses.

      Aim: The study aims to determine the effect of the anger management program to be implemented
      by integrating the rhythm component of music with the Gross Model of Emotion Regulation on
      the anger expression and anger types of nursing students determined to be under risk through
      screenings.

      Materials and Methods: This single-blind factorial designed randomized experimental research
      was conducted with three control groups. The study group consisted of third-grade students
      (N=67) who were enrolled in Ege University Faculty of Nursing and determined to have scores
      above average from The State-Trait Anger Expression Inventory (STAXI). The study data were
      collected from 38 students who met the inclusion criteria. They were collected with pre-post
      tests and follow-up measurements using STAXI and introductory information form developed in
      light of the literature. The Gross Model of Emotion Regulation intervention program,
      integrated with musical rhythms, was completed in five sessions after pilot study. The
      sessions in the musical rhythms were carried out in company with a specialist. The data were
      analyzed using one-way and two-way variance analyses (4x3 Factorial ANOVA). The statistical
      significance level was measured with p˂0.05, and effect size was measured with ε^2. Ethical
      permissions were obtained to conduct the study.
    
  