
    
      Sickle cell disease (SCD) causes multi-organ dysfunction and early death in affected
      individuals. Many succumb to complications of chronic organ dysfunction and eventual organ
      failure one of which is the liver.

      Spectrum of sickle cell liver disease ranges from hepatic sequestration crisis, intrahepatic
      cholestasis, gallstones, non-cirrhotic portal hypertension, chronic sickle hepatopathy and
      cirrhosis to complications of the treatment of the disease including secondary iron overload
      and viral hepatitis. Though liver transplantation has been performed for SC-induced liver
      failure, a crude mortality rate of 60% makes it a poor choice. It is therefore imperative to
      identify patients with liver dysfunction and damage for possible early intervention.

      Stem cell transplant is currently the only cure for SCD and at the NIH SCD hepatopathy is one
      of the indications for transplant. It is currently not known if stem cell transplant reverses
      SCD liver disease hence we intend to study and compare the nature of SCD liver disease pre
      and post stem cell transplant and in transplant ineligible patients. All SCD patients will be
      screened for liver disease prior to enrollment including fibroscan evaluation. Primary end
      point is histological evidence of regression of liver disease. Hence all patients in the
      transplant eligible arm will undergo liver biopsy pre and 12-24 months post transplant.
      Transplant ineligible patients will be offered liver biopsy when clinically indicated.
      Patients that have already undergone transplant will be included and their data evaluated
      retrospectively. Serum and plasma, liver tissue and stool samples will be evaluated
      extensively for parameters such as liver function tests, iron metabolism, clotting factors,
      and inflammatory markers including microbial products. The intention of the study is to use
      sickle cell disease as a model of predicting markers of progression and regression of liver
      disease.
    
  