
    
      Schistosomiasis mansoni is a water-borne disease caused by helminth Schistosoma mansoni (S.
      mansoni), in which adult worms deposit eggs in mesenteric blood vessels. Schistomiasis
      prevalence in the fishing communities in East Africa, and particularly in the Lake Victoria
      region, exceeds 60% and there is overlap in this region with a high prevalence of HIV (29%).

      A recent epidemiological study found an association between S. mansoni and HIV infection in
      adult women residing near Lake Victoria in Tanzania. Furthermore, in primate studies S.
      mansoni infection was shown to increase susceptibility to SIV infection after rectal (but not
      intravenous) challenge, implying that S. mansoni might increase HIV susceptibility by
      altering local mucosal (gut) immunology.

      While S. mansoni does not directly infect the genital tract, we hypothesize that the
      inflammation it causes in the gut may be associated with mucosal inflammation at other sites
      through activation of common mucosal homing integrins such as a4b7. Therefore in this study
      we propose to explore whether S. mansoni increases inflammation and/or HIV susceptibility in
      the endocervix of adult women.

      HIV-uninfected adult women from Entebbe, Uganda will be screened for schistosomiasis using a
      commercial CCA rapid test kit, and infected women who fulfill the study eligibility criteria
      will be recruited into the study. Kato-Katz microscopy analysis will be performed to assess
      egg shedding at baseline. Additionally, urine microscopy will be done to screen for
      Schistosoma hematobium (which can directly involve the genital mucosa). Schistosomiasis
      treatment will be provided to all participants according to Ugandan clinical guidelines.

      Endocervical cytobrush, vaginal SoftCup and blood samples will be collected at three time
      points; at baseline and 4 and 8 weeks after schistosomiasis treatment, at the same stage of
      the menstrual cycle. Using an ex vivo HIV entry assay and mucosal cytokine and microbiome
      analyses we will quantify the effect of S. mansoni and its treatment on cervical HIV
      susceptibility and genital inflammation.
    
  