
    
      Thirty-four obese (BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2) females (18-40 years old) with polycystic ovarian syndrome
      (PCOS) will participate in this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study.
      The use of oral contraceptives or metformin will be discontinued at least 30 days prior. In
      females experiencing monthly cycles, the outpatient visit will take place during the
      mid-luteal phase of the participant's menstrual cycle and the inpatient visit will take place
      during the late follicular phase.

      Subjects will be randomized to treatment order (sitagliptin 100 mg daily vs placebo) using a
      block randomization algorithm with a block size of two. The dose of sitagliptin was chosen as
      it is currently the FDA-recommended dose of sitagliptin for type 2 diabetic patients with
      unimpaired renal function. Subjects will receive standardized dietary counseling throughout
      the study; visits will be standardized to the menstrual cycle when possible. Subjects will
      take each therapy for one month; a minimum one month wash-out will separate study treatments.
      Side effects and compliance with study medication will be assessed at each visit in the
      clinical research center (CRC).

      Each subject will undergo one outpatient visit and one inpatient visit during each treatment.
      On each study day, subjects will report fasting to the CRC in the morning having abstained
      from exercise that morning. On each study day, subjects will receive an intravenous catheter.
      Subjects will undergo an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) during the outpatient study
      visit. During the inpatient study visit, endothelium-dependent and -independent vasodilation
      will be assessed using flow-mediated dilation technique with ultrasound. Standardized meals
      will be provided at lunch and dinner. Body composition will be determined in the afternoon.
      At 8 PM overnight frequent sampling for venous GH will begin every 10 minutes for 12 hours to
      determine overnight GH secretion.
    
  