
    
      General Objective:

      Assessing the efficacy of horizontal augmentation and percentage of reabsorption of bone
      graft material in the technique of guided bone regeneration (GBR), combined with the shock
      wave therapy (SWT) in the horizontal bone reconstruction of mandibular alveolar ridges.

      Type of study:

      Triple blind randomized clinical trial

      Population and sample:

      Twenty six patients of university and private clinical practice, who require augmentation of
      horizontal ridge in the mandible for back placing of an implant, and their compliance with
      inclusion and exclusion criteria, will be assessed.

      Type of analysis:

      Central trend and dispersion (medium and standard deviation) measurements will be obtained.
      Type of data distribution using Shapiro Wilk.

      t-student test between no related groups for assessing bone augmentation. t-paired test
      between related groups for assessing pre and post treatment within the same group.

      t test for proportion difference, in order to assess the percentage of reabsorption of bone
      graft, bone density, bone quality, within a same group.

      Fisher, group comparison.

      A multiple linear regression model will be developed in order to establish if the difference
      among groups is influenced by the initial width of the ridge and the thickness of the soft
      tissue.

      In case of not following a normal distribution, no parametrical tests for related and no
      related groups and logistic regression, will be used.

      The frequencies of adverse effects in each group will be obtained, and compared to the Chi2
      test or the Fisher exact test.

      All the analyses will be made with significance level of 5% (p< 0.05).

      Effect measurements: Relative Risk (RR), Attributable Risk Reduction (ARR), and Necessary
      Number to be Treated (NNT). The augmentation of horizontal volume that allows the
      installation of a ≥4.1 mm implant will be taken as cutting point reference of clinical
      success.

      Expected Results:

        -  Establishing the effect of the shock wave therapy, in combination with guided bone
           regeneration, on the improvement of bone augmentation and the decrease of bone graft
           reabsorption.

        -  Establishing the effect of shock wave therapy, in combination with guided bone
           regeneration, on the improvement of bone quality and density, as well as on decreasing
           the adverse effects.

        -  Acquiring new knowledge in the area of bone reconstruction.

        -  Presentation of results in local and international congresses.

        -  Formation of human resource; mastery graduation paper on Dentistry Science Master.
    
  