
    
      The design for this study is outlined below according to each Aim.

      Aim 1: To identify the effectiveness of personal sound amplification products (PSAPs) for
      decreasing hearing handicap and improving speech perception in adults with no access to
      hearing health care.

      Aim 2: To implement an adult aural rehabilitation (AR) program for those without access to
      hearing health care to improve PSAP benefit, promote PSAP use and lead to increased quality
      of life (QOL).

      Aim 1 will assess the effectiveness of over-the-counter (OTC) PSAPs for our participant
      population and Aim 2 will implement an AR program. With Aim 1, hearing loss will be assessed
      and a PSAP will be provided. Prior to the hearing evaluation, participants will be randomly
      placed in one of three groups to assess the effectiveness of the AR program (Aim 2). The
      three groups include those who will receive the current best practices care from an
      audiologist (ABP), those who will receive the ABP plus an aural rehabilitation program
      (ABP+AR), and finally, those who will receive only an OTC PSAP without assistance from an
      audiologist for providing programming, maintenance or care information (OTC-only). Both the
      ABP and OTC-only groups initially will attend general health information sessions in-place of
      the AR program. Local health care providers who have training in general health areas such as
      nutrition, diabetes, obesity, and heart health to name a few, will provide the General Health
      and Wellness programming. Once the ABP+AR groups have completed their AR sessions, the ABP
      and the OTC-only groups will attend the AR programming sessions. This testing layout and
      schedule is provided in the table below.

      Randomization will occur for each county visited and for the participants. Specifically, five
      counties will each receive a code and these codes will be randomized to determine when the
      study will take place in that area. All five regions will be included over a one-year period.
      Participant randomization will occur by generating three groups of random participant numbers
      and then assigning each participant to their designated group. Only the PI and the project
      manager will have access to the randomization lists. The PI will generate the randomization
      lists and the Project Manager will assign the participants accordingly to each group. The
      randomization lists will be kept on a password-protected computer and only accessible by the
      PI or Project Manager.

      Audiologists will be blinded to the intervention condition for participants. Specifically,
      two audiologists (A1 and A2) will conduct the initial hearing evaluations. A2 will perform
      the PSAP orientations and a third audiologist (A3) will perform the follow-up speech
      perception testing in weeks 8 - 9. Speech testing will occur before a second real ear session
      and PSAP adjustments are made to individual devices. Finally, the second post-speech
      perception testing for all participants in week 14 will be conducted by A1.

      The entire program will take place over a 14-week period for one county at a time. County 1
      will begin at Week 1 and the remaining four regions will be stratified such that testing will
      begin at Week 9, 10 or 11 consecutively for each region. The stratification will be done to
      ensure that testing takes place in each area over a one-year period, and also, to avoid
      simultaneous testing at two sites. Finally, all participants who complete the study in years
      1 and 2 will be invited back to complete speech perception testing and the AR surveys one
      year after they complete the study.
    
  