
    
      Increase rate of unnecessary caesarean sections has been a growing concern in most parts of
      the world. According to the latest survey one in five women in the world now deliver by
      caesarean section (CS). The Eastern Mediterranean Region (EMR) with its twenty -two Member
      States (MSs) as classified by the World Health Organization is of no exception in this
      respect. Within the EMR, Egypt has the highest CS rate of 54%, with no further improvement to
      maternal and child mortality rates in Egypt, the association of extremely high CS rate and
      its potential benefits has been questioned. This may suggest that although the necessary
      numbers of CSs are performed for the population at risk but the rates higher than the
      recommended threshold (10-15% according to the WHO) could be the measure of unjustified CSs
      in healthy populations . However, determining the adequate caesarean section rate at the
      population level - i.e. the minimum rate for medically indicated caesarean section, while
      avoiding medically unnecessary operations - is a challenging task. Variations in overall CS
      rate between different settings or over time are difficult to interpret and compare because
      of intrinsic differences in hospital factors and infrastructure (primary versus tertiary
      level), difference in the characteristics of the obstetric population (case mix) served (eg %
      of women delivered by previous CS) and difference in clinical management protocols. This is
      seen as one of the barriers in better understanding of CS trends and underlying causes. In
      order to propose and implement effective measures to achieve optimal CS rates, it is first
      essential to identify what groups of women are contributing the most towards overall CS rate
      and investigate the underlying reasons for trends in different settings. Like many developing
      countries, health care facilities in Egypt have no such standardized internationally accepted
      classification system in place to monitor and compare facility based CS rates in a consistent
      and action oriented manner.

      Policy makers and health organisations have suggested the need for such classification system
      that can best monitor and compare CS rates in a standardised, reliable, consistent and
      action-oriented manner. WHO proposed the Robson classification system as a global standard
      for assessing, monitoring and comparing caesarean section rates within healthcare facilities
      over time, and between facilities. It classifies women in 10 groups based on their obstetric
      characteristics (parity, previous CS, gestational age, onset of labour, fetal presentation
      and number of fetuses) without needing the indication for CS. It gives an opportunity to
      evaluate the prevalence of CSs among various groups of women, to compare data between
      institutions, learn from each other and to create strategies for better results through audit
      and feed back cycle. This classification is clinically relevant and categorizes women
      prospectively which in turns allows the implementation and evaluation of interventions
      targeted to specific groups. Some studies have shown that if this classification is used on a
      regular basis, it can provide critical assessment to change the practice.

      Aim: The study aim is, to assess, analyse and compare CSR of the participating hospital over
      the period of three months according to the 10 Group Robson classification system

      Participating hospitals

      1: Ain Shams University Hospital 4: Mataria Teaching Hospital 4: Shatby Alexandria Hospital
      5: Benha University Hospital 6: Ahmed Maher Hospital 7: El-Galaa Hospital 8: Alexandria
      Hospital 9: Behira Hospital 10:Menia Hospital 11: Luxor Hospital 12: Nada Hospital 13:
      Rofayda Hospital

      Study design: A prospective cross- sectional study will be conducted to implement the Robson
      Classification within the obstetric department of participating hospitals. The Robson
      implementation manual will be used as a tool guide for the study.

      The study population will include all women with live births and stillbirths of at least 28
      weeks gestation at from. Two-study investigator from each participating hospital will be
      assigned who will provide the ongoing support during the study period. Participants will be
      invited to attend the introductory workshop for the implementation of the Robson
      Classification by the study coordinators. Variables necessary to categorise women in to
      Robson groups will be collected through the predesigned proforma. These variables will be
      used to classify each woman in to Robson groups with the help of a flow diagram. The
      collected information will be analyzed on the Excel Sheet to finalize the grouping either
      manually or by an automatic calculator.The results of each group will be statistically
      analyzed after entering the data in the report and will be sent on a monthly basis by e-mail
      or fax to study coordinators.
    
  