
    
      More than 150,000 Virginians live with dementia. Most persons with dementia (PWD) are cared
      for by an unpaid family caregiver. These caregivers' provision of daily assistance to PWD is
      a critical part of the state's dementia care capabilities. Caregivers of PWD experience an
      array of negative biopsychosocial impacts related to their caregiving responsibilities that
      undermine their own well-being and their care capacity. They are often unprepared to manage
      the behavioral symptoms of dementia (BSD); unmanaged symptoms are associated with increased
      use of emergency care and institutional placement, which are burdensome outcomes for PWD,
      families, and public health systems.

      An emergent body of research associates traumatic brain injury (TBI) with increased dementia
      risk. Veterans with a history of TBI are therefor at increased risk of developing dementia,
      putting their family members at risk for the established negative impacts of caregiving.
      Coordinated care programs have proven beneficial for both members of the dementia caregiving
      dyad, yet access barriers remain. Many caregivers have competing role responsibilities that
      conflict with consistent dementia care access, others are located in rural areas without
      access to specialized dementia care.

      To surmount access barriers and countervail the negative impacts of caregiving, we propose an
      innovative, non-pharmacological intervention: a telehealth-delivered dementia care
      coordination program that provides family and caregiver support and will improve the quality
      of life (QoL) for both caregivers and PWD. A goal of our project is to fill an existing
      service gap by providing coordinated dementia care to an underserved population: caregivers
      of persons with TBI dementia.

      Our study will test three primary hypotheses: 1) Caregivers of persons with dementia who
      participate in the telehealth care coordination program will experience greater improvements
      in study caregiver outcomes (depression, burden, reactions to BSD and QoL) than caregivers of
      PWD receiving best medical treatment (BMT); 2) Caregivers who participate in the program will
      experience greater satisfaction with care than caregivers in the BMT group; 3) The program
      will comparable benefits for caregivers of persons with Alzheimer's disease and related
      dementia (PWD-ADRD) and persons with TBI dementia (PWD-TBI).

      In addition, our study includes three exploratory hypotheses: 1) Certain caregiver
      characteristics (external locus of control; lower self-efficacy, sense of hope, and
      self-perceived caregiver aptitude) will be negatively associated with improvements in
      caregiver study outcomes; 2) Caregivers in the intervention group will experience greater
      reductions in emergency/unnecessary health care utilization then caregivers in the BMT group;
      3) The intervention will impart sustained caregiver benefits in primary study outcomes.

      Project specific aims include: 1) Evaluate the benefits of a telehealth-delivered care
      coordination program intervention for caregivers of PWD relative to best medical treatment;
      2) Evaluate the impact of the intervention on caregiver satisfaction; 3) Determine the
      comparative effectiveness of the care coordination program between caregivers of persons with
      ADRD those with TBI dementia; 4) Explore caregiver characteristics that influence
      intervention outcomes (burden, depression, QoL, responses to BSD); and 5) Investigate whether
      the intervention reduces emergency and unplanned health care utilization.

      Our research strategy is a prospective, randomized, unblinded study investigating the
      benefits of a 12-month telehealth-delivered dementia care coordination intervention, with
      follow up assessments to examine the longevity of the intervention impacts. We will enroll 3
      study groups: 50 caregivers of PWD-ADRD receiving the telehealth coordinated care
      intervention; 50 caregivers of PWD-ADRD receiving best medical treatment, and 25 caregivers
      of PWD-TBI receiving the intervention. We will collect baseline,12-, and 18-month data to
      examine intervention effectiveness on caregiver study outcomes and test the prolonged
      intervention effects.

      Our study uses an innovative telehealth approach to provide care for families living with
      dementia. Family support has important implications at the individual, family, community, and
      national level. Strategies to reduce caregiver burden and improve QoL for civilian and
      military families can lead to greater satisfaction with care and prolong caregivers' capacity
      to keep their loved ones at home, reducing burdens on public payment systems, including the
      VA. Dissemination of study results will inform state and local policy and finance decisions
      that can help improve the lives of the growing population of persons with dementia or TBI
      dementia.
    
  