
    
      1. Patient recruitment In The Netherlands, the participants will be recruited from the
           sleep center of the Sint Lucas Andreas hospital in Amsterdam. The protocol of recruiting
           the patients from The Netherlands is approved by Medical Ethic Committee of AMC with the
           reference number NL44085.018.13/COSH.

           In China, the participants will be recruited from the sleep disorder center of dental
           school of Shandong University. The protocol of recruiting patients from China is
           approved by Medical Ethic Committee of Shandong University.

           Patients that fit the inclusion criteria will be approached to participate in the study
           in both The Netherlands and China.

        2. Polysomnography (PSG) For the diagnosis of OSA, all the Chinese patients included in
           this study will undergo an overnight PSG recording (SOMNOscreenTM Plus PSG,
           Randersacker, Germany) at Qilu Hospital in Jinan, while all Dutch patients included in
           this study will undergo an overnight PSG recording (SOMNOscreenTM Plus PSG,
           Randersacker, Germany) in Amsterdam.

           PSG included the following variables: electroencephalogram, electro-oculogram, leg and
           chin electromyograms, electrocardiogram, pulse oximetry, body position, neck microphone,
           nasal cannula pressure transducer, and inductive plethysmography by means of thoracic
           and abdominal bands. The PSG recordings will be scored manually in a standard fashion.
           Apnea is defined as cession of airflow ≥90% for at least 10 seconds. Hypopnea is defined
           as a decrease in airflow of more than 30% for at least 10 seconds, and an oxygen
           desaturation greater than 4%. The mean apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) of the OSA group,
           defined as the number of apneas and hypopneas per hour of sleep.

        3. Cone beam computed tomography (CBCT) In The Netherlands, CBCT scans of the OSA patients
           will be made at the department of Oral Radiology at ACTA. In China, CBCT scans of the
           OSA patients will be made at the department of Oral Radiology at Shandong University.

           The protocol for CBCT images in The Netherlands and China will be identical and is as
           follows: CBCT scans will be taken in the participants with the Frankfort plane
           perpendicular to the floor during their awake periods. The participants will be
           instructed not to swallow, speak, or do any motor response other than breathing during
           the CBCT procedure. The image detector and beam are positioned to maximize coverage of
           the upper airway from the level of nasal choanae to approximately the inferior edge of
           the fourth cervical vertebra.

        4. Anatomical modeling of the upper airway Using Amira® (v4.1, Visage Imaging Inc.,
           Carlsbad, CA, USA), the automatic process of the upper airway segmentation will be
           performed following the same protocol as in previous study. First, a voxel set is built
           to include all of the information of the upper airway; second, a new mask is built with
           its thresholds ranging from -1000 to -400; and third, the superior boundary (i.e., the
           plane across the PNS parallel to the FH plane) and the inferior boundary (i.e., the
           plane across the base of the epiglottis parallel to the FH plane) of the upper airway
           are selected in the corresponding axial planes and put into the voxel set. Finally, all
           of the slices between the upper and lower boundaries are selected and put into the voxel
           set.

        5. Statistical analysis Whether the data are normally distributed was tested by the
           Shapiro-Wilk W Test. The Mann-Whitney-U test (for non-normally distributed variables) or
           Chi-squared test (for categorical variables) and the independent t-test (for normally
           distributed variables) are used to compare the differences in the demographic
           characteristics between the Chinese and Caucasian OSA patients. Patient characteristics
           that are significantly different between the two groups will be used as covariate(s) in
           the following between-group analysis. One-way multivariate analysis of covariance
           (MANCOVA) is used to compare the differences in anatomical and aerodynamic
           characteristics between the Chinese and Caucasian OSA patients. A significance level is
           set at p<0.05.
    
  