
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To demonstrate that hypofractionated post-prostatectomy radiotherapy (HYPORT) does not
      increase patient-reported gastrointestinal (GI) or genitourinary (GU) symptoms over
      conventionally fractionated post-prostatectomy (COPORT) at the 2-year time point.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare patient-reported GI symptoms using the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite
      (EPIC)-26 at end of radiation therapy (RT) and 6, 12, 24, and 60 months from end of
      treatment.

      II. To compare patient-reported GU symptoms using the EPIC-26 at end of RT and 6, 12, 24, and
      60 months from end of treatment.

      III. To compare the cost effectiveness based on the cost of radiotherapy and measured
      utilities for health outcomes using the EuroQol five dimensions questionnaire (EQ-5D).

      IV. To compare time to progression (TTP) where progression is defined as the first occurrence
      of biochemical failure (BF), local failure, regional failure, distant metastasis (DM),
      institution of new unplanned anticancer treatment, or death from prostate cancer (prostate
      cancer specific mortality [PCSM]).

      V. To compare freedom from biochemical failure (FFBF) and TTP rates with an alternate
      prostate specific antigen (PSA) >= PSA nadir + 2 ng/mL definition of BF.

      VI. To compare local failure, regional failure, salvage therapy (i.e. institution of new
      unplanned anticancer treatment), DM, PCSM, and overall survival (OS) rates.

      VII. Assessment of adverse events. VIII. Paraffin-embedded tissue block, serum, plasma, whole
      blood, and urine for future translational research analyses for predictors of toxicity
      following hypofractionated or conventionally fractionated post-prostatectomy radiotherapy.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo conventional radiation therapy for 37 fractions over 7 weeks in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may also receive androgen
      deprivation therapy for up to 6 months as per doctor recommendation.

      ARM II: Patients undergo hypofractionated radiation therapy for 25 fractions over 5 weeks in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may also receive
      androgen deprivation therapy for up to 6 months as per doctor recommendation.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years and
      every year for 3 years and thereafter.
    
  