
    
      The current prescription writing behavior of physicians is largely an informed decision based
      upon education and experience. The physician typically assesses the signs and symptoms of a
      patient presentation, laboratory and other clinical tests, and other factors that may be
      known to the physician (e.g. an inability to swallow capsules, or a requirement to be in
      direct sunlight for an extended period), and chooses a drug to prescribe with no evidence of
      patient response to the agent prescribed. The prescribing physician may or may not decide to
      validate this decision by additional testing in the form of follow-up visits or other
      procedures that are designed to assess the effectiveness of the prescription after some
      arbitrary period of time, but not comparatively with other available agents.

      Other influences may impact the decision including aggressive promotions by pharmaceutical
      companies in support of their latest medication and direct to consumer retail advertising.
      Studies conducted by the University of Washington Medical School have shown that when
      patients merely enquire about a drug for which they've seen advertising, that drug is then
      more frequently prescribed (Hollon 2005). At its best, prescription writing is an educated
      guess with a scheduled follow-up to verify the results of the decision. At its worst, it may
      result in all risk with no benefit to the patient if the patient is a non-responder, or if
      the patient accepts an adverse outcome without informing the physician.

      The Opt-e-scrip method for determining prescriptions is virtually the same method that is
      used to assess new drugs for regulatory approval (i.e.,controlled experiments to reduce
      systematic error, reduce random variation, increase precision of assessment). However,
      instead of applying the techniques of scientific investigation to populations, these methods
      are applied to the individual patient. Opt-e-scrip's proprietary methods are used to assess
      alternative choices within a therapeutic class for effectiveness and safety before
      prescribing a specific agent for an individual patient. In this case, however, because the
      drugs are already marketed and cost information is available, when two or more agents are
      equally safe and effective, a decision can be made reliably on cost as a relevant factor
      (2006).

      Initial studies indicate that the Opt-e-scrip methodology can distinguish between similar
      medications based on efficacy and/or side effects at the individual patient level in patients
      with osteoarthritis, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), and allergic rhinitis (Reitberg,
      Del Rio et al. 2002; Reitberg, Weiss et al. 2005). It remains to be seen how well this method
      can be integrated into clinical care and how clinicians and patients respond to the method as
      part of routine care. This project will assess the integration of Opt-e-scrip method into 20
      primary care practices that will each use the method to assist with medication selection in
      30 to 40 patients with a new diagnosis or uncontrolled osteoarthritis and GERD.

      Specific Aims of Study.

        -  1. Evaluate whether the (N-of-1) intervention prescription method can be successfully
           integrated into primary care practices.

        -  2. Determine whether use of the intervention prescription method changes medication
           selection for patients with osteoarthritis and gastroesophageal reflux disease.

        -  3. Examine the effects of the intervention method on medication compliance.

        -  4. Examine the effects of the intervention prescription method on medication costs.

      References

        1. Hollon, M. F. (2005). "Direct-to-consumer advertising: a haphazard approach to health
           promotion." Jama 293(16): 2030-3.

        2. Opt-e-scrip, I. (2006). Optimizing each prescription to the individual, Opt-e-scrip.
           2006.

        3. Reitberg, D. P., E. Del Rio, et al. (2002). "Single-patient drug trial methodology for
           allergic rhinitis." Ann Pharmacother 36(9): 1366-74.

        4. Reitberg, D. P., S. L. Weiss, et al. (2005). "Advances in Single-Patient Trials for Drug
           Treatment Optimization and Risk Management." Drug Information Journal 39: 119-124.
    
  