
    
      For the cartilage cell product NOVOCART® 3D plus, which is used in the study described here,
      the company TETEC AG obtained an expanded production authorization from the medication
      monitoring authorities in compliance with Section 13, Para. 1 of the Medicinal Products Act
      in 2003. This entitles TETEC AG to produce the pharmaceutical product and already distribute
      it. More than 6000 patients were already successfully treated with NOVOCART® 3D in Europe
      since 2003. In order to obtain a general market authorization for NOVOCART® 3D plus, this
      control group study is conducted, in which the superiority of the safety and effectiveness of
      carrier-bound Autologous Chondrocyte Transplantation with NOVOCART® 3D plus compared to the
      standard of care microfracture surgery needs to be proven. This study further aims at
      developing and validating known and new biologic markers for the quality and clinical
      efficacy of the product as requested in the context of identity, purity and potency
      characteristics of the medicinal/investigational product.

      The patients will receive one of the therapeutic procedures in the study. The treatment
      procedure which will be used will be decided by a previously specified randomization process.
      This type of study meets the high quality requirements of the statutorily specified safety
      and quality regulations which are also referred to as "Good Clinical Practice" (GCP). The
      probability of the patient being allocated to one of the two treatments is 2:1; that is, an
      approx. 67% probability of therapy with NOVOCART® 3D plus and an approx. 33% probability of
      therapy with microfracture. Neither the patient, nor the investigator will be able to
      influence the treatment assignment.

      Patients will be screened for eligibility at the Screening Visit. Each patient will remain in
      the study for 24 months post-implant for the effectiveness assessments, and then an
      additional three years to complete the planned post-market phase. Each patient will be in the
      study for up to five years.

      Cells and tissues collected from this study will be used in other in vitro-controlled
      experiments aimed at developing and validating known and novel biologic markers to quantify
      cell quality in the context of identity, purity and potency. Prognostic values of these
      biologic markers will be examined by correlating them with clinical data collected in this
      study.
    
  