
    
      Different studies have revealed that many chronic pathologies including cardiovascular
      disease, diabetes, autoimmune disorders, cancer, obesity or neurological diseases, could be
      influenced by different dietary components, such as lipids. Thus, looking for ways to
      substitute healthier lipids for fats that contain high amounts of cholesterol, saturated
      fatty acids or trans fat, could be of great interest in the prevention of chronic diseases.

      Currently, meat and meat products, especially those where the fat is one of the main
      ingredients of the formulation, are perceived as unhealthy foods associated with increased
      risk of cardiovascular disease, cancer and obesity development. This is mainly due to their
      content of fat, trans fat, high percentage of saturated fatty acids, and cholesterol.
      Examples include sausages, meat spreads, salami or mortadella. Interestingly, despite the
      negative perception, meat and meat products continue to hold a relevant position in the diet
      of the developed countries. Indeed, the group "meat, poultry, deli meats and offal"
      contribute to the 17% of the total dietary fat intake of the Spanish population. Moreover,
      the consumption of deli meats and other meat products represents 5.8% of the total caloric
      intake. These values support the increased interest in evaluating the effect of improving the
      composition of these products in the prevention of disease.

      Overweight and obesity are main public health concerns worldwide. They both contribute to the
      development of numerous diseases increasing the morbidity and mortality rates of the adult
      population. In this context, it is suggested that the incorporation of healthier fats may be
      of great interest in the prevention of these conditions. Thus, usage of lipids from olive oil
      as fats replacements in meat products could be an interesting strategy for the prevention and
      treatment of overweight and obesity.

      A randomized, controlled, nutritional intervention is proposed to evaluate the effect of
      functional meat products on body composition and lipid profile in healthy individuals.
    
  