
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare TAXOL (paclitaxel)/carboplatin (CBDCA) induced peripheral neuropathy as
      measured by European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC)- Quality of
      Life (QOL)-chemotherapy induced peripheral neuropathy 20 (CIPN20) between glutathione (GSH)
      and placebo arms.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the incidences of grade 2+ and grade 3+ TAXOL/CBDCA induced peripheral
      neuropathy measured by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) neuropathy
      scale between GSH and placebo arms.

      II. To compare the time to onset of grade 2+ and grade 3+ TAXOL/CBDCA induced peripheral
      neuropathy between GSH and placebo arms, measured by CTCAE neuropathy scale.

      III. To compare the proportion of patients requiring chemotherapy dose reductions secondary
      to TAXOL/CBDCA induced peripheral neuropathy between GSH and placebo arms.

      IV. To compare the proportion of patients stopping TAXOL/CBDCA secondary to peripheral
      neuropathy between GSH and placebo arms.

      V. To assess the toxicity profile of GSH in this situation. VI. To evaluate whether GSH
      influences the anti-tumor activity of TAXOL/CBDCA. VII. To evaluate patient quality of life
      (QOL) measured by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Ovarian (FACT-O) (ovarian/fallopian
      tube/primary peritoneal cancer patients only) and patient daily symptom questionnaires over
      time between GSH and placebo arms.

      TERTIARY:

      I. To explore the association of genetic variations in genes involved in taxane/platinum
      metabolism with incidence of grade 2+ TAXOL/CBDCA induced peripheral neuropathy.

      II. As part of ongoing research for North Central Cancer Treatment Group (NCCTG) studies, we
      are banking blood products for future studies.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients are stratified according to baseline neuropathy (none vs grade 1), debulked status
      (no gross residual disease [no clinically apparent residual lesions at the completion of
      primary surgery] vs optimal [largest residual lesion < 1 cm at primary surgery] vs
      sub-optimally debulked [residual lesion > 1 cm] or not operated upon), and cancer type
      (ovarian/fallopian tube/primary peritoneal cancers vs lung cancer vs other). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. Patients are grouped based on, Planned paclitaxel dose
      cycle length (Weekly vs. every 3 weeks vs. every 4 weeks). The stratification factors listed
      include demographic, prognostic factors and medication that can potentially impact the
      primary or secondary outcomes, so they need to be distributed evenly among the two arms. The
      18 level combinations involved in these four stratification factors are within the maximum
      recommended of one half of the group sample size for the study.

      Ideally, patients begin receiving glutathione before their first dose of chemotherapy, but
      must begin glutathione before their second dose of chemotherapy.

      ARM I: Patients receive glutathione intravenously (IV) over 15 minutes, paclitaxel* IV over 1
      or 3 hours depending on planned dose cycle length and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes.

      ARM II: Patients receive placebo IV over 15 minutes, paclitaxel* IV over 1 or 3 hours
      depending on planned dose cycle length and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes.

      NOTE: *Alternatively, patients may receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour and glutathione/placebo
      IV over 15 minutes weekly and carboplatin every 21 days for 12 weeks.

      Blood samples are collected periodically for pharmacogenomic and other biomarker analyses.
      Patients complete questionnaires periodically, including quality-of-life assessments.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year.
    
  