
    
      In surgical treatment decisions, locally advanced central lung cancer is the most difficult.
      Locally advanced central lung cancer refers to tumors that have recidivised adjacent organs
      and tissues, such as the esophagus, tracheal carina, pericardium, heart, large vessels, etc.,
      with mediastinal lymph node metastases, but no distant metastases (such as bone) have been
      found by current examination methods. Adjacent hilar lymph nodes and blood vessels are easily
      invaded, so it is difficult to perform surgery and the resection rate is low. On the other
      hand, central lung cancer involving the opening of the main bronchus and upper lobe often
      requires pneumonectomy which would affect the quality of life. When infiltrating into the
      trachea, conventional pneumonectomy cannot achieve the purpose of radical treatment. The
      accepted principle of surgery is to maximize the removal of tumor tissue and to maximize the
      retention of healthy lung tissue. Pulmonary sleeve resection involves the removal of part of
      the main bronchus and can completely remove the tumor, as far as possible to retain normal
      lung function, fully embodies this surgical principle and is worthy of clinical promotion.

      patients who are suitable for sleeve resection account for 5% to 13% of the total surgical
      volume. This also expands the indications for Video assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS).
      Some central lung cancer patients therefore could benefit from that, especially for elderly
      patients with poor cardiopulmonary function. However, central lung cancer sleeve resection
      performed by uniportal VATS is seldom reported, and it has been considered as a difficult and
      high-risk surgical method.

      The Investigators' hospital has completed more than 300 cases of uniportal sleeve surgery,
      which has become the largest center for performing sleeve-surgery by uniportal VATS in the
      world.

      Therefore, this study intends to compare uniportal-sleeve and open-chest sleeve lobectomy for
      the treatment of central lung cancer, analyzing the curative effect and quality of life of
      postoperative patients on the basis of previous accumulation. The Investigators' work would
      promote the usage of uniportal-sleeve lobectomy in the treatment of patients with locally
      advanced central lung cancer.
    
  