
    
      Hysterectomy remains the last resort for a number of benign conditions which have failed to
      respond to conservative measures. Hysterectomy is also performed for operable gynaecological
      malignancy which is excluded from the present study. Conventional techniques for uterine
      extirpation involve open surgery through an abdominal or vaginal incision. In the
      laparoscopic approach small incisions are made in the abdomen to allow insertion of a
      laparoscope and operative instruments. In Laparoscopic Sub-total Hysterectomy (LSH) the
      entire procedure is performed laparoscopically, the cervix is left in situ and the specimen
      is removed through an abdominal port (See Appendix I for classification of laparoscopic
      hysterectomy). In Laparoscopic Hysterectomy (LH) part of the operation is performed
      laparoscopically, up to and including division of the uterine vessels, but the specimen is
      removed with the cervix through an open vaginal vault. (See Appendix II for detailed
      description of equipment and technique).

      Popularity of hysterectomy shows a geographical distribution from a high of 5.4 per thousand
      women in the USA (Farquhar 2002) to a nadir of 1.2/1000 in Norway (Backe et al 1993). Despite
      the high prevalence, how and in whom hysterectomy should be undertaken remains controversial.
      A Cochrane systematic review of methods of hysterectomy concluded that fewest complications
      occur with vaginal hysterectomy (VH) whereas abdominal hysterectomy (AH) carries the highest
      risk (Johnson et al 2006). The meta-analysis included 27 RCTs with a total of 3643
      participants comparing one surgical approach of hysterectomy to another. The authors
      concluded that VH should be the approach of choice for benign indications as it is a fast,
      relatively cheap technique with rapid recovery and a low complication rate. LH should be
      offered when VH is not practicable. Despite this grade 1 evidence most hysterectomies
      worldwide are performed as total abdominal hysterectomies (TAH) when the whole uterus with
      attached cervix is removed through an abdominal incision (Garry 2005).

      Prior to the introduction of population cervical screening it remained routine practice to
      remove the non-diseased cervix at the time of hysterectomy to prevent cancer of the cervical
      stump (Munro 1997). Total hysterectomy (TH) was therefore standard and sub-total hysterectomy
      (STH) was usually reserved for those rare clinical circumstances when removal of the cervix
      was deemed unduly difficult or risky for the patient. A number of retrospective studies have
      shown reduced operating time, reduced ureteric complications and reduced blood loss with STH
      (Kilkku et al 1983, Kilkku 1985, Brown et al 2000, Lalos and Bjerle1986). It has been
      postulated that TH leads to more extensive disruption of pelvic innervation than STH with
      accompanied increased risk of poor bladder, bowel and sexual function. However, RCTs have
      failed to confirm this hypothesis (Thakar et al 2002, Gimbel et al 2003). Indeed a recent
      Cochrane systematic review has shown no difference in the rates of continence, constipation
      or measures of sexual function between STH and TH (Lethaby 2006). Why findings of the RCTs do
      not match observational data is unclear. Perhaps the tools used for assessment of the outcome
      measures studied are not sufficiently sensitive or have been applied too infrequently to
      detect a clinically important difference.

      Total laparoscopic hysterectomy (TLH) was introduced by Harry Reich (Reich et al 1989) and
      was modified into laparoscopic assisted vaginal hysterectomy (LAVH) with a sub-total
      variation, LSH, introduced by the minimal access pioneer Kurt Semm in 1991 (Mettler et al
      1997). Only 1 randomised comparison on the subject has been published (Morreli et al 2007)
      with no significant differences found on comparison of LSH and TLH with respect to
      complications or post-operative recovery.

      Case series suggest recovery from LSH occurs much earlier with return to normal quoted from
      within 3-21 days (Lyons 1997, Jugnet et al 2001, Schwartz 1994, Zupi et al 2003 and Donnez &
      Nisolle 1993). It follows that in order to detect a difference in recovery between the 2
      treatment groups frequent assessments are necessary during the first 12 weeks following
      surgery. Post-operative recovery will be assessed in participants of the current study at 6
      hours after surgery, at the time of discharge and at weekly intervals until 12 weeks from
      surgery and at study completion using a validated questionnaire (QoR-40 Myles 2000 Appendix
      VI). In a recent systematic review of 'Recovery Specific Quality of Life Instruments'
      (Kluivers et al 2008) the QoR-40 was the best validated tool with regards to short term post
      operative recovery. A second questionnaire will be completed at the same times to assess
      symptoms of depression (Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale CES-D Appendix
      VII). With regards to urinary, bowel and sexual symptoms a 3rd validated questionnaire, the
      e-PAQ version 10 (Radley 2007 Appendix VIII) will be completed at recruitment, at the 6 week
      follow-up visit and at 6 months.

      To our knowledge there has been no published RCT comparing LSH with LH. The approach of
      choice for hysterectomy for benign indications is vaginal. When VH is not practicable LH
      should be offered but there is paucity of evidence with regards to which type of laparoscopic
      hysterectomy should be offered. The feasibility study outlined is designed to assess whether
      it is realistic and practicable to recruit to an RCT aimed at addressing this enormous gap in
      the literature.

      Specific aims of the feasibility study are:

      1 To determine the rate of recruitment to a randomised controlled trial comparing short term
      outcomes following laparoscopic hysterectomy versus laparoscopic sub-total hysterectomy 2 To
      assess the validated questionnaires used in discerning differences between the groups
      undergoing the two types of laparoscopic hysterectomy.

      3 To provide pilot data to inform power calculations for the full RCT. 4 To determine the
      acceptability to randomisation. 5 To identify potential obstacles to recruitment to this
      study in our centre. Aims of the proposed definitive study are outlined in order justify the
      tools used.

        1. To test the hypothesis that LSH is associated with an accelerated recovery and return to
           normal activity when compared with LH.

        2. To test the hypothesis that LSH leads to a decreased incidence of postoperative
           troublesome urinary symptoms compared with LH.

        3. To test the hypothesis that LSH leads to a decreased incidence of postoperative
           troublesome bowel symptoms compared with LH.

        4. To test the hypothesis that LSH leads to a lesser deterioration of sexual function
           postoperatively compared with LH.

      6] To test the hypothesis that LSH is associated with fewer symptoms of depression when
      compared with LH.

      Women in whom hysterectomy is indicated for a benign condition and in whom a laparoscopic
      hysterectomy is feasible will be invited to take part in the study. The feasibility study
      sample will be invited from the current caseload at the pilot hospital (Author's main
      hospital of practice). All invitees will be provided with written information and informed
      consent obtained. Women who express their willingness will be assessed for their eligibility
      according to the criteria below.

      Eligible invitees will include all premenopausal women in whom hysterectomy is indicated for
      benign indications and in whom either technique is considered feasible after initial
      laparoscopic survey. Exclusion criteria were predefined as post menopausal status, suspected
      malignancy, abnormal cervical smears or a history of treatment of a high grade cervical
      intraepithelial neoplasia within 10 years of recruitment, uterine greater than 14 weeks size,
      raised BMI (Body Mass Index) > 35Kg/M2, uterovaginal prolapse > Stage 1 (Bump et al 1996,
      previous gynaecological malignancy, previous extensive pelvic surgery, current
      psychological/psychiatric disease, current anti-depressant/anti-psychotic therapy or
      inability to read and write English.

      Randomisation will be conducted by a web based computer programme to generate sealed opaque
      envelopes (www.sealedenvelope.com/freerandmiser/v1) using block randomization to allow
      periodic balancing of the 2 treatment groups. The opaque envelopes will be in a locked
      cabinet in the charge of an administrator with no connection to the trial. The envelope will
      be opened after initial laparoscopic survey confirms that either technique is feasible. The
      participants will not be informed of their treatment group allocation until 1 year after
      entry into the feasibility study. Treatment group allocation may be divulged early if
      required by the participants General Practitioner or another clinician to facilitate the
      participants care.

      Randomised women will receive laparoscopic hysterectomy (LH) or laparoscopic supracervical
      hysterectomy using a standardised technique There are numerous descriptions for LSH and LH in
      the literature. The procedures will be carried out according to the usual practise of the
      principal investigator. A large part of both procedures are the same and will be described
      first. General anaesthesia is induced and maintained by a single anaesthetist. A 5mm primary
      bladeless, dilating tip trocar (Excel™, Ethicon, Cincinnati, USA) is inserted into the
      umbilicus under direct vision. Once intraperitoneal placement is confirmed a carbon dioxide
      pneumoperitoneum is established at a pressure of 15mmHg. The patient is placed in 45°
      Trendelenberg and 3 accessory 5mm ports are inserted under direct vision. The position of the
      ports are lateral at the level of the umbilicus on either side and the third 2 fingers
      breadth above the symphysis pubis. In the case of LH all 3 accessory ports are 5 mm diameter
      but in LSH the suprapubic port is 12mm diameter. Vapor pulse coagulation via a single use
      Plasma Kinetic forceps (PK™ Gyrus ACMI PLC) is used to coagulate the utero-ovarian ligament
      or the infundibulopelvic ligament if removal of the ovary is desired, after identification of
      the position of the ureter at the pelvic brim. The uterovesical fold of peritoneum is
      dissected with scissors and monopolar diathermy at 50W coagulation. The bladder flap is
      reflected caudad. A posterior peritoneal flap is similarly dissected and reflected to
      mobilise the ureters caudad. The ascending branch(es) of the uterine arteries are coagulated
      and transected with the PK forceps. The remainder of the procedure differs according to
      treatment allocation.

      For LH the main trunk of the uterine artery is coagulated superomedially to the course of the
      ureter. The uterosacral ligaments are coagulated and transected close to the arch of the
      uterosacrals. The remainder of the procedure is carried out via the vagina. Forty mls of a
      1:200,000 adrenaline in normal saline solution is infiltrated into the subcuticular space
      around the cervix taking care to avoid intravascular injection The cervix is circumcised with
      a monopolar angled needle using blended diathermy of 100W cutting and 60W coagulation. The
      supra-vaginal septum is divided to allow cranial reflection of the bladder. The Pouch of
      Douglas is entered with a single cut into the peritoneum underlying the vaginal skin in the
      posterior vaginal fornix. The Cardinal ligaments are clamped with curved Zeppelin clamps,
      cut,transfixed and ligated with 1 Vicryl® (Ethicon division of Johnson & Johnson, New Jersey,
      USA) prior to removal of the uterus and cervix. The vaginal skin and peritoneum are sutured
      en-masse with locking 1 Vicryl®.

      In the case of LSH a 100W monopolar diathermy loop (Lap Loop™, Roberts Surgical, Worcester,
      UK) is used to amputate the body of the uterus from the cervix. The uterus is morcellated and
      removed piecemeal with a 15mm disposable morcellator (X-Tract™ Gynecare division of Johnson &
      Johnson, New Jersey, USA). The endocervical canal and cervical stump are coagulated with
      bipolar diathermy. The accessory ports are removed under direct vision and in the case of LSH
      the suprapubic port is closed with 1 Vicryl® on Endoclose® (Tyco, Hampshire UK).

      The remainder of the procedure is the same for both techniques. Haemostasis is confirmed
      laparoscopically.The pneumoperitoneum is deflated and 20 mls 2.5% chirocaine is instilled
      intraperitoneally. The laparoscope and primary trocar are removed under direct vision. In LSH
      the 15mm suprapubic port site is closed with 1 Vicryl® on an Endoclose™ (Tyco Healthcare,
      Hampshire UK) needle. The skin is closed with subcuticular 3-0 Vicryl Rapide® (Ethicon). 5mls
      2.5% chirocaine is injected subcuticularly at the port sites. The bladder catheter is removed
      in all patients when the patient is mobile. Analgaesia is commenced per-operatively with
      intravenous diclofenac 75 mg and paracetamol 1g together with 8 mg dexamethasone and 4mg
      ondansetron as antiemetic.

      Questionnaires will be administered without prior knowledge of type of hysterectomy. The
      operating surgeon will not be involved with administering questionnaires for the duration of
      the study. Analysis of the results will be performed without prior knowledge of treatment
      group allocation. Participants and their GPs will be informed of treatment group at the
      completion of the feasibility study (or sooner if requested by GP or participant who wishes
      to drop out of the study) in order to continue on the cervical screening programme if
      required (LSH group).

      The feasibility study will describe recruitment to the study and acceptability to
      randomisation. Statistical analysis of the feasibility study results will inform power
      calculations for the subsequent definitive study. All statistical analyses will be performed
      using SPSS version 17 for Windows.. The QoR-40 questionnaire domains are scored on a scale
      from 0 (worst recovery) to 200 (best recovery). The scores are compared preoperatively,
      postoperatively and at weekly intervals up to and including 6 months using the t-test where
      data satisfies the test of normality. Normality will be tested using the Kolmogorov-Smirnov
      test (P value set at 0.050) and where data does not satisfy normality the Wilcoxon Signed
      Rank Test will be used.

      The CES-D questionnaire elements are scored as 0-3 with a maximum score of 60. A score of
      over 16 indicates depression. The CES-D scores will be converted to presence or absence of
      depression and compared between the 2 groups using the Wilcoxon Signed Rank test.

      The e-PAQ has 4 domains. 3 domains have 5 items and 1 domain has 4 items. Each item is scored
      from a minimum of 0 (best possible health) to 100 (worst possible health. The preoperative
      item scores will be compared with postoperative scores and at six months using the Wilcoxon
      Signed Rank test.

      The primary outcome measures scores will also be analysed as above.
    
  