
    
      This study is a multi-center study with a minimum of three Clinical Laboratory Improvement
      Amendments-waived (CLIA-waived) intended operator sites in the United States; approximately
      one-third of the total number of sites will have a patient population of low Neisseria
      gonorrhoeae (NG), Chlamydia trachomatis (CT), or Trichomonas vaginalis (TV) prevalence. Low
      prevalence sites are defined as sites with a prevalence < / = 2% for any of the three
      targets. Sites with a prevalence higher than 2% for any of the three targets will be defined
      as high prevalence sites. The study will enroll approximately 1750 female subjects and will
      have a study duration of approximately 9 months after enrollment of the first subject.
      Approximately one-third of the total subjects shall be recruited from low prevalence sites
      for the infections of interest. Female subjects seen at the participating sites for any
      reason will be evaluated for enrollment in this study. All subjects will be managed per
      standard of care as applicable. Subjects who are enrolled in the study will perform
      self-collection of a vaginal swab to be tested by Click device, and allow the health care
      provider (HCP) to collect three additional vaginal swabs to be tested by recognized
      FDA-cleared comparator methods. Subjects will complete the study in a single visit. The
      hypothesis of this study is that the identification of each organism (CT, NG, and TV) in
      self-collected vaginal swabs by women using the Click device will agree with the Patient
      Infected Status (PIS) with a high sensitivity and specificity. The primary objective is to
      assess the performance of the Click device for detection of CT, NG, and TV in self-collected
      vaginal specimens as compared to PIS determined by three approved comparator assays using
      vaginal specimens collected by a qualified HCP in support of obtaining FDA clearance. The
      secondary objectives are: 1) to assess the performance of the Click device for detection of
      CT, NG, and TV in self-collected vaginal specimens among symptomatic subjects as compared to
      PIS determined by three approved comparator assays using vaginal specimens collected by a
      qualified HCP; 2) to assess the performance of the Click device for detection of CT, NG, and
      TV in self-collected vaginal specimens among asymptomatic subjects as compared to PIS
      determined by three approved comparator assays using vaginal specimens collected by a
      qualified HCP.
    
  