
    
      BACKGROUND

      Liver transplantation is the most effective treatment for decompensated chronic liver disease
      and is associated with improvements in life expectancy and quality of life(1). Recent
      advances in immunosuppressive therapy; greater surgical and anaesthetic expertise and
      optimised risk assessment procedures have shown to be associated with improvements in 90 day,
      1 and 5 year survival (2). However, non-liver causes of death are on the increase with
      malignancy (22%), cardiovascular disease (11%), infection (9%) and renal failure (6%)
      becoming leading causes of death at one year (3)

      It is well recognised that liver transplantation is associated with the onset of a number of
      conditions that increase risk of early mortality, including new onset diabetes, hypertension
      and dyslipidaemia (4,5). These conditions have the potential to be prevented or improved by
      behavioural intervention targeting health and lifestyle behaviours including physical
      activity, diet, smoking and medication adherence (6). Lifestyle factors are central to both
      survival on the waiting list and long-term post transplant survival. Therefore it is
      important to support patients to make positive and sustainable lifestyle behaviour changes.
      However, this represents a complex medical challenge because rarely are clinical teams
      trained to target lifestyle behaviour change in a meaningful/personalised way.

      AIMS OF THE STUDY

      The aim is to develop a behavioural intervention that can be used by all medical personnel
      involved in the care of patients being assessed for transplantation, whilst listed for
      transplantation and post transplantation to improve long-term outcomes. The intervention will
      be co-developed by clinicians and patients to ensure it is fit for purpose. Healthcare
      professionals will be trained to target a range of health and lifestyle behaviours using
      evidence-based behavioural strategies. It is hoped this will lead to improvements in
      long-term survival by reducing modifiable risk factors for mortality.

      OBJECTIVES

      This study will develop and assess acceptability and feasibility of a multifaceted behaviour
      change intervention. The intervention will be designed to train healthcare professionals to
      use behavioural strategies to target key lifestyle behaviours in the context of liver
      transplantation, and to equip patients with behavioural skills to make positive changes to a
      range of lifestyle behaviours. In reality, this could be the most cost effective model to be
      able to enable lifestyle change for transplant patients. These healthcare professionals are
      front line staff and work with high volumes of transplant patients.

      PRIMARY RESEARCH QUESTION Is a multifaceted behavioural intervention co-developed by
      healthcare professionals and patients acceptable and feasible and can it be delivered
      faithfully during routine clinical practice?

      Objectives The objectives of this study are:- i) To co-develop an evidence-based,
      multifaceted behavioural intervention for delivery during routine clinical consultations ii)
      To develop a training programme that equips clinicians with the knowledge, skills and
      confidence to deliver a behavioural intervention during routine clinical practice iii) To
      determine whether the behavioural intervention is acceptable and feasible to both healthcare
      professionals and patients iv) To assess whether the behavioural intervention can be
      delivered faithfully during routine clinical practice v) To optimise the behavioural
      intervention based on feedback from clinicians and patients.

      vi) To assess whether the intervention impacts positively on clinical outcomes (e.g., blood
      pressure, HbA1c levels) vii) To inform the design of a large randomised controlled trial if
      appropriate
    
  