
    
      Melanoma is the most dangerous skin cancer accounting for the highest skin cancer deaths. The
      prognosis for metastatic melanoma has improved considerably in recent years thanks to
      advances in the field of immunotherapy. The development of molecules blocking certain
      immunological "checkpoints" (checkpoints exerted by the CTLA-4 (Cytotoxic T lymphocytes
      Associated protein 4) and PD-1 (Programmed cell Death protein 1) has made it possible to
      obtain a significant improvement of the overall survival (OS) of patients treated for
      metastatic melanoma. Ipilimumab, an antibody blocking CTLA-4, is the first immunotherapy
      marketed, demonstrating for the first time a therapeutic response, however in a small number
      of patients (10 to 15%) and with significant toxicity (25% of grade 3-4). Subsequently, a
      second generation of more effective checkpoint blockers (30 to 40% good response) and less
      toxic, anti-PD-1 antibodies (pembrolizumab and nivolumab), quickly obtained a marketing
      authorization in the first line treatment of metastatic melanoma treatment and recently in an
      adjuvant situation after lymph node dissection in order to limit the risk of recurrence.
      However, despite these advances, a certain number of patients do not respond to treatment and
      it remains difficult to predict this therapeutic response. Furthermore, patients treated with
      ICI often experience cutaneous immune-related adverse events manifesting as skin rash,
      dermatitis, epidermal necrolysis, and in some cases as vitiligo like depigmentation of the
      skin, testifying to the development of a specific immunogenicity towards the melanocytes,
      cells causing melanoma, and responsible for a discoloration of the skin. Several studies have
      reported that a modification of certain bacteria in the digestive microbiota was predictive
      of the antitumor response to immunotherapy, while others were predictive of the appearance of
      significant autoimmune ICI-related toxicities (colitis). Several phase 1 studies have
      evaluated the impact of taking probiotics or fecal transplants on the tumor response of
      patients receiving immunotherapy for cancer (NCT 03819296; NCT03817125; NCT03643289). Thus by
      these new concepts, it would be interesting to assess the composition of the skin microbiota
      in patients treated with anti-PD-1 immunotherapy for the management of metastatic melanoma
      and developing during their follow-up vitiligo; predictive side effect of improved survival.
      These data will be compared to those obtained from patients with common vitiligo. This will
      be examined in patients skin swabs sampled at lesional and non-lesional sites. Functionally,
      we will characterize the microbial pathways using shotgun sequencing of microbial genomes and
      meta-transcriptomics (RNA sequencing of microbial communities of the skin).
    
  