
    
      Rationale: More than 1 in 10 people who have surgery in low and middle-income countries
      (LMICs) get surgical site infection. People's risk of SSI in LMICs is 3 to 5 times higher
      than in high-income countries. Up to 1 in 5 women in Africa who deliver their baby by
      cesarean section get a wound infection.

      Surgical site infections (SSIs) are largely preventable, but they represent a considerable
      burden for health-care systems, particularly in low-income and middle-income countries. The
      prevention of these infections is complex and requires the integration of a range of
      preventive measures before, during, and after surgery.

      Objective: The aim of the proposed project is to determine the risk factors of Surgical Site
      Infection post-Cesarean Section in women admitted to Princess Christian Maternity Hospital
      (PCMH) in Freetown, Sierra Leone. Secondary aims are to determine the incidence of SSI and
      the predictors of a negative outcome in women with post-CS SSI.

      Study design: This is a prospective case-control (1:3 ratio) study. Study population and
      Methods: All women admitted or already hospitalized with suspected or confirmed infection
      after C/S will be screened for inclusion in the study as a case. Case confirmation will be
      clinically established by an infectious disease expert. For each case, 3 patients undergoing
      the C/S on the same day and admitted to the same ward but not presenting SSI, will be
      selected as controls.

      Sample size: No formal sample size calculation is performed.

      Main study parameters/primary endpoints: SSI post C/S will be classified as:

      Superficial incisional surgical site infection, Deep incisional surgical site infection;
      Organ/space surgical site infection Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with
      participation, benefit, and group relatedness: Because all proceedings in the method of this
      study are based on common clinical practice, there are no serious adverse events (SAEs)
      expected.
    
  