
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine if early treatment with chemoimmunotherapy comprising fludarabine phosphate
           and rituximab extends the time to second treatment in patients with genetically
           high-risk (unmutated IgV_H), asymptomatic, previously untreated chronic lymphocytic
           leukemia (CLL).

        -  To determine the time to disease progression that would warrant second treatment.

        -  To determine overall survival.

      Secondary

        -  To measure the proportion of patients with asymptomatic, previously untreated CLL who
           have mutated and unmutated IgV_H genes.

        -  To determine the differences in acute and chronic toxicity of administering
           chemoimmunotherapy early to patients with genetically high-risk CLL compared to waiting
           until symptoms develop.

        -  To determine the effect of select pretreatment clinical and biological characteristics
           (such as interphase cytogenetic abnormalities, ZAP-70 expression, and p53 dysfunction
           [primary and secondary]) on response, time to second treatment, and overall survival of
           patients with genetically high-risk CLL randomized to early treatment.

        -  To determine the effect of select pretreatment clinical and biological characteristics
           (such as interphase cytogenetic abnormalities, ZAP-70 expression, and p53 dysfunction)
           on response, time to first and second treatments, and overall survival of patients with
           genetically high-risk CLL randomized to standard treatment (observation until symptoms
           occur).

        -  To describe the natural history of patients with genetically low-risk (mutated IgV_H
           genes), asymptomatic, previously untreated CLL, in terms of time to initial treatment,
           response, progression, and survival.

        -  To determine the effect of select pretreatment characteristics on time to first
           treatment, response, progression, and survival of patients with genetically low-risk
           CLL.

        -  To correlate patterns of resistance that emerge in patients with unmutated IgV_H genes
           who have relapsing or refractory CLL following receipt of chemoimmunotherapy with clonal
           evolution, including acquisition of high-risk karyotype abnormalities, p53 mutations,
           p53 dysfunction (primary and secondary), altered mRNA and protein expression related to
           treatment resistance, DNA mutations, microRNA gene expression, and methylation changes.

        -  To determine whether highly sensitive flow cytometry negativity at completion of therapy
           in patients randomized to early treatment is an effective surrogate marker for prolonged
           time to second treatment, overall survival, and other clinical benefits.

        -  To collect demographic data on familial CLL in newly diagnosed patients participating on
           this study.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Genetically high-risk disease: Patients are stratified according to age (< 50 years vs
           50 to 70 years vs > 70 years) and presence of the high-risk genetic feature
           [del(11)(q22.3) or del(17)(p13.1)] by FISH (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of
           2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive rituximab IV over 4 hours on days 1, 3, and 5 of week 1 and
                then on day 1 of weeks 5, 9, 13, 17, and 21. Patients also receive fludarabine
                phosphate IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5 of weeks 1, 5, 9, 13, 17, and 21. After
                completion of chemoimmunotherapy, patients are followed every 3 months until
                disease progression. At the time of disease progression, patients receive
                retreatment with chemoimmunotherapy as above or another treatment regimen.

             -  Arm II: Patients are followed every 3 months until disease progression. At the time
                of disease progression, patients receive rituximab and fludarabine phosphate as in
                arm I. Patients are then followed every 3 months until second disease progression.
                Patients with a second disease progression receive retreatment with
                chemoimmunotherapy as above or another treatment regimen.

        -  Genetically low-risk disease: Patients are followed every 3 months until disease
           progression. At the time of disease progression, patients receive rituximab and
           fludarabine phosphate as in arm I. Patients are then followed every 3 months until
           second disease progression. Patients with a second disease progression receive
           retreatment with chemoimmunotherapy as above or another treatment regimen.

      Patients undergo blood sample collection periodically for correlative studies.

      After finishing treatment, patients are followed periodically.
    
  