
    
      Each patient will receive 900 mg of Valcyte® daily with food for the period specified in that
      center (typically 100 days), starting as soon as possible after the transplant. According to
      routine practice, intravenous ganciclovir (5 mg/kg) may be substituted if the patient is
      unable to tolerate oral medication, during which time the patient will not be enrolled into
      the study. The dose of Valganciclovir may be reduced or interrupted at the discretion of the
      Investigator if he, or she, suspects that ganciclovir-related toxicity has occurred, or if
      the estimated creatinine clearance of the patient drops below 60 ml/min For the actual study,
      each patient will receive 2 days treatment on consecutive days with each Valganciclovir syrup
      formulation (900 mg once a day.) and the tablet formulation (900 mg once a day) in a
      randomized order, before continuing with Valcyte® prophylaxis (commercially available
      tablets). The following three treatments will be administered in this study: Randomization
      will occur through the IDS pharmacy and a computerized system will randomize the subjects.

      Treatment A (Reference): Valganciclovir tablets 2 x 450 mg once a day for 2 days

      Treatment B (Test): Valganciclovir tutti-frutti flavored syrup, 900 mg once a day for 2 days

      Treatment C: (First formulation) Valganciclovir strawberry flavored syrup, 900 mg once a day
      for 2 days

      All formulations will be administered orally within 15 minutes of completion of a standard
      breakfast (400-800 kcal). Patients will be seen at that GCRC (General Clinic Research Center)
      on the 8th floor of Montefiore Hospital for all study visits except follow-up. This visit
      will take place in the Infectious Disease Clinic, 7th floor Falk Clinic.

      Screening:

      A screening examination will be performed between 1 and 14 days before the start of the study
      (the day of first dosing with study drug). Patients who fulfill all of the inclusion and none
      of the exclusion criteria will be accepted on to the study. Patients who fail the renal or
      hematological function criteria may be re-screened if these parameters improve and if they
      are still being treated with Valcyte®. The following procedures will be performed to
      establish each patient's general health and eligibility for enrollment into the study: Record
      medical history, including etiology of end-stage organ disease, details of transplant (date
      and type), any previous disease (including CMV) and treatments, immunosuppressive drugs and
      doses within the previous month or from transplantation, whichever is the shorter, Record CMV
      serology of donor and recipient., perform physical examination; record demographic
      information including sex, age and race/ethnicity; Obtain vital signs, height and weight;
      Draw blood samples for laboratory screening of hematology (about one teaspoon of blood) and
      routine serum chemistry, including calculation of estimated creatinine clearance; Obtain a
      mid-stream urine sample for urinalysis and a pregnancy test (females only). This visit will
      take about 30 minutes. Patient will be seen while in hospital by the research coordinators
      and research physicians, while recovering from the kidney transplant procedure.

      Day 1

      Patients will come to the GCRC the evening before, or during the morning of Day 1, within 14
      days of screening. The following procedures will be carried out on all patients:

        -  Assessment that the patient is on stable calcineurin inhibitors and Valganciclovir
           therapy ( ≥ 4 days); assignment of patient identification number; physical examination;
           concomitant medication since the last visit will be collected; vital signs and weight;
           blood samples for hematology and serum chemistry (5 cc); mid-stream sample of urine for
           urinalysis and pregnancy testing (females of childbearing potential only); and
           breakfast.

        -  Study drug will be administered (either two Valganciclovir tablets or 900 mg (18 mL) of
           syrup formulation of Valganciclovir) with breakfast (must be within 15 minutes of
           completion of breakfast). Adverse events and concomitant medications will be recorded.
           Patients may be discharged after dosing. This visit will take about 2-3 hours to
           complete.

      Days 2, 4 and 6

      Patients will return to the GCRC during the morning of these days. The following procedures
      will be carried out on all patients:

        -  Pre-dose PK blood sample for determination of trough levels of ganciclovir (5cc)

        -  Breakfast will start within 15 minutes of the pre-dose PK blood sample. The study drug
           (either two Valganciclovir tablets or 900 mg (18 mL) of syrup formulation of
           Valganciclovir) will be administered with breakfast (must be within 15 minutes of
           completion of breakfast).

        -  The following procedures will be carried out after dosing: pharmacokinetic blood samples
           (total blood collected each day is 11cc) for determination of plasma levels of
           ganciclovir 0.5, 0.75, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 6.0, 8.0, and 12 hours post-dose (time
           windows of ± 5 minutes are allowed for all samples up to 4 hours and ± 20 minutes for
           samples between 6 and 12 hours)

        -  Adverse events and concomitant medications will be documented. Patients may be
           discharged after the 12-hour sample. This day will take twelve -thirteen hours to
           complete.

      Days 3 and 5

      Patients will return to the GCRC during the morning. The following procedures will be carried
      out on all patients:

        -  Vital signs and weight; 24 hour PK blood sample (± 30 minutes) for determination of
           trough levels of ganciclovir before dosing with the next formulation of study drug
           (1cc); Breakfast will start within 15 minutes of the pre-dose PK blood sample.

        -  Study drug will be administer (either two Valganciclovir tablets or 900 mg (18 mL) of
           syrup formulation of Valganciclovir) with breakfast (must be within 15 minutes of
           completion of breakfast). Adverse events and concomitant medications will be recorded.
           Patients may be discharged after dosing. This visit will take about 2-3 hours to
           complete.

      Day 7

      Patients will return to the GCRC during the morning. The following procedures will be carried
      out on all patients:

        -  Blood samples for hematology and serum chemistry (5cc); mid-stream sample of urine for
           urinalysis; 24 hour PK blood sample (± 30 minutes) for determination of trough levels of
           ganciclovir before dosing (5cc). Breakfast will start within 15 minutes of the pre-dose
           PK blood sample.

        -  Two Valcyte® tablets will be administered (supplied by the center) with breakfast (must
           be within 15 minutes of completion of breakfast). Adverse events and concomitant
           medications will be recorded and patients may then be discharged from the GCRC. This
           visit will take about 2-3 hours to complete.

      During the Study The following safety assessments will be made throughout the study, from
      screening to follow-up, as applicable: adverse events (AE's), including rejection and graft
      loss, opportunistic infections (CMV and others) and treatments; concomitant treatments,
      including immunosuppressive therapy (induction, maintenance and treatment of rejection) and
      patient survival will be documented.

      Follow-up Phase Patients will return between Days 13 to 20 for follow-up. The follow-up
      procedures will include a physical examination, body weight, vital signs, clinical laboratory
      safety tests (hematology, serum chemistry and urinalysis) (5cc), urine pregnancy test
      (females of childbearing potential only) and the recording of adverse events and concomitant
      medications. Once this visit is complete the patient will have completed the study. This
      visit should take about one hour to complete.
    
  