
    
      Twenty-two (22) participants will be recruited from the University of Maryland Center for
      Multiple Sclerosis Treatment and Research. Participants will be included if they are aged
      18-65, have a diagnosis of relapsing or progressive multiple sclerosis per revised 2010
      McDonald Criteria, and are planning to begin ocrelizumab therapy for multiple sclerosis, as
      prescribed by their treating physician. Participants will be excluded if they are unable to
      undergo an MRI due to metallic implants/devices or claustrophobia, have a history of allergy
      to gadolinium contrast, or are unable to provide informed consent.

      All participants will undergo a baseline/screening study visit prior to initiation of
      ocrelizumab. This will include signing of informed consent, a clinical interview to collect
      demographic and clinical data, a physical examination to calculate the EDSS score, and
      implementation of the component tests of the Multiple Sclerosis Functional Composite (MSFC).
      All participants will then undergo an MRI on a 7T Philips Achieva scanner (housed at the
      Kennedy Krieger Institute, Baltimore, MD). This will be a whole brain MRI, including 0.7mm3
      resolution magnetization prepared 2 rapid acquisition gradient echo (MP2RAGE) and MPFLAIR
      images acquired both pre- and post-intravenous infusion of gadolinium contrast.

      MP2RAGE images will be processed to create T1 maps and T1-weighted images. All images
      (MPFLAIR included) will be co-registered to the pre-contrast MP2RAGE T1 map. Subtraction
      images will be created by subtracting the pre-contrast MPFLAIR scan from post-contrast
      images. Regions of hyperintensity on the subtraction image will be reviewed on anatomical
      images, and marked as regions of leptomeningeal enhancement if they have an amorphous
      appearance and are present in the leptomeningeal space.

      Participants who are found to have leptomeningeal enhancement on their baseline scan will be
      considered as having passed screening and will proceed with further study procedures. Those
      that do not have meningeal enhancement on a baseline scan will not return for a follow up
      visit.

      Participants who have passed screening (and thus have meningeal enhancement on their baseline
      scan) will then undergo initiation of ocrelizumab per clinical trial or commercial drug
      protocol as previously planned by their treating neurologists. Participants will then return
      for a follow up visit within 1 month after their 12 month ocrelizumab infusion. All of the
      above study procedures will be repeated on that date.

      Follow up images for each subject will undergo co-registration to the pre-contrast MP2RAGE T1
      map. This will allow co-registered review of baseline and 1 year follow up MPFLAIR images
      side-by-side for review of the presence or absence of enhancing foci noted at baseline on the
      1 year follow up scan. Subtraction images will also be created utilizing the 1 year pre- and
      post-contrast MPFLAIR scan for quantification of the number of enhancing foci on the 1 year
      follow up scan by the same procedures as above. A semi-automated region growing painting tool
      will be used to create masks over areas of contrast enhancement, which will be used to
      quantify enhancing focus volume on the baseline and follow up scan. Further, subtraction
      mapping will be utilized to highlight regions of hypointensity present in the cortex on
      MP2RAGE T1 that were not present on baseline MP2RAGE T1, which would indicate a new cortical
      lesion at follow up.
    
  