
    
      This evaluation of the reproducibility of serum sex steroid measurements has two components.
      The first is the evaluation of reproducibility of laboratory measurements of steroid sex
      hormones in men. This is an ancillary study to serve as a quality control (QC) measure for
      the ongoing DCEG Prostate Tissue Study (ORSH#: OH99-C-N025; principal investigator: Dr. Ann
      Hsing) so that high-quality assays can be chosen to quantify steroids in tissue. Pending
      satisfactory performance in serum, we will then evaluate the reproducibility of tissue
      hormone measurements by Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (GC-MS) or by Liquid
      Chromatography - Mass Spectrometry-(GC-MS) or by Liquid Chromatography- Mass Spectrometry-
      Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS-MS) before incorporating them into the Prostate Tissue Study. The
      second component of this study involves evaluation of the reproducibility of sex steroid
      hormone measurements in pre- and postmenopausal women. This component, although not part of
      the Prostate Tissue Study, is included in this summary because the laboratory, assay methods,
      and blood collection procedures used in the female component are identical to those in the
      male component and these two components will run in parallel.

      The present study will evaluate the reproducibility of serum sex steroid assays using two
      different assay methods in different laboratories. Specifically, the study will investigate
      assay reproducibility at Dr. Fernand Labrie's laboratory using GC-MS and LC-MSMS and at Dr.
      Frank Stanczyk's laboratory using radioimmunoassay (RIA). We propose to collect overnight
      fasting blood from 60 healthy subjects (20 men aged 50-65, 20 premonopausal women, and 20
      postmenopausal women). Once collected, the blood will be separated and aliquotted into
      multiple vials. Serum from each subject will be sent to Dr. Labrie, who will perform CG-MS or
      LC-MSMS assays, and to Dr. Stanczyk, who will perform RIA, at four different time intervals.
      Subject recruitment and blood collection will be performed by Westat. BBI Biotech will ship
      and store the specimens after they have been collected.
    
  