
    
      Study Overview. The proposed study will take place at "The Bridge" homeless shelter in
      Dallas, TX. The study intervention will use a randomized controlled trial design, and an
      additional 50 transitional shelter residents will be recruited to participate in the proposed
      8-week study (4-week intervention; 4-week post-intervention follow-up visit). Transitional
      Shelter residents stay in "semi-private" rooms for an average of 5 months while staff works
      to secure more permanent housing. Interested and eligible participants will be randomized to
      either 1) a 4-week shelter-based diet or physical activity intervention, or 2) standard care
      (paid assessment only). Participants will be asked to complete weekly assessments of diet,
      physical activity, stress, readiness to change, and other relevant variables throughout the
      4-week intervention period, in addition to a 4-week post-intervention follow-up. Participants
      will be compensated with gift cards for each of 6 visits. Participants assigned to the
      control group will receive tailored newsletters and pedometers with walking goals at the
      final follow-up visit. Laptop and tablet computers equipped with Questionnaire Development
      System software will be transported to the shelter for all intervention and assessment
      sessions.

      Intervention Components Education. A series of four computer-tailored newsletters will be
      generated for each individual participant using TailorTool, a web-based program hosted and
      maintained at the University of North Carolina (described below; see also www.chaicore).
      Newsletter topics include healthy eating (especially the importance of fruit/vegetable
      consumption), physical activity, and weight management. Using information collected at
      baseline, newsletters will be tailored to individual participants based on demographic,
      psychosocial, behavioral, and community resource information. The program will be adapted to
      include graphics and testimonials relevant to the sheltered homeless population. Strategies
      for healthy food selection and community resources available to shelter residents will be
      provided.

      The newsletters will include of a set of tailored "stories" in the following formats designed
      to appeal to the homeless shelter population: Testimonials (tailored to gender) by residents
      of the shelter who have made changes in weight and lifestyle. An advice column (tailored to
      behavior-specific barriers), that uses a "Dear Abby" format in which an expert (e.g.,
      dietician) answers questions tailored to participant-selected barriers. Behavioral feedback
      (current behavior compared to recommendations) will be provided. Stage of change-based action
      plan (tailored to stage of change, current behavior) will offer a specific set of steps that
      are stage-matched to participant readiness to change related to each behavior. The importance
      of social support (tailored to behavior-specific social support/network characteristics) will
      be discussed by providing a targeted story about how social support (tailored to type of
      support and person most helpful to give support) has helped someone make healthy changes. The
      values section (tailored to participant-selected core values) discusses the
      participant-selected values and suggests possible ways that these values may be related to
      the target behavior. Community resources will provide information and tips tailored to the
      shelter, such as group session information, healthful choices in the cafeteria (and other
      common food sources), maximizing SNAP food benefits for optimal nutrition, good nutrition
      with a limited income, walking groups, contact information, and community resources.
      Participants assigned to standard care will receive the tailored newsletters after they
      complete the final follow-up assessment.

      TailorTool is a software tool created by the UNC CHAI (Communication for Health Applications
      and Interventions) Core that enables the creation and delivery of tailored communications in
      a dynamically generated pdf newsletter format. The tool generates intervention material such
      as individual feedback on targeted behavior(s) and variables such as relevant demographics,
      psychosocial factors, and barriers. Templates of various page lay-out possibilities allow
      individualization of the look of the newsletters. Messages are drawn from a message library
      of text files of varying lengths depending on the needs of the research study. Graphics can
      be imported into the various template pages. Newsletters can vary in length and can be
      personalized with names of participants. Following completion of an online survey the
      newsletter(s) are created in a pdf format for reading, saving, and/or printing by the
      participant. Each subsequent newsletter can be available immediately or timed for release to
      fit the timeline of the intervention.

      From a technical perspective, the web application for the automated web-to-print system is
      programmed to run under a Windows operating system, using open-source software and a MS SQL
      database. The core of the system is a server-side application, with the website consisting of
      ASP pages (Active Server Pages), which interface with the application using XML. The backend
      application is heavily database-driven with everything from survey questions and skip
      patterns (i.e. which survey answers can cause later questions to be disabled, as described
      above; the actual disabling takes place client-side, with dynamically-generated javascript
      code) to the newsletter content and tailoring logic stored in, and thus configurable via, XML
      files. Participants' survey-response data are stored in the database. The dynamic generation
      of the print newsletters in pdf format is done within the application using a dynamic-link
      library installed on the system.

      Fruit/Vegetable Snacks. We will provide transitional shelter residents assigned to the
      intervention group with two pieces of fruit and/or vegetables each weekday. We will offers
      fruits/vegetables that are easy to distribute and do not require preparation other than
      washing or packaging in a bag (e.g., apples, bananas, oranges, baby carrots, broccoli,
      cauliflower). Foods will be purchased by study staff, stored at The Bridge in the cafeteria
      refrigerator, and offered to participants assigned to the intervention group in the cafeteria
      at specified times twice daily as mid-morning and mid-afternoon snacks. Note that because the
      snacks will be offered between regular mealtimes, only intervention participants will be in
      the cafeteria to receive the fruit/vegetable snacks. In addition, snacks will be consumed in
      the cafeteria during specified snack times because the shelter does not allow food in other
      areas of the building. Study staff will follow all relevant shelter food safety practices. It
      is hypothesized that study participants will consume more fruit and vegetables and eat fewer
      meals/snacks from fast food restaurants and convenience stores than individuals assigned to
      the control group. This is a practical, simple, and direct approach to increasing
      fruit/vegetable consumption, as shelter residents obtain most of their meals from the shelter
      and offering snacks may discourage residents from seeking less healthful foods elsewhere.

      Pedometers. Walking is a practical way to achieve physical activity recommendations among
      individuals experiencing homelessness, as it does not require any specific equipment and may
      be a common activity and means of transportation in this population. Pedometers are small and
      inexpensive devices that measure steps walked per day. All study participants will be
      provided with a New Lifestyles NL-1000 pedometer/ accelerometer, which measures steps,
      distance, and activity minutes and is equipped with a 7-day memory and clock. Those randomly
      assigned to the intervention will be instructed to aim for 10,000 steps per day, but to focus
      on gradually increasing their steps each day (rather than achieving 10,000 steps right away)
      if they are currently very sedentary. In addition, intervention participants will be provided
      with information about the Back on My Feet program, which is offered at the Bridge shelter.
      Program members meet for a group run/walk 3 times per week on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday
      mornings. Intervention participants will be instructed to wear their pedometer during waking
      hours each day, and asked to return each week over a 4-week period (4 visits total) so that
      study staff may record the daily step counts. We will additionally ask participants to return
      for a 4-week post-intervention follow-up (we will remind participants to wear their pedometer
      the week prior to the assessment). Individuals assigned to the control group will provided
      with a pedometer and step goals after the final follow-up visit. All participants may keep
      their pedometer after their participation in the study is completed. Note that intervention
      and control group participants will be provided with accelerometers at the beginning of the
      study to provide an objective measure of physical activity.
    
  