
    
      Background

      Laparoscopic ventral hernia repair (VHR) has become a well-established technique during the
      last decade. The repair is usually performed by reducing the contents in the hernia sac from
      the abdominal cavity and then covering the defect from the inside with a mesh, i.e.
      Intraperitoneal Onlay Mesh (IPOM). This means that the hernia sac is left in situ anterior to
      the mesh. This may, however, predispose for the development of fluid in the hernia sac, i.e.
      seroma. Even if the mesh prevents the intestines from protruding into the hernia sac, the
      patient may still be troubled by discomfort from the seroma that replaces the hernia..

      The risk of seroma development may be reduced if a the defect is closed before the mesh is
      applied (IPOM-Plus). Closing the defect may, however, cause tension and pain from the
      abdominal wall. Instead of closing the defect, the part of the peritoneum constituting the
      hernia sac may be used for closing the defect. In this case, the peritoneum is dissected from
      the edges of the hernia sac and then used as a flap that is fixated to the edges of the
      hernia sac on the opposite side. This reduces the size of the pseudosac and the peritoneal
      surface, which prevents transudation to the pseudosac.

      In order to evaluate whether peritoneal bridging reduces the seroma development following
      ventral hernia repair, we are undertaking a randomized controlled trial. Our goal is to
      include 50 patients in the study.

      Method

      After obtaining written and oral consent from the patient, the randomisation is performed
      through a sealed envelope system. The patient is blinded to the allocation. Prior to the
      procedure, the patient is also requested to fill in the Ventral Hernia Pain Questionnaire
      (VHPQ).

      The procedure is started according to the usual routines. Adhesions covering the defect are
      dissected in order to visualize the defect. If the patients has been randomized to defect
      closure, it is sutured with continuous PDS 2-0. . In case the patient is allocated to
      peritoneal bridging, the peritoneum is dissected beginning 2-3 cm from the edge of the
      defect. The sac is disected all the way to the opposite edge of the defect. The peritoneal
      flap is pulled to the opposite side and fixated with Optifix. One of the aims of the bridging
      is to to close the defect and increase the surface of contact between the mesh and the
      peritoneum.

      The mesh is attached in the same, irrespective of randomization. Optifix with double-crown
      technique is used in both groups. Operation time and intraoperative complications are
      registered when the procedure is completed. From the day of the procedure until two days
      postoperatively, pain from the area of surgery is registered daily on a VAS-scale.

      The patient is invited to clinical follow-up one month and one year after surgery. At both
      occasions the patient is requested to fill in VHPQ. One year after surgery, a computer
      tomography while straining in order to detect protrusion of the abdominal contents in the
      defect. Any protrusion seen at the computer tomography is graded according to a previously
      validated classification. The presence of seromas detected at the computer tomography is
      described according to Morales-Conde,

      The computer tomography images are assessed by two radiologists in order to reach consensus.
      The presence of seroma anterior to the defect is evaluated in terms of size (maximal
      diameter), localization, shape (round, oval, triangular), mean density (Hounsfield unit, HU)
      and the volume through three-dimensional reconstructions.
    
  