
    
      The study is divided into two main parts, based on two different populations.

      Study A: Article 1 is based on 'The Undernutrition Registry' in Helse Bergen Local Health
      Authority, Norway. The Undernutrition registry is a cohort of patients (n=20 000) screened
      for nutritional risk at Haukeland University Hospital (HUS) during point prevalence surveys
      between 2008 and 2018. The point prevalence surveys included all adult patients in somatic
      departments, and were performed 2-4 times per year. Detailed descriptions of the data
      collection can be found in Tangvik et al. (2012). Previous analysis showed that 43% of the
      patients in the sample were above 70 years, thus we expect the sample in the study to
      constitute approx. 9000 patients ≥ 65 years. Nutritional risk was determined by 'Nutritional
      Risk Screening 2002' (NRS2002). Information on nutritional risk will be linked to data on
      health care use and outcomes from the hospital's patient administrative electronic database
      (length of stay, number of hospital stays, morbidity in terms of number and severity of
      diagnoses and death).

      Study B: Articles 2 and 3 are based on a cohort of older service users (≥65 years) with
      information on nutritional variables from the 'Kommunalt pasientregister' (KPR)-registry in
      the period 2016-2018 (N=270,560). Municipalities report data on nutritional risk screening
      and nutritional plan for individual service users in KPR. These nutritional data will be
      linked to data from 'The Norwegian Patient Registry' (NPR). NPR includes information about
      diagnosis and use of specialist services for all patients who have received or are waiting
      for treatment/consultations in specialist health care services (hospitals and outpatient
      clinics).

      Nutritional status and use of 'nutritional plan' will be entered as independent variables in
      regression and survival analysis models with health service use (type, extent) or mortality
      as outcome variables.
    
  