
    
      Description Randomised, prospective study. Objective and subjective outcomes to be evaluated
      6 weeks an d6 months post-operatively.

      Study population The number of patients enrolled in the study will be decided after
      consultation with a statistician.

      All patients will be recruited from urogynaecology clinics at Medway Maritime Hospital. They
      will be female and have a urodynamic diagnosis of stress incontinence, having failed
      conservative management. Those deemed suitable for the TVT operation will be offered entry to
      the study.

      Randomisation and blinding

      Patients who have consented to take part in the study will be randomised to have either a
      conventional TVT (Group A) or a MiniArc (Group B). Each group will be run in parallel. Method
      of randomisation - consecutively numbered opaque envelopes detailing type of operation.

      Patients will be blinded as to the type of tape used. Due to the obvious differences between
      the devices, it will not be possible to blind researchers to the type of tape.

      Each patient will undergo a pre-operative assessment (which may be incorporated into the
      initial clinic visit), be admitted as an in-patient for the TVT/Mini-arc procedure, and
      attend a post-operative assessment visit. This last visit will be the exit point from the
      study. These are detailed below

      Pre-operative Assessment

        1. Detailed symptom history and examination

        2. 3 day urinary diary

        3. King's Quality of Life questionnaire

        4. Dual channel normal saline subtracted cystometry at a filling rate of 50-100ml/min
           whilst supine and standing. 7F double lumen catheter used for all measurements

      Surgical Technique

      Group A will have the TVT inserted under spinal anaesthesia as described by Ulmsten12. Group
      B will have the MiniArc tape inserted under spinal anaesthesia. All procedures will be
      undertaken in an operating theatre environment, and carried out by Mr Duckett or a member of
      his team who has undergone appropriate training. Patients will be catheterised until 6 hours
      post-operatively. Those who void with a residual of less than 100mls will be discharged the
      day after the procedure.

      Post-operative assessment

        1. Carried out at 6 weeks' post-operatively

        2. Symptoms assessed using 3 day urinary diary and Patient Global Impression of Improvement
           (PGI-I)

        3. King's quality of life questionnaire

        4. Repeat urodynamic studies as described previously, including voiding cystometry (6
           months only)

        5. Any complications noted, e.g. readmission to hospital, UTI, voiding difficulties

        6. Patient satisfaction will be assessed using a 5 point scale at the follow up visit
    
  