
    
      Abnormalities in dopaminergic neurotransmission have been described in substance abuse and
      different neuropsychiatric disorders including schizophrenia. [I-123] IBZM is a radioligand
      that has been widely employed for SPECT imaging of dopamine type 2 and type 3 receptors (D2
      and D3, respectively) and fluctuations in levels of endogenous dopamine. [I-123] IBZM SPECT
      has been used in the SPECT Lab of the Clinical Brain Disorders Branch for several years
      without adverse effects. Pharmacological effects of IBZM are unlikely due to the minimal
      amounts used and have not been observed. We propose to use [I-123] IBZM SPECT to explore
      following questions: 1) Can a previously found relationship between N-acetylaspartate (NAA)
      measures in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and striatal dopamine activity in patients
      with schizophrenia be replicated and is it also found in normal subjects? 2) Do allelic
      variants of genes for the dopamine type 2 (DRD2) and type 3 (DRD3) receptors, the dopamine
      transporter (SLC6A3), or enzymes involved in dopamine biosynthesis (TH) and metabolism (COMT,
      MAOA) affect D2 receptor availability in vivo?

      This technical protocol describes the procedural aspects of [I-123]IBZM SPECT. It is not
      intended to be sufficient on its own for a clinical study. All subjects volunteering for this
      study will be recruited from among individuals who have previously consented to participate
      in clinical studies under one of two NIH protocols that include genetic testing.
      Schizophrenia patients will be recruited from among NIMH inpatients participating under NIH
      protocol #89-M-0160, "Inpatient Evaluation of Neuropsychiatric Patients" (Egan 1999a). Normal
      volunteers will be recruited from among those participating under NIH protocol #95-M-0150, "A
      Neurobiological Investigation of Patients with Schizophrenia Spectrum Disorders and Their
      Siblings" (Egan 1999b), which includes recruitment of a normal control group whose first
      degree relatives are free of mental illness. All details related to clinical care and genetic
      analysis are contained in those two protocols and their associated consent forms; all details
      related to [I-123]IBZM SPECT studies, per se, are discussed in this protocol, which requires
      a separate informed consent from each volunteer.
    
  