
    
      Heart failure is a common condition that affects approximately 5 million people in the United
      States, with 550,000 new cases diagnosed each year. Common symptoms of heart failure include
      swelling and fluid buildup in the legs, feet, and/or lungs; shortness of breath; coughing;
      elevated heart rate; change in appetite; and fatigue. If left untreated, the condition of the
      heart may deteriorate so far that the person undergoes ADHF. The number of hospitalizations
      attributed to ADHF has risen significantly, with many people readmitted soon after discharge
      because of recurring symptoms or further medical complications, such as cardiorenal syndrome.
      Current heart failure treatments focus on removing excess fluid buildup, often by increasing
      urination with diuretic medications or by draining directly from the veins. Direct drainage
      from the veins, also known as ultrafiltration, may be the more effective method for treating
      people with ADHF and cardiorenal syndrome. This study will compare the safety and
      effectiveness of ultrafiltration versus standard medical drug therapy in improving renal
      function and relieving fluid buildup in people hospitalized with ADHF and cardiorenal
      syndrome.

      Participation in this study will last 60 days. All potential participants will undergo
      initial screening, which will include a medical history, physical exam, blood draws,
      measurements of fluid intake and urine output, and questionnaires. These same evaluations and
      procedures will be repeated at various points during the hospital stay. Eligible participants
      will be randomly assigned to receive standard medical drug therapy or fluid removal by
      ultrafiltration. Standard medical drug therapy will involve the intravenous delivery of
      diuretics and possibly other doctor-recommended medications. Ultrafiltration will involve
      intravenously removing blood, passing it through an ultrafiltration device, and then
      returning the blood to the participant. During ultrafiltration, participants will be treated
      with a blood thinner through the IV, as well.

      Follow-up assessments will occur at Days 30 and 60 after treatment. Follow-up assessments
      will include measurements of fluid intake, urine output, and vital signs; blood draws;
      physical exams; and questions about medications and status of recovery.
    
  