
    
      Background:

      COVID-19 has led to significant disruptions to usual operations of the health care system and
      routines of millions of people. Regular medical appointments have been preempted or converted
      to telemedicine, dietary changes have occurred due to food supply chain strain, and exercise
      regimens altered by physical distancing policies, all of which may affect preventive care and
      chronic illness management. Additionally, anxiety about risk of developing COVID-19 and the
      availability of health care resources may alter care-seeking behaviors even for serious
      conditions, e.g., heart attacks.

      Understanding personal health and protective behaviors under threat of COVID-19 is an
      epidemiologic imperative and can inform immediate public health response as well as planning
      for population health needs post-crisis.

      Critical care capacity during COVID-19 is also a matter of extreme concern. Limitations in
      capacity, particularly mechanical ventilators have necessitated scarce resource allocation
      (SRA) policies, which outline triage protocols while observing ethical principles of
      distributive justice, transparency, and equitability.

      In practice, these policies determine which patients are most likely to benefit from
      intensive care, and some patients with a significantly heightened risk for mortality are less
      likely to be prioritized in critical care allocation decisions. The uncertainty around
      prioritization and threat of rationing of care has generated public attention and anxiety
      evident in medical journals, news outlets, and on social media.

      The rapidity of this crisis has compelled rapid development and/or modification of SRA
      policies without the rigorous stakeholder engagement or evaluations of acceptance of these
      policies by both laypersons and practitioners tasked with implementing such policies. Two
      states (CA & NY), among the most affected by COVID-19, have recently developed new SRA
      policies, creating a unique opportunity to evaluate how these policies are understood and
      perceived by the patients most likely to be impacted by them and the practitioners who will
      implement them. Moreover, given the complexity of the ethical underpinnings and potential
      misinformation about SRA policies, there is a clear need to determine if a brief educational
      intervention can influence perception and knowledge about these containment and management
      policies.

      The investigators propose to undertake rapid recruitment of a national cohort of individuals
      and health care workers to understand knowledge and perceptions of public health and clinical
      efforts during this evolving pandemic; and to implement a randomized controlled trial within
      this cohort to test the ability of a brief intervention to improve knowledge and perceptions
      about the health care system's capacity to provide equitable care during a pandemic. The
      specific aims are to:

        -  Aim 1: Determine how key indicators of population health (including health status,
           health behaviors, and access to care) have changed during the COVID-19 outbreak in the
           US.

        -  Aim 1a: Uncover the extent of racial/ethnic and socioeconomic disparities in the impacts
           of COVID-19 on health, health behaviors, and access to care.

        -  Aim 2: Assess the public's and practitioners' knowledge and values around SRA policies
           and examine which individual characteristics correlate with these knowledge and values.

        -  Aim 3: Evaluate the impact of a brief educational intervention on knowledge and values
           for SRA policy among the public and health care workers.

      Population & Recruitment:

      For Aim 1, the investigators will employ national outreach strategies via social media and
      partnerships with national organizations to recruit a sample of adults (ages 18 and older)
      from the general population. The investigators will enrich this sample by direct recruitment
      efforts (via online health portal invitation) of over 300,000 patients in the Southern
      California Area who are cared for in the University of California at Los Angeles Health
      System (UCLA Health).

      For Aim 2, the investigators will employ similar national outreach strategies involving
      professional language targeted posts on social media sites (e.g., Doximity, LinkedIn) to
      recruit a sample of health care providers. Additionally, this cohort will be enriched by
      direct recruitment efforts of health workers employed by UCLA. Cohort participants in Aims 1
      & 2 from California and New York (residence determined based on ZIP code) will be randomized
      for Aim 3 to receive either a brief educational video or no intervention. All participants
      (Aims 1-3) will be invited to complete three surveys (baseline, one-month post-intervention
      follow-up, and four-month follow-up; Figure 1). Sample recruitment path and
      representativeness with be assessed using unique source links and standard visitor tracking
      analytics built into the study website.

      Survey Assessments: Participants will first be presented with an online consent form that
      includes language typical of a written consent and upon affirming consent will be directed to
      complete the baseline survey. The patient baseline survey will collect sociodemographic
      information (including ZIP code), chronic conditions and current health status, health
      behaviors, anxiety and stress levels, changes to health and care seeking behaviors (e.g.,
      social distancing, medication adherence, care-seeking behaviors), and will include series of
      questions assessing perceptions and attitudes and knowledge about SRA policies and how they
      are implemented (e.g., values about how decisions are made, understanding of prioritization
      versus exclusion from critical care). Demographic, behavioral, and access questions are
      largely derived from the validated Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System questionnaires
      which will provide a historical comparison for study results. For providers, additional
      questions about the characteristics of the provider will include specialty, years of
      practice, and trainee status. Follow-up surveys will re-administer key baseline questions on
      SRA knowledge and values, personal health behaviors, and COVID-19-specific impacts (e.g., if
      they or a loved one was hospitalized and/or was subject to an SRA policy decision, and for
      providers, whether they had to use an SRA tool during their practice); follow-up surveys will
      additional ascertain exposure to media coverage about COVID-19 and SRAs in the intervening
      windows. All surveys will be administered via Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap)
      system and links to complete follow-up surveys will be automatically delivered to
      participants via e-mail, with up to four reminders to complete, facilitating linkage between
      survey administration within individuals. E-mails will be stored separately from survey data
      in REDCap and will be permanently deleted upon study completion.

      Intervention and Randomization: The investigators will develop a brief (~3 min) video
      intervention that describes what SRA policies are, how they were developed, who is most
      likely to be impacted, and patients' rights under these policies. Two versions will be
      utilized, one oriented for a lay audience and one for practitioners using technical medical
      language, but both will be relevant to the policies currently in place in two of the hardest
      hit states (NY and CA). The investigators have contracted with WorldWise Productions, who
      have completed similar videos for multiple other UCLA Health and DGSOM projects. The
      intervention will be hosted on a private YouTube channel and embedded in REDCap so that it
      can be automatically delivered as part of the survey. The investigators will execute a
      stratified randomization scheme based on state, age, and education level to allocate
      respondents from CA and NY evenly between intervention and control. Participants outside CA &
      NY will serve as negative controls. All participants will receive a post-intervention survey
      with repeat assessment (as described above).

      Focus Groups:

      Because COVID-19 is a rapidly evolving crisis and there are no pre-existing validated
      questions to ascertain COVID-19 perceptions and impacts, the investigators plan to conduct a
      final qualitative follow-up (post-crisis) with a geographically and sociodemographically
      diverse selection of participants (both patients and providers) in order to obtain a more
      nuanced and complete examination of perceptions, attitudes, and experiences. Participants
      selected will be invited to participate approximately 4-6 months later (after the COVID-19
      crisis has slowed). Key health behavior themes will include experience with telemedicine,
      disruptions to health care access, and general changes to health during and after COVID-19
      pandemic; particular attention will be paid to inequities in these outcomes. Key SRA themes
      will include the method of selecting patients, concerns about equity, special considerations
      for disadvantaged or vulnerable populations, and perceptions of the crisis response in
      general. Groups will be conducted via web-conference using Zoom and recorded, transcribed,
      and then qualitative methods used to analyze transcripts for key themes. The investigators
      plan to conduct approximately 15 focus groups of 5-10 participants each.

      Power:

      To detect a ½ standard deviation change in the number of correct knowledge items between the
      intervention and control arms with 90% power and a two-sided α=0.05, 172 total participants
      are needed to complete follow-up. Based on prior work with >80% trial retention and
      recruitment of 55 participants per day, the investigators anticipate recruiting the necessary
      216 baseline trial participants within 4 days. The investigators anticipate that they will
      substantially exceed the targets to achieve desired trial power.

      Milestones & Actionable Outcomes:

      There is a paucity of evidence on changes in health status and behaviors related to physical
      distancing policies and the widescale adoption and implementation of SRA policies. By
      determining how health behaviors and access to care are impacted at baseline, the
      investigators can directly issue recommendations for patients and providers aimed at
      affecting population health and mitigating disparities therein. The assessment of SRA
      policies and how they are perceived and implemented during a crisis will dramatically
      increase the ability to design and apply such policies in a fair and equitable way and to
      determine what adjustments to the policies from a clinical perspective are needed to ensure
      that disproportionate burden is not borne by vulnerable patients. As the baseline survey has
      already been developed, piloted, and programmed into REDCap and the investigators have
      established partnerships with several organizations who have already agreed to assist with
      study recruitment - the investigators are prepared to initiate the study immediately.
      Production on the intervention video can begin as soon as notice of funds have been received.
      Trial milestones include recruitment of >216 participants from CA & NY within the first week
      of recruitment and retention of >172 participants at one-month follow-up. Additional
      milestones include the submission of several research papers to high-impact medical journals
      detailing research findings.
    
  