
    
      Design: randomized, parallel and triple blind clinical trial

      Sample: Patients with periodontitis (stages III and IV) and positive to Porphyromonas
      gingivalis who potentially need periodontal surgery were recruited. 25 patients were
      randomized to the test group (periodontal surgery + azithromycin) and another 25 subjects to
      the control group (periodontal surgery + metronidazole).

      Study visits:

        -  Examiner calibration

        -  Recruitment of patients. Screening. Data collection (clinical and microbiological
           variables).

        -  Phase I.

             -  Non-surgical periodontal treatment (2 visits).

             -  Reevaluation at 6 weeks. Data collection (clinical and microbiological variables).
                Identification of study candidate patients (Patients with probing pocket depth > 5
                mm and positive to Porphyromonas gingivalis). Randomization of study groups.

        -  Phase II. Surgical periodontal treatment.

             -  Periodontal surgery sessions. In the last surgery, the antibiotic test
                (azithromycin) or metronidazole (control) is administered according to
                randomization.

             -  Suture removal 1 week after performing periodontal surgery. Data collection 1 week
                after antibiotic consumption with the last surgery (patient-centered variables on
                the side effects of antibiotics).

             -  Re-evaluation of the surgical phase at 6 weeks after the last surgery session. Data
                collection (clinical variables).

        -  Phase III. Periodontal maintenance.

             -  Maintenance 1 (3 months post surgery). Data collection (Clinical and
                microbiological variables).

             -  Maintenance 2 (6 months post surgery). Data collection (Clinical and
                microbiological variables).

             -  Maintenance 3 (9 months post surgery). Data collection (Clinical variables).

             -  Maintenance 4 (12 months post surgery). Data collection (Clinical and
                microbiological variables).

             -  Maintenance 5 (4 years post surgery). Data collection (Clinical and microbiological
                variables).
    
  