
    
      A vaccine to interrupt malaria transmission (VIMT), targeting disruption of both human and
      mosquito transmission, would be a valuable tool for local elimination or eradication of this
      disease. One strategy to design a VIMT is using components that block transmission of malaria
      to mosquitoes, such as Pfs230. Pfs230, a surface antigen of intracellular gametocytes, as
      well as extracellular gametes and zygotes in the mosquito stage of Plasmodium falciparum, is
      currently the leading candidate in clinical trials for a malaria transmission-blocking
      vaccine (TBV). Recombinant Pfs230D1M has been conjugated to a recombinant Pseudomonas
      aeruginosa ExoProtein A (EPA) and adjuvanted with AS01. When formulated in AS01, results from
      a recent first-in-human trial demonstrated that Pfs230-EPA induces functional
      transmission-reducing, and in a significant proportion of vaccinees, transmission-blocking
      serum activity that can be measured for months, the vaccine is well-tolerated and safe in
      adults, and our recent natural history data clearly indicate that children play a
      disproportionate role in malaria transmission. The next step in the development of
      Pfs230D1M-EPA as a TBV is therefore to conduct an age de-escalation trial to ensure that the
      vaccine is safe to administer to children and then to conduct a community clinical trial to
      assess efficacy in family groups.

      This Phase 2 study will first determine safety and tolerability of Pfs230D1M-EPA/AS01 in
      healthy Malian children of decreasing ages: 9-18 years old, followed by 5-8 years old. A
      total of 60 subjects will be enrolled in Doneguebougou, Mali, West Africa. Children will be
      recruited from compounds/family that have agreed to participate in the main phase of the
      study and will enroll in a staggered manner to receive either Pfs230D1M-EPA/AS01 vaccine or
      comparator as assigned by their compound block randomization. Prior to receipt of vaccination
      1, all subjects will receive a full treatment course of artemether/lumefantrine (AL). Safety
      and tolerability will be monitored and reported as local and systemic adverse events (AEs)
      and serious adverse events (SAEs) and reviewed by DSMB, sponsor, medical monitors, and study
      team prior to proceeding with enrollment of the main phase.

      If there are no safety concerns, in a staggered manner, the main phase will begin enrollment
      of approximately 137 compounds/vaccine units (about 1500 vaccinees + about 400 under 5 years
      of age for parasite surveillance). Children enrolled during the pilot safety phase will join
      their main phase compounds/family for vaccination 3. Prior to receipt of first vaccination,
      all subjects will receive a full treatment course of AL. All vaccinated subjects will be
      monitored for safety and tolerability. Immunogenicity outcomes will be antibody responses as
      measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) against recombinant Pfs230D1M.
      Functional activity of the induced antibodies will be assessed by standard membrane feeding
      assays in select samples. Vaccine activity will be measured in children 9-18 years of age who
      will undergo direct skin feeds (DSF) starting 2 weeks post vaccination 3 for a total of 8
      DSFs.

      Prior to scheduled last vaccination in members of the compound/family, children 1-4 years of
      age and vaccinated children 5-8 years of age will receive a full treatment course of AL prior
      to the expected start of the transmission season and will then be followed every 2 weeks by
      blood smear (BS) along with all vaccinated children. Children 9-18 years of age will also be
      assessed for vaccine efficacy, but as a separate analysis from those 1-8 years of age.

      In Year 2, those who received vaccination during Year 1 (5 years of age and older at
      enrollment), if eligible and still on study, will receive a single fourth vaccination per
      their vaccine unit (VU) blinded arm assignment. No new individuals will be enrolled. Again,
      children 1-4 years of age and vaccinated children 5-8 years of age will receive a full
      treatment course of AL prior to the expected start of the transmission season and will then
      be followed every 2 weeks by BS along with all vaccinated children. Children 9-18 years of
      age will also be assessed for vaccine efficacy against parasitemia, but as a separate
      analysis from those 1-8 years of age. Immunogenicity outcomes will be antibody responses as
      measured by ELISA against recombinant Pfs230D1M. Functional activity of the induced
      antibodies will be assessed by standard membrane feeding assays in select samples. Vaccine
      activity will be measured in children 9-18 years of age who will undergo DSF starting 2 weeks
      post vaccination #4 for a total of 10 DSFs.
    
  