
    
      Intraoperative histological examination is a fundamental tool for cancer surgery (extent of
      surgery, resection margins, sentinel lymph node) and necessary in other circumstances like
      redo surgery or endocrine surgery. Using conventional frozen section technique results in the
      prolongation of operating time of about 40 minutes.

      Probe-based Confocal Laser Endomicroscopy (pCLE) is a new imaging technique which enables
      real-time, microscope-resolution imaging. Specifically, after intravenous injection of a
      fluorescent contrast agent - in this study fluorescein will be used, the pCLE system provides
      video sequences of the tissue, using a confocal microscope integrated in a miniprobe and a
      low power laser as the illumination source (Cellvizio®, Mauna Kea Technologies, Paris,
      France).

      The pCLE is currently used in endoscopy, mainly for the follow-up of Barrett's esophagus,
      colorectal polyps and strictures of the bile and pancreatic ducts, but also in urology. The
      pCLE has never been tested in open or video-assisted surgery settings. Sterilizable probes
      exist and are certified for use via an endoscope in France (UHD CystoFlexTM, AQ-FLEX 19TM
      Mauna Kea Technologies, Paris, France). A probe (CelioFlex UHDTM) is currently being
      developed for use in laparoscopic surgery setting.

      This pilot study aims to evaluate pCLE in surgical setting. Each anatomical structure
      corresponds to a specific tissue architecture, which is today known through standard
      histological examination. Conventional histology implies alteration of the tissue
      architecture, with ablation of blood supply, sampling and technical treatment of the samples
      (fixation, cutting, staining). The pCLE enables to bypass this process and allows obtaining
      images of the microscopic structure in vivo, without cell damage and without interruption of
      the blood and lymphatic circulation. The obtained video sequences reflect the microscopic
      architecture, in a form which is to date, neither mapped nor exploited for deep organs. The
      potential of this technique was demonstrated in intraabdominal organs only in the animal
      model, with very encouraging results as the sensitivity and specificity of pCLE were superior
      to standard histological examination.

      The primary objective is the depiction of histological rendering of normal and pathological
      tissues through pCLE. Feasibility of real-time diagnosis will also be assessed. All surgical
      conditions usually necessitating frozen section will be investigated. A total of 30 patients,
      with various pathology of the thyroid / parathyroid, stomach, esophagus, pancreas, adrenal,
      colon / small intestine, liver will be included.

      The installation and surgical opening will be performed according to standard protocols. A
      contrast agent, fluorescein, will be injected intravenously to allow tissue visualization
      with the pCLE. During the surgery, the surgeon will perform the pCLE examination, to obtain
      and record video sequences of in situ structures. Frozen sections will be obtained on the
      same samples and will further guide the surgical decision-making.

      Diagnostic criteria will be defined by a surgeon - pathologist team and further validated by
      retrospective analysis of the sequences in comparison to conventional histology slides. The
      data will be used to create an image bank of reference optical biopsy images.

      The study will allow to point out the surgical conditions in which pCLE is the most effective
      and reliable and could eventually replace the frozen section technique.

      A second study, in comparative prospective settings, could further be focused only on the
      promising conditions in order to evaluate diagnosis accuracy on a statistical basis.
    
  