
    
      Research has shown the positive effect of natural and non-natural soundscape on people with
      severe or profound intellectual disabilities (Andringa & van den Bosch, 2013). Sound plays a
      role in generating a feeling of safety, in influencing the mood, and triggering a specific
      action. Bringing sound with this purpose, as targeted to the current activity can improve the
      behaviour. There is substantial research on the effect of noise (unwanted sound) on people's
      health and well-being. The health outcomes vary, but include cardiovascular disease, sleep
      disturbance, and annoyance.

      In a previous study in people with dementia by the Belgian investigators in this study (Devos
      et al., 2019), they observed positive staff outcome measures, reflecting the value of the
      soundscape in improving their ability to provide care to people with dementia. They did not
      directly assess the benefits to residents in that study. There were no harms documented in
      the study, and if residents reacted not well to specific sound, the sound was removed from
      the soundscape.

      The aim of this study is to build upon the previous research and evaluate the effect of a
      personalized soundscape on the well-being and behaviour of persons with dementia. In the
      soundscapes, we use only recognizable sounds, sounds that give persons with dementia a
      feeling of 'safety' or sounds that focus on the orientation (in time, place). We try to add a
      recognizable (safe, orientating) sound through the soundscape system. This soundscape
      supports the environment and makes the environment feel safer and more 'clear' for residents
      with dementia. In the previous research through co-design process with staff and family
      member the sounds were chosen (Devos et al, 2018).

      Most of the existing studies in the field of the acoustic environment in health care are
      descriptive, and there is a need for a more rigorous evaluation of interventions. By using a
      pilot Randomized Control Trial (RCT) design, we will be able to establish the effect size of
      soundscape on outcomes of interest in this population of people with dementia. These results
      will support evidence-based practices by healthcare providers, architects, engineers and
      designers in implementing environmental health factors and designing better care facilities
      for people with dementia in the future.

      The objective of this study is thus to determine the effect size of a carefully tuned
      personalized sonic environment (delivered via AcustiCare) on agitation and distress (NPI and
      PAS), night sleep and stress (Via wristband) and on quality of life (QUALIDEM).
    
  