
    
      Access to highly active antiretroviral therapy (ART) transforms HIV/AIDS management from
      responding to an acute infection and its co-morbidities into coordinating the care of a
      complex chronic disease. Ninety percent of the world's 2.3 million HIV-infected children live
      in sub-Saharan Africa. As HIV-infected children receiving ART grow and thrive, clinicians in
      these resource-limited settings face new challenges. As children age, they need to be
      transitioned into taking responsibility for their own care. Central to this transition is the
      process of telling children that they are infected with HIV. The most effective strategies
      for disclosing HIV status to children in resource-limited settings are not known. Moreover,
      parents and healthcare providers often fear disclosure, worrying about the personal and
      social impact on the child and the family. To date, only a modicum of research describes the
      prevalence of pediatric disclosure, effective disclosure processes, or the impact of
      disclosure in resource-limited settings.

      The long-term goal of our research team is to provide evidence to improve the chronic care
      and disease management of HIV-infected children in resource-limited settings. We have
      evaluated the experience of medication-taking and ART adherence for children in Kenya and
      East Africa, and we are currently carrying out a validation study developing pediatric ART
      adherence measurement strategies that include disclosure assessment.(1K23MH087225-01) We have
      conducted a systematic review of disclosure to children in resource-limited settings,
      implemented a clinical training program in pediatric disclosure in Kenya, and have done pilot
      work to evaluate the prevalence and impact of disclosure within the AMPATH HIV care system in
      western Kenya. Our results consistently demonstrate the importance of disclosure for
      pediatric adherence and the sustained daily care of children with HIV, and yet disclosure
      rates remain low with standard care, particularly because parents and guardians fear
      disclosure. We now propose a cluster randomized trial to assess the effectiveness of a
      patient-centered disclosure intervention for HIV-infected Kenyan children and their families.
      In the HADITHI (Helping AMPATH Disclose Information and Talk about HIV Infection) trial, the
      objective is to evaluate the efficacy of an intensive, culturally adapted, narrative-based
      disclosure intervention for HIV-infected Kenyan children compared to the less intensive
      disclosure process currently used as the standard of care. Our primary endpoint will be
      disclosure status over two-years follow-up, with secondary endpoints related to clinical,
      psychological, and social outcomes. The central hypothesis is that an intensive disclosure
      intervention based on culture-specific qualitative work and a patient-centered approach will
      allow for higher rates of disclosure and allow children not only to know their HIV status,
      but also to have improved medication adherence, improved medical outcomes, unimpaired
      psychological and/or behavioral outcomes, and no increase in experienced stigma or social
      isolation over time. The rationale for evaluating this disclosure intervention is to provide
      a robust test of efficacy for a disclosure process in a resource-limited setting.
    
  