
    
      Participants will be stratified by the biological characteristics of their tumor to one of
      two treatment strata:

      STRATUM A

        -  Combination Treatment: prexasertib and cyclophosphamide

        -  Patient population: Participants with recurrent/refractory Group 3 and Group 4 (G3/G4)
           medulloblastoma, recurrent/refractory sonic hedgehog (SHH) medulloblastoma and
           medulloblastoma participants with Indeterminate molecular subgroup

      STRATUM B

        -  Combination Treatment: prexasertib and gemcitabine

        -  Patient population: Participants with recurrent/refractory Group 3 and Group 4
           medulloblastoma

      Participants with a diagnosis of G3/G4 medulloblastoma who qualify for both treatment strata
      will be assigned per slot availability as well as institutional PI preference. If slots are
      available in both stratum A and stratum B, patients will be assigned to the dose level
      nearest completion.

      The Rolling 6 design will be used separately in each stratum to estimate the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) or recommended phase two dose (RP2D). Therapy will be administered in
      cycles of 28 days and may be continued for up to 24 months (26 cycles) in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Participants will receive doublet therapy in cycles of 28 days. The dose-limiting toxicity
      (DLT)-evaluation period will consist of the first cycle until day 1 criteria of cycle 2 has
      been met. Participants will be evaluated at least once a week during the DLT-evaluation
      period and at regular intervals thereafter. Standard tests (i.e. physical exams, blood tests,
      and disease evaluations) will be undertaken at regular intervals. Research-associated
      evaluations (i.e. pharmacokinetic studies, etc.) will also be carried out during therapy.
      Treatment may be continued for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.
    
  