
    
      The study will assess subjects that receive acute administration of SUBOXONE sublingual film
      in the Emergency Department (ED) followed by SUBLOCADE administration in the ED and referral
      to an affiliated outpatient treatment clinic, compared to historical control data from VCU
      electronic health records. The affiliated clinic will agree to see the subject on arrival at
      the clinic during normal clinic hours.

      Patients presenting to the ED for an opioid overdose (OD) who received treatment with an
      opioid antagonist and are considered clinically stable and alert will be approached regarding
      interest in study participation. Written informed consent will only be obtained if the
      patient's judgement is intact as determined clinically by the investigator or a medically
      qualified sub-investigator or research nurse. This OD will be considered the index OD.

      Subjects will be given the opportunity to participate in an optional pharmacogenetics (PGx)
      sub-study.

      The subject will receive referral to an outpatient treatment clinic affiliated with the
      hospital system in which the ED resides.

      Once subjects arrive at the treatment clinic, they will continue to receive SUBLOCADE for 6
      months. All subjects will receive site standard psychosocial therapy at least weekly during
      the first 3 months of treatment, and twice monthly thereafter if clinically stable.

      All subjects will complete an End of Treatment (EOT) / Early Termination (ET) visit 28 days
      after their last injection of SUBLOCADE. Within 3 months prior to or at the EOT visit, the
      investigator or a medically qualified sub-investigator will discuss the subject's available
      treatment options and arrange referral. All subjects will receive a safety follow-up
      telephone call, 30 days after their EOT/ET visit to assess AEs, SAEs, pregnancy status (if
      applicable) and concomitant medications. Subjects who decline to continue in medication
      assisted treatment (MAT) will receive monthly safety follow-up phone calls for an additional
      5 months (6 months total) to assess SAEs, pregnancy status (if applicable) and concomitant
      medications.
    
  