
    
      Osteoarthritis and rheumatic conditions in general are a major public health issue, notably
      causing chronic pain disorders.

      Spa treatments currently play a central role in the non-medical therapeutic arsenal for
      patients suffering from these rheumatic diseases.

      A French study estimated the direct costs generated by osteoarthritis in France up to 1,6
      billion euros in 2002, half of which was due to hospital expenses (800 million euros).
      Osteoarthritis required 13 millions consults and drug expenses of 570 million euros. Compared
      to 1993, these expenses increased by 156% due to the raise of the number of patients treated
      (+54%) and of the cost for each patient (+2,5% per year). This study concerned patients with
      lower limb osteoarthritis, and a significant portion of these expenses were attributable to
      the disease.

      Chronic lower back pain is also a major health issue for its impact on patients' functional
      capacities as well as for the economic and social costs it generates. This is a frequent
      condition, it is estimated that 80% of the population will present lower back pain at some
      point in their life. Furthermore, epidemiological studies show an increase in the prevalence
      of lower back pain (3,9% in 1992 to 10,2% in 2006 in the American population).

      Different well-conducted studies around the impact of spa treatments have led to the
      recognition of its beneficial outcome on the treatment of chronic lower back pain.

      Several controlled, randomized, prospective trials have already evaluated the effect of spa
      treatment for other main indications claimed by crenotherapy in rheumatology such as hip and
      hand osteoarthritis, fibromyalgia, rheumatoid polyarthritis, psoriatic arthritis and chronic
      neck pain.

      The THERMARTHROSE study by Forestier demonstrated the efficacy of spa treatments as a
      rheumatological indication for knee osteoarthritis using the WOMAC questionnaire and VAS pain
      scale. Following the model of this study, the investigators chose to use the WOMAC and VAS
      pain scale as the primary endpoints of the investigator's study.

      The WOMAC questionnaire was developed by Bellamy in 1988, it is a functional index centered
      on the locomotor system.

      The pain VAS is an auto-evaluation tool derived from visual analogue scales developed in
      psychiatry to measure patients' well-being. Today, this statistically measurable and
      reproductible tool is commonly used in clinical trials to monitor the evolution of pain and
      more precisely to evaluate the impact of a treatment on a given chronic disease such as
      osteoarthritis. For this study, pain will be measured using pain VAS according to Huskinsson
      and following methodology as recommended by French health authorities, with one measure.

      During clinical studies in thermal environment, spa treatment is a composite entity including
      the effect of the water itself, but also physiotherapy, rest, education… The spa of
      Contrexéville wishes to obtain a new rheumatic indication. According to the recommendations
      of the Academy of Medicine, a prolonged observation of a cohort with repeated measures is
      required for any spa wishing to acquire the accreditation for a new orientation.

      Towards this aim, the investigators wish to undertake a prospective study with repeated
      measures in order to analyze the evolution of the clinical state of patients with a rheumatic
      disease on the lower limbs or the rachis, 6 months after receiving a spa treatment in the
      Contrexéville thermal institute. Since rheumatological treatments at Contrexéville are not
      covered by health insurance, they will not be billed to the patients.
    
  