
    
      A sizable proportion of soldiers involved in the Iraq and Afghanistan conflicts are
      experiencing mental health and adjustment problems on their return, including posttraumatic
      stress disorder and depression (Hoge et al., 2004). Both PTSD and depression can be chronic
      and debilitating disorders, associated with impairments in social, occupational, and physical
      functioning, as well as high health care utilization (Katon, Unutzer, & Simon, 2004; Stein et
      al., 2005).

      Although empirically supported treatments exist for established PTSD and depression, much
      less is known about effective early interventions for these conditions. Exploration of early
      intervention options is necessary, particularly in the case of the new veteran population, as
      such interventions could address social, occupational and physical impairments before they
      become too intractable. Also, successful early interventions could curtail high health care
      utilization dramatically across time. The development of such early interventions for PTSD
      and depression must also take into account any specifications of accessibility and
      acceptability that are particular to the OIF/OEF veteran population.

      The present study is a randomized, controlled trial that compares Behavioral Activation (BA),
      to Treatment As Usual (TAU) as early interventions for OIF/OEF veterans with posttraumatic
      stress disorder (PTSD). Participants will be recruited largely from the primary health care
      setting (to increase acceptability and accessibility to the veteran population). Both BA and
      TAU treatment groups will be administered by psychotherapists who specialize in the treatment
      of PTSD. Both groups will be assessed at pre-, mid- and post-treatment time points to
      determine change over time, health care utilization and treatment satisfaction. This is a
      dual-site study that will be carried out at both the Portland VA Medical Center (PVAMC) and
      the VA Puget Sound Health Care Center (VA PSHCS) and coordinated at the PVAMC.
    
  