
    
      Participants with a diagnosis of chronic low back pain (defined as pain lasting for at least
      3 month) and requiring a strong analgesic (World Health Organization [WHO] Step III) as
      judged by the investigator and having a positive or unclear score using the painDETECT
      diagnostic screening questionnaire will enter the open-label titration tapentadol prolonged
      release (PR) period. In total participants will have 11 planned scheduled visits scheduled
      over 105 days. At the Enrollment Visit [Day -14 (3 to 14 days prior to the Baseline Visit)]
      the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be checked to evaluate the participant's
      eligibility for the trial. Participants on previous analgesics will start a washout period
      three days up to 2 weeks.The duration of the washout period will depend on previous opioid
      analgesics and co-analgesics and their respective doses, down-tapering steps. Participants
      who do not need a washout of previous analgesic treatment (e.g. WHO Step I analgesics), a
      baseline visit can be scheduled as soon as clinical laboratory monitoring results are
      available.

      At the Baseline Visit (Day 1) participants will start the 3 week open-label titration period
      tapentadol prolonged release (PR) at doses of 2 x 50 mg per day and will be titrated upwards
      in steps of 100 mg (2 x 50 mg) on a weekly basis.

      Participants who do not qualify for randomization may continue the trial in the open-label
      continuation arm if they have already reached a satisfactory level of pain relief.

      Participants qualifying for randomization in the comparative period (Day 22 to 77) will be
      allocated to 1 of 2 treatment arms and will continue treatment.

      Either they continue on tapentadol prolonged release (PR) with increasing doses of tapentadol
      PR

        -  After the randomization visit, participants will titrate up to a total daily dose of 400
           mg.

        -  1 week after the randomization visit, will titrate up to a total daily dose of 500 mg.
           Participants in this treatment arm will receive a final dose of 500 mg tapentadol PR per
           day.

      Or start on a combination of tapentadol PR 300 mg per day with pregabalin

        -  After the randomization visit, participants will continue their previous regimen of
           tapentadol PR 2 x 150 mg per day plus pregabalin 2 x 75 mg (total daily dose of 150 mg
           pregabalin).

        -  1 week after the randomization visit, participants will continue their previous regimen
           (end of titration period) of tapentadol PR 2 x 150 mg per day plus pregabalin 2 x 150 mg
           (total daily dose of 300 mg pregabalin). Participants in this treatment arm will receive
           a final dose of 300 mg tapentadol PR and 300 mg pregabalin.

      Participants in the Comparative Period can be assigned to the open-label pick-up arm and will
      be treated with a stable dose of tapentadol PR 300 mg per day or 400 mg per day if they
      experience treatment emergent adverse events (at least possibly related to investigational
      medicinal product).The open-label pick-up period theoretically starts on Day 29, i.e. one
      week after the Randomization Visit.

      The Final Evaluation (Day 77) is planned to take place 8 weeks after randomization.

      After the Final Evaluation a Follow-up Period (blinded tapering down/out of IMP in Week 12
      and Follow-up Visit (up to Day 91) will take place. Tapering down/out of medication will be
      performed according to the Summary of Product Characteristics.
    
  