
    
      OVERVIEW. This study is a pilot randomized interventional trial. Two categories of
      participants will be randomly assigned to an invention or control group, using a random
      number generator: normal cesarean without associated comorbidity, or cesarean in women with a
      history of opioid addiction. The control group will receive usual care. The intervention
      group will receive usual care plus TENS therapy beginning 8 hours after cesarean section and
      continuing to discharge. Both groups will receive medications for pain as requested or
      ordered by the doctor.

      RESEARCH PROCEDURES. Patients will be identified for participation in their prenatal visit,
      and will be approached for study inclusion. Physicians that have a direct treatment
      relationship with the patient will inform the patient about the study and invite them to
      enroll. Consent for participation will be reviewed with the principal investigator and signed
      prior to delivery hospitalization. Randomization will follow consent, and patients randomized
      to intervention will have teaching performed about how to use the device at the time of
      consent.

      Following cesarean delivery, subjects will be re-approached in the Postpartum Unit at Robert
      Wood Johnson University Hospital by study staff. The TENS device will be again reviewed, and
      provided to the patient, with review of instructions for use. The patients in the
      intervention group will be educated on the proper way to utilize the TENS unit. They will
      apply the the patches of the TENS unit around the C-section site. Starting 8 hours after
      C-Section, the TENS unit will be turned on and will remain on until the patient is
      discharged, to be removed for toilet and showering at the patient's discretion. Once the TENS
      unit is applied and turned on, the patient will not have to do anything else to maintain the
      therapy. Study staff will provide a record for documentation of time on/off for the unit. On
      the day of discharge, study staff will collect the device, and conduct a short survey about
      pain score. They will then review pain scores, pain medication usage and other secondary
      outcomes in the patient's chart. Finally, pain will be reassessed at the subject's outpatient
      postpartum visits by study staff.

      DATA COLLECTION. Our research team members will collect the following data points from the
      patient's inpatient medical record: pain scale scores, medication requests/prescriptions
      (including name, type, and amount), time to first bowel movement, subjective incision
      complaints, and time to OOB. Participants will complete a survey before discharge which will
      solicit additional information about the postpartum recovery experience with or without TENS
      therapy.

      DURATION OF STUDY. Study duration will be no more than 12 weeks. This will include up to 6
      weeks prior to delivery for study approach and consent, delivery hospitalization, and 6 weeks
      postpartum for pain assessments at postpartum visits. There will be no long term follow up.

      PRIMARY and SECONDARY ENDPOINTS. Primary endpoint of this pilot study is a total of 10 normal
      patients undergoing cesarean, and 10 patients with history of opioid addiction. Intervention
      will be performed in 5 patients in each group. Safety data will be reviewed following the
      first 10 patients to evaluate for worsening patient scores relative to controls.
    
  