
    
      Aims

        1. To determine if hypertensive patients with primary hyperaldosteronism have a lower salt
           taste threshold and heightened preference for salty soup compared to hypertensive
           patients with secondary aldosterone levels and a healthy control reference group.

        2. To determine if treating primary hyperaldosteronism, with removal of aldosterone
           producing adrenal adenomas or medical blockade of aldosterone, results in changes in
           salt taste threshold and preference for salty soup.

           STUDY DESIGN

           This will be a non-interventional observational study examining a cohort of adult
           patients with hypertension under the care of Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust who
           are being investigated and treated for primary hyperaldosteronism. No clinical
           intervention will occur as part of this study outside of their standard clinical
           practice. The schedule of events for each study will occur within 6 months.

           Visit 1 This coincides with the saline infusion test.

           According to the outcomes of the adrenal MDT discussion subsequent visits will depend on
           clinical plan (no further investigation or treatment, medical or surgical treatment) and
           will coincide with:

           Visit 2 i) adrenal venous sampling (to distinguish unilateral from bilateral disease).
           ii) clinic follow up after introduction of mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist (for
           patients deemed unsuitable for adrenal vein sampling)

           Visit 3 i) surgical outpatient assessment for removal of an adrenal adenoma. ii) clinic
           follow-up after introduction of mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (for patients who
           carry unacceptably high risks for adrenal surgery or do not wish to have surgery, or
           deemed not suitable for removal of adrenal adenoma post adrenal vein sampling e.g. with
           bilateral disease).

           Visit 4 i) clinic follow up after adrenal adenoma removal.

           The protocol of investigation for each visit will consist of the following (total time
           ~60 mins ):

           Salt taste threshold testing This involves the participant, whilst blindfolded, tasting
           saline solutions, of varying concentration. The solution is sprayed onto the
           participant's tongue, the participant then states if the solution contains salt or not.
           Up to 20 solutions are tested (~10 mins) (Ohla et al., 2017).

           VAS and gLMS training Participants are trained to use labelled hedonic scales (LHS)
           (Wood et al., 2009) and general linear model sales (gLMS) (Green et al., 1996) to rate
           sensations using an established protocol (Veldhuizen et al., 2017) (5 mins) (Appendix
           8).

           Salt taste preference testing This involves swilling a solution (soup of variable salt
           concentration) in the mouth then expectorating into a bowl. The subject then rates the
           solution on various parameters, for example liking, how it relates to "just right"
           saltiness, and intensity, using a gLMS. LHS or VAS. Each solution will be repeated 3
           times. A sweet solution and bitter solution are also tested. This will take up to 40
           mins.

           Saliva collection Saliva will be collected by asking participants to spit into a tube
           for up to 5 mins. Saliva will be analysed for electrolytes including sodium and
           potassium .

           Questionnaires i) Internal state questionnaire to assess internal state: hunger, thirst,
           fullness, pleasantness to eat, stress, anxiety, sleepiness, volume able to eat, nausea
           (5 mins) (Appendix 9).

           ii) Positive and Negative Affect Schedule (PANAS) to measure positive and negative mood
           (Watson et al., 1988).

           iii) Derby Salt questionnaire (DSQ) to assess habitual salt intake. iv) Beck's
           depression inventory (BDI) (visit 1 only) to screen for significant depression which is
           a contraindication

           3.3 Procedures

           3.3.1 Visit 1 (Saline infusion test) Patient arrives at 8 am (i) Blood pressure, heart
           rate, weight recorded on admission (standard care). (ii) Study explained, questions
           answered and patient is consented (iii) Patient is cannulated and blood taken for plasma
           aldosterone, plasma renin activity, U&Es (standard care).

           (iv) Patient remains in the seated position for at least 30 mins before infusion begins
           (standard care). During this time the taste tests are completed and saliva collected.

           (v) 2 litres of 0.9% saline are infused over 4 hours, starting at 9.00 a.m. (standard
           care). During this time the questionnaires will be completed.

           (vi) Blood pressure, oxygen saturation and heart rate are monitored throughout the test
           (standard care).

           (vii) After 4 hours (i.e. 1 pm), further blood sample are taken for aldosterone, renal
           function and electrolytes (standard care).

           (viii) Patient discharged as per standard clinical care.

           3.3.2 Visits 2-4 This will be dictated by clinical pathway according to outcome of the
           adrenal MDT discussion.

           3.3.2.1 Coincide with adrenal venous sampling. (i) Blood pressure, heart rate and weight
           recorded, and patient is cannulated on admission and blood samples sent (standard care).

           (ii) Confirmation is made that the patient is happy to continue with study. (v) Taste
           tests undertaken on the ward whilst the patient is waiting to go to the interventional
           radiology suite.

           (vi) Questionnaires will be completed if sufficient time. (vii) Adrenal venous sampling
           (standard clinical care) (viii) Post procedure observation period (standard clinical
           care). Questionnaires and taste tests completed if needed.

           (ix) Patient discharged after observation period (standard clinical care).

           3.3.2.2 Coincide with outpatient surgical consultation for adrenalectomy (If not
           convenient for the patient this may occur when the patient attends for pre-op assessment
           clinic).

           (i) Patient telephoned by the research team the week prior to appointment to remind the
           participant that study visit will occur and that the patient remains well.

           (ii) Patient attends clinic and has blood tests, observations and review by the surgical
           team, (standard care).

           (iii) Confirmation is made that the patient is happy to continue with study. (iv) Taste
           tests done and questionnaires will be completed in an out-patients room or Imperial NIHR
           Clinical Research Facility.

           3.3.2.3 Coincide with out-patient clinic follow-up visit after introduction of
           mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists or surgical removal of adrenal adenoma.

           (i) Patient telephoned by the research team the week prior to clinic appointment to
           remind the participant that study visit will occur and check that the patient remains
           well.

           (ii) Patient attends clinic and has blood tests, observations and review by
           endocrinology team (standard care).

           (iii) Taste tests done, saliva collected and questionnaires completed before or after
           clinical review in out-patients (Hammersmith, Charing Cross, St. Mary's Hospitals) or
           Imperial NIHR Clinical Research Facility, Hammersmith Hospital.

           (iv) Patient thanked for taking part in the study (this is the last visit).

           3.4 Saliva analysis and storage

           Saliva will be stored in the laboratories of Dr Tony Goldstone, PsychoNeuroEndocrinology
           Research Group. These are located in the, Commonwealth Building, Imperial College
           London, Hammersmith Hospital. This area has restricted access to research staff only and
           only research team members will have access to the stored samples. Following analysis
           samples will be stored by the research team pending ethical approval for use in another
           project.
    
  