
    
      Data from January 1, 2003 to March 31, 2009 will be available and termed as the study period.
      Patients with at least one moderate exacerbation defined as a physician/outpatient visit with
      a primary diagnosis of COPD and having an oral corticosteroid (OCS) or antibiotic
      prescription (ABX) within 5 days of physician/outpatient visit will be identified as the
      target population. The date of the first moderate exacerbation will serve as the patient's
      index date, and will be identified during the identification period of January 1, 2004
      through February 28, 2009. Furthermore this moderate exacerbation should be the first medical
      claim with a primary diagnosis of COPD to ensure that only patients with moderate
      exacerbations will be captured. Subsequently, patients will be categorized into study cohorts
      based on the first maintenance drug prescription (index drug) received during the 30-day
      period after the index date termed as the treatment assessment period. Maintenance drugs
      considered include fluticasone-salmeterol 250/50 mcg (FSC) or anticholinergics (AC) including
      tiotropium (TIO) and ipratropium or combination ipratropium-albuterol (collectively referred
      to as ipratropium [IPR]). Patients not receiving any maintenance medication or those
      receiving maintenance medications other than those considered during the treatment assessment
      period will be excluded.

      All outcomes will be assessed during a follow-up period that will vary in length between 1
      day and 1 year for each patient. The variable follow-up period will be defined as the period
      that starts on the day after the treatment assessment period, and ends on the earliest of the
      following event dates: the end of the study period (March 31, 2009), the end of the patient's
      continuous eligibility in the health plan, the end of the patient's 1-year follow-up,
      treatment switch date (ie, a switch to any study medication different from the index drug),
      discontinuation date of the index drug (ie, more than a 60-day gap between the end of the
      days' supply of the preceding prescription and the fill date of the next consecutive
      prescription), or occurrence of any COPD-related exacerbation (COPD-related hospitalization,
      ED visit, or physician/outpatient visit with a prescription for an oral corticosteroid or
      antibiotic within 5 days of the visit).

      A 1-year period before the index date (pre-period) will be used to provide a baseline
      assessment of the study cohorts. The specific dates for the pre- and follow-up periods will
      vary for each patient depending on their index date.

      Specifically the study hypothesis for the primary outcome being tested was:

      Ho: There is no difference in risk of any COPD-related exacerbation between FSC and AC
      cohorts Ha: There is a difference in risk of any COPD-related exacerbation between FSC and AC
      cohorts

      Hypothesis for the key secondary outcome of COPD-related costs that was tested was:

      Ho: There is no difference in COPD-related costs between FSC and AC cohorts Ha: There is a
      difference in COPD-related costs between FSC and AC cohorts
    
  