
    
      Based on the outcome of the EPIC trial, and the sub-optimal results with a single abciximab
      bolus compared with bolus and infusion, it was recommended to prolong platelet inhibition by
      a 12h infusion of abciximab after the initial bolus administration in patients undergoing
      percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). However, lower outcomes in the single bolus group
      in the EPIC study were entirely driven by the rates of urgent repeat revascularization at 30
      days (3•6 percent bolus group versus 0•8 percent bolus and infusion group, p < 0.001), a
      complication probably related to the lack of stent use at that time. Importantly, there was
      no significant difference in terms of death or myocardial infarction (MI). Moreover, the use
      of clopidogrel in patients undergoing coronary stenting may currently reduce the need for
      infusion after a single abciximab bolus and it is likely that the soon to come availably of
      even more potent oral thienopyridines with faster onset of action such as prasugrel may
      further contribute to make post-bolus abciximab infusion of marginal clinical benefit. Yet,
      it is known that infusion, as compared to bolus only regimen increases the bleeding rate and
      the incidence of thrombocytopenia. Thus, bolus only regimen has the potential to maintain
      protection from ischemic complications in patients undergoing PCI while optimizing the safety
      profile of the treatment in the current era of intervention based on stents and
      thienopyridines with fast onset of action.

      The CLEAR-PLATELETS study has recently shown that 600 mg clopidogrel does not affect the
      degree of platelet inhibition throughout infusion of eptifibatide, which is consistent with
      the notion that glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibition at steady state leads to near maximal
      platelet blockade. No study has so far investigated the effect of clopidogrel, given at high
      loading dose, in patients treated with abciximab bolus only. In particular, it is not known
      whether the administration of clopidogrel at high loading dose may prolong the effect of
      abciximab bolus on the degree of platelet inhibition and if so at which time point the
      combination of abciximab bolus and clopidogrel may become suboptimal in terms of platelet
      inhibition as compared to currently recommended 12h infusion of abciximab after the initial
      bolus administration. This information would lead to relevant clinical implications as it may
      define the time frame for a safe and effective intervention after bolus only of abciximab in
      current practice.

      This is a single-centre, double-blind prospective randomized pharmacodynamic investigation of
      2 antiplatelet regimens in patients undergoing coronary stenting for non-ST segment elevation
      acute coronary syndromes (NSTECACS):

        1. Abciximab bolus followed by infusion plus on-label clopidogrel administration at 300 mg
           loading dose.

        2. abciximab bolus without infusion plus high loading dose of clopidogrel at 600 mg

      The objective of the investigation is to test the hypothesis that the administration of
      abciximab bolus only plus high loading dose of clopidogrel at 600 mg will provide a non
      inferior level of inhibition of platelet aggregation 4 hours after administration as compared
      to abciximab bolus followed by standard infusion in combination with clopidogrel loading dose
      of 300 mg in patients with normal response to clopidogrel (as evaluated after 14-30 days).
    
  