
    
      Intranasal (IN) delivery of analgesic agents provides rapid and convenient drug
      administration without the need for needles. In children, the placement of an intravenous
      line often increases anxiety and pain, requires nursing time, and can be very difficult to
      achieve, so the IN route is particularly advantageous. IN delivery of fentanyl has become
      increasingly more common in pain management for children in many settings, including
      pre-hospital and emergency department (ED) settings. Over the past decade, many studies have
      demonstrated that intranasal fentanyl is as effective as intravenous morphine to treat acute
      moderate to severe pain. Intranasal fentanyl has become standard of care in some pediatric
      EDs with the advantage of avoiding intravenous line placement. However, adverse effects
      attributed to IN fentanyl are similar to those of other opioid analgesics: hypotension,
      sedation, and occasionally respiratory depression. Ketamine is a noncompetitive N-methyl
      D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist that blocks the release of the excitatory
      neurotransmitter glutamate and provides anesthesia, amnesia, and analgesia by decreasing
      central sensitization and "wind-up" phenomenon. Due to its high lipid solubility, ketamine
      rapidly crosses the blood-brain barrier, provides rapid onset of action (peak concentration
      at 1 minute after intravenous push) and rapid recovery to baseline (duration of action 5-15
      minutes after intravenous push). At sub-dissociative doses, either used as an adjunct to
      opioid analgesics or as a solo agent, ketamine provides effective analgesia while preserving
      airway patency, ventilation, and cardiovascular stability.

      Ketamine has been less studied for pain management, however it has been safely used via
      different routes of administration in children. Studies dating back to 1990's use ketamine at
      doses as high as 6 mg/kg intranasally in children for pre-medication prior to surgery or for
      sedation with little or no reported adverse effects. A hospital in Australia is currently
      conducting a clinical trial comparing IN fentanyl 1.5 ug/kg to IN ketamine 1mg/kg for the
      treatment of pain caused by isolated musculoskeletal injury. The intention of our study is
      similar to this, however the investigators will not limit the patients to those with only
      musculoskeletal pain and a more simplified pain scale will be used.

      To assess pain, the investigators will use the standard pain scale that is currently used in
      our Pediatric ED in order to minimize the need to re-train any of our staff with a different
      pain scale. The scale incorporates the Numerical rating scale (0-10 scale; NRS) and the
      Wong-Baker faces pain scale (6 faces corresponding to 0,2,4,6,8,10; WBS). While prior studies
      have used different pain scales, primarily the visual analog scale (VAS), the scales that the
      investigator currently use have been validated in children in 2009.
    
  