
    
      Women older than 50 at diagnosis of an invasive breast cancer which is all of: node
      negative/N0i+; T1 or T2; low or intermediate grade; with strong or intermediate expression of
      hormone receptors (ER and PR); and HER2 negative, and who have had adequate local therapy for
      their tumor, are invited to participate in Prosigna® screening. A sample of their excised
      tumor is sent for Prosigna® testing. This is a validated and widely approved genomic test to
      assess recurrence risk in hormone receptor positive/HER2 negative, node negative breast
      tumors. Tumors with a low risk result, defined as Risk of Recurrence (ROR) less than or equal
      to 40, are then eligible for enrollment on the LA LEAST study of 2 years of endocrine therapy
      (tamoxifen for pre/perimenopausal women and aromatase inhibitor for postmenopausal women). To
      mimic real life, there is flexibility to switch to an alternate standard of care endocrine
      therapy during the two years if intolerable side effects develop. During the two years of
      therapy, participants are seen every six months and complete periodic quality of life (QOL)
      questionnaires designed to measure quality of life, mood, side effects, and anxiety/fear of
      recurrence. Following two years of therapy, participants have annual study visits until year
      10, with similar questionnaires at some but not all time points, and assessment of study
      endpoints. Primary endpoint is the 5 year distant relapse free interval (DRFI), defined as
      freedom from distant recurrence or breast cancer death at five years. Secondary endpoints
      include longitudinal QOL comparisons, 10 year breast cancer free interval and 10 year
      contralateral breast cancer rate. It is anticipated that about 400 individuals will need to
      be screened to enroll 290 participants with requisite low score. The sample size is based on
      an expected 5 year DRFI of 96.8%, one sided alpha of 0.05 and a rejection of the alternate
      hypothesis if the lower boundary of the one sided confidence interval yields an observed DRFI
      below 95%.
    
  