
    
      Background:

      Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF) is a progressive fibrotic lung disease of unknown cause
      with a median survival of 3-5 years (Raghu et al. 2011). As the disease progresses, worsening
      of lung function and gas exchange impairment cause hypoxemia during physical activity leading
      to a downward spiral; dyspnea and fatigue lead to a reduction in daily physical activities,
      exercise tolerance, muscle strength and quality of life (Behr et al. 2013)(Holl and Hill,
      2008). Problems reported by IPF patients are social isolation, increased level of dependency
      and immobility (Bajwah et al. 2012)(De Vries et al. 2001).

      No curative treatment exists (Raghu et al. 2011). Pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) is
      recommended by expert opinion for the majority of IPF patients to improve quality of life and
      exercise tolerance (Raghu et al. 2011) (Behr et al. 2013). These programs are mostly offered
      in specialized clinics with an average duration of 8 weeks (Holl et al. 2008)(Nishiyama et
      al. 2008)(Jastrzebski et al. 2006)(Huppmann et al. 2012)(Verma et al. 2011)(J J Swigris et
      al. 2005). Not all patients with IPF are fit for these programs or want to participate in an
      extensive external program due to, among other reasons, distance to the clinic.
      Tele-rehabilitation may offer these patients an alternative.

      Tele-rehabilitation seems to be a good approach to reach patients in low inhabited areas
      (Hill and Sppath, 2010), going from health care to self-care (Haarder 2011), empowering
      patient's awareness of their disease and increasing the flexibility patients need to acquire
      healthier behaviors. Tele-rehabilitation has previously been shown to be feasible in patients
      with lymphedema (Galiano-Castillo et al. 2014), COPD (Paneroni et al. 2014)(Tousignant et al.
      2012)(Dinesen, Seeman, and Gustafsson, 2011)(Dinesen, Huniche, and Toft, 2013) and orthopedic
      diseases, lower back (Palacín-Marín, Esteban-Moreno, Olea, Herrera-Viedma, and
      Arroyo-Morales, 2013), knee (Cabana et al. 2010) (Tousignant, Moffet, et al. 2011)
      (Tousignant, Boissy, et al. 2011) and shoulder (Eriksson, Lindström, Gard, and Lysholm,
      2009)(Eriksson, Lindström, and Ekenberg, 2011).

      Tele-rehabilitation with COPD patients at home is feasible and well accepted by the patients,
      although technology has been perceived as difficult (Paneroni et al., 2014)(Tousignant et
      al.,2012). Tele-rehabilitation seems to improve the functional level as assessed by walking
      capacity, dyspnea, quality of life and daily physical activity (Paneroni et al. 2014). The
      interaction between the COPD patients at home and the healthcare professionals at the clinic
      through tele-rehabilitation has evolved as a dialogue channel forming a basis for mutual
      learning processes and new relationships (Dinesen, ersen, Hejlesen, & Toft, 2011).
      Preliminary evaluations from tele-rehabilitation initiatives in Scotland showed
      tele-rehabilitation to be more cost effective with patients living in remote areas than with
      the outreach- or centralized model (Hill and Sppath, 2010).

      Thus, in order to ensure that all IPF patients are offered the possibility to participate in
      IPF specific rehabilitation programs even though they live far away from expert centers,
      tele-rehabilitation might be an alternative to standard rehabilitation programs or to, as
      often happens, participation in COPD rehabilitation programs. There have so far been no
      studies on the feasibility effect of tele-rehabilitation in IPF.

      Hypothesis Tele-rehabilitation in patients with IPF is feasible and improves exercise
      capacity, quality of life and activities of daily living.

      Aim To assess the feasibility and effect of tele-rehabilitation with a tele-rehabilitation
      platform (NITRP) compared to standard treatment with respect to exercise capacity, quality of
      life and activities of daily living in patients with IPF.

      Design:

      The study is a prospective, randomized controlled trial comparing the effects of
      tele-rehabilitation and standard treatment in patients with IPF

      Patients 24 patients with IPF followed in the outpatient clinic at the Danish Centre for
      Interstitial Lung Diseases at the Department of Respiratory Diseases & Allergy, Aarhus
      University Hospital will be recruited and randomized to participate in the study.

      Inclusion criteria

      In order to be eligible to participate in this study, the patient must meet all of the
      following criteria:

      Diagnosis of either definite or possible IPF according to the American Thoracic Society (ATS)
      and European Respiratory Society (ERS) criteria Signed informed consent DLCO ≥ 30% predicted
      and FVC ≥ 50% predicted 6 minute walking test ≥ 150 m Adults ≥ 18 years Being clinically
      stable Absolute decline in DLCO & FVC should be less than 10% in the past 6 months.

      Exclusion criteria

      A potential patient who meets any of the following criteria will be excluded from
      participation in this study if:

      Participation in an official rehabilitation program < 4 months before start of the study
      Musculoskeletal disorders Severe cardiac diseases (ejection fraction < 30%, daily angina, or
      otherwise specified by treating cardiologist) Unable to understand informed consent Other
      conditions that hamper the use of tele-rehabilitation Non-Danish speaking. Unwillingness to
      implement the protocol

      Sample size calculation There have been no studies of tele-rehabilitation in IPF and previous
      studies have used other indices for evaluation of quality of life measures. Therefore, there
      are no data available for sample size calculation. This study will be a pilot study to
      estimate the effect of a tele-rehabilitation in which we aim to include 24 patients, 12 in
      each group

      Treatment of subjects No changes in regular treatment will be done because of participating
      in the tele-rehabilitation study.

      Investigational treatment The intervention is the use of a tele-rehabilitation program during
      12 weeks. The patient's training time will be registered automatically. The control group
      will receive standard treatment only.

      Escape medication In case of exacerbation of IPF or a respiratory tract infection, the
      patient will be treated to the discretion of the clinician in charge and excluded from the
      study. However, the patients will be offered to be included again at the moment clinical
      stability is reached and the patient again fulfils inclusion criteria.

      Method

      Randomisation, blinding & treatment allocation Randomisation will allocate patients to either
      the intervention or control group and will be performed electronically. The questionnaires on
      quality-of-life are self-administered questionnaires. Participants will be asked to complete
      them before talking to the physician.

      Study procedures The trial will be registered in the public database of Clinical Trials.gov.
      All consecutive clinical stable patients with definite or possible IPF from the outpatient
      clinic at the Danish Center of Interstitial Lung Diseases, at the Department of Respiratory
      Diseases and Allergy, Aarhus University Hospital that might be eligible will be informed
      about the study by their respiratory physician or nurse. The patients will be asked if they
      are interested in participating in this study, and if so, they will receive verbal and
      written information. In this information the study is explained in detail. The patients have
      to give their informed signed consent to the principal investigator or his designee before
      the patient can enter the trial. After informed consent the patients will be screened during
      the baseline visit and physical examination, pulmonary function tests and 6 minute walk test
      will be performed. If pulmonary function test and 6MWT have been assessed less than 3 months
      or 1 month respectively, prior to the screening visit, these results can be used. Clinical
      stability will be assessed by the physician. If patients are eligible they will be randomized
      to the intervention group or control group.

      At baseline all patients will be asked to complete the questionnaires on health-related
      quality of life and anxiety. Patients will be asked to wear a pedometer and record steps
      during 7 days and will be instructed not to change their daily routine while wearing this
      device. After returning back the pedometer patients allocated to the intervention group will
      receive instructions in the tele-rehabilitation program. The training program will last 12
      weeks. In week 12 both groups will receive a pedometer to register steps for 7 days during
      the intervention. After 12 weeks, when the intervention program has ended, pulmonary function
      tests, 6 minute walk test and the questionnaires will be repeated.

      Patients allocated to the control group will follow the same procedure except for not using
      tele-rehabilitation.

      Patients who desaturate < 88% during the 6 minute walk test at baseline will be offered
      supplemental oxygen during exercise.

      Follow-up 3 and 6 months after end of training will include the same parameters as at
      baseline: pulmonary function tests, 6 minute walk test and quality of life questionnaires.

      The intervention group will undergo tele-rehabilitation as described below. After the
      intervention period, patients in the intervention group are invited to keep the training
      tools and use them as much they want with no involvement from the physiotherapist at all.

      Intervention Group: Virtual Rehabilitation

      The intervention group with IPF patients will follow this procedure Video Consultation (VC)
      Sessions: Each patient will have the opportunity to have minimum one VC per week the first
      month, one VC each second week the second month one VC a month the rest of the trial. Here
      the physiotherapist, via history will extract the information needed to calibrate the daily
      TR program according to the patient's physical status and needs.

      Retraining breath: Patients will also be instructed to use different techniques to breath
      during the video consultations with the physiotherapist. The difference between the
      techniques used by patients with IPF and COPD is as follows: In both cases, the patient
      receives advice on how to the use breathing retraining techniques such as pursed lip
      breathing (PLB). Because COPD patients suffer from obstructed airways, the goal for them
      using PLB will be to increase their positive expiratory pressure (Anne E Holl, Hill, Jones,
      McDonald, 2012). IPF patients will be advised to use PLB with the goal of improving their
      breathing control and diaphragmatic effort since they do not suffer from obstructed airways
      and with the intention to prevent tachypnea and anxiety and to improve gas exchange (Jeffrey
      J. Swigris, Brown, Make, Wamboldt, 2008).

      Chat Sessions: Each patient has the opportunity to chat with the physiotherapist any time via
      the chat module of the system. The patient and physiotherapist will be reminded via mail,
      anytime someone is writing in the chat, allowing the users to interact when needed.

      Workout Sessions with a Virtual Physiotherapist Agent (VPA): The patient will train according
      to what is decided by the physiotherapist and the patient in the VC or chat meetings.
      Normally, the patients will train 10-20 minutes daily at home with its individual and
      tailored VPA. Instead of ergometer bike training, the patient will receive some easy training
      tools such as elastics, weights and a fitness-step that can be used in the different
      exercises showed by the VPA to reach the same intensity of workout. The VPA will then be
      animated to motivate and encourage the patient to exercises at home. A digital diary will
      automatically register the data obtained by the system on patient's performance.

      Patients' security: In order to minimize the risks of possible accidents while performing the
      exercises, the patient will answer questions before and after each exercise performance that
      the physiotherapist can follow in real time via scales and use to calibrate the performance
      of the virtual physiotherapist. The patient has the opportunity to chat with the
      physiotherapist 24 hours per day any time if needed and for consultation reasons.

      Study parameters/endpoints

      Primary endpoint:

      Change in the distance walked at a 6MWT measured at week 12.

      Secondary endpoint:

      Change in the distance walked at a 6MWT measured 3 and 6 months after cessation of the
      tele-rehabilitation program compared to baseline.

      Change in total score in health-related quality of life measured by SGRQ-IPF at week 12, and
      3 and 6 months after cessation of the tele-rehabilitation program compared to baseline.

      Change in total score in health-related quality of life measured by KBILD at week 12, and 3
      and 6 months after cessation of the tele-rehabilitation program compared to baseline.

      Change in total score of anxiety measured by GAD-7 at week 12, and 3 and 6 months after
      cessation of the tele-rehabilitation program compared to baseline.

      Change in component scores (symptoms, activity & impact) in health-related quality of life
      measured by SGRQ-IPF at week 12, and 3 and 6 months after cessation of the
      tele-rehabilitation program compared to baseline.

      Change in the number of steps walked measured by a pedometer. Cost of the tele-rehabilitation
      program

      End-point parameters

      Pulmonary function tests (PFT):

      PFT are performed as part of the routine medical follow up. The following pulmonary function
      indices will be registered:

      Forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) Forced vital capacity (FVC) Diffusion capacity
      for carbon monoxide (DLCO) If DLCO cannot be measured because of cough, or other reasons, FVC
      should be >50% and there should be no history of known pulmonary hypertension in order to
      include the patient in the study. PFT are performed to prove disease stability.

      Screening will be planned at the day of the routine visit. PFT form this day or performed
      within 3 months of this visit will be used. At 12 weeks, PFT will be repeated to check
      clinical stability. These PFT can replace the usual routine medical follow-up which is
      normally scheduled at 12 weeks intervals at our clinic.

      6 minute walk test: Data of 6 minute walk test (6MWT) will be collected at screening or
      results of a test < 1 months prior to baseline. 6MWT will also be performed after 12 weeks
      and after 3 and 6 months after cessation of the program to assess exercise performance.

      Pedometer:

      To assess the physical activity status of the patient, measurement of the number of steps
      walked is an indication of the magnitude of physical activity. In controlled laboratory
      settings, the Yamax Digi-walker SW-200 has consistently been shown to be among the most
      accurate. It's a small device worn on the belt or waist and responds to vertical
      accelerations of the hip during gait cycles.

      Questionnaires:

      At baseline, and after 12 weeks and 3 and 6 months, the patient will be asked to
      self-administer the following questionnaires on quality of life and general well-being:

      K-BILD The King's Brief Interstitial Lung disease health status questionnaire is a disease
      specific, validated, self-completed health status questionnaire that is comprised of 15
      items. It has three domains: psychological, breathlessness, activities and chest symptoms.
      The KBILD domain and total score ranges are 0-100; 100 = best. Appendix 1.

      SGRQ-I The SGRQ-I is a disease specific, self-administered questionnaire with 50 items
      comprising three domains, symptoms, activity impacts, each scored from 0-100, with higher
      scores corresponding to worse health related quality of life. Originally designed for
      patients with obstructive disease, the SGRQ-I has been developed for IPF patients and found
      to be a valid measure of health related quality of life. Appendix 2.

      GAD-7:

      The General Anxiety Disorder Score measures the presence and severity of general anxiety
      disorder. It is a 7 self-rated items, each item scores 0-3 (not at all, several days, more
      than half the days, nearly every day); total score range 0-21 (appendix 3).

      IPF exacerbations:

      The number of exacerbations and visits to the general practitioner, emergency room or
      hospital during rehabilitation and follow-up will be registered, first via a diary and
      corroborated then by short interviews performed during follow up at 12 weeks, and after 3 and
      6 months after cessation of training.

      Cost:

      The average cost of the hospital rehabilitation program and transportation per patients for
      an eight weeks standard and tele-rehabilitation program and transportation will be
      calculated.

      Statistical analysis The data will be analyzed according to the intention-to-treat principle
      and per-protocol.

      Ethical considerations Regulation statement The study will be conducted according to the
      principles of the Declaration of Helsinki (59th WMA General Assembly, Seoul, Korea, October
      2008) and in accordance with the Medical Research Involving Human Subjects Act (WMO). The
      trial has been reported to and approved by the Data Protection Agency in Denmark.

      Recruitment and consent All IPF patients in a follow-up program at the Department of
      Respiratory Diseases and Allergy, Aarhus University Hospital that might be eligible will be
      informed about the study by their respiratory physician or nurse when evaluated at a
      scheduled follow-up visit. The patients will be asked if they are interested in participating
      in this study, and if so, they will receive verbal and written information. An enrolment
      letter will also be hung up at the outpatient clinic to inform potential participants about
      the project. The study is explained in detail in the patient information. Potential
      participants are entitled to at least one day of consideration time before they decide
      whether to participate in the trial. They have the right to be accompanied by a family
      member, friend or acquaintance for the oral information they will receive previous to the
      enrolment. The patients have to give their informed signed consent to the principal
      investigator or his designee before the patient can enter the trial..

      Benefits and risks assessment, group relatedness Patients with IPF allocated to the
      intervention group might gain personal benefit from participating in this study because of
      the use of tele-rehabilitation. The potential effect of this study might affect future care
      of IPF patients and could lead to an improvement of quality of life by the reduction of
      social isolation, dependency and immobility, and to improved exercise performance. This study
      involves minimal risk for the subject. Previous rehabilitation studies have had no safety
      issues related to rehabilitation of patients with IPF of the same age and lung function
      impairment.

      Handling and storage of data and documents All data will be held confidentially and will only
      be identifiable by number and not by name. Only the investigators have insight in the
      original patient linked to the data. The data will be stored at the Department of Respiratory
      Medicine and Allergy at Aarhus University Hospital. Study data will be accessible for
      authorized personnel only.

      Publication:

      Authorship must meet the Vancouver rules in which everyone who has contributed under this
      framework, will be named in the author list and included in the research protocol. The
      results will be published in international peer-reviewed journals and presented at relevant
      conferences. Moreover, the results will be published in other relevant media. All positive,
      negative and inconclusive results will be published Passed on information from the patient
      journal system Patient data will be passed on from the electronic patient files to the
      project.

      Gender, age and marital status, will be passed on at the beginning of the study to compare
      the data at the end of the trial.

      Telephone number, address and or E-mail from participants in the focus group will be passed
      on with the goal to contact the participant in the case there is a break in the connection
      via the tele rehab devices or if we need to send a new updated devices.

      Health status, number of exacerbations in the last period, days of hospitalization, number of
      visits to the hospital or number of visits from healthcare suppliers to participants at home
      will be used to calculate the health care expenditure for each participant.

      Economy MD, Ph.D. Elisabeth Bendstrup, MD Anders Løkke, MD, Ph.D., DMSc. consultant Ole
      Hilberg and physiotherapist José Cerdan has initiated this project and sought various
      foundations to execute this study.

      Elisabeth Bendstrup, Anders Løkke and Ole Hilberg are the responsibles of the investigation
      for this study and have no financial ties to the donors.

      The study is predominantly financed by EURO STARS Foundation (1,500,000 kr.) and Aarhus
      University (about 450,000 kr.).

      Physio R and D, Laster Technologies, Cortrium and bookBeo are providing the technology,
      network, hardware, software and support needed for free.

      Aarhus University Hospital provides locations and resources as needed and pays for the costs
      of the control group training. Aarhus University Hospital is also responsible for the
      administration and disbursement of funding.

      Enrolled participants do not receive honorees for participating in this study. Transport
      costs associated with the trial will be covered by Aarhus University Hospital.
    
  