
    
      Variables of study:

      Each patient will be instructed to follow oral hygiene measures including aloe vera or
      fluoride toothpaste

      Outcomes:

      Salivary bacterial count will be evaluated using Mitis salivarius agar plates before the use
      of the aloe vera toothpaste then after 15 days then after 30 days .

      Participant timeline:

      Enrolment Baseline assessment 15 days 30 days

      (1st visit ) (2nd visit) (3rd visit )

      II.6.Sample size calculation :

      Based on previous study , the mean percent change reduction in bacterial count was 3+4 .
      using power 80 % and 5 % significance level , we will need to study 29 in each group to be
      able to reject the null hypothesis that the population means of the experimental and control
      groups are equal with probability (power) 0.8. The Type I probability associated with this
      test of this null hypothesis is 0.05.

      Recruitment & Recruitment Strategy:

      Screening of patients that come to the conservative dentistry department seeking dental care
      will continue until the target population is achieved. The patients will be subjected to full
      examination and diagnosis using dental charts. Once the patients that are potentially
      eligible for this study are identified, they will be contacted by the research investigator
      who will explain the study and ascertains the patient's interest. Randomization and
      assignment of interventions:

      Randomization will be done according to a check list including the number of participants
      divided into 2 groups according to interventions/Control assessment method

      Allocation sequence generation:

      The allocation sequence will be generated using (www.randomization.com).

      Allocation concealment mechanism:

      A checklist will be designed to identify each assessment method.

      Implementation A participant will generate the random allocation sequence. The researcher
      will enroll the patients but an unbiased participant will assign the intervention/Control
      identification procedures to respective teeth.

      Blinding:

      The participants will be blinded to intervention/control assessment methods. Also, it will
      not be allowed amongst the examiners to exchange any information throughout the entire study
      period.

      Data collection methods:

      High caries index will be assessed 3 times , at base line , then 15 days and 30 days.

      Funding:

      The research will be self-funded by the researcher.
    
  