
    
      Woman aged 25 to 65 years old met within one of Doctors of the World participating programs
      will be offered to attend a preventive consultation adressing sexual and reproductive health,
      and cervical cancer screening. Seven programs are taking part in this study (medical
      facilities and mobile health programs) in four french cities. Those programs aim to
      facilitate access to care for people who do not seek or have little access to health services
      and preventive health measures (lack of health insurance, living far from health services,
      knowing little about preventive health and how the health system works in France).

      These two cervical screening strategies consist of a preventive consultation followed by:

        1. Direct patient referral for Pap smear testing in a partner health facility ('Pap smear'
           study arm)

        2. An invitation to perform a self-collected vaginal swab for HPV-HR testing followed by
           patient referral for Pap smear testing in a partner health facility if the HPV-HR test
           is positive* ('self-collected vaginal swab for HPV-HR testing + Pap smear triage' study
           arm) * A women who tests negative for HPV-HR can still be referred for further Pap smear
           testing, or can be referred for a gynaecological consultation for any other reason.

      The inclusion of participants in one or the other study arm will be done through
      randomization. There will be 11 one-month periods during wich women are invited to perform a
      self-collected vaginal swab and 11 one-month periods during which women are directly referred
      to a partner health facility for Pap smear testing. Each one-month period with an invitation
      to perform a self-collected vaginal swab is followed by a one-month period with direct
      patient referral for Pap smear testing. The allocation of the starting period has been
      randomized for each participating program.

      Doctors of the World staff who will be offering this preventive health consultation received
      a specific training adressing sexual and reproductive health topics, cervical screening and
      counseling approaches. Illustrated tools have been specially developed for this purpose.
      Professional translators will be sought when needed.
    
  