
    
      This Prospective longitudinal observational study was conducted at Benha University hospital
      starting from December 2016 to May 2019 after approval of faculty Research Ethics Board. Two
      hundred pregnant women with history of IUGR in previous pregnancy were recruited for the
      study after full explanation of the method, aim of work and obtaining consent. Inclusion
      criteria: singleton pregnancy from 11 up to 13 weeks. History of intrauterine growth
      restriction in previous pregnancy Exclusion criteria: Multiple pregnancies, Smoking women,
      and pre-existing medical disorders which may affect fetal growth e.g. hypertension, diabetes
      mellitus, thyroid dysfunction or renal impairment. Ultrasound evidence of congenital
      anomalies.

      All women underwent ultrasound study which was performed by a member of ultra-sound unit
      (Volsun 730 pro V; G.E medical system), for assessment of: Gestational age confirmed by
      crown-rump length assessment, Uterine artery pulsatility index (angle of insonation is<50°,
      the sampling gate set at 2mm), 3D ultrasound assessment of Placental volume, 3DPD for
      assessment of placental vascularization. The examination was done with the patient in
      lithotomy position with slight left lateral tilting to avoid supine hypotension.

      After visualization of the placental vasculature, 3D static power Doppler scanning was
      performed. After scanning the region of interest, placental volume was measured using the
      VOCAL rotational technique and VOCAL software (3D Sono View, GE Medical Systems, Milwaukee,
      WI, USA). After completing a full rotation, another analysis was performed using VOCAL
      Software (3D Sono View, GE Medical Systems, Milwaukee, WI, USA), which automatically
      calculates placental volume, vascularization index (VI), flow index (FI) and vascularization
      flow index(VFI). Low dose aspirin 75mg was described for all cases with the beginning of 2nd
      trimester.

      All cases were having a second (between 20 to 24 weeks) and a third ultrasound assessment for
      exclusion of congenital malformation and assessment of fetal growth parameter and
      identification of IUGR cases (according to fetal growth curves). (Nicolaides KH et al.,
      2018). In order to avoid including healthy, yet constitutionally small for gestational age
      fetuses to the IUGR group, patients' data were included in the study only in cases of IUGR
      diagnosis confirmed after delivery.
    
  