
    
      Pediatric patients undergoing EEG studies often require sedation because of failure to stay
      still during recording of EEG (the difficulty in them obtaining a sleep state on their own
      during a specific time for the procedure). The ideal sedation agent (for an EEG) should have
      a rapid onset of action, moderate duration of effect, minimal or absent side-effect profile
      and a minimal or no effect on EEG quality. Historically, chloral hydrate has been the oral
      agent of choice for sedating pediatric patients for EEGs. However, chloral hydrate use has
      been fraught with many problems such as sedation failure, drug-enhanced background beta-wave
      activity affecting EEG quality, and (especially in pediatric patients) an unpleasant
      intoxicated-like experience while recovering from sedation. Uncommon but specific adverse
      events associated with the use of chloral hydrate include gastric irritation causing nausea,
      vomiting, diarrhea; residual sleepiness or "hangover"; rashes, fever, dizziness, ataxia;
      disorientation, paradoxical excitement, and respiratory depression (especially when combined
      with other sedatives or narcotics). Side effect profile and drug interference in EEG quality
      of chloral hydrate necessitates looking for alternate agent for EEG sedation. Clonidine has
      been shown to have better safety profile and lack of drug effect on EEG quality in Autistic
      children when compared to chloral hydrate. The beneficial effects of clonidine have been
      ascribed to its alpha-2 receptor agonist activity. We believe new alpha-2 agonist
      dexmedetomidine should have better safety profile with minimal or no effect in EEG quality
      because of its selective action on alpha-2 receptor.

      Compared with clonidine, dexmedetomidine is more specific for the alpha-2 receptor and has a
      shorter elimination half-life. It produces dose-dependent sedation, anxiolysis and analgesia
      without respiratory depression.

      Dexmedetomidine produces an unusually cooperative form of sedation, in which patients easily
      transition from sleep to wakefulness and then back to sleep when not stimulated. Its use is
      associated with less disinhibition than what has commonly been associated with other sedation
      agents like propofol and the benzodiazepines. Hemodynamic effects of dexmedetomidine result
      from peripheral and central mechanisms (peripheral vascular smooth muscle constriction,
      diminished central sympathetic outflow, and an increase in vagal activity) with a net result
      of significant reduction in circulating catecholamines, modest reduction in blood pressure,
      and a modest reduction in heart rate. Alpha-2 agonists have been shown to have minimal
      effects on ventilation in both healthy volunteers as well as in ICU patients. The benign
      effect of this class of drug on ventilatory drive is underscored by the approval of
      dexmedetomidine by the FDA as the only critical care sedative recommended for continuous use
      after extubation. Although alpha-2 agonists attenuate responses to stress, including
      neurohumoral responses, short term use of dexmedetomidine (<24 hours) does not significantly
      reduce serum cortisol levels. Bioavailability studies have demonstrated dexmedetomidine to be
      well absorbed systemically through the oral mucosa (up to 82 % compared to IV administration)
      and therefore, buccal dosing may provide an effective, noninvasive route to administer the
      drug. Orally administered dexmedetomidine has been successfully utilized as a pre-medication
      for pediatric procedural sedation or anesthetic induction to lessen anxiety and psychological
      impact of procedures with a dose range of 1-4.2 micrograms/kg (mean dose: 2.6 +/- 0.83
      micrograms/kg). A large portion of the subjects in this study had neurobehavioral disorders
      and all were spontaneously breathing, non-intubated patients. None of the subjects
      experienced clinically significant changes in their cardiorespiratory parameters. Another
      study demonstrated successful sedation and analgesia is spontaneously breathing,
      non-intubated post-cardiothoracic surgery patients (ages 1 month to 21 years of age) with IV
      infusion of dexmedetomidine. No significant change in respiratory rate was noted. While
      several pediatric studies have explored the use of dexmedetomidine for post-operative and
      procedural sedation / analgesia in children with favorable results, it is not currently
      approved by the FDA for procedural sedation in children. Uncommon but specific adverse events
      associated with the use of dexmedetomidine include hypertension, hypotension, bradycardia,
      tachycardia, nausea, vomiting, fever, anemia, and hypoxia.

      In summary, dexmedetomidine has the potential to be a good sedative agent for procedural and
      non procedural sedation in children, in part because of its favorable side-effect profile,
      minimal effect on respiratory drive, and minimal emergence agitation after the procedure. In
      addition, its sublingual bioavailability makes it attractive as an alternate oral agent for
      EEG sedation. It causes natural sleep; and because children may be intentionally aroused
      during its sedation and then resume sleep when not stimulated, it allows for complete EEG
      recordings containing awake, drowsy and sleep states.

      We hypothesize that the use of dexmedetomidine for sedation in pediatric EEG studies will be
      more efficacious than chloral hydrate with a superior safety profile, patient tolerance and
      acceptance. We also hypothesize that the use of dexmedetomidine will minimize the degree of
      drug-enhanced background Beta-activity in sedated EEG recordings.
    
  