
    
      Primary objective: to compare the effect of routine cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) versus
      standard care (i.e. echocardiography with only selective use of CMR) on the etiological
      diagnosis in patients with a non-ischemic heart failure (HF). The proposed categories of HF
      to be considered in this study include: idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy, infiltrative
      cardiomyopathy, inflammatory, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, heart failure with preserved
      ejection fraction (HFPEF), ischemic cardiomyopathy, mixed etiology and other (eg.
      pericardial, congenital, non-compaction, right ventricular failure).

      Primary hypothesis: Routine use of CMR (vs. selective use) will lead to a more specific
      diagnostic characterization of the underlying etiology of non-ischemic heart failure. This
      will lead to a reduction in the diagnosis of idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and HFPEF.

      Secondary objectives: Determine the effects that routine use of CMR in non-ischemic HF has on
      therapeutic decisions, on the Composite Clinical Endpoint (CCE), cardiac function, symptoms,
      quality of life (QoL), and costs. Ancillary measurements will include the safety of imaging
      tests and adverse reactions to gadolinium contrast agent.

      Secondary hypothesis: Routine use of CMR will have significant impact on treatment decisions,
      (1) lead to more disease specific therapies and/or (2) cause a significant change in the
      number and class of HF meds, during follow-up. The routine CMR group will also have improved
      clinical outcomes (CCE), symptoms and QoL and decreased costs to the standard of care group
      during follow-up.

      Design

      Methods: Randomized controlled trial comparing i) routine CMR vs. ii) echocardiography with
      selective CMR in patient with HF due to NICM and/or HFPEF.

      Among patients enrolled in Level I of IMAGE-HF, it is expected that 504 will have known NICM
      (or strongly suspected based on young age, absent risk factors and presenting history) and/or
      HFPEF.

      Tertiary care sites (in Canada and Finland) with dedicated HF programs will participate in
      the study. Consecutive patients will be enrolled at sites with dedicated CMR programs
      (defined as minimum 200 cases/year and maximum 2 weeks waiting time in the majority of
      patients) and randomized to routine CMR or selective CMR. Non-ischemic HF patients from sites
      without dedicated CMR programs will be included in a registry of patients undergoing routine
      HF care (i.e. selective use of CMR). Participants in the selective CMR arm may ONLY undergo
      CMR for a suspicion of: 1) infiltrative myocardial disease, 2) arrhythmogenic right
      ventricular cardiomyopathy, 3) adult congenital heart disease or 4) pericardial disease
      following standard HF care including echocardiography. Other tertiary sites may be added in
      year 2-3 depending on recruitment needs and registry sites may become randomization sites if
      the experience and wait-time criteria are met.
    
  