
    
      Cardiovascular diseases are the leading cause of mortality in developed and developing
      countries and constitute a significant morbidity burden for life. Cardiovascular diseases
      risk factors include obesity, lipid profile, unhealthy diet, sedentary lifestyle, high blood
      pressure, increased arteriosclerosis.

      Although aerobic exercise is recommended as exercise modality to reduce cardiovascular risk,
      the effects of resistant exercise on cardiovascular health are not clear. In addition,
      regular aerobic and resistant exercise regulate cardiac autonomic function.

      Inspiratory muscle training is a time-efficient, well-tolerated and safe approach for both
      healthy people and people with chronic diseases. Long-term inspiratory muscle training has
      been shown to increase respiratory muscle strength and decrease blood pressure in healthy
      individuals. One-session inspiratory muscle training has been shown to improve autonomic
      function in smokers and older individuals. However, the effects of different intensities of
      inspiratory muscle training on blood pressure, autonomic function, and arterial stiffness in
      healthy young people are not fully understood. For these reasons, the aim of the study is to
      investigate the acute effects of inspiratory muscle training at different intensities in
      healthy people.

      At least 30 volunteers will be included in the study. After questioning the demographic and
      clinical information of the participants, dyspnea perception, respiratory functions,
      respiratory muscle strength, heart rate variability, arterial stiffness, and blood pressure
      and physical activity levels will be evaluated. Inspiratory muscle training will be done for
      15 minutes with an electronic device. Respiratory training will be applied at three different
      concentrations with 10%, 30% and 60% of maximal inspiratory pressure. Heart rate variability,
      arterial stiffness, and blood pressure measurements will be repeated after inspiratory muscle
      training sessions at different intensities.
    
  