
    
      Patients will receive AZD9291 at a dose of 80 mg once daily. Intracranial response will be
      assessed with brain MRI scan, systemic evaluation will be done by PET-CT scan. In case of
      isolated CNS progression which may or may not be accompanied by asymptomatic systemic
      progression, and having in mind the blood-brain-barrier as a possible pharmacokinetic
      resistance mechanism here, AZD9291 dose will be escalated to 160 mg once daily. For patients
      whose intracranial disease will progress further, brain radiotherapy (in the form of SRS or
      WBRT) will be administered; treatment with AZD9291 will be interrupted and re-initiated at a
      standard dose after the end of radiotherapy course in the absence of symptomatic systemic
      progression. The treatment will be continued until symptomatic systemic progression,
      unacceptable toxicity or further intracranial progression following brain radiotherapy
      administration (whichever occurs first). All patients will be followed until death or 5
      years.

      Intracranial outcomes will be assessed by modified RECIST criteria (mRECIST) and analyzed.
      The added value of the increased dose (160 mg) after failure of the standard dose will be
      assessed as well. Since only neurologically asymptomatic patients are planned to be enrolled,
      it is important to use mRECIST criteria which allows small brain lesions to be assessed
      (according to these criteria, ≥ 5mm tumors are considered measurable and up to 5 target
      lesions are allowed) 1. Systemic response assessment will be done using RECIST 1.1.
      Exploratory analysis of the outcomes will be performed according to the treatment setting (
      treatment-naïve vs. acquired resistance setting) and EGFR mutation subtype. Additionally,
      serum protein biomarker analysis will be performed in correlation with intracranial and
      systemic response. Safety parameters will be monitored.
    
  