
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Sleep apnea is a common condition that affects 4 percent of middle-aged males and 2 percent
      of middle-aged females. There is recent evidence that there is a genetic influence because
      first degree relatives of patients with this disorder have an increased risk of having
      obstructive sleep apnea. The basis for this increased familial risk is undefined. The
      investigators postulated that there were three specific intermediate traits, each of which
      reduced upper airway size, thereby increasing the risk of sleep apnea. These intermediate
      traits included: a) particular distribution of fat in the neck; b) craniofacial structure;
      and c) size of critical soft tissues in the airway (soft palate, tongue, lateral pharyngeal
      walls). All of these risk factors could be assessed quantitatively using advanced magnetic
      resonance imaging and novel volumetric image analysis techniques that had been developed..

      The study was one project within a Specialized Center of Research in Neurobiology of Sleep
      and Sleep Apnea.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The case-control study identified the structural risk factors for sleep apnea. The study was
      complemented by studies in siblings of the patients and controls in order to identify those
      traits that demonstrated family aggregation not explained by shared environmental factors.
      The investigators believed that these structural risk factors would interact to increase the
      risk of sleep apnea. The elucidation of upper airway structural risk factors should provide
      the basis for developing new, more effective techniques for screening patients for sleep
      apnea and provide the basis for performing future DNA analyses aimed at identifying the
      genetic loci for these risk factors.

      The specific aims were: 1) to quantify upper airway craniofacial structure, soft tissues and
      regional fat deposition using three dimensional magnetic resonance imaging in order to
      determine the intermediate traits associated with obstructive sleep apnea utilizing a case
      control design in normals and apneics; and 2) to determine the upper airway structural risk
      factors for sleep apnea that demonstrated family aggregation and were most likely to have a
      genetic component by comparing probands, siblings of probands, neighborhood controls and
      siblings of neighborhood controls. The resources included an extensive clinical sleep
      practice, sophisticated NM imaging techniques, novel volumetric computer graphics image
      analysis and expertise in molecular epidemiology, craniofacial structure, and the genetics of
      obesity.
    
  