
    
      Melphalan is designed to damage the DNA of cells, which may cause cancer cells to die.
      High-dose melphalan is considered the standard of care for multiple myeloma. Bortezomib is
      designed to block a protein that plays a role in cell function and growth, which may cause
      cancer cells to die. Arsenic trioxide may cause cancer cells to die, and researchers want to
      find out if arsenic trioxide helps melphalan in killing cancer cells. Vitamin C makes arsenic
      trioxide more available inside the cancer cells, and researchers want to learn if Vitamin C
      makes arsenic trioxide more effective.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have "screening tests." These tests
      will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this study. You will have a
      physical exam, including measurement of vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate, temperature,
      and breathing rate). Your complete medical history will be recorded. You will have a dental
      exam to check for any infected teeth or gums that may flare up after chemotherapy.

      You will have a bone marrow aspirate and biopsy. To collect a bone marrow aspirate/biopsy, an
      area of the hip or chest bone is numbed with anesthetic, and a small amount of bone marrow is
      withdrawn through a large needle. Cytogenetic tests will be performed on the aspirate sample
      to look for any genetic abnormalities in your DNA. You will have x-rays of your bones taken.
      The study doctor will look at the x-rays to see if there are any myeloma-related bone
      changes. You will also have a chest x-ray.

      You will have blood (about 2 tablespoons) and urine collected for routine tests. You will
      have a pulmonary function test, to check if your lungs are strong enough for high-dose
      chemotherapy. You will have an electrocardiogram (ECG -- a test that measures the electrical
      activity of the heart). You will also have a MUGA scan to evaluate the function of your
      heart. Women who are able to have children must have a negative blood pregnancy test. The
      blood will be drawn as part of the 2 tablespoons drawn at screening.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the toss of dice) to one of 3 treatment groups. There is an equal chance of being assigned
      to any of the 3 groups. All 3 groups will receive melphalan, arsenic trioxide, and Vitamin C.
      The second and third groups will also receive bortezomib, but at different dose levels. The
      first 3 participants assigned to receive bortezomib on this study will receive the lower of 2
      bortezomib dose levels.

      You will receive arsenic trioxide through a needle in a vein over 2 hours, once a day for 7
      days (Days -9 to -3). At the same time, you will receive Vitamin C once a day through the
      vein for 7 days. After you receive the arsenic trioxide on Days -4 and -3, you will receive
      melphalan through the vein over 30 minutes.

      If you are in Group 2 or 3, you will receive bortezomib by an intravenous (IV) push on Days
      -9, -6, and -3. An IV push takes a short period of time (less than 1 minute).

      You will receive standard inpatient and outpatient stem cell transplant care and testing. You
      will have to sign a separate consent form that describes the transplant procedure and its
      risks. Your stem cells will be reinfused 2 days after the last dose of melphalan. To check
      for any side effects, you will have an ECG performed 14 days after the transplant.

      If intolerable side effects from the chemotherapy occur or there is sign of disease after the
      transplant, you will be taken off study. If you have already received melphalan and side
      effects occur, then the transplant will happen. However, if intolerable side effects develop
      before melphalan, then you may be taken off study without having the transplant. If you are
      taken off study early, you still may need to return for routine post-transplant follow-up
      visits, if your transplant physician decides it is necessary.

      If there is no sign of disease after the transplant, you will have routine follow-up visits.
      Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests at least once a week during the
      first month after the transplant, and then once every month for the next 3 months after that.
      At about 3, 6, and 12 months after the transplant, you will have bone marrow biopsies and
      aspirates performed to check the status of the disease. You will have blood (about 2
      tablespoons) and urine collected for routine tests. At 12 months after the transplant, you
      will have x-rays of your bones taken.

      One (1) year after the transplant, your participation in this study will be over.

      This is an investigational study. Bortezomib, arsenic trioxide, and melphalan are
      commercially available and FDA-approved for use in patients with myeloma. However, their use
      in combination with Vitamin C (also commercially available) is investigational. Up to 60
      patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  