
    
      -  All women taking part in this study will take part in an exercise program. Group A will
           start exercising immediately and Group B wil have a delay period of 16 weeks before
           starting to exercise so investigators can look at the changes in insulin levels that
           occur in a women who is not exercising.

        -  The exercise program will be made up of two parts: strength (or weight) training and
           cardiovascular exercise. The strength exercise will take place at a gym close to
           Dana-Farber Cancer Institute. Patients will work one on one with a personal trainer
           twice a week for 50 minutes. During each of these sessions, participants will have a
           brief warm up period and then will perform a series of Nautilus machine-based exercises
           under the guidance of the personal trainer. The goal of each session will be to increase
           strength by increasing weight lifted and repetitions.

        -  Participants will also do cardiovascular exercises on their own at home. Each
           participant will receive a pedometer and heart rate monitor. Women will be advised to
           exercise for at least 30 minutes three times per week on their own and will keep a
           journal recording how long and how intensively they exercised. Participants will receive
           weekly phone calls from the project manager to review the cardiovascular exercise.

        -  Women will undergo a series of measurements before and after the 16 week exercise
           intervention. They will be asked to fast for 12 hours prior to each of these measurement
           sessions. Measurements will include blood testing for insulin and glucose levels. Women
           will also be weighed, height will be measured, body composition will be computed using a
           noninvasive bioelectric impedance monitor, and hip/waist measurements will be taken.
           Group A participants will undergo testing at the time of enrolling in the study and
           after 16 weeks of exercise. Group B participants will undergo these tests after
           enrollment, after the 16 week waiting period and at the end of the exercise program.

        -  Participants will also complete two surveys by mail, 3 months and 9 months after
           completing the exercise portion of the protocol.
    
  