
    
      As Western populations age and as body weight increases, the need for dietary strategies to
      reduce Coronary Heart Disease (CHD) risk continues. The investigators are now in a position
      to put together a dietary approach which will be a significant advance over current dietary
      advice for CHD risk reduction. The investigators believe this study using imaging and
      functional techniques is now needed to 1) demonstrate an improvement in estimated CHD risk
      based on anatomical changes rather than serum risk factors. 2) encourage popular uptake and
      clinical use of this combination dietary strategy and 3) stimulate a larger longer term trial
      with CHD events.

      Participants for this study will be recruited in 4 academic centres across Canada (Quebec,
      Toronto, Winnipeg and Vancouver). They will be in the low or moderate risk category based on
      the current Canadian Cardiovascular Society's (CCS) Guidelines 2012 and would normally be
      considered for initial treatment with lifestyle only. All participants will first be screened
      by ultrasound for the presence of plaque in the carotid arteries and will then be randomized
      to one of the 2 treatment arms: Portfolio Plus diet (test) or modified DASH diet (control),
      both given as routine clinical advice with follow up visits at 3-month intervals for 6 months
      and then twice yearly for the remainder of the 3 year trial.

      Prior to starting either diet, participants will undergo screening ultrasound examination of
      both right and left carotids to enable selection of those individuals whose intima-media
      thickness would be 5-30% below the cut point considered by the Mannheim Consensus as relevant
      arterial thickening to ensure a relatively low risk group, yet with some measurable arterial
      thickening. The main outcome will be MRI assessment of maximum vessel wall volume. This
      assessment will be repeated at year 3. It will be emphasized at the outset that both the
      dietary portfolio and the DASH-like diets have been associated with benefits in terms of
      cholesterol reduction to provide equal encouragement for those randomized to the test and
      control groups. Portfolio and DASH-like dietary advice will consist of half hour individual
      sessions with the dietitian at baseline, 3, and 6 months and then at 6-month intervals. Prior
      to starting each diet, instruction will be given on achieving the dietary goals.

      At follow-up visits, the participants' completed 7-day diet records will be discussed and the
      original advice reinforced. Every effort will be made to obtain study blood samples and
      carotid imaging data from all subjects at the designated times regardless of adherence to the
      dietary aspects of the study protocol. All subjects will be included in the
      intention-to-treat analysis.
    
  