
    
      The primary objectives of this study are as follows:

        -  Determine if the changes of temperature, pressure and humidity, are associated with an
           increase of atrial and ventricular arrhythmias.

        -  Determine if the changes of air pollution (gas and particulate), are associated with an
           increase of atrial and ventricular arrhythmias.

      The secondary objectives of the study are:

        -  Determine if the changes of air pollution (gas and particulate), are associated with
           significant changes in mean heart rate, rate variability rate and the percentage of
           paced beats.

        -  Determine whether changes in temperature, pressure or humidity, are associated with
           significant changes in mean heart rate, heart rate variability and the percentage of
           paced beats.

        -  Determine if the changes of temperature, pressure and humidity, are associated with an
           increase in mortality or hospitalization for myocardial infarction or congestive heart
           failure.

        -  Determine if the changes of air pollution (gas and particulate), are associated with an
           increase in mortality or hospitalization for myocardial infarction or congestive heart
           failure.

      Study Design This is a prospective, observational study, which compares the occurrence of
      atrial and ventricular arrhythmias and changes in physiological parameters, with climatic
      variables and air pollution.

      The study will include 500 subjects and will consist of two periods:

      Screening: we will collect baseline characteristics of subjects in the clinical examination.
      The period recruitment will run for 12 months.

      Follow-up: After written informed consent will be signed, subjects who meet the criteria for
      inclusion will be enrolled in the study and followed up for a minimum period of 12 months.
      The data obtained from the remote monitoring will be evaluated for the daily values provided
      for the parameters considered in the study.

      Periodical visits in pacemaker clinic will be scheduled at the discretion of the referring
      cardiologist of the center. The arrhythmic events that will occur in this period, detected by
      means of remote monitoring or through other clinical evaluations will be recorded. Atrial
      arrythmias: atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter, supraventricular tachycardia.

      Ventricular arrhythmias: ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, ventricular
      extrasystoles.

      Physiological variables: average heart rate (24 hours and at rest), heart rate variability,
      the percentage of paced beats.

      In addition, any changes in drug therapies and all clinically relevant events, will be
      recorded.

      During the same period data from monitoring stations of ARPAV (Regional Agency for
      Environmental Prevention and Protection of Veneto Region) will be collected.

      Climatic variables: temperature, humidity, atmospheric pressure. Parameters of air pollution:
      PM10, PM2.5, O3, CO, SO2, NO2. For each patient, the data from the monitoring station ARPAV
      of the urban area of residence of the subject will be considered. The mean exposure level
      used in the analytical studies on the health effects is calculated on the average number of
      units active in the area. This number is usually of 2-3 units in large centers, while it is
      generally only 1 in small towns. The residents in centers without monitoring will be excluded
      from the study. The mean value is the best approximation ... to be continued page 6.
    
  