
    
      Seizures occur more often during the newborn period (2-3.5 per 1000 live births) than at any
      later age. Neonatal seizures can lead to frequent and serious long-term consequences in
      survivors, such as later epilepsy and significant cognitive and motor disabilities.
      Unfortunately there are no completely effective drugs to treat neonatal seizures.
      Anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs) currently used to treat neonatal seizures are generally
      ineffective and have significant potential for side effects. Furthermore, many of these AEDs
      have never been tested in a randomized study. Numerous experts have thus emphasized in the
      last few years the urgent need for randomized trials of potential new treatments for neonatal
      seizures. The investigators are conducting a pilot study of the drug bumetanide as one such
      potential and novel treatment. Bumetanide is a commercially available drug that has been used
      safely in newborns as a diuretic for many years with minimal side effects. Recent basic
      science research in animals has shown bumetanide to be very effective in reducing seizures in
      neonatal animals by blocking a specific chloride importer which is highly expressed in
      neonates but not in children and adults (1). Moreover, these experimental studies have shown
      bumetanide to be particularly effective against seizures when used in combination with
      phenobarbital (PB), which is the standard first drug given to treat neonatal seizures (2).

      The investigators will conduct a randomized, double-blind, controlled, dose escalation study
      of BTN as add-on therapy to treat refractory seizures caused by HIE, focal or multi-focal
      stroke, intracranial hemorrhage, CNS infection, genetic syndrome, focal or diffuse brain
      malformation, idiopathic or presumed genetic etiology of seizures, or metabolic disorder
      other than electrolyte disturbances or those caused by renal failure not controlled by an
      initial loading dose of PB. The trial will test the feasibility of early enrollment of
      newborns with HIE, rapid application of a full montage EEG, and continuous review of EEG data
      to detect refractory seizures as soon as they occur following an initial loading dose of PB.
      When an EEG-proven seizure occurs at least 30 minutes following a loading dose of PB, the
      newborn will be randomized to receive either BTN or placebo in conjunction with a loading
      dose of PB. Clinical, laboratory and continuous EEG monitoring data obtained after BTN
      administration will be analyzed to determine the pharmacokinetics (3) and safety of BTN by
      comparing data from treatment and standard therapy groups. This study addresses important
      challenges in trial design and sets the stage for trials to improve treatment of neonatal
      seizures. Data from this pilot study will be used to guide design of a planned Phase III
      multicenter trial to test the efficacy of BTN to control refractory neonatal seizures.
    
  