
    
      Design & Procedures - General Procedures

      The investigators will directly compare 2 distinct models of intensivist coverage in the 2
      participating ICUs in Winnipeg:

      A) The standard model: A single intensivist staffs an ICU for 7 days. He/she will is present
      during daytime hours, and takes call from home afterwards. This is the current staffing
      paradigm in both participating ICUs.

      B) The 24-7 in-house coverage model: 24-7 in-hospital coverage by an intensivist is enabled
      by splitting each 24 hour period into two shifts. There will, as in the standard model, be a
      single intensivist covering the ICU during the day shifts for one week. The day shift will
      run 8 am to 5:30 pm on weekdays, and 8 am to 3 pm on Saturday and Sunday. The night shift
      intensivist will arrive and take over at 5:30 pm on weekdays, and 3 pm on weekends and remain
      in the hospital until 8 am. Call rooms will be provided to allow the night shift intensivist
      to sleep, if the workload permits.

      The interventional part of the study will last 32 weeks, comprising 4 blocks of 8 weeks each.
      It will run from October 2008 until June 2009. During each 8 week block, each ICU will be
      staffed under model A or B. Thus we will alternate the models: A-B-A-B in one ICU, and
      B-A-B-A in the other. This alternating design obviates the problem with historical controls;
      any nonrandom difference between the two staffing models should be seen to come and go in
      this design.

      A variety of outcomes will be compared between the two intensivist staffing models. The
      primary outcome, which is the one for which the sample size analysis was performed, is the
      intensivists' burnout scores.

      In order to avoid contamination between the staffing models, patients (and family
      participants) whose ICU stay is long enough to include time under both models will be
      excluded from analysis. Also excluded will be patients who are directly transferred from one
      ICU in Winnipeg to another. For patients who are admitted more than once to a participating
      ICU during the study, only the initial ICU admission will be included in the analysis.

      The intensivists rotate on a weekly basis, and they will be provided questionnaires at the
      end of each week of ICU service. ICU nurses will be surveyed at the end of each 8 week block
      of a given staffing model. House officers in the ICU at HSC rotate on a 4 week basis, and
      they will be provided questionnaires at the end of their final week of their ICU rotations.

      Even though the study design makes it likely (apart from the possibility of seasonal
      differences over the 32 weeks of the study) that participants' characteristics will be
      balanced between the two staffing models, this is not a randomized study and our primary
      analysis will use regression modeling to adjust for baseline characteristics of subjects. The
      investigators will use ordinary least squares or quantile regression for continuous
      variables, and logistic regression for binary variables. This approach permits assessment for
      differential effects between the two sites by including: (i) an indicator variable
      representing the separate sites, and (ii) interaction terms between that indicator variable
      and other covariates. A relevant aspect of the analysis is that outcomes for the
      intensivists, nurses and house officers derive from questionnaires, and that a single
      individual could complete the questionnaire more than once. Regression using General
      Estimating Equation methodology will therefore be used to account for correlation of
      responses within subjects.

      Design & Procedures - Specific Aims Specific Aim#1: To compare clinical outcomes for ICU
      patients cared for under the two intensivist staffing models.

      • The Department of Medicine has long maintained a comprehensive clinical database of all
      patients admitted to Winnipeg ICUs. It contains information about patients' demographics,
      illness type and severity, comorbid conditions, and ICU and hospital course, including the
      outcomes for this study. The investigators will obtain a deidentified data file containing
      this information for patients admitted to the participating ICUs during the study period.

      Specific Aim#2: To compare family satisfaction with ICU care under the two intensivist
      staffing models.

      • On each day for each of the participating ICUs, the investigators will attempt to recruit
      the next-of-kin of one newly admitted patient. The investigators will use a 2 stage consent
      process for these participants. The investigators will use the Family Satisfaction Survey -
      ICU 24 for assessing family satisfaction with care. This well-validated tool has two
      subscales, and has been extensively used in Canadian ICUs.

      Specific Aim#3: To compare the work-related personal/emotional burden for intensivists
      working under the two intensivist staffing models.

      • The intensivists will be asked to complete multiple questionnaires. Before starting, and
      after concluding the intervention, all Winnipeg intensivists will be surveyed. After each one
      week rotation, the intensivists who worked that week in the participating ICUs will be
      surveyed. A single consent provided before beginning the study intervention will ask the
      intensivists to consent for all the questionnaire that they will receive. The initial survey
      establishes background information, and asks for their opinions and preferences relating to
      the two different intensivist staffing models. The concluding survey repeats those questions.
      The weekly questionnaires contain the items for the 5 scales that will be analyzed; four of
      those scales are validated. The fifth scale, Role Conflict, aims to assess an interaction
      that only occurs in the shift work staffing model, i.e. the interface between 2 intensivists
      doing shift-work. The investigators were unable to find any scale that addresses this sort of
      issue, and thus created the items ourselves.

      Specific Aim#4: To compare ICU nurses' perceptions of working alongside the two intensivist
      staffing models.

      • At the end of each 8 week block of the study, we will ask all nurses in the participating
      ICUs to complete a questionnaire. The questionnaire asks for background information, about
      the mix of shifts they worked over the prior 8 weeks, and includes items from 5 validated
      scales.

      Specific Aim#5: To compare ICU house officers' perceptions of working under the two
      intensivist staffing models.

      • At the end of each 4 week rotation of ICU house officers in the Medical ICU at HSC, we will
      ask them to complete a questionnaire. The questionnaire asks for background information, the
      number of previous ICU rotations they completed, and items from 4 scales. The Autonomy and
      Role Conflict scales are validated. The Clinical comfort and Education/learning scales have
      been previously used, but have not been formally validated.
    
  