
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the most common and second most lethal cancer in Hong Kong with
      more than 5,600 new cases and 2,300 deaths annually. Colonoscopy with polypectomy has shown
      to reduce CRC-related mortality by 53%. However, high polyp miss rates were reported to be up
      to 26% for adenomas and 9% for advanced adenomas in standard colonoscopies. Risk factors
      included proximal location, serrate or flat lesions, poor bowel preparation and short
      withdrawal time (<6 minutes). Insufficient trainee experience was also associated with a
      higher adenoma miss rate. A significant proportion of interval CRC was attributed to the
      missed lesions during index colonoscopy leading to adverse patient outcomes.

      As a result, various techniques were developed to improve adenoma detection rate (ADR) during
      colonoscopies. Techniques including water exchange method, second examination of the right
      colon (retroflexion or second forward view)and cap/cuff-assisted colonoscopies were proven to
      increase ADR effectively. However, these techniques were operator-dependent requiring certain
      level of expertise.

      Recently, artificial intelligence and computer-aided polyp detection (CADe) systems have
      developed rapidly around the globe. These systems can provide real-time CADe by flagging the
      suspected lesions to endoscopists, with the adoption of deep learning or convoluted neural
      networks. A number of prospective randomized clinical trials reported a significant increase
      in ADR in CADe group. The number of adenoma detected per colonoscopy was consistently higher
      among different polyp sizes, location and morphology. The ADR increment was particularly
      higher for diminutive adenomas smaller than 5mm.

      Nevertheless, most of the aforementioned studies only involved senior endoscopists for the
      procedures. Theoretically, the senior endoscopists were more skillful to expose colonic
      mucosa and more experienced to distinguish the false positive computer signals, leading to an
      enhanced performance of CADe in real-time colonoscopies. The effect of CADe on inexperienced
      junior endoscopists performing colonoscopies remains largely unknown.

      In this single-blind randomized study, the investigators aim to evaluate the effect of a new
      CADe system (ENDO-AID) on adenoma detection and quality improvement in junior endoscopists.
    
  