
    
      Chronic rhinosinusitis is a common pathology that entrains significant medical consumption.
      The prevalence of chronic rhinosinusitis in children is estimated to be 7.6%. Cardinal
      symptoms include nasal congestion, purulent rhinorrhea, facial pain, and persistent daytime
      cough. All these nasal symptoms often have an impact on the quality of life. The main
      objective of medical treatment is to improve this quality of life.

      The treatment of chronic rhinosinusitis is mainly medical and includes nose washes with
      physiological serum, topical or general corticosteroid treatment or antibiotics. Surgical
      treatments such as adenoidectomy or endonasal functional surgery are reserved for medical
      treatment failures. According to a European consensus paper of 2012, the surgical strategy of
      the chronic rhinosinusitis of the child must start with a adenoidectomy with physiological
      serum washes, and then secondarily a endonasal functional surgery.

      The ability of quality of life questionnaires to measure subjective symptoms over a certain
      length of time can help in the medical decision by determining the benefit of taking care. A
      single quality questionnaire evaluating the symptoms of chronic rhinosinusitis in children
      currently exists. It has been validated in English for children aged 2 to 12. It comprises
      five areas of quality of life, each rated by a score ranging from 1 to 7 : sinus infection,
      nasal obstruction, allergic symptoms, emotional distress and activity limitation, coupled
      with an overall assessment of quality of life with an analogue visual scale (score from 1 to
      10). This SN-5 (sinus and nasal quality of life survey) score showed excellent statistics of
      reproducibility, internal validity and ease of response. It is currently used in several
      international publications evaluating chronic sinus pathology in children.

      The objective of the study is to validate the translation of the SN-5 questionnaire in
      French.
    
  