
    
      Meniere's disease (MD) is a pathology of the inner ear defined by episodes of spontaneous
      vertigo usually accompanied by tinnitus, pressure within the ear and fluctuating
      sensorineural hearing loss.

      Endolymphatic hydrops (EH) is the main pathophysiological substratum of Meniere's disease.
      Temporal bone MRI has long been used performed to exclude other pathologies mimicking MD,
      such as vestibular schwannoma or endolymphatic sac tumor.

      Currently, delayed 3D-FLAIR sequence is the imaging technique of choice for the diagnosis of
      endolymphatic hydrops. The endolymphatic space could be assessed on MRI with 3D-FLAIR
      sequences delayed acquisition after the intravenous administration of gadolinium.

      The saccule appears to be the most involved structure in MD. The reproducibility of the
      hydrops protocols with various MRI scan manufacturers is debatable.

      Because endo and peri lymphatic spaces have different biochemical compositions, a new FLAIR
      3D sequence on healthy volunteers can be tuned in order to separate endo and peri lymphatic
      spaces. The hypothesis of the study is that this new method could detect saccular hydrops
      with the same performances as the standard FLAIR that is done after gadolinium injection.

      This study will prospectively include 30 patients with MD confirmed with AAO-HNS criteria .
      All patients will sign an informed consent. They will be explored with the new 3D FLAIR
      optimized sequence without injection (method to validate). Then, they will be injected, and
      they will be explored again 4 hours after contrast product administration with the same
      sequence (the reference method),to take advantage of the intravenous injection of gadolinium
      that will be performed in the care. The optimized non enhanced 3D FLAIR sequence will be
      compared with the reference method and with the same sequence four hours after gadolinium
      injection.
    
  