
    
      Subjects with a documented treatment history for LLD will be recruited via orthopaedic,
      orthotic, physiotherapy and musculoskeletal clinical practitioners in London.

      All specialist practitioners and clinics across London will be informed about the study (via
      Practitioner/LLD Letter), asking them to forward information direct to eligible subjects .

      20-25 subjects with pre-existing LLD who are undergoing treatment with shoe raises,
      heel-lifts or built-up shoes will be recruited. Parents receiving the Parental information
      sheet outlining the study are therein invited to contact the researchers who will arrange a
      baseline visit to the clinic. At this visit, the study will be discussed and all questions
      answered. If the child and family are willing to take part, written informed consent will be
      taken from the parent and assent from the child. Baseline measurements will be taken as
      below.

      Treatment of subjects:

      All subjects will have accurate LL measurement at baseline and then LL measurement monthly
      over 13 months (4 months pre-treatment, 3 months intervention and 6 months follow-up).

      Subjects at the 4th month will start intervention with LIV and will attend the clinic 3 times
      per week. Some subjects living further away will use a loaned LIV platform at home for
      treatment and will be trained in its correct use. They will be asked to send in weekly
      reports of the number of sessions and minutes per session on the platform. The research team
      will keep an accurate note of total time. Subjects who have a machine at home will be asked
      to use the treatment at least 3 times per week, but that they can use it once per day if they
      wish; they will be asked to record the exact time spent on the platform. All monthly
      leg-length measurements will take place at the study clinic at a time to suit the family.

      All subjects will use the following low intensity vibration intervention: 0.4 g and 30 Hz
      based on the fact that this is the 'low intensity vibration medical device' (LIVMD) machine,
      developed by Professor Clinton Rubin for use by NASA astronauts that conforms to all IS0
      safety measures.

      The primary outcome measure will be the difference in LL growth of the treated vs. untreated
      leg over the intervention period. Height and weight of all subjects will be taken monthly and
      their level of physical activity (0-5) and any high-performance sports activity such as
      trampoline or plyometrics training (on a scale of 0-5) will be assessed by questionnaire.
      Previous lower limb dysfunction, injury, fracture or surgery, ongoing illness, drug
      treatment, growth hormone treatment or use of shoe heel-raise will also be assessed by
      questionnaire.
    
  