
    
      Background: Web- and mobile phone health behavior change interventions, including smoking
      cessation programs, offer great promise, but little is known about the components that may
      add to their effect.

      Objectives: To assess tobacco abstinence associated with an adjunctive lapse management
      system combined with a best-practices web- and mobilephone based smoking cessation
      intervention. The investigators hypothesize that a program that includes the lapse management
      system will yield greater efficacy than a program that does not include such a component.

      Methods: The investigators propose a 3-arm RCT with 1500 adult study participants that all
      receive a best practices web-based smoking cessation program designed for use on snart phones
      (web-app). Participants are randomized to either the web-app only, the web-app plus a
      web-based lapse management system, or web-app plus a SMS-based lapse management system.

      The lapse management system will be based on the day-to-day logging of target behavior and
      providing just-in-time therapy to clients reporting a lapse. In the two versions of the lapse
      management system the logging of target behavior is done by asking a question about smoking
      status by web or SMS.

      Measures: The primary outcome is 7-day point prevalence tobacco abstinence (as assessed at
      the 1- and 6-months follow-up). Potential predictors, moderators, and mediators of abstinence
      will also be examined.

      Benefits: This protocol describes the first RCT that assesses the incremental efficacy of
      adding a lapse management system to an online smoking cessation intervention. These
      interventions constitute a cost-effective means to reach smokers who want to quit. By seeking
      to identify beneficial adjunctive mechanisms, their efficacy may be improved, which can make
      a substantial public health impact.
    
  