
    
      Nutrition related diseases such as obesity are considered as the main health problems in the
      21st century. Overweight and obesity are significant risk factors regarding the development
      of cardiovascular diseases, strokes, diabetes mellitus, and other non-communicable diseases.
      In the "Josef Ressel Centre for the Investigation of Early Life Metabolic Programming
      regarding Dispositions of Obesity" possible predictors towards obesity and their relationship
      to the volume uptake of formula are to be explored multi-dimensionally. During the first part
      of the project, the volume study, including a total of 66 mother-infant pairs at the 16th
      week of life, the overfeeding of infants will be investigated. Overfeeding of infants can be
      regarded in the context of the amount of food consumed, the ingredients, or in the context of
      satiety perception of babies by their mother. A closer inspection of the drinking volume of
      breast-fed infants in comparison to formula-fed ones could give an indication of how much and
      in what frequency infants ingest food and how the drinking volume affects the weight gain and
      body fat percentage. To do so, applicable anthropometric data will be collected and the
      measurement of body fat from mothers and infants will be carried out. Additionally, a
      semi-automatic detection of satiety signals during feeding will be performed. The
      identification of satiety signs and the reaction of the mother to those signals, in addition
      with the feeding style, are related to the weight of the infant and its risk of becoming
      obese later in life. During the second part of the research project, it will be emphasized
      whether a coherence exists between early infant nutrition and the manifestation of biomarkers
      of oxidative stress and inflammation. Thus, detailed analyses regarding macro- and
      micronutrients, adipokines and biomarkers of oxidative stress of mother milk and biological
      specimen from mothers and infants will be performed Furthermore, the microbiome of the gut of
      mothers and infants will be investigated. Results from bioanalytical experiments are intended
      to sup-port the interpretation of results from the volume study to perceive a deep
      understanding of the metabolic programming phenomenon of infants at the molecular level.

      The five main areas of investigation are:

        1. 24-hours-drinking-volume: Background: beyond the quality of nutrition during neonatal
           life, also the quantity in terms of overfeeding plays a critical role in the development
           of obesity. Objective: to derive evidence on the drinking volume of exclusively
           breastfed versus exclusively formula fed children, applying strictly the WHO definitions
           of exclusivity. Secondary objective is the integration of body composition and growth
           velocity, which may contribute to insights on critical time slots for programming
           overweight. Methods: weighing protocol, feeding diary, anthropometric data measurement
           of mother and child, child fat mass index by air displacement plethysmograph PeaPod™ and
           BodPod™ of the company Cosmed™. The macronutrient and energy content of the breast milk
           will be also analyzed by MIRIS™.

        2. Nutritional Status of Mother and Child:

           Background: evidence suggests that programming may be induced by even mild intrauterine
           poor nutrition and may confer an increased risk of obesity, without neonates exhibiting
           birth weights below or above what is considered to be normal. Objectives: both maternal
           over- and undernutrition, seen as excess energy intake and/or deficiencies of micro- and
           macronutrients during (late) pregnancy, may increase infant fat mass. Methods: maternal
           food frequency questionnaire is adapted for pregnancy, an infant food frequency
           questionnaire is developed for the time span up to two years.

        3. Maternal Feeding Style and Child Eating Behaviour:

           Background: a strong maternal control of eating habits is associated with obesity in
           childhood. Objectives: a prospective investigation of associations between infant eating
           behaviour and weight gain to gather evidence on the time of establishment and the causal
           role of infant eating behaviours in weight gain and BMI at two years. Methods: also
           questionnaires for the evaluation of the maternal milk feeding style are used as well as
           the Baby and Child Eating and Behaviour Questionnaire at 16 weeks, 1 and at 2 years.

        4. Infant Satiety Cues:

           Background: there is an increasing probability that bottle feeding habits, like
           encouraging the infants to drink the whole content of the bottle, develops overfeeding
           habits and causes a lower feeling of satiety. Objective: the identification of satiety
           cues may directly contribute to an objective method to assess satiety. Methods: a
           semi-automatic recognition of infants' satiety cues during feeding will be performed.
           The recording environment includes video cameras and microphones, a pulse oximeter, etc.
           All signals are synchronously recorded with the aid of the hardware and software
           infrastructure (Noldus-Observer- XT™, Noldus-Media-Recorder™).

        5. Biomarker:

      Background and Objectives: well-defined biomarkers of oxidative stress and inflammation,
      lipid profile, ghrelin, leptin, adipokines insulin, as well as micro- und macronutrients will
      be analysed as meaningful indicators regarding the development of obesity and/or the
      metabolic syndrome in newborns. Methods: samples, such as plasma, urine, saliva, and stool of
      the mothers and children will be examined with High Performance Liquid Chromatography, High
      Performance Gas Chromatography, Mass Spectrometry, Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA)
      and more.

      .
    
  