
    
      This is an open-label, single center, one-arm phase I dose-escalation study of dasatinib plus
      protracted , daily TMZ administered orally on a continuous daily dosing schedule among adult
      patients with recurrent or relapsing malignant glioma. The study format includes a classical
      "3+3" dose escalation design to determine the MTD and DLT of dasatinib plus protracted, daily
      TMZ among recurrent malignant glioma patients. Patients will be stratified based on whether
      they are receiving EIAED and each stratum will independently dose escalate. Additionally, the
      study will characterize the safety, tolerability, biologic activity, and pharmacokinetic
      profile of dasatinib when used in combination with protracted, daily TMZ.

      Patients will start treatment on day 1 of cycle 1 with dasatinib. For patients undergoing
      dasatinib pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis, dasatinib will be administered alone until initial
      PK assessments are collected. Protracted TMZ will be initiated after initial dasatinib PK
      assessments are collected and will continue to be administered with dasatinib on a continuous
      daily dosing schedule. The initial dasatinib PK assessments will be collected over 24 hours
      between days 3-7 of cycle 1. Patients not undergoing dasatinib PK collections will begin both
      dasatinib and protracted, daily TMZ together on day 1, cycle 1.

      The protracted, daily TMZ dose will be 50 mg/m² daily for all patients. The dose level of
      dasatinib will be increased in successive cohorts. Cohorts of 3-6 patients will accrue at
      each dose level until MTD is defined. Each cohort will consist of a minimum of 3 newly
      enrolled patients. Intra-patient dose escalation is not permitted. It is estimated that this
      study will enroll a minimum of 30 patients (up to 4 dose levels/stratum; 3 patients/dose
      level for levels 1-3 and 6 patients at level 4) and a maximum of 48 patients (6 patients/dose
      level; 4 dose levels/stratum). Cohorts may be expanded at any dose level for further
      elaboration of safety and pharmacokinetic parameters as required.

      The primary safety and efficacy analysis will be conducted on all patient data at the time
      all patients who are still receiving study drug will have completed at least 4 cycles of
      treatment. The additional data for any patients continuing to receive study drug past this
      time, as allowed by the protocol, will be further summarized in a report once these patients
      either completed or discontinued the study. Prior to the primary analysis, an additional
      safety report may be prepared.

      The most common side effects include vomiting, diarrhea, anorexia (loss of appetite), fluid
      retention, fatigue, headache, rash, hypocalcemia (low calcium level), and decreases in blood
      counts. Other possible side effects may include nausea, joint pain, muscle aches, generalized
      pain, abdominal pain, and fever. Rare side effects may include QTc prolongation (heart beat
      changes), pulmonary edema (fluid around the lungs), difficulty breathing, cough, hemorrhage,
      gastrointestinal bleeding, pneumonia, cardiac effusion (fluid in the sac surrounding the
      heart), and cardiac failure. Temodar has been well tolerated by both adults and children with
      the most common toxicity being mild myelosuppression. Other, less likely, potential
      toxicities include nausea and vomiting, constipation, headache, alopecia, rash, burning
      sensation of skin, esophagitis, pain, diarrhea, lethargy, hepatotoxicity, anorexia, fatigue
      and hyperglycemia. As in the case with many anti-cancer drugs, Temodar may be carcinogenic.
      Rats given Temodar have developed breast cancer.
    
  