
    
      Among women with breast cancer, hot flashes are a frequent, severe and bothersome symptom.
      For this group, hot flashes are negatively related to mood, affect, and daily activities and
      can compromise compliance with life-saving medications (e.g., tamoxifen). Over 60% of breast
      cancer survivors report hot flashes, with 59% stating they are extremely severe and 44%
      reporting them to be extremely bothersome. Unfortunately, limitations in our understanding of
      hot flash physiology limit clinicians' abilities to fully treat this symptom. Although the
      current non-hormonal treatment of choice for hot flashes after breast cancer targets the
      central serotonin system (e.g., paroxetine, venlafaxine), the role of serotonin in hot
      flashes has not been directly tested. Because the effectiveness of these agents has been
      based largely on improvement in subjective reporting of hot flashes, it is not clear whether
      benefits are due to physiological effects on hot flashes or due to improvements in mood or
      other related symptoms. In addition, these and other currently available treatments are not
      acceptable, appropriate, or effective for all women with breast cancer. Understanding the
      physiological mechanisms involved in hot flashes after breast cancer will enable us to
      develop more targeted behavioral and/or pharmacological therapies to be used in lieu of, or
      in addition to, currently available therapies so that we can eradicate hot flashes and
      improve the quality of life for women with breast cancer.

      Results implicating direct effects of tryptophan and serotonin on objective hot flashes will
      help guide the development of improved interventions for alleviating hot flashes in women
      with breast cancer. These interventions may target the central serotonin system either
      behaviorally (e.g., diet) or pharmacologically (e.g., alternative drug therapeutics). If
      direct manipulation of tryptophan and serotonin does not affect hot flashes, these findings
      will be equally as useful in guiding future research on non-serotonin related etiologies and
      interventions. Findings from this study will ultimately be used to eradicate hot flashes as a
      frequent, severe and bothersome breast cancer treatment related condition, thereby, improving
      quality of life for all women with breast cancer.
    
  