
    
      Palliative care defines as an approach that improved the quality of life of patients and
      their family caregivers who are facing problems associated with life threatening (WHO, 2010).
      The definition is referring to any life-threatening illness such as cancer, dementia, heart
      failure, and so on. The number of people who needs palliative care is increasing
      significantly with the increasing number of older people and other degenerative diseases. In
      fact, more than 75%% people who died from serious health disease were in the developing
      countries (Spruyt, 2018; WHO, 2010).

      In Indonesia, palliative care implementation has just started in 2007 under the ministry of
      health regulation: SK Menteri Kesehatan No 812/Menkes/SK/VII/2007 (Indonesia, 2007).
      According to this regulation, palliative care is recommended to be implemented in 5 provinces
      in Indonesia: Jakarta, Surabaya, Yogyakarta, Makasar dan Bali. It should be applied in all
      health care settings namely: hospital, primary care, and long term institution. However, the
      practical implementation in Indonesia has been slowly improved.

      The first challenge is due to the insufficiently knowledge of palliative care of health care
      professionals. In Indonesia, palliative care has started in 2007, but it has just been
      integrated recently into health care curriculum. Another challenge is that palliative care
      team usually is formed in hospital based. Meanwhile, most patients who need palliative care
      are based at home. In the low middle income countries, like Indonesia, community plays an
      important role in palliative care. Therefore, health care professionals in the Primary Health
      Centre (PHC) need to be prepared for basic palliative care concept (Putranto, Mudjaddid,
      Shatri, Adli, & Martina, 2017).

      In comparison to other countries in Asian regions, palliative care Indonesia is still slowly
      developed since Indonesia physician specialist in palliative care has not existed and the
      scarcity in the drugs regulation (Yamaguchi et al., 2014). Based on the worldwide report in
      2015 by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU), amongst 80 countries, Indonesia ranked 53rd
      for palliative care implementation based several indicators: national policies, integration
      into health care services, hospice services and community engagement (Unit., 2015). Education
      and training for palliative care for Indonesian health care professional is lacking.
      Therefore, this should be conducted to accelerate the implementation of palliative care in
      Indonesia.

      The investigators conducted previous study for palliative care implementation in PHC in
      Yogyakarta from 12 PHCs around Sleman, Kota Yogyakarta and Bantul. It showed that most nurses
      had not had enough information about palliative care. The concept of palliative care are
      mixed with other concept such as wound care, homecare and so forth (Unpublished, 2014).
      Although in Yogyakarta region, palliative care training for nurses and physicians have been
      performed regularly. However, these trainings were mostly included managerial staff and not
      the staff who are working directly with the patient. There is a limitation on transferring
      knowledge from those who attended trainings to those who directly contact with patients.

      Conducting a training in a conventional way (face-to-face training) faces some challenges.
      Although it has plenty advantages as participants and trainee can spend some time to study,
      but the number of participants is limited due to time and budget. Also during this covid-19
      pandemic situation, a conventional education session is hardly possible.

      Knowing how important palliative care education for all health care professionals who work in
      the community, continuing nursing education is essential. In relation to the physical
      distancing regulation, an online learning can be the most possible solution in order to
      address this need. In this randomised control trial study, investigators attempt to test the
      effectiveness of an online learning program for palliative care for PHC nurses in Yogyakarta.
    
  