
    
      I. Aims with respect to Health Equity in the Department of Medicine

      AIM 1: To improve the quality of care for heart failure patients admitted to the General
      Medicine Service (GMS) Aim 1a. To increase adherence and uptake of guideline-directed medical
      therapy and appropriate post-discharge follow-up for patients with heart failure admitted to
      GMS Aim 1b. To decrease 7-day heart failure readmission rates for patients with heart failure
      admitted to GMS with a principal diagnosis of heart failure Aim 1c. To decrease 30-day heart
      failure readmission rates for patients with heart failure admitted to GMS with a principal
      diagnosis of heart failure

      AIM 2: To improve post-discharge outpatient cardiology utilization for heart failure patients
      admitted to GMS Aim 2a. To increase rates of cardiology clinic follow-up within 14 days of
      discharge for patients admitted to GMS with a principal diagnosis of heart failure.

      II. Significance & Innovation A recent retrospective analysis performed by the Brigham and
      Women's Hospital (BWH) Cardiovascular Inequities Subcommittee of the Department of Medicine
      Health Equity Committee of patients self-referred to the Emergency Department with a
      principal diagnosis of heart failure found that black and Latinx patients were significantly
      less likely to be admitted to the cardiology service despite adjustment for multiple medical
      and socioeconomic factors (adjusted odds ratio [AOR] 0.68, 95% CI 0.53-0.87, for black
      patients; AOR 0.52, 95% CI 0.34-0.82 for Latinx patients). Female gender (AOR 0.75, 95% CI
      0.62-0.91) and age>75 (AOR 0.58, 95% CI 0.40-0.86) were also independently associated with
      lower rates of admission to the cardiology service.

      Similar to large observation studies from both community and academic settings, further
      analysis by the committee revealed differential outcomes for patients receiving specialty
      cardiology care during admissions for heart failure with lower cardiology clinic follow-up
      (25% vs. 51%), and higher 7-day (15% vs 5%) and 30-day (24 vs 17%) readmission rates for
      heart failure patients admitted to GMS as compared to those admitted to the cardiology
      service.

      Given this result, the investigators hypothesize that inequities in admission service triage
      of heart failure patients may drive intra-hospital racial disparities in quality of care, and
      subsequent clinical outcomes. This project's aim is to achieve more equitable care and reduce
      unacceptable inequities in heart failure management and outcomes. Acknowledging that
      cardiology beds are a limited resource, and that not every patient can be admitted to the
      cardiology service at the investigators' institution, this project seeks to improve the
      quality of care for heart failure patients admitted to GMS. The investigators believe that
      improving the quality of heart failure care on GMS, including more systematic cardiology
      follow up, will lower heart failure readmission rates for the investigators' institution.
      Furthermore, this project will likely also lead to more equitable admission patterns
      downstream and will increase future admission to the cardiology service when appropriate
      because of the significant influence of cardiology outpatient follow up on admission to the
      cardiology service (adjusted OR of 2.31 [1.87, 2.84]).

      III. Implementation Plan

      Study design:

      The investigators will implement a stepped-wedge design to expand to GMS a model of
      standardized clinical assessment and management (SCAMP) for heart failure. To assess the
      effectiveness of the intervention, measurement of cardiology clinic follow-up within 14 days
      of discharge, as well as 7-day and 30-day readmission rates for patients with heart failure
      admitted to GMS will be performed at baseline, at each cross-over time point, and at the
      conclusion of the intervention.

      Methods:

      Previous studies have demonstrated that SCAMPs lead to improved outcomes and promote the
      delivery of high-quality, cost-effective care. The SCAMP proposed, which is currently
      utilized for patients admitted to the BWH cardiology service, incorporates components of the
      American Heart Association's "Get with the Guidelines," to ensure patients are on
      guideline-directed medical therapy. The SCAMP as implemented on GMS will be titled the
      Longitudinal Equity Action Plan (LEAP), and will include support services to ensure 1) heart
      failure medications are covered and affordable 2) systematic scheduling of follow-up
      cardiology clinic appointments, and 3) barriers to patient attendance of cardiology
      appointments are addressed (e.g. through provision of ride vouchers). A LEAP program
      assistant will be responsible for completing the web-based LEAP form for each heart failure
      patient admitted to GMS. These forms are designed to ensure that patients are on
      guideline-directed medical therapy, with discussions with the primary medical team to
      understand rationale if medical therapy is not optimized, and that patients are scheduled
      with cardiologist follow-up appointment within 14 days of discharge. The LEAP program
      assistant will provide heart failure education to each patient including importance of
      weighing themselves daily, fluid and salt restriction, and in collaboration with the primary
      team, a "rescue plan" will be made for each patient in case they gain weight before their
      follow-up appointment. The LEAP program assistant will also be responsible for calling each
      patient's pharmacy to ensure medications are covered by insurance prior to discharge.
      Transportation assistance will be provided for all heart failure patients admitted to GMS to
      use for transportation to cardiology follow-up appointments..

      The investigators will implement the LEAP within the investigators' institution's eight GMS
      teams. These teams have similar team structures, including a hospitalist attending and
      medical residents or physician assistants. The implementation of the medicine service will be
      introduced over a one-year period following a stepped wedge design. At four sequential time
      points, two GMS teams (clusters) will be randomized to cross from the usual care period to
      the intervention period. The process will continue until all clusters have crossed over to be
      exposed to the intervention (the LEAP). The intervention implementation process will include
      intensive training of hospital attendings, medical residents, and physician assistants in
      utilization of the LEAP.

      Analysis:

      The primary outcome of interest measured will be rates of cardiology clinic follow-up within
      14 days. Second outcomes will include cardiology clinic follow-up within 30 days of
      discharge, 7-day readmission rates, and 30- day readmission rates. Other outcomes will
      include rates of cardiology consultation and rates of transportation support. The main
      analysis of the stepped wedge design will be based on a logistic mixed-effects model which
      will contain a random intercept to account for between-cluster variability, a fixed effect
      parameter for time, and a group indicator variable for the treatment for each subject and
      time to capture treatment differences over time. Assuming there are 20 patients per cluster,
      four time-points with one baseline measurement, and eight clusters, the investigators will
      have 98% power to detect a change in proportion of patients with 14-day cardiology follow-up
      from 25% to 50%, with Type I error rate of 5%.

      IV. Future Directions and Amplification of Impact The investigators believe that improving
      heart failure care on GMS will lead to more equitable care and outcomes for not only black
      and Latinx patients but for all patients admitted to GMS with heart failure. If
      implementation of the LEAP on GMS proves to be impactful in improving heart failure outcomes,
      this may lead to uptake of similar strategies to improve care for other common disease
      entities, as well as access to specialized outpatient care, which is of paramount importance
      given that racial differences in referral patterns to outpatient specialty care for black and
      Latinx patients has been demonstrated. Success of this project may promote similar approaches
      to be employed by other departments to promote more equitable care of all patients.
      Furthermore, the investigators believe that this project will provide a platform for health
      equity capacity building for DOM faculty, opportunities for scholarship, and shared learning
      on health equity methodology.
    
  