
    
      Cancer is increasing in incidence and prevalence in the United Kingdom. Pain is the most
      frequent complication of cancer and cancer pain control is frequently suboptimal. Previous
      research has established several potentially modifiable reasons for suboptimal cancer pain
      management. These include: under-reporting of pain; inadequate communication about pain
      between patients and health care professionals ; inadequate assessment of pain by health care
      providers; inadequate analgesic prescribing; suboptimal adherence to prescribed analgesic
      regimens by patients; and failure to re-assess pain timeously.

      Information and communication technology (ICT) is a term used to describe all digital
      technologies that facilitate the electronic capture, processing, storage, and exchange of
      information. ICT could offer innovative solutions to suboptimal cancer pain management.
      Technological solutions might include electronic diaries, available as applications or
      "apps", which could encourage pain self-monitoring by people with cancer, and prompt medical
      assessment when pain is poorly controlled. Accurate patient reported pain data could help
      professionals to adequately assess pain and might influence the patient-professional
      consultation. Feedback of adherence data to patients and carers might improve the way that
      medications are used. Electronic medication adherence devices are currently available which
      can capture data on analgesic utilisation and timing. This data might be useful for health
      care professionals to inform safe and timely adjustments of analgesic doses (i.e. is pain
      control poor because of inadequate analgesic dose or because of non-adherence to the
      prescribed regime?). The aim of the proposed study is to explore the desirability,
      feasibility, and practicalities of using ICT to improve cancer pain management The proposed
      study would seek the views of patients with cancer pain, their caregivers, and health care
      professionals, about using technology to help with cancer pain management. The study will
      investigate the acceptability of electronic pain diaries and electronic medication adherence
      devices to patients and health care professionals, barriers to using such technology, and how
      data generated from technology might be used by patients, caregivers, and health care
      professionals to improve cancer pain management. This study will form part of a programme of
      research and data from the proposed study will be used to inform the potential development of
      a technological intervention to improve the management of cancer pain in the community.
    
  