
    
      This questionnaire, validated with Doctor Pineton de Chambrun, is set up within the framework
      of an exercise thesis in pharmacy focusing on the impact of physical activity and diet on the
      evolution and patients' Crohn's disease (CD) experience. Along with ulcerative colitis (UC),
      Crohn's disease belongs to chronic inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), which is a major public
      health concern. These pathologies currently affect 2.5 million patients in Europe (1 million
      of CD versus 1.5 million of UC). More specifically, in France in 2015, there were 212,700
      patients with IBD, with a proportion of 60% CD and 40% RCH1. These pathologies have a major
      impact on patient's lifes, both in terms of quality of life and the therapeutic course
      (efficacy and side effects).

      Physical activity and diet are other important concerns of health authorities. They are the
      subject of numerous recommendations based on age and health status. The World Health
      Organization (WHO), for example, recommends that adults between the ages of 18 and 64 should
      practice endurance physical activity of moderate intensity lasting at least 150 minutes per
      week or 75 minutes per day, sustained intensity endurance activity, or a combination of these
      two types of activity. Epidemiological data show that the lack of physical activity and a
      sedentary lifestyle favor the increase of the prevalence of diseases, such as cancer and
      diabetes, but also the increase in cardiovascular risk factors, such as hypertension, obesity
      and hyperglycemia. A sedentary lifestyle is also considered to be the fourth risk factor for
      mortality worldwide. Therefore, it appears interesting to study the potential impact of
      physical activity and exercise as well as food consumption on the activity of Crohn's
      disease. This impact felt by patients will be assessed by means of a questionnaire which will
      be offered to them after their medical consultation. The hypothesis of this work is that
      physical activity and / or sports and diet control improve the quality of life for patients
      with Crohn's disease.
    
  