
    
      Loss of a dental element can generate several repercussions in the stomatognathic system.
      According to the latest survey by the Ministry of Health, in 2010, Brazilian adults had, on
      average, 7 missing teeth. This loss may lead to movement of the adjacent teeth and the
      antagonist, which would make prosthetic rehabilitation harder to do. Anchoring systems, such
      as mini-implants, have been increasingly used as a treatment option because they act with
      heavy but controlled forces and without side effects. Recent studies have shown that
      photobiomodulation (PBM) can accelerate orthodontic movement in the molar intrusion. The
      objective of this study will be to evaluate the effect of photobiomodulation on the
      acceleration of the orthodontic movement of molar verticalization and its effect on pain and
      inflammation of the periodontal tissues.

      Thirty-four healthy patients aged 30-60 years, who need to recover the prosthetic space for
      oral rehabilitation after loss of the posterior inferior dental elements and inclination of
      the adjacent element, will be randomly divided into 2 groups: G1 (control group) -
      verticalization by mini-implant + PBM simulation (placebo); G2 (experimental group) -
      verticalization by mini-implant + PBM. The movements will occur with the aid of mini-implants
      and elastomeric chains ligatures. The PBM will occur with diode laser application, 660 nm,
      100mW, receiving 1J per point, 10s, 10 points (5 per buccal and 5 per lingual) and radiant
      exposure of 25 J / cm². The orthodontic forces of verticalization (corresponding to any
      exchange of elastomeric ligation) will be applied every 30 days and the PBM will be applied
      immediately, 3 and 7 days of each month, for a period of 3 months. The crevicular gingival
      fluid (FGC) will be collected on the 1st, 3rd and 7th days after the first activation, and
      then on the 3rd day of the following two months. Interleukins IL1β, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10 and
      TNF-α will be analyzed by ELISA. Radiographic shots will be taken each month to ascertain the
      amount (in degrees) of verticalization. To evaluate the pain, the Visual Analogue Scale will
      be used in all the consultations, and to evaluate the quality of life, the OHIP-14
      questionnaire will be applied. Analgesics will be given and the number of drugs will be
      counted. If the data are normal, they will be submitted to the Student's t-test. The data
      will be presented as means ± SD and the value of p will be defined as <0.05.
    
  