
    
      For this study, the investigators will perform comprehensive physiological CMR in healthy
      volunteers and patients with suspected or known heart disease (coronary artery disease and
      heart failure). A sub-set of patients will have follow-up scans after they receive treatment
      to investigate the therapeutic target role of these physiological CMR metrics.

      Patients who have given informed consent for this research will receive one physiological
      stress test depending on the clinical context. There will be 5 clinical subgroups to which
      patients will be recruited to:

      Group 1. Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF), Group 2. Heart failure with
      reserved ejection fraction (HFrEF), Group 3. Pulmonary hypertension (PH), Group 4. Acute
      myocardial infarction (AMI) and Group 5. Suspected but not treated coronary artery disease
      (sCAD).

      Patients will be selected in each group by the clinical specialist/research team as per the
      published guidelines and local protocols - Group 1 and 2 (19), Group 3 (20), Group 4 (21) and
      Group 5 (22).

      First 4 groups of patients will receive pre-load increasing stress test (either passive leg
      raise or equivalent 500mls intravenous fluid challenge depending on the tolerability). This
      will be done to investigate if increase in pre-load will help unravel subtle dysfunction
      which is not apparent at euvolemic state. AMI patients may also receive ischaemia testing
      stress CMR depending on the main clinically question needed to answer. Patients with sCAD
      will receive clinically relevant pharmacological stress test (dobutamine, adenosine or
      regadenoson, inhaled nitric oxide) to diagnose ischaemia.

      Healthy volunteers who have given informed consent will receive matched physiological stress
      test so that head-on comparison can be made with the relevant patient cohort. The CMR scan
      protocol will involve minimal breath-holds and will be patient-friendly. This is achieved by
      using accelerated, advanced cine and late gadolinium enhancement (LGE)-imaging techniques
      which require fewer breath-holds and shorter scan. All CMR stress studies will be supervised
      by an Advanced Life Support (ALS) certified doctor.

      The CMR protocol for healthy volunteers will include the following components (45 minutes):

        1. Survey

        2. Baseline cine imaging for functional imaging (rest)

        3. Tissue characterisation with native T1-mapping (rest)

        4. 4D flow CMR (rest)

        5. Record blood pressure, heart rate and oxygen saturation

        6. Start of physiological stress (increase pre-load or pharmacological stressors)

        7. 4D flow CMR (stress, at low-moderate intensity exercise aiming for heart rate up to
           110bpm only)

        8. Functional cines (stress, at low-moderate intensity exercise aiming for heart rate up to
           110bpm only)

        9. Record blood pressure, heart rate and oxygen saturation

       10. First pass perfusion imaging (only if adenosine/regadenoson used for myocardial
           hyperaemia)

       11. Record blood pressure, heart rate and oxygen saturation

       12. Gadolinium contrast injection

       13. Early/Late gadolinium enhancement imaging in short-axis

       14. Post contrast T1-mapping End of study

      For patient's receiving clinical CMR scans, the 'bolt-on' stress CMR protocol will include
      the following components (20-25minutes):

        1. 4D flow CMR (rest)

        2. Record blood pressure, heart rate and oxygen saturation

        3. Start of physiological stress (increase pre-load or pharmacological stressors)

        4. 4D flow CMR (stress, at low-moderate intensity exercise aiming for heart rate up to
           110bpm only)

        5. Functional cines (stress, at low-moderate intensity exercise aiming for heart rate up to
           110bpm only)

        6. Record blood pressure, heart rate and oxygen saturation

        7. First pass perfusion imaging (only if adenosine/regadenoson used for myocardial
           hyperaemia)

        8. Record blood pressure, heart rate and oxygen saturation
    
  