
    
      INTRODUCTION Allergic rhinitis is the reportedly second most common reported chronic health
      condition in Hong Kong children under the age of 14, with the Child Health Survey 2005-2006
      indicating a prevalence of 24.5%. Allergic rhinitis is a type I hypersensitivity reaction,
      which occurs when IgE antibodies are produced against allergens, leading to the activation of
      mast cells which release inflammatory mediators. Common allergens in Hong Kong include house
      dust mite and cockroaches. Allergic rhinitis causes a multitude of symptoms including
      itching, sneezing, nasal discharge, post-nasal drip, and nasal congestion. It can cause poor
      quality sleep, leading to daytime sleepiness, decreased cognitive ability, mood instability
      and fatigue. Allergic rhinitis leading to a reduction in quality of life in adults has been
      well established, leading to impediment of cognitive processes and poorer ability in
      attention-requiring activities (e.g. driving). These symptoms can similarly significantly
      impede a child's education and quality of life. It is estimated that up to 90% of allergic
      rhinitis patients are untreated, insufficiently treated, or inappropriately treated.

      With regards to children and teenagers, some studies have suggested that allergic rhinitis
      can cause significant cognitive difficulties, with detrimental effects on children's
      education and examination performance, however others suggest there is no association. A
      longitudinal cohort study in 2014 on the treatment of allergic rhinitis in children showed an
      improvement in attention and divided attention after 1 year of treatment. There are little
      studies regarding the effect of treatment of allergic rhinitis on cognitive abilities in
      children.

      RESEARCH OBJECTIVES

        1. To investigate, if any, the differences between normal and allergic rhinitis patients in
           terms of cognitive function

        2. To investigate the impact of allergic rhinitis on different areas of cognitive function

        3. To investigate the improvement of cognitive function in children after 8 weeks of
           standard treatment of allergic rhinitis

      RESEARCH HYPOTHESIS Children with allergic rhinitis are expected to have a heightened
      improvement in cognitive abilities after the treatment compared to the normal control group
      due to relief of their nasal symptoms.

      STUDY DESIGN This study is a prospective longitudinal pilot study to take place from 15 1 Nov
      Dec 2017 to 31 Dec 2018. Final report will be completed 30 June 2019.

      STUDY SAMPLE AND SETTING The study is to be performed in Hong Kong, with subjects aged 11-14
      studying Form 1 and 2 in secondary school being recruited. Recruitment and cognitive testing
      will take place at the secondary school, whilst physician follow up and skin prick tests will
      take place at Prince of Wales Hospital. Healthy individuals as well as patients with a
      history of allergic rhinitis will be recruited. Chinese will be the main language used. The
      total number of the Form 1 students within the school will be around 200. The estimated
      participation rate will be approximately 70%. As the prevalence of allergic rhinitis in Hong
      Kong children under the age of 14 is approximately 24.5%, the expected number of Allergic
      Rhinitis participants and non-Allergic Rhinitis participants are 140 and 34 respectively.
    
  