
    
      Enrollment and depression and anxiety symptom screening:

      All patients who are candidates for allogeneic transplantation and have a scheduled
      "Pre-Admission Visit" at UNC will be screened by study team to assess if they are eligible
      for participation. At their "Pre-Admission Visit" patients will be approached for enrollment
      in the study. Patients who provide written informed consent will complete the Hospital
      Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) survey at that time. If patients screen positive on the
      HADS (meaning a score of 8 or greater in the anxiety or the depression sections), they will
      be offered treatment within a collaborative care model intervention. If patients score less
      than 8 on the HADS survey (negative for symptoms of anxiety or depression) at the
      Pre-Admission Visit, they will not be offered treatment on study. Their medical records will
      still be abstracted periodically to follow post-transplant outcomes.

      The Collaborative Care Model:

      The collaborative care model is a team-delivered treatment program and will be provided by a
      treatment team of HSCT advanced practice providers (APP), HSCT physician, Comprehensive
      Cancer Support Program (CCSP) clinicians, and a psychiatrist. The collaborative care
      treatment intervention will be offered if patients score positive (score of 8 or greater) on
      the HADS. The collaborative care intervention includes medication consideration, therapy
      evaluation, and referral to psychiatry if needed.

      Treatment Options in the Collaborative Care Model:

      There will be three treatment options in the collaborative care model that will be offered to
      patients who score 8 or greater on the HADS - pharmacologic therapy, non-pharmacologic
      therapy, or both. If a patient chooses to start pharmacologic therapy after discussion with
      the APP at the Pre-Admission Visit, this treatment will include one of two antidepressants,
      which are standard-of-care treatments in medicine. The nonpharmacologic treatment in the
      Collaborative Care Model will involve a therapy consultation by the CCSP once patient is
      admitted to the hospital for their HSCT. Patients can also opt to take part in therapy with
      CCSP as well as taking medications.

      The study team at the time of enrollment will gather patient demographics and clinical
      information including gender, age, disease type, donor HLA match, and history of mental
      health disorders from the medical record.

      Follow-up HADS Surveys:

      On Day 0, (day of stem cell infusion) to the hospital for HSCT, patients will undergo another
      HADS survey, and this will be repeated at Day +14 (+/- 3 days), Day +30 (+/- 3 days), and Day
      +60 (+/- 3 days). Information will be gathered from the medical records on Day +14, Day +30,
      and Day +60 regarding symptoms of mucositis, inability to tolerate oral medications,
      development of hospital-acquired illnesses, ICU admissions, reactivation of viruses (i.e.
      CMV), readmission to hospital, engraftment status, development of GVHD, and missed clinic
      appointments.

      During the course of the study, all cases will be reviewed weekly in meetings with the
      psychiatrist and HSCT APPs to address mood symptoms, evaluate the need for titration of
      medications, and evaluate the need for psychotherapy, provided by CCSP therapist or
      psychiatrist.

      Satisfaction Surveys:

      At six months from initial patient enrollment, satisfaction surveys will be distributed to
      the HSCT APPs and HSCT physicians who have taken part in the study. Each patient at the end
      of study will also complete a satisfaction survey.
    
  