
    
      A substantial body of evidence has indicated that improved childhood cancer survival has
      inevitably been accompanied by increased chronic physical problems and adverse psychological
      late-effects of cancer and its treatment. The frequently reported physiological and
      psychological sequelae included cancer-related fatigue, reduced muscle strength, decreases in
      functional capacity, activity intolerance, depression and distorted self-esteem, which in
      turn severely comprises their quality of life.

      There is a growing body of evidence highlighting the beneficial effects of physical activity
      on the physiological and psychological health of childhood cancer survivors. Particularly,
      substantial evidence reveals that engaging in regular moderate-intensity physical activity
      can help ameliorate some of the treatment-related adverse effects experienced by childhood
      cancer survivors, such as reduce cancer-related fatigue, enhance muscle strength, improve
      cardiovascular fitness and eventually lead to a better quality of life.

      Evidence demonstrates that education alone is insufficient or unlikely to change behavior.
      Motivational interviewing (MI) is a directive, client-centered counseling strategy which
      differs from prevailing patient education to support clients to explore and resolve their
      ambivalence about changing their behaviors. Meanwhile, there is an increase in the use of
      Information Communication Technology (ICT) for health care delivery and health promotion.
      Using instant messaging (i.e. WhatsApp or WeChat) allows quick, direct and continuing
      professional advice and support for the parents to promote their child's level of physical
      activity. Therefore, the aim of this study is to examine the efficacy of using ICT to deliver
      BMI to promote regular physical activity among Hong Kong Chinese childhood cancer survivors.
    
  