
    
      This is a randomized (individuals will be assigned by chance to study treatments),
      double-blind (individual and investigator will not know the identity of study treatments),
      placebo (substance containing no active medication)-controlled, 2-arm study in patients with
      sputum smear-positive pulmonary infection with multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB)
      defined as tuberculosis (TB) due to infection with a strain of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M.
      tuberculosis) that is resistant to both isoniazid and rifampin, or pre-extensively drug
      resistant (pre-XDR-TB) defined as TB due to infection with an MDR strain of M. tuberculosis
      that is resistant either to at least one of the injectable second-line drugs [amikacin,
      kanamycin, or capreomycin] or to any fluoroquinolone, but not both). Approximately 600
      patients with sputum smear-positive pulmonary infection with MDR-TB or pre-XDR TB will
      receive a background regimen (BR) of MDR-TB therapy and will be randomly assigned in a 1:1
      ratio to one of 2 treatment arms (Arms A [TMC207 + BR] and B [placebo + BR]). All patients
      will receive TMC207 or placebo in combination with a BR of MDR-TB therapy. TMC207 (or
      matching placebo) will be taken as oral tablets at a once daily dose of 400 mg for the first
      2 weeks and 200 mg 3 times/week for the remaining period of TMC207 (or matching placebo)
      administration. The study will consist of a screening phase of a maximum of 3 weeks, a
      36-week double-blind treatment phase, followed by a 48-week follow-up phase up to Week 84,
      also referred to as the treatment-free follow-up. After the treatment-free follow-up phase,
      there will be a safety follow-up phase of 48 weeks up to Week 132. Patients from Arms A or B
      who fail treatment according to prespecified criteria will be given the option to receive 24
      weeks of TMC207 plus an individualized salvage regimen taken for a duration consistent with
      national TB guidelines. Efficacy and pharmacokinetic evaluations will be performed at time
      points as detailed in the protocol. Safety will be monitored throughout the study.
    
  