
    
      The following outcomes from our multicomponent behavioural intervention are expected.

      MCI participants will show:

      1) Improved functional memory 2) Increased engagement in leisure activities 2) Improved
      instrumental activities of daily living 4) A reduction in neuropsychiatric symptoms (e.g.,
      depressed mood, irritability)

      Family members of MCI relatives will show:

        1. Improvement in ability to adapt to and effectively manage challenges posed from living
           with a relative experiencing cognitive decline

        2. Improvement in mood

        3. Improvement in one or more health related behaviours

      These expected outcomes are based on previously presented pilot showing improved abilities
      dealing with problems faced from cognitive decline due to MCI, previous research by one of us
      demonstrating that self-perceptions of better problem solving skills are associated with
      positive intervention outcomes, previous research showing improvement in mood and well-being
      in dementia caregivers following psychosocial intervention, and our previous findings of
      improved memory knowledge and strategy use in people with MCI after experiencing a similar
      intervention.

      In researching these expected outcomes we will additionally investigate the following
      hypotheses:

        1. The degree of cognitive, functional, and neuropsychiatric impairments exhibited by the
           MCI clients at baseline will influence the degree of benefit experienced by both the MCI
           clients and their family members on the expected outcomes outlined above.

           i. In the MCI client degree of impairment may limit the gains achieved because greater
           impairment may reduce the ability to self-initiate and sustain behavior change.

           ii. Conversely, in the family members, degree of impairment in their MCI relative may
           enhance the gains achieved because past research suggests family members whose relatives
           with MCI exhibit greater neuropsychiatric symptoms may have the most to gain from early
           intervention, as these family members report the most significant depressive symptoms
           and more time spent providing support.

        2. Based on our past research we expect that level of program participation (e.g.,
           attendance, engagement with program materials and exercises) will influence degree of
           benefit experienced by both the MCI clients and their family members on the outcome
           measures.

      METHODS

      Participant Identification and Recruitment. Participants for the proposed research will be
      consenting individuals with MCI and their close family member, recruited from referrals to
      the clinical program. After referrals are received, and before the program begins, the
      research assistant will telephone the individuals with MCI and their identified family
      members in order to explain the study, to obtain verbal consent, and to gather preliminary
      demographic information. To confirm that the potential MCI participants meet accepted
      clinical research criteria for amnestic MCI (either single or multiple domain) they will
      complete a clinical assessment, including a clinical interview and brief cognitive testing, 3
      months prior to the start of their participation in the program. Clinical assessment results
      will be reviewed by two clinical neuropsychologists (KM, AT) involved in the initial
      development and/or continued provision of the clinical program, who have extensive experience
      diagnosing MCI for research purposes. In addition to ensuring that the MCI participants meet
      recognized criteria for amnestic MCI, these descriptive data will be used to investigate our
      previously mentioned hypotheses examining predictors of effectiveness. To clarify, family
      members are only permitted to participate if they have a relative who is diagnosed with MCI
      through our clinical triage process (interview plus brief cognitive assessment). A family
      member would still be welcome to participate in our program if their relative with MCI
      declined to attend or dropped out, although to date this has not yet happened. Notably, our
      program is a clinical service, and volunteering for the research study is not required for
      participation in the program.

      Design. This study will use a randomized waitlist control design. Because of the heavy demand
      for this clinical program, there is a naturally-occurring waitlist of approximately 3 months.
      Thus, three months prior to a new program session, research volunteers from the program's
      clinical waitlist will be randomly assigned to a waitlist-control or treatment group using a
      random number generator. This random assignment will be conducted after all volunteers have
      completed baseline testing. Research shows baseline testing can be influenced by participant
      knowledge and expectations and indeed our own pilot testing showed this influence whereby the
      treatment group was reported to have poorer functional skills as compared to the waitlist
      group in the absence of any other discernible group differences. Thus, in our design we will
      attempt to control for the influence of anticipated treatment on the outcome measures by
      having both treatment and waitlist-control groups undergo the same three evaluations at the
      same time periods: baseline pre-test before random assignment; repeat testing at 10 weeks
      (which will serve as the post-test measure for the waitlist control group and the
      repeat-pre-test measure for the treatment group) and repeat testing at 20 weeks (which will
      serve as the post-test measures of the treatment group at 1 month follow-up and the repeat
      post-test measure for the waitlist group). The group comparisons that will allow us to
      determine the efficacy of the program in comparison to no program will be through examining
      the waitlist-control group test schedule 1 versus test schedule 2, and the treatment group
      test schedule 2 versus test schedule 3. All individuals, regardless of their initial group
      assignment, will be tested before and after their involvement in the program permitting us to
      determine individual differences in the degree of benefit obtained from the program. Although
      there is a 3-month follow-up session in the current program format, testing at this time
      period is not included in the experimental design because there is no control group for
      comparison due to program frequency (4 per year) and length of naturally occurring waitlist
      (3 months). To determine the effectiveness of the intervention, we will use a battery that
      includes both paper-and-pencil questionnaires that are filled out at home, telephone
      interviews, and on-site group testing.

      Sample size. Sample size estimates for MCI interventions were determined based on our
      previous research; for caregiver interventions, these were calculated using effect sizes (g)
      from a meta-analysis and Cohen's power tables. For behavioural interventions aimed at MCI,
      our previous research showed large and significant behavioural changes (ηp2 = .28 - .33) with
      sample sizes of 24 per group. For caregiver interventions most similar in nature to ours,
      effect sizes for improvements in a variety of outcome measures ranged from g = .22 to .52.
      For comparisons using alpha of .05 and power of .80, we estimate statistically significant
      effects with sample sizes of 30 to 46 per population group for the smallest effects (i.e., on
      measures of mood) to less than 8 per group for the largest effects (i.e., on measures of
      coping). Given the multiple comparisons, we plan to recruit 60 (30 MCI, 30 family members)
      for the treatment groups and 60 (30 MCI, 30 family members) for the waitlist control group.
      Based on the most recent annual attendance of 111 people for this clinical program (66 MCI
      and 45 family), we anticipate no difficulty recruiting this number of participants over the
      two year granting period. Based on drop-out rates of 11% in our previous studies, we will
      recruit 144 (72 MCI and 72 family members) over the two years in order to retain 120 (60 MCI
      and 60 family members) participants for our final sample.

      Analyses. Prior to conducting our analyses we will impute missing data in SAS v 9.2 using
      multiple imputation methods that assume the missing data will be missing at random (MAR) or
      missing completely at random (MCAR). This model-based strategy for missing data provides
      significantly better parameter estimates than strategies such as mean substitution or
      listwise deletion of missing cases. To test our hypotheses that the intervention will result
      in improved leisure engagement, mood, and functional skills in MCI and in improved
      health-related behaviours, mood, and adaptive problem solving in family members we will
      separately consider the MCI participants and their family members and examine program
      effectiveness by comparing treatment and waitlist-control groups at the respective post-test
      assessment on each measure using repeated measures analyses of covariance; baseline scores
      will be used as covariates in order to reduce between-subject variance and to enhance
      detection of between-group differences. We will also perform a qualitative thematic analysis
      of responses on our social validity measure to further evaluate the clinical significance of
      the intervention and to provide information for further improvements to the intervention. To
      test our hypotheses about the influences of the cognitive and behavioural characteristics of
      the MCI participants on intervention outcomes [namely that MCI clients with greater
      impairments will show the least benefit; however, their family members will show the most
      benefit] we will use multiple regression to investigate which factors moderate change in both
      the family members' health behaviours, mood, and adaptive skills and in the MCI participants
      leisure activity engagement, mood, and functional skills. Specifically, we will examine the
      predictive contribution of (i) the MCI client's abilities (degree of neuropsychiatric
      symptomatology and level of everyday functioning, obtained from self and family report, and
      level of cognitive impairment, obtained from direct assessment of the MCI client), and (ii)
      the MCI clients' intervention-related change in memory strategy knowledge and use (objective
      and self-report measures obtained directly from the MCI clients) to the benefits obtained as
      measured by outcome measure change scores from pre-test to post-test.

      Feasibility. The program is offered as a regular clinical service, free of cost to
      participants, with four programs offered each year. In the past year, 86 clients with MCI and
      67 of their family members participated. We currently have 13 MCI clients and 12 family
      members on the waitlist for our next series beginning in April, with additions to the list
      occurring almost daily. Although participation in research is not a requirement for
      attendance in this clinical program, we have a high rate of past participant recruitment from
      people accessing this intervention program, as demonstrated by previous program evaluations.
      The assembled team of clinician researchers has significant clinical expertise in normal and
      abnormal cognitive aging, designing and implementing effective cognitive intervention in
      normal and neurological populations, and in health outcomes associated with caregiving and
      caregiver interventions. Drs. Murphy (lead investigator) and Rowe (neuropsychologists) and
      Ms. Climans (social worker) are directly involved in the crafting and current provision of
      the program and will execute the research study. Drs. Troyer (neuropsychologist also involved
      in crafting of the intervention protocol), MacKenzie (psychologist), and Dawson (scientist
      with background in occupational therapy) will provide ongoing consultation regarding project
      execution, measurement of outcomes, and analysis and interpretation of findings based on
      their relevant areas of expertise.
    
  