
    
      Acute pulmonary embolism is common, but its presentation highly varies ranging from
      asymptomatic to massive pulmonary embolism. Massive pulmonary embolism is a common
      life-threatening condition and represents the most serious manifestation among venous
      thromboembolic disease.

      Acute pulmonary embolism is considered the third most common cause of death among
      hospitalized patients . The mortality rate can exceed 58% in patients with acute pulmonary
      embolism presenting with haemodynamic instability , mostly occur within 1 hour of
      presentation.

      In patients with high risk pulmonary embolism , the main aim of therapy is to rapidly
      recanalize the affected pulmonary arteries with thrombolysis or embolectomy; to decrease
      right ventricular afterload and reverse right ventricular failure and shock, prevent chronic
      thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension , and decrease the recurrence risk.

      The first-line treatment in patients with acute high risk pulmonary embolism presenting with
      persistent hypotension and/or cardiogenic shock is intravenous thrombolytic therapy. However
      a significant proportion of patients may not be a candidate for Intravenous thrombolysis
      because of major contraindications. An alternative option in patients with absolute
      contraindications or has failed intravenous thrombolysis is surgical embolectomy , but the
      number of experienced tertiary care centers that can do emergency surgical embolectomy are
      limited.

      Percutaneous catheter mechanical fragmentation of proximal pulmonary arterial clots followed
      by local thrombolytic therapy is accepted as an alternative to intravenous thrombolytic
      therapy and surgical embolectomy because of their ability to rapidly recanalize occluded
      pulmonary blood flow. Several reports have shown that catheter-directed therapy is a safe and
      effective treatment for acute PE to restore pulmonary flow and decreasing Pulmonary artery
      systolic pressure , However, current knowledge on efficacy and safety of catheter-directed
      therapy in management of intermediate high risk pulmonary embolism is limited.
    
  