
    
      The main study part has 3 phases. The first phase is called the baseline phase and consists
      of 1-2 study site visit(s). During this phase, the investigators will gather information
      about the subject, his/her medical history, and current health.

      During the second phase of the study, the subject will start taking the study drug. It will
      take approximately 4 weeks to find out the right amount of study drug the subject should be
      taking. This process is called the titration phase. There will be 2 visits during the
      titration phase.

      Once the subject are on the right amount of study drug, he/she will take that dose for about
      12 weeks. This phase is called the maintenance phase and consists of 3 study site visits.

      At the end of the maintenance phase, if the study doctor determines that taking everolimus
      has helped to reduce the number of seizures the subject has, he/she will have the choice to
      continue taking the study drug for an extended time. There will be 4 total study site visits
      during the extension phase.

      Study assessments:

        1. Medical History: A detailed medical history will be given and the subject's medical
           record will be reviewed by the study team to verify inclusion and exclusion criteria.

        2. Vital Signs: Weight, height, blood pressure, pulse rate, and body temperature, will be
           recorded.

        3. Physical Exam: A standard physical examination will be performed at baseline, week 4,
           16, and month 6 and 12 of extension visits.

        4. Neurological Exam: A standard neurological examination will be performed at baseline,
           week 4, 16, and month 6 and 12 of extension visits.

        5. Dermatological Exam: A skin examination will be performed to assess the presence and
           characteristics of Port-wine stain birthmarks.

        6. Ophthalmologic Exam: An eye examination will be performed to evaluate for the presence
           of glaucoma. Visual acuity, tonometry, and visual fields will be assessed.

        7. Safety Laboratory Assessments: Safety laboratory assessments will be performed at
           baseline, week 4, week 8, week 16, and every 3 months thereafter in the extension phase
           of the study.

        8. Pregnancy testing: For females of child-bearing potential, serum pregnancy will be
           performed at screening and at every visit where safety laboratory assessments are being
           done.

        9. Antiepileptic Drug (AED) Concentrations: AED levels specific to each subject will be
           performed at baseline, week 2, week 4, week 8, week 16, and every 3 months thereafter in
           the extension phase of the study. This test is done to determine the blood level of
           other anti-epileptic drugs the participant may be taking.

       10. Everolimus Concentrations: Everolimus levels will be performed after the start of study
           medication at week 2, week 4, week 8, week 16, and every 3 months thereafter in the
           extension phase of the study. This test is done to determine the dose level of the study
           drug that will be given at each visit.
    
  