
    
      Embryonic stem cells are pluripotent cells that are derived from the early stage embryo (the
      blastocyst stage). Embryonic stem cells are the only cells that have the ability to provide
      an unlimited source of daughter cells and can differentiate into virtually any cell of the
      body.

      Human embryonic stem cell lines have previously been derived from supernumerary embryos
      donated by couples undergoing IVF treatment. Thomson was the second in the world to isolate
      human embryonic stem cells. We derived six human embryonic stem cell lines, which are
      registered with the National Institute of Health and are eligible for American federal
      funding for research. We are widely distributing our cell lines to many researchers
      worldwide.

      The key features of human embryonic stem cells are their potential of unlimited proliferation
      in culture, and their ability to differentiate into a large variety of somatic cells of the
      body. Our group was the first to show this capability in culture (1). Our results, and the
      results of other groups show that human embryonic stem cells can differentiate in culture
      into nerve cells, blood cells, pancreatic cells that secrete insulin, heart muscle cells, and
      others. Given the key properties of human embryonic stem cells, they are expected to have far
      reaching applications in basic scientific research, development of new drugs, and may serve
      as an unlimited donor source of cells for transplantation.

      Embryonic stem cells will be recovered from human blastocysts donated to stem cell research
      by couples that have undergone preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) of their embryos
      during IVF. In PGD, a number of embryos are generated by routine IVF, and cellular material
      is then taken as a biopsy from early human embryos that have been cultured in vitro. Embryos
      that are found to be genetically normal are selectively transferred to the uterus. A portion
      of the tested embryos will not have a diagnosis or will be found to contain specific genetic
      mutations or chromosomal aberrations. After discussion with the couple and subjected to their
      consent, these embryos will not be implanted in the potential mother for the purposes of
      pregnancy. It should be noted that in cases of uncertain diagnosis the couples may elect to
      transfer the embryos and perform prenatal diagnosis and pregnancy termination in cases where
      the fetus is found to be affected. Otherwise, the affected embryos or those without a certain
      diagnosis are truly surplus embryos that are routinely discarded. We wish to derive human
      embryonic stem cell lines from these embryos, since they will contain a specific mutation or
      chromosomal aberration that will be of interest to the research community. The genetically
      abnormal stem cells, that will be derived from these PGD-tested embryos, will be useful tools
      for the investigation of early development, cell function, disease progression, and for the
      efficacy or toxicity of drug therapies for the genetic abnormalities that they will carry.
      Derivation of human ES cell lines that harbor a specific gene defect will have great
      importance in the study and development of treatments for certain inheritable disorders. In
      addition, they may be employed for the development of gene therapy strategies designed for
      potential treatment of specific inherited disorders.

      It should be stressed that the embryos that will be recruited for this study would have been
      discarded in any event, and would not have been implanted to produce a child. The embryos,
      while precious, will contain or will be suspected to contain undesired chromosomal or single
      gene defects, and will not have been deemed acceptable for transfer by the couple undergoing
      IVF. By contrast, these embryos, while not suitable for the purposes of producing healthy
      offspring, are valuable to stem cell research as key tools for the study of specific human
      disorders, therapies, for the investigation of early human development, in the derivation of
      new medications to treat diseases, and possibly to correct genetic defects. Rather than
      simply discarding and destroying the stem cells within these faulty embryos, they will be
      salvaged and utilized in the derivation of new disease-specific human embryonic stem cell
      lines.

      Since the new lines derived from PGD embryos will be utilized for research purposes only, the
      derivation of new embryonic stem cell lines will occur under GLP conditions, utilizing
      predetermined acceptable raw materials and methods. These lines may be characterized and
      safety tested like the non-PGD-tested lines after manufacturing in the Research and
      Development Laboratory of the Goldyne Savad Institute of Gene Therapy.

      The PGD-tested embryos will be obtained under full informed consent prior to their
      utilization in research. Voluntary donations of embryos will be recruited, in accordance with
      existing regulations and legislation. The donors will be approached only after the decision
      to discard the genetically abnormal embryos has been independently made. IVF staff will
      approach the donors, answer any questions they may have, and obtain their permission prior to
      utilization of their embryos. Because of the many ethical concerns regarding the removal of
      fetal cells from human embryos, we are extremely sensitive to the moral debates as to the
      "rights" and the "personage" of an embryo. Once obtained, the embryos will be developed to
      the blastocyst stage and the stem cells removed, according to accepted protocols for human
      embryonic stem cell line development. No identifiable features of the donor couple, exclusive
      of the known genetic mutation, will be attached to any of the embryos donated to research.
    
  