
    
      Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a heterogeneous neurodevelopmental disorder with life-long
      consequences that affects young children during critical times in their development. ASD is
      defined by impairments in social-communication as well as the presence of restricted
      interests and repetitive behaviors. ASD is frequently associated with co-occurring language
      delays. Currently the only well-accepted treatment for core ASD symptoms is behavior therapy
      such as Applied Behavioral Analysis and Early Intensive Behavioral Intervention. There is no
      US Food and Drug Administration approved medical therapy that addresses core ASD symptoms or
      the pathophysiological processes that underlie ASD.

      The primary aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of a liquid form of leucovorin
      calcium on language impairments in very young children with ASD. Participants entered into
      the trial will have delayed social and communication abilities known to be associated with
      ASD. The investigators hypothesize that leucovorin calcium will significantly improve
      language as well as core and associated behavioral symptoms of ASD, and be well-tolerated
      with no significant adverse effects, in young children with ASD. The investigators further
      hypothesize that a combination of baseline cellular and genetic biomarkers will predict
      cognitive and behavioral response to the intervention.

      To assess whether the liquid form of leucovorin calcium is superior to placebo, the
      investigators will study 80 children across two sites, between the ages of 2.5 and 5 years,
      with confirmed ASD and known language delays at baseline. Participants will be randomly
      assigned to receive active treatment or placebo for 12 weeks under double-blind conditions.
      At the end of 12 weeks, all participants will receive active treatment for 12 weeks. Language
      skills, as well as specimen biomarkers, will be measured at screening and after each
      treatment arm in order to determine if the supplement positively influences language ability.
    
  