
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximally tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of
      the combination of niraparib and copanlisib in patients with recurrent high-grade serous or
      BRCA mutant ovarian cancer or recurrent endometrial, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal
      cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the tolerability of the RP2D of niraparib and copanlisib. II. To determine
      the safety and observed toxicities of the combination of niraparib and copanlisib in patients
      with recurrent endometrial, recurrent high-grade serous ovarian, or BRCA mutant ovarian
      cancer.

      III. To estimate the activity of the drug combination at all dose levels in each patient
      cohort by objective response rate and proportion of patients surviving progression free (PFS)
      at 6 months.

      IV. To determine response duration of the drug combination at all dose levels. V. To
      determine the pharmacokinetics (PK) of the combination to assess the presence of any drug
      interaction between the two co-administered agents.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if response to therapy is associated with molecular profile of the tumor
      (including, but not limited to, molecular aberrations in the PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway or defects
      in homologous recombination) before treatment.

      II. To examine associations with early changes in functional proteomic biomarkers in tumor
      biopsies before and after treatment and tumor response in patients with recurrent
      endometrial, recurrent high-grade serous ovarian, or BRCA mutant ovarian cancer treated with
      the investigational agents.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive niraparib orally (PO) daily on days 1-28 and copanlisib intravenously (IV)
      over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 and 90 days, then every 3
      months for up to 5 years.
    
  