
    
      Testing done in this study will be performed either on bacterial isolates stored in the
      microbiology laboratory at the Diagnostic and Scientific Center in Calgary, or on up to one
      milliliter of residual urine sample submitted to the diagnostic laboratory with a request for
      urine culture and sensitivity. All urine cultures will be performed and reported in
      accordance with standards laboratory protocols. Research testing will only be done on
      residual sample once patient samples are processed or reported on for clinical purposes.

      During the first phase of the study, metabolic biomarkers for uropathogens will be identified
      using mass spectrometry on sub-cultures of frozen isolates from the diagnostic microbiology
      laboratory. This will include at least 50 isolates each of uropathogens consisting of but not
      limited to Escherichia coli, Klebsiella oxytoca, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter species,
      Proteus mirabilis, Citrobacter species, Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus saprophyticus,
      Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Enterococcus species, and Candida species. Biomarkers that are
      present in greater than 95% of the isolates will subsequently be using the analysis of 2000
      negative, and 2000 positive urine cultures. Compounds that are subsequently identified as
      high yield will be selected for carbon 13 labeling to service standards.

      In phase II of the study, following the development of a biomarker enrichment device at the
      CMRF, a performance urinalysis of the device will be conducted using residual urine sample
      from 1000 negative and 2000 positive urine specimens as outlined above. The performance of
      the new device will be evaluated relative to standard cultures and urine liquid
      chromatography-mass spectrometry.

      Following the creation of a sensitive and specific assay, a prospective study will be carried
      out at the diagnostic microbiology laboratory. 3000 sample submitted for urine culture will
      be process in parallel with the new device and standard microbiology procedures. Sensitivity,
      specificity and predictive value for each analyte compared to standard culture will be
      determined in this portion of the study. Cost calculations and performance characteristics
      including turnaround time of the new assay will be compared to that in the standard
      laboratory procedure.
    
  