
    
      This will be a placebo-controlled, double-blind, parallel-group comparison.

      Fifty patients with rapidly progressive ALS will be randomised to receive one of the
      following regimens:

        -  IC14 4 mg/kg given intravenously twice weekly for 12 weeks; or

        -  Identical-appearing placebo given intravenously twice weekly for 12 weeks. There will be
           an interim safety review by an independent Data Safety Monitoring Board after the
           initial 20 subjects have completed 4 weeks and 8 weeks of treatment. Study observation
           will continue until 12 weeks after the last dose of study drug.

      The primary endpoint is:

      • Treatment-related change in disease biomarker profiles [e.g., neurofilaments (Nf), urinary
      p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR), cytokines, and soluble CD14].

      The secondary endpoints are:

        -  Safety, tolerability and lack of immunogenicity of IC14.

        -  Treatment-related change in the Revised Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Functional Rating
           Scale (ALSFRS-R).

        -  Treatment-related change in respiratory function by seated forced vital capacity (FVC)
           parameters.

        -  Treatment-related change in inspiratory muscle strength by sniff nasal pressure (SNP)
           test.

        -  Treatment-related change in quality of life by the ALS Specific Quality of Life-Revised
           (ALSSQOL-R) score.

        -  Treatment-related change in cognitive function by Edinburgh Cognitive and Behavioural
           Assessment (ECAS) score.

        -  Treatment-related changes stratified by disease severity and prognostic indicators.

        -  Peak serum IC14 concentration following administration of the initial dose and peak
           serum concentration following a course of treatment.

        -  Area under the serum IC14 concentration versus time curve (AUC) following administration
           of the initial dose and following a course of treatment.
    
  