
    
      Children, adolescents and young adults admitted for an allogeneic HCT and those determined by
      the transplant team to be at risk for grade 3 oral mucositis will be eligible to receive PBM
      (34 x 660nm 10mW, 35 x 850nm 30mW: 1390 mW total power output) at an irradiance of 50mW/cm2.
      The PBM treatment will be administered via the THOR Model LX2M unit.

      After low light therapy consent, participants will be offered the opportunity to receive a
      play-based preparation. Those who elect to receive this child life preparation will be
      scheduled to meet with a trained certified child life specialist (CCL) prior to admission.
      The play-based preparation will incorporate age and developmentally appropriate explanations
      of the non-invasive procedure and will be adapted to each patient's psychosocial and
      cognitive developmental needs.

      Observation and treatment will begin the first day of conditioning (plus/minus 2 days). Those
      undergoing an allogeneic HCT will have treatment daily until Day +20 or engraftment (ANC ≥
      500 for two consecutive days). For those undergoing an autologous transplant, treatment will
      continue until engraftment (ANC ≥ 500 for two consecutive days) or until the patient is
      without mucositis for two consecutive days.

      The PBM will be administered extra-oral and intra-oral by trained research staff. Direct aim
      of the laser into the eye will be avoided and safety spectacles will be used with laser
      therapy. The safety spectacles will be prescribed according to age, with the adjustable Ibis
      Infant eye protection for patients less than 1 year of age and the adjustable kids laser
      safety googles for the young child. Patients, staff, and observers will wear laser safety
      glasses while PBM is in use.

      The parent may hold the device in place with assistance from the trained persons. After the
      initial LLLT treatment, a parent-reported satisfaction survey will be administered via paper
      questionnaire.

      The observation of oral mucositis will be conducted by non-study staff and conducted as
      clinical care by the nurse, advanced practice provider and/or physician. Each patient will
      have a daily oral assessment, with documentation of mucositis, grade, duration, pain
      assessment, days of nutrition support, use of narcotics, positive oral and blood cultures.
      All patients will receive the standard mouth care regimen prescribed for transplant patients.

      Each patient will be matched and compared to a previously treated patient. The comparison
      will be matched on primary disease, conditioning regimen, age and sex, with comparison of
      treatment variables of mucositis grade, duration, pain medications, days of nutritional
      support, blood and oral cultures, to day +20 or engraftment (depending upon which occurs
      first).
    
  