
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the most common cause of morbidity and mortality among
      patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) on hemodialysis (HD).

      CVD are present since the early stages of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and reach around 30 to
      44% of those beginning hemodialysis. Macrovascular disease develops rapidly in uremic
      patients and is responsible for the high incidence of ischemic heart disease, left
      ventricular (LV) hypertrophy, congestive heart failure, sudden death, and stroke.

      Compared with the general population, the incidence of cardiovascular (CV) events among
      patients with ESRD is significantly higher, but it does not seem to be fully explained by the
      increased incidence of conventional risk factors alone. It has been hypothesized that HD
      patients are exposed to unique renal and HD-related risk factors that predispose them to an
      increased rate of CV events. Research efforts have expanded understanding of the contribution
      made by vascular pathologies to this burden.

      Clinicians now recognize that defects in the vascular wall are the bases of many CV events,
      and early detection and intervention in subclinical vascular disease are fundamental for
      preventing and controlling cardiovascular events. Changes in the vasculature include
      endothelial dysfunction (ED), smooth muscle cell hyperplasia/hypertrophy, vascular
      calcification, and arterial stiffness.

      Arterial stiffness is one of the vascular pathologies in HD patients. Recent studies
      examining cardiovascular complications in dialysis patients focused on atherosclerosis,
      including arterial stiffness and wall thickness changes as a major contributing factors for
      CV events. It was shown that stiffening of arteries is associated with increased
      cardiovascular mortality and morbidity.

      Arteriosclerosis refers to the reduced arterial compliance due to increased fibrosis, loss of
      elasticity, and vessel wall calcification affecting the media of large and middle-sized
      arteries. These arterial wall changes are influenced not only by nonspecific factors, such as
      age, genetics, hypertension, diabetes, lipid abnormalities, inflammation, and/or common
      atherosclerosis, but also by parameter(s) associated with the presence of uremia per se.

      Arterial stiffening in patients with CKD and ESRD occurs at an accelerated rate compared with
      the normal ageing process and arteriosclerosis. As bone mineral metabolism worsens with
      advancement to ESRD, hyperphosphatemia, secondary hyperparathyroidism and inhibited vitamin D
      synthesis result in vascular calcification that causes hardening of the arteries. Other
      factors linked to the uremic environment, such as anaemia, endothelial dysfunction,
      neuro-hormonal activation and inflammation, play important roles.

      Arterial stiffness can be assessed noninvasively with the use of pulse wave velocity (PWV)
      measurement. The aortic pulse wave velocity (APWV) reflects central arterial stiffness. APWV
      is a predictor of cardiovascular outcome in patients with hypertension, diabetes, end-stage
      renal disease, and elderly hospitalized subjects.

      Statins or 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors are
      considered first-line treatment for elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C)
      levels, as large-scale, randomized clinical trials have demonstrated their clinical benefits
      in primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular events. Background and clinical studies
      have also shown beneficial actions of statins for the vasculature that may extend above their
      lipid lowering properties, such as improvement of endothelial function, inhibition of
      vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation, and reduction of vascular inflammation. It has
      been also proposed that such pleiotropic effects of statins may translate into a beneficial
      impact on arterial stiffness. Atorvastatin reduced arterial stiffness in patients with
      hypertension and hypercholesterolemia, diabetes mellitus. Fassett at al. found that
      atorvastatin reduced arterial stiffness in CKD patients (stage 2-4) but they did not include
      patients on maintenance haemodialysis in their study. We want to illustrate if these
      beneficial effects on arterial stiffness will be present or not among haemodialysis patients.
    
  