
    
      PECS 1 Block and Supraclavicular Nerve Block, were performed by an anesthesiologist under
      ultrasound control using a linear 8Mzt transducer, a Phillips HD 11 machine and a 50 mm
      needle Stimuplex 360 Braun. The ALR procedure was performed 30 minutes before the surgical
      incision. A volume of 15 ml of ropivacaine 3.75 mg/ml is used and distributed as follows: 12
      ml for the Pecs 1 Block and 3 ml for the Supraclavicular nerve block: The patient was placed
      in supine position with the arm abducted at about 90 °, the puncture site being sterilized
      with betadine. The transducer was first placed in a subclavicular position in order to
      identify the major and minor pectoralis muscles, as well as the thoracoacromial artery,
      particularly the pectoral branch, additional color Doppler, was used for the identification
      of those vessels. The needle was directed in plane to the intermuscular space lying between
      the large and small pectoral, a careful avoidance of the thoracoacromial artery or its
      pectoral branch was ensured. The LA injection, under visual control of the spread between the
      two muscles, was initiated at the level of the 2nd and 3rd ribs after a classical aspiration
      test; 12 ml of the ropivacaine 0.375% were used. A spread of the LA appearing as an
      intermuscular hypoechoic "lens" was always searched.

      Second, a supraclavicular nerve block was performed. We initially identified the C5 root and
      scanned cranially to visualize the superficial cervical plexus. then, moving caudally, the
      supraclavicular nerve was isolated appearing as a hypoechogenic structure between scalenus
      medius and posterior border of the sternocleidomastoid muscle. A total of 3 ml of ropivacaine
      0,375% was deposited nearby this nerve.

      In the ALC group (Anesthesia Local Surgeon's Anesthesia: Local Infiltration of N = 15
      tissues) 15 ml Ropivacaine 3.75 mg/ml were injected in the subclavicular area, as usual,
      starting from the skin to the depth of the muscles.

      In case of patient discomfort or failure of the techniques used, a further local infiltration
      consisting of a maximum of 10 ml lidocaine 2% performed as required by the surgeon was
      allowed as rescue. If this failed, the depth of sedation would gradually increase and
      ventilation would be controlled either by face or laryngeal mask Propofol 1-3 mg / Kg / IV +
      sufentanyl 2.5 μg / IV).
    
  