
    
      This phase II randomized trial was designed to evaluate the difference in PSA response rate
      between the experimental arm (AA+SBRT) and control arm (AA). PSA response will be defined as
      a post-treatment decrease > 50% from baseline measured within 6 months.

      Study design

      This is a phase II randomized multicenter study in patients affected by oligo ¬mCRPC, treated
      with standard of care (GnRH agonist or antagonist plus abiraterone acetate and prednisone)
      and randomized to receive SBRT to all sites of disease. Patients will be randomly assigned in
      a 1:1 ratio to both treatment, stratified by Centre, Performance Status, and number of
      metastases.

      Randomization will be performed the same day of the baseline evaluation (+/-3 days).

      Planned size of the overall study population is 174 patients, 87 for each arm. The study will
      include a screening phase and a treatment phase.

      The screening phase allows for assessment of subject eligibility, demographics, PSA,
      testosterone, comorbidities and current drug therapies up to 45 days prior to randomization.

      The treatment phase consists of systemic treatment with abiraterone acetate 1000 mg daily and
      prednisone 10 mg daily, plus GnRH agonist or antagonist (control arm). Furthermore, the
      patients in the experimental arm will receive SBRT to all metastatic lesions.

      SBRT will be delivered in 1 to 5 fractions, and the dose and fractionation schedule will
      depend on the size and location of the lesion and the surrounding normal tissue constraints
      in accordance with AAPM Task Group 101 recommendations [19]. Considering an Alfa/beta of 3, a
      BED3 > 100 Gy is recommended. The total planned duration of the study is 40 months,
      consisting in 28 months enrollment period, during which patients will perform the screening
      and will begin standard of care treatment with or without SBRT and later phase of 12 months
      in which patients will continue the treatment with standard of care and will be submitted to
      periodic checks every 3 months.
    
  