
    
      Few studies have been focused on the combined evolution of body composition, energy
      expenditure, physical activity, muscle performance, and nutritional intake in patients taking
      anti-TNFs.

      This study's objective is to assess the impact of anti-TNF treatment during the first year of
      administration on the energy metabolism of RA patients, measuring variations in basal daily
      energy expenditure and per type of expenditure using indirect calorimetry with calorimetric
      chambers. Investigator also aim to define standardized values for RA patients compared to
      healthy matched controls and to be able to monitor the evolution of these different values
      during treatment compared to this standard.

      This will be an exploratory study with a longitudinal follow-up of the cohort in patients
      treated in a market authorization context and involving a case/control study. Investigator
      judged the inclusion of healthy controls justified by the current lack of data comparing the
      different components of energy metabolism in active RA patients versus healthy subjects using
      calorimetric chamber measurement. The aim is to obtain reference values to situate
      RA-specific values in comparison before and after treatment. Investigator considered
      selecting controls from the RA patients unjustified given how essential it is to commence
      treatment in active RA cases (1 year with placebo not justifiable). A previously-treated
      inactive RA population with no inflammation would not be comparable to patients with active
      RA, and neither would a population with active RA treated with conventional treatment or a
      different biotherapy to anti-TNFs. Investigator also chose to perform a second assessment at
      6 months without calorimetric chamber measurement but rather an indirect measurement using
      actimetry in order to limit costs and patients lost-to-follow-up due to treatment
      modification (failure or intolerance), all the while maintaining full assessment at 12
      months. Scheduling the assessment at 12 months is justified by published studies' reports of
      delay before significant weight gain manifests, and enables us to maintain homogeneity as
      regards variations in physical activity and nutritional intake linked to seasonal changes.
    
  