
    
      Surgery is required for the treatment of many pancreatic conditions, either malignant or
      benign. Mortality of pancreatic surgery can be up to 3% even in expert centers. Morbidity is
      high, postoperative pancreatic fistula (POPF) being the main postoperative complication. In
      its current definition (drain output of any measurable fluid >= postoperative day 3 with
      amylase content >3 times the serum amylase activity and with clinical consequence), the
      incidence of postoperative PF is between 15 and 30 %. Most POPF resolve spontaneously but
      when refractory POPF occurs, it may lead to severe complications. POPF severity is graded as
      follows: grade B in case of change in medical management: infection without organ failure,
      specific medication (total parenteral nutrition, somatostatin analogs, antibiotics),
      persistent drainage > 3 weeks, angiographic procedure for bleeding, prolonged hospital stay;
      grade C in case of reoperation or PF-related organ failure or death.

      No specific prophylactic treatment of POPF is currently recommended by clinical guidelines.
      In clinical research, many prophylactic strategies have been attempted with partial efficacy.
      Endoscopic pancreatic sphincterotomy with plastic stent placement is effective in pre-and
      postoperative management of pancreatic fistula but with the need of a highly competent
      interventional endoscopist. Intrapapillary botulinum toxin injection is believed to induce
      relaxation of the pancreatic sphincter, leading to a " pharmacological " pancreatic
      sphincterotomy without any morbidity.

      A recent phase I/II prospective study has shown promising results in this indication, with no
      clinically relevant pancreatic fistula when botulinum toxin was injected. Based on this
      observation we hypothesize that intrapapillary botulinum toxin injection during an endoscopic
      procedure before surgery could be effective for the prevention of post-surgical pancreatic
      fistula

      This study will be a prospective, multicentric, phase III, superiority, controlled,
      randomized (1:1), open-label, clinical trial with two parallel arms (intrapapillary botulinum
      toxin versus standard care), using a PROBE (Prospective Randomized Open Blinded End-point)
      methodology.

      Patients with scheduled distal pancreatectomy for any indication

      Sources of funding for the trial : French Ministry supports this study by PHRC-N 2017.

      The botulinum toxin provides by MERZ France (producer of Xeomin)
    
  