
    
      The investigators will adapt and deliver a tele-wellness supported digital toolkit via an app
      for Baltimore City's Family Child Care Home (FCCH) providers and the families the FCCH serve.
      Through this digital toolkit, the investigators aim to provide related self-care support,
      parent/parent engagement support for both Family Child Care Home providers and parents, and
      provide access to early literacy, math, social-emotional learning, and nutrition games for
      children (3-6 years old). Additionally, Family Child Care Home providers and parents will
      have access to a hotline and email to the Ask a Nurse program-a tele-wellness program run by
      community registered nurses at Johns Hopkins School of Nursing. Through Ask a Nurse,
      providers and parents will be able to receive wellness counseling from licensed registered
      nurses and care coordination to address specific social needs. The tele-wellness service is
      NOT intended to directly address health issues, diagnose, or prescribe. In summary, Family
      Child Care Home providers will have access to self-care and parent engagement resources and
      parents will have access to self-care and parenting resources in addition to the games for
      the child(ren).

      The first phase of this study is to tailor an existing app, Escribo Play that already has
      gamified early literacy and math tools, and expand its scope by including self-care and
      parenting/parent engagement support for Family Child Care Home Providers and the parents the
      FCCH serve. Additionally, the investigators are creating gamified social-emotional learning
      and nutrition games for the children.

      The second phase is a pre-post test where the investigator will recruit FCCH providers
      enrolled in the Essential Personnel Child Care or School-Aged program and the parents the
      FCCH serve to fill out health surveys before and 15 weeks post engagement with the app.

      The investigators hypothesize that engagement with the digital toolkit will improve provider
      and parental perceived level of stress, informational support, access to learning games, as
      well as social, emotional, and behavioral functioning in children.
    
  