
    
      This is a Phase II pilot single-blinded randomized controlled trial to be conducted in two
      adult intensive care units. Technically, the patient will be blinded (by virtue of illness),
      and in any case knowledge of the feeding intervention they are receiving would not influence
      outcome. Scans will be taken by staff who could potentially be aware of treatment; keeping
      scanner personnel blinded would involve complex logistics to separate those randomising,
      scanning patients, and collecting data; however, the investigators don't think that the
      individuals taking the scans would introduce material bias. Importantly, all scans will be
      analysed by the same individual (based off-site) who will be blind to treatment status.

      Within 24 hours of admission to ICU, patients recruited to the study will be randomised to
      either intermittent enteral feeding or continuous enteral feeding - both regimens delivering
      the same nutritional content over a 24 hour period. The intermittent feeding regimen will
      consist of six bolus feeds (one bolus every four hours) while the continuous feeding regimen
      consists of the total volume of feed administered over 24 hours. Feed volume in both groups
      will commence according to a standard 'usual practice' protocol so as not to delay feeding,
      but each patient will then have an individual regimen calculated by the dietician. Feeding
      will continue as either intermittent or continuous for the duration of the trial period as
      tolerated.

      Ultrasound of the thigh (enabling derivation of the Rectus Femoris cross sectional area
      (RFCSA)) will be performed on Days 1,7,10 (or at discharge, if sooner), and at hospital
      discharge (if after Day 10), with blood and urine samples taken daily. The hospital discharge
      destination will be noted, and functional assessment will be determined prior to hospital
      discharge by two validated methods previously used in this patient cohort (6-Minute Walk
      Distance and Short Performance Battery Test). Patients' health-related quality of life
      (HRQOL) will be determined for the pre-morbid period and at 12 months post ICU-discharge
      using the Short Form-36 health survey; primary care costs since discharge will also be
      ascertained.
    
  