
    
      The passage of weak DC currents across the head (DC polarization) has been done for centuries
      with various effects reported. Many of the reports and studies of DC effects in humans are,
      however, archaic, anecdotal, uncontrolled, or scientifically baseless. Recently, it has been
      shown by objective means, in controlled experiments, that this type of treatment has robust
      and lasting effects on the excitability of the motor cortex in healthy humans. In vitro and
      animal experiments have revealed little about the mechanism of this effect, but neither has
      convincing evidence of toxicity been found at moderate doses. Therefore, we are becoming
      interested in whether this type of treatment can be used to improve cognitive processing in
      individuals with brain lesions, particularly of the prefrontal cortex. The purpose of this
      project is to prepare the way for clinical trials by beginning to establish the safety of
      this technique in humans and then to look for preliminary evidence of potentially useful
      effects on cognition when moderate doses are applied to the prefrontal cortex. First, we
      propose to test the safety of 20 min of anodal and cathodal DC applied the left prefrontal
      area, at 1 mV, by looking for clinical-level effects on verbal fluency, cognitive processing
      speed, EEG, mood, or motor reaction speed after exposure. The duration of exposure in this
      study will match the time required to gather preliminary efficacy data in healthy controls
      and patients. Then, in a dose-finding study, we propose to find the anodal DC amperage
      necessary for producing a clear effect on excitability, as measured by an increase in the
      amplitude of the motor evoked potential to transcranial magnetic stimulation. Then, if no
      significant adverse effects are in the first two studies, a preliminary efficacy study will
      look for differences in these measures between groups receiving anodal, cathodal, and sham DC
      of the left prefrontal cortex during stimulation.
    
  