
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  CEA is overexpressed in multiple malignancies, including medullary thyroid cancer where
           CEA is universally expressed on tumor cells.

        -  There is no standard treatment for patients with asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic,
           metastatic medullary thyroid cancer. The only effective FDA-approved therapy
           (vandetanib) comes with significant toxicity, so it is not used until patients have
           symptomatic or rapidly progressing disease.

        -  Preclinical studies have shown that GI-6207 can induce a strong immune response to CEA
           as well as therapeutic anti-tumor responses.

        -  A previous Phase I GI-6207 study has demonstrated safety and enhanced immune response in
           some patients.

        -  Preliminary data suggests that tumor growth rates can be calculated in medullary thyroid
           cancer patients within 3 months

        -  Retrospective data from prostate cancer studies suggest that vaccines can alter tumor
           growth rates within 3-4 months

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary:

      -To determine the effect of GI-6207 on calcitonin growth rate kinetics after 6 months of
      therapy in patients with medullary thyroid cancer

      ELIGIBILITY:

        -  Patients will have evidence of metastatic medullary thyroid cancer including disease
           that is evaluable on bone or CT scan.

        -  Patients with minimal or no disease related-symptoms (minimal symptoms will include
           those that do not affect activities of daily living or pain that does not require
           regularly schedule narcotics.)

        -  ECOG 0-1

        -  No previous chemotherapy

        -  No previous vandetanib

        -  Should have no autoimmune diseases; no evidence of being immunocompromised; no serious
           inter-current medical illness; no cardiac disease; no prior splenectomy. (History of
           previous thyroid autoimmune disease will be allowed as these patients will have had
           total thyroidectomy.)

        -  No brain metastasis, history of seizures, encephalitis, or multiple sclerosis

        -  No pericardial-based masses greater than 1 cm or thoracic lesions larger than 2 cm

      Design:

        -  Randomized, phase 2 study to determine the effect of GI-6207 on calcitonin growth rate
           after 6 months of GI-6207

        -  Patients will be randomized to either initial GI-6207 therapy or 6 months of
           surveillance followed by GI-6207 therapy.

        -  GI-6207 will be administered subcutaneously at 4 sites at dose of 10 yeast units per
           site, biweekly for 7 visits (day 1, 15, 29, 43, 57, 71, 85), then monthly up to 1 year
           of treatment. (For patients randomized to surveillance and then GI-6207, they will get a
           full year of GI-6207 after a 6 month surveillance period.)

        -  Once patients have completed one year of therapy with GI-6207, patients without
           radiographic progression will have the option to receive vaccine every 3 months for an
           additional 12 months. Patients who remain on vaccine will continue to be scanned every 3
           months.

        -  Immune monitoring via apheresis will be done prior to enrollment and at 6 months for all
           appropriate and consenting patients. Patients who are evaluable for immunologic response
           by the ELISPOT Assay (HLA 02, 03 and 24) will have apheresis at start of GI-6207 therapy
           and then every 3 months while on GI-6207 treatment when feasible.
    
  