
    
      The PMCH study is a Canadian multicentre, open-label, historically-controlled clinical trial
      to evaluate the effects of implementing WAPPS-Hemo PopPK-based tailoring of hemophilia
      prophylaxis regimens using the tailoring dosing function of the WAPPS-Hemo system (WAPPS-Hemo
      clinical calculator).

      The study start date at each centre are staggered by 1-3 months in a modified wedge-shaped
      design, to allow better differentiation of the effect of the intervention from unrelated but
      concomitant changes in other aspects of care in the Canadian landscape. Outcomes of interest
      will be measured for one year prior and for one year after the implementation of the
      WAPPS-Hemo regimen tailoring procedure.

      The two main objectives of this study are:

        1. Evaluate the applicability and effectiveness of WAPPS-Hemo PopPK-based tailoring of
           factor concentrate regimens.

        2. Generate a solid base of data to model the bleeding risk of severe hemophilia A/B
           patients on prophylaxis, evaluating the contribution of patient and treatment
           characteristics to individual bleeding risk to be reduced by the tailored prophylaxis
           approach.

      PMCH will objectively measure the impact of adopting a PopPK based tailoring of hemophilia
      treatment. The first goal will be minimizing the occurrence of bleeding events in the
      hemophilia population. The bleeding rate of Canadian hemophilia patients is still measurable
      at 2-4 spontaneous joint bleeds per year, which in turn reduce quality of life and consume
      health resources. It is expected that optimizing treatment goal and modalities will reduce
      this burden, or at least will not increase it, allowing the pursuit the second goal: minimize
      the use of resources and prompt a more equitable distribution of factor concentrates. For
      some patients, standard prophylaxis dosing leads to excessive use of concentrates. It is
      expected that a small but sizeable proportion of the patient population will be able to
      successfully reduce their factor concentrate consumption. The third goal will be to generate
      an evidence-based approach to identify the appropriate target goal(s) for individual patients
      by modelling the components of their risk of bleeding. Adopting a variable target threshold
      may enhance objective one and two, maximizing benefits with appropriate allocation of
      resources.

      In addition to WAPPS-Hemo, the study will involve two other tools available to hemophilia
      treaters in Canada: the Canadian Bleeding Disorders Registry (CBDR) and Patient Reported
      Outcomes, Burdens and Experiences (PROBE) questionnaire. In particular, this study will
      leverage the integration of the three tools described above: WAPPS-Hemo, with its ability to
      generate PK estimates and use them to optimize treatment regiments; CBDR, already collecting
      most of the information needed to both generate and estimate optimal regimen recommendations
      for tailoring an individual regimen to meet specified treatment goals; and PROBE, to measure
      the impact on patient critical life experiences and outcome.
    
  