
    
      Lymphedema is defined as the excessive and persistent accumulation of fluid, extracellular
      proteins, and fat in tissue spaces, caused by inefficiency of the lymphatic drainage system.
      It is a chronic, progressive condition. Several researchers have investigated the influence
      on health-related quality of life in upper limb lymphedema after breast cancer treatment
      using patient reported outcome instruments. Responsiveness of only one of the lymphedema
      assessment scale, ''Lymphedema Quality of Life Inventory'', has been investigated.
      Responsiveness of lymphedema assessment scales validated in Turkish has not been examined in
      detail, thereby limiting their use in clinical trials. Therefore, the aim of this study is to
      investigate and compare responsiveness of current lymphedema assessment scales validated in
      Turkish. Patients with breast cancer related lymphedema with International Society of
      Lymphology-ISL lymphedema stage 2,3 will be included in the study and will receive complex
      decongestive therapy phase I including meticulous skin and nail care, manuel lymphatic
      drainage, compression bandages, and remedial exercises. All patients will receive manual
      lymphatic drainage for three times a week (Monday-Wednesday-Friday) during 4 weeks, 50
      minutes a day (a total of 12 sessions) by a trained lymphatic massage therapist. Limb volume
      will be calculated based on truncated cone method from circumference measurements. Patients
      will complete Lymphedema Life Impact Scale (LLIS), Patient Benefit Index-Lymphedema(PBI),
      Lymphedema functioning, disability and health questionnaire(Lymph-ICF), European Organization
      for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Breast Cancer (EORTC-QLQ-30) and Short
      Form 36 (SF-36) before and after treatment. Changes in limb volumes will be compared in
      changes in scales after treatment. Responsiveness of the subscales will be will be determined
      by calculating the effect size (change in all patients), standardized mean response (effect
      size in a group with improvement), and Guyatt's Responsiveness Index.
    
  