
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the effect of second-line treatment with CRLX101 (cyclodextrin-based
      polymer-camptothecin CRLX101) compared to intravenous (IV) topotecan hydrochloride
      (topotecan) on progression free survival (PFS) of patients with extensive-stage small cell
      lung cancer (ES-SCLC) sensitive to first-line platinum-based chemotherapy.

      II. To evaluate the effect of second-line treatment with CRLX101 on the three-month PFS rate
      of patients with ES-SCLC resistant to first-line platinum-based chemotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the response rate of second-line treatment with CRLX101 in patients with
      ES-SCLC who are sensitive or resistant to first-line platinum-based chemotherapy.

      II. To evaluate the effect of second-line treatment with CRLX101 compared to IV topotecan on
      overall survival (OS) of patients with ES-SCLC sensitive to first-line platinum-based
      chemotherapy.

      III. To assess the overall survival of second-line treatment with CRLX101 in patients with
      ES-SCLC resistant to first-line platinum-based chemotherapy.

      IV. To assess the toxicity of second-line CRLX101 in patients sensitive or resistant to
      first-line platinum-based chemotherapy.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

      COHORT A (Sensitive Relapse): Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive topotecan hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days
      1-5. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive cyclodextrin-based polymer-camptothecin CRLX101 IV over 60 minutes on
      days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      COHORT B (Resistant Relapse): Patients receive cyclodextrin-based polymer-camptothecin
      CRLX101 as in Arm B Cohort A. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks and then every 3
      months thereafter.
    
  