
    
      Introduction:

      Spinal cord injury has a profound impact on the lives of those affected. Quality of life is
      restricted not only by immobility but also by severe neurogenic bladder and bowel
      dysfunction. For example, 66% of spinal cord injury (SCI) patients have to empty their rectum
      digitally, 75% suffer from faecal incontinence and 9% spend more than 60 minutes each time
      they defecate. Neurological impairment due to SCI is permanent and the average age at injury
      is only 28 years. The longevity of individuals with SCI is approaching that of the general
      population and, accordingly, most patients have to live for several decades with severe
      bladder and bowel symptoms. It is estimated that the number of individuals with SCI in
      Denmark is 3.000 and each year 10.000 persons in the European Union sustain a SCI. Even
      though clean intermittent catheterization has successfully reduced mortality due to urinary
      tract infections or reflux and though several new treatment modalities for neurogenic bowel
      dysfunction have been introduced, both bladder and bowel dysfunction still rank among the top
      three causes of impairment of quality of life after SCI.

      Somato-sensory reflex arch:

      The concept was pioneered by professor Xiao. Animal studies and basic clinical research were
      performed in the United States and later human clinical studies have been done in Wuhan,
      China. The surgical procedure principle can briefly be summarized as follows:

      All spinal nerves have an anterior efferent root and a posterior afferent root. For the
      somato-sensory reflex arch (or "Xiao procedure") the posterior (afferent or sensory) root of
      the 5th lumbar nerve (L5) is kept while the anterior root is cut and anastomosed to the
      anterior root of a lower segment, usually the third sacral segment (S3). Thereby, a new
      reflex arch has been created from the skin of the leg through the sensory part of L5 to the
      spinal cord and further through the anastomosis via S2 or S3 to the bladder and bowel. Strong
      stimuli at the L5 dermatome, i.e. scratching or electrical stimulation, will then initiate
      voiding (6,7). Effects of the somato-sensory reflex arch on neurogenic bowel dysfunction have
      not been studied, but clinical experience indicates that bowel management is substantially
      facilitated.

      The Xiao procedure introduces a completely new concept for management of spinal cord lesions
      and it has been greeted with optimism worldwide. The number of patients operated in China
      alone is now more than 3.000 and centres in the United States, Germany and Israel have
      introduced or modified it. Furthermore, centres in Australia, Finland and Denmark plan to
      introduce it within the present year. There are, however, serious concerns that need to be
      addressed:

        1. Clinical follow-up has only been done in very few patients and physiological studies
           after the procedure are equally few and small.

        2. In spite of the very large number of patients operated in China logistic or cultural
           factors have prohibited effective follow-up.

        3. A minor improvement in bladder and bowel function may be important to a Chinese patient
           without access to other treatment but it is unknown whether the Xiao procedure will be
           an advantage to patients in a western healthcare system.

        4. The mode of action of the somato-sensory reflex arch is very incompletely studied and
           the mode of action on bowel function not studied at all.

      Before the widespread use of somato-sensory reflex arch we find it of utmost importance that
      well designed studies with validated or even objective endpoints are performed. Results of
      such studies will have an international impact in either defining indications for a
      completely new treatment principle or, otherwise, in preventing the widespread use of an
      ineffective treatment.

      Hypotheses:

      In March 2009 the core members of our multidisciplinary study team went on a study tour to
      Wuhan, China. In Wuhan a staggering number of 600 patients had the somato-sensory reflex arch
      procedure performed in 2008. Based on experience from our visit we pose the following
      hypotheses:

        1. Somato-sensory reflex arch increases colorectal transport between defecations.

        2. Somato-sensory reflex arch improves colorectal emptying at defecation.

      Patients and Methods:

      Spinal cord injured patients

      Internationally, two indications for the somato-sensory reflex arch are emerging:

        1. Adult patients with bladder dysfunction due supraconal SCI (above the medullar conus)
           and

        2. Children with bladder dysfunction due to spinal bifida. Most children with spinal bifida
           have motor incomplete lesions and, accordingly, the surgical procedure carries a risk of
           long-lasting or even permanent loss of motor function - typically loss of dorsiflexion
           of the foot. Whether results from the procedure justify that risk remains to be
           determined. In contrast, patients with motor complete supraconal SCI, and thereby
           complete loss of voluntary muscle function below the level of injury, do not run that
           risk. Therefore, it has been decided that patients in group a) above will be offered the
           procedure at the Department of Neurosurgery. Initially, 20 patients will undergo the
           procedure. As the method is new, surgery and follow-up will be performed under strict
           monitoring with emphasis on neurophysiologic testing and potential complications.
           Approval will be obtained from the Ethics Committee, patients will be very carefully
           informed by the neurosurgeon and informed consent will be signed.

      Surgical procedure:

      The relatively minor surgical procedure has been described in previously. In summary: A
      hemilaminectomy of L5-S1 is performed. By means of neurophysiology testing the 5th lumbar
      root and 2nd or 3rd sacral roots are identified on one side. The perineurium is opened and
      the motor roots are separated from the sensory. The motor roots are transsected and a
      microanastomosis is created between L5 and S2 or S3. After surgery sprouting occurs and after
      12-18 months the reflex arch is functional. Time till clinical effect is therefore also 12-18
      months. The advantage of the procedure is that it is performed through a hemilaminectomy of
      only two segments and the surgical stress in relatively small. The patients are expected to
      be in their habitual condition within 48 hours.

      Post surgical monitoring:

      Even if patients void during somato-autonomic reflex arch stimulation, they usually do not
      defecate. In spite of this, it is the clinical experience in China that bowel function
      improves significantly. This is possible because the left colon and rectum receive
      stimulatory parasympathetic innervation from the same spinal cord segments (S2-S4) as the
      bladder. It has been shown in several papers, including some from our own group, that colonic
      transit times are significantly prolonged in SCI patients. Somato-autonomic reflex
      stimulation may therefore improve bowel function by increasing colorectal transport during
      stimulation even in the absence of defecation. As most patients stimulate several times each
      day the cumulative effect on the colorectum may be considerable and facilitate colorectal
      emptying when it is otherwise induced.

      Our centre has been leading internationally in developing scintigraphic techniques for
      assessment of colorectal transport at defecation and previously we have found that patients
      with low SCI have extremely reduced colorectal emptying at defecation. We find that our
      scintigraphic technique is extremely well suited for the study of colorectal effects from the
      Xiao procedure.

      Scintigraphic procedure:

      The total gastrointestinal and segmental colonic transit times of each individual is
      determined. Based on this information two doses of 111Indium are taken on day-1 (2.6 MBq) and
      on day-2 or-3 (3.3 MBq). On day-0 patients arrive at our Department of Nuclear medicine at 8
      A.M. A double headed Picker Gamma camera is used to image the whole abdomen for ten minutes
      with patients lying flat on their back (period 1). Then another ten minutes recording will be
      performed while the relevant dermatome for the somato-autonomic reflex arch is stimulated
      (period 2). Then subjects are allowed a standardized meal to stimulate the gastrocolonic
      reflex. Within 30 minutes SCI subjects initiate defecation in their standard way (through
      staining, digital stimulation, suppositories or micro enema) while sitting at the toilet.
      Finally, another ten minutes recording is performed to determine colorectal contents after
      defecation (period 3). The number of counts for each of the ten minutes periods is
      approximately 80.000. Comparison of the number of counts in each of four segments (the
      coecum/ascending colon, the transverse colon, the descending colon and the rectosigmoid)
      allows highly specific description of luminal colorectal transport during stimulation or at
      defecation. All subjects will only be studied twice: Before surgery and after 18 months.
      Based on this relatively simple experiment the following three sub-studies can be published:

      B1)Colorectal transport at defecation in patients with spinal cord lesions By comparing
      results from scintigraphy before surgery in patients with supraconal SCI with our previous
      results among healthy volunteers and patients with low SCI valuable information about
      colorectal dysfunction in SCI will be obtained.

      B2)Colorectal transport during somato-autonomic reflex stimulation By comparing the
      localization of colorectal contents in periods 1 and 2 before both surgery and after 18
      months very detailed information about colorectal transport during somato-autonomic reflex
      stimulation will be provided.

      B3)Colorectal emptying at defecation after somato-autonomic reflex stimulation Substraction
      of counts in period 3 from those registered in period 2 differences between colorectal
      emptying and segmental transport at defecation before and after creation of the reflex arch
      will give detailed objective information about the effects of the Xiao procedure on
      colorectal emptying.
    
  