
    
      Behçet's disease (BD) is a systemic vasculitis, characterized by recurrent oral aphthae,
      genital ulcers, uveitis, skin lesions, arthritis, gastrointestinal and neurologic
      manifestations. There has been a growing interest in research on the pathogenesis of the
      disease. Eosinophils has been implicated in the vascular injury associated with several
      vasculitis syndromes like Churg Strauss syndrome, temporal arteritis and Henoch-Schonlein
      purpura. In Behçet patients, serum IgE and eosinophils have been reported to be comparable
      with the controls but eosinophil activity has not been studied extensively. Eosinophil
      cationic protein (ECP) is a matrix protein of specific granules of eosinophils with
      considerable capacity to damage tissue and cells and has been reported to reflect eosinophil
      activity. Increased serum levels of ECP has been reported in patients with seasonal allergic
      rhinitis. Several immunomodulatory features of ECP has been reported, such as inhibition of
      the proliferative T-lymphocyte response to antigen, immunoglobulin production, proliferation
      of plasma cell lines and upregulation of ICAM-1. Procoagulant effects of ECP has also been
      reported. The present study was conducted in patients without usage of any confounding drugs
      that can effect serum ECP levels. The purpose of this study was to investigate the serum ECP
      levels in BD and its relation to the clinical activity.

      Forty-seven consecutive patients with BD (22 active, 25 inactive) meeting International Study
      Group Criteria , 21 age and sex matched patients with allergic rhinitis and 21 apparently
      healthy controls were evaluated prospectively in Rheumatology-Immunology Outpatient Clinic.
      Clinical activity was defined according to the criteria proposed by "Behcet's Disease
      Research Committee of Japan" . Activity scoring was made according to the "Behçet's Disease
      Research Committee of Japan" which was proposed in 1994. Organ involvements of the patients
      were summarized.

      Patients on corticosteroids or immunosuppressives were excluded. Colchicine was stopped 10
      days prior to the blood collection in inactive patients. Blood was drawn from the active
      patients before starting treatment. Cases with any allergy history or parasitosis were
      excluded.
    
  