
    
      60 healthy subjects will be randomly allocated to one of three groups: (a) 15- min of
      High-Definition transcranial direct current stimulation (HD-tDCS) on primary somatosensory
      cortex (S1) with an intensity of 1 milliampere (mA) (HD-tDCS S1); (b) 15-min of HD-tDCS on
      primary motor cortex (M1) with an intensity of 1 mA (HD-tDCS M1); and (c) 15-min of sham
      HD-tDCS (HD-tDCS sham).

      The stimulation will be administered noninvasively using an M x N 9-channel high definition
      transcranial electrical current stimulator from Soterix Medical (New York, NY). In the
      HD-tDCS S1 group, the anodal stimulation will target the right postcentral gyrus. In the
      HD-tDCS M1 group, the anodal stimulation will target the right primary motor cortex (brodmann
      area 4). The location of the electrodes will be placed based on HD-Targets brain modelling
      software (Soterix Medical, New York, NY).

      Tests (motor and sensory tasks): The non-dominant left arm will be tested. Motor task: The
      subjects will perform a sequential point-to-point movement task on the graphics tablet.
      Initially, the participants will be required to perform 3 sequences without errors to
      familiarize themselves with the setup, the task and the sequence. Then, they will perform the
      pre-test which consists of two blocks of 6 sequences, i.e. 12 sequences, with a 30 s break
      between blocks. Two min after starting the appropriate stimulation, they will perform 2
      blocks of 6 sequences (identical to the pre-test). After finishing the tDCS stimulation, the
      participants will perform a post-test, which is also identical to the pre-test. Three outcome
      measures will be used: movement time (s), reaction time (s) and straight line deviation (cm)
      of the reaching movements. Sensory tasks: discriminative task (two point orientation
      discrimination) and proprioception task will be included. The sensory tasks will be performed
      with eyes blindfolded. In the discriminative task the experimenter will deliver a stimuli by
      a two-pronged instrument at intervals of 2,3,4,5 mm to the distal phalanx of fingers 2 and 5
      of the left hand. The stimulus will be oriented either across or down (total of 16 stimuli).
      Subjects will be asked to Identify the orientation of the stimulation. The outcome measure
      will be the percentage of correct answers. In the proprioceptive task, the subjects will
      perform a one direction point-to-point (target) movement task on the graphics tablet. The
      task will include 20 movements, 10 passive movements and 10 active movements. After every
      passive movement with eyes blindfolded, the subject will be asked to perform a similar active
      movement. Initially, the participants will be asked to perform four movements to familiarize
      themselves with the setup (the first two movements will be passive and active movements with
      eyes open, and the following two movements will be passive and active movements with eyes
      blindfolded). The outcome measure will be the end point error (cm) which is the distance
      between the target and the actual arrival location.
    
  