
    
      This clinical trial is for men with progressive metastatic castration resistant prostate
      cancer. The purpose of this study is to find the highest dose level of the study drug,
      225Ac-J591 that can be given without severe side effects. The research study is being done
      because the standard treatments for prostate cancer that has spread beyond the prostate gland
      are intended to minimize the adverse effects of the disease. These treatments, however, are
      not curative. Patients who choose to participate in this study will have a screening visit to
      determine whether or not they are eligible to participate in the study. The treatment phase
      is comprised of 8 weeks for the fractionated dose cohort and 8 weeks past last dose of
      225Ac-J591 for the multiple dose regimen (for subjects receiving 4 cycles, 26 weeks is
      expected). Following treatment, short-term follow up is planned until radiographic
      progression, expected to be 6 months.The study medication is called 225Ac-J591, and will be
      administered as a single fractionated cycle day 1 and day 15 in the fractionated dose regimen
      and as a single dose per cycle repeated every 6 weeks in the multiple dose regimen. Upon
      completion of investigational treatment with 225Ac-J591, subjects will undergo
      68Ga-PSMA-HBED-CC injection and same day PET/CT/ at the end of study visit to document
      treatment response. 68Ga-PSMA-HBED-CC is comprised of gallium-68, which is a PET emitting
      radionuclide linked to PSMA-HBED-CC (aka PSMA11), which is a small molecule targeting PSMA.
      68Ga-PSMA-HBED-CC will be administered intravenously prior to PET/CT at screening and at
      follow up imaging x2. Subsequently survival data and additional treatment(s) information will
      be captured from their routine Standard of care (SOC) visits.During the other study visits,
      participants will undergo routine tests and procedures, such as physical examinations, and
      routine blood tests. Some blood tests will be done for research purposes only. After
      completion of therapy, participants may be contacted on a periodic basis to see how they are
      doing.

      Key eligibility:

        -  Open to men age 18 and older.

        -  Diagnosis of progressive metastatic prostate cancer

        -  Have been previously treated for their disease with particular types of therapy
    
  