
    
      The population of this study included women with GDM who received treatment in the
      perinatology clinic of the Istanbul Zeynep Kamil Hospital, Turkey in 2015. The records showed
      that 350 women with GDM were referred to the perinatology clinic in that period. The sample
      size was calculated using Power and Sample Size Program, with 80% power and a 0.05 margin of
      error, and it was determined that both the intervention and the control group should include
      at least 30 women with GDM. It was considered appropriate that 50 women with GDM be included
      in each group.

      At the end of this study 46 women were in the intervention group and 42 women were in the
      control group.

      The patients followed up in the perinatology clinic were assigned to groups through
      randomization (drawing lots by the clinic nurse). Data collector checked patients in the
      perinatology clinic daily. If there were more than one patient who met the inclusion
      criteria, it was determined which group to take with the lottery method. When there was only
      one woman with GDM in the clinic, it was determined which group to take with the lot but the
      next patient was taken directly to the opposite group. When two patients were in the same
      room, they were taken into the same group in order not to have any ethical problems. Detailed
      information was given to the women who met inclusion criteria and their consent was obtained
      using an Informed Voluntary Consent Form. The women in the both group were administered the
      introductory information form, the Health-Promoting Lifestyle Profile II (HPLP-II), the
      Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D) and the Short Form 36 Health Survey
      (SF-36) in the first assessment.

      The education program and also usual care applied to the intervention group. The education
      program consisted of three 45-min sessions, which included a face-to-face lecture with the
      dissemination and presentation of written and visual materials. Also each participant in the
      intervention group was given the Health-Promoting Lifestyle Booklet and the Diary of a Woman
      with GDM card. The booklet features all of the health-promoting practices (self-monitoring of
      blood glucose, nutrition, physical activity, stress, sleeping, smoking, self-care and
      breastfeeding). The Diary of a Woman with GDM card features the daily program that women
      should follow (the hours for main meals and snacks, insulin hours, etc.). The education and
      counseling were maintained through follow-up via phone for intervention group.

      The women in the control group which receiving only usual care were followed according to the
      institution's routine diabetes follow-up protocol (monitoring blood glucose levels as
      frequently as indicated by the doctor, and patients are referred to dietitian and to diabetes
      nurse).

      To assess the effectiveness of the educational program, the HPLP-II, CES-D and SF-36 were
      re-administered to the intervention group four weeks after the first assessment (second
      assessment). The HPLP-II, CES-D and SF-36 were re-administered to the both groups in the
      postpartum 6th week (third assessment).
    
  