
    
      Methods and Study Design

      The study will plans to enroll approximately 21 subjects over the next 6-12 months for this
      study.

      Subjects with low grade lymphoma with confirmed diagnosis of hepatitis C with a viral load >
      1000 will be included in this study. Subjects may be treatment naïve or experienced to
      hepatitis C therapy, however subjects must be treatment naïve to non-Hodgkin's lymphoma
      treatment to be included in this study. All subjects will undergo staging studies at the time
      of study screening which will include a whole body scans and a bone marrow biopsy. In those
      with a prior bone marrow biopsy, those who had bone marrow involvement and biopsy was <3
      months from screening, then an additional biopsy is not needed. If bone marrow biopsy did not
      show bone marrow involvement, a repeat bone marrow biopsy is needed at screening. If complete
      data is not available from a prior biopsy, a repeat bone marrow biopsy will need to be done.
      In addition, patients will have staging of liver disease by serologic markers of liver
      inflammation, such as aspartate aminotransferase (AST) to platelet ratio (APRI) and
      FibroTest® or (Fibro Sure®) or FibroScan®. If these methods are inconclusive, then a liver
      biopsy may be obtained to determine if the patient has cirrhosis. Patients will be treated
      regardless of stage of fibrosis. The rationale for examining cirrhosis is that these patients
      may not respond as well and will require further surveillance for hepatocellular cancer every
      6 months. Additionally, hepatitis C viral load and genotype will be determined prior to
      initiation of hepatitis C treatment.

      Setting:

      This will be a multi- center study conducted at University of Texas Southwestern Medical
      Center, Cornell Medical Center, and Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. Each site would
      be expected to enroll 7 subjects in 6-12 months.

      Treatment

      Genotype 1:

      Treatment Naïve, with or without cirrhosis: sofosbuvir/ledipasvir one pill once a day for 12
      weeks.

      Treatment experienced, with cirrhosis: sofosbuvir/ledipasvir one pill once a day with
      weight-based ribavirin for 12 weeks. Weight-based ribavirin refers to use 1200 mg of
      ribavirin in divided doses for those ≥75 kg and 1000 mg in divided dose for those <75kg.

      Treatment experienced with cirrhosis : sofosbuvir/ledipasvir one pill once a day for 24
      weeks. This option is for subjects who are unable to take ribavirin.

      Genotype 2:

      Treatment naïve or experienced without cirrhosis: sofosbuvir 400mg once daily and ribavirin
      1000/1200 mg weight-based dosing in divided dose twice a day for 12 weeks.Treatment naïve or
      experienced with cirrhosis: sofosbuvir 400 mg and weight-based ribavirin for 16 weeks

      Genotype 3:

      Treatment naïve, non-cirrhotic: sofosbuvir/ledipasvir fixed dose combination combined with
      weight-based ribavirin for 12 weeks or treatment naïve with cirrhosis: sofosbuvir 400 mg
      daily with weight-based ribavirin for 24 weeks.

      Treatment experienced with cirrhosis will be excluded as the best treatment for this
      population would require pegylated interferon.

      Genotype 4:

      Treatment naïve with or without cirrhosis or treatment experienced without cirrhosis:
      sofosbuvir/Ledipasvir fixed dose combination for 12 weeks.

      Treatment experienced with cirrhosis: sofosbuvir/ledipasvir for 24 weeks.
    
  