
    
      Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a prevalent disorder in military samples associated
      with adverse emotional and health impacts and enormous health care costs, and it is often
      resistant to treatment. Identification of PTSD-related factors that contribute to poor
      clinical and health outcomes is imperative to refine treatment strategies. Post deployment
      -related sleep disturbances constitute one of the factors that contribute to poor clinical
      and health outcomes. PTSD symptoms persist during sleep, but little clinical attention is
      typically devoted to nighttime symptoms. Other deployment related stress reactions are
      associated with sleep disturbances. Sleep disturbances are resistant to traditional PTSD
      treatments. There is emerging evidence that adjunct sleep-focused interventions
      (pharmacological or behavioral) are associated with improvements in sleep, daytime
      symptomatology, general emotional well being, and functioning. Therefore, sleep focused
      interventions may enhance treatment response and clinical outcomes in individuals exposed to
      trauma with consequent sleep disturbances. However, the efficacy and durability of adjunct
      sleep interventions have not been formally evaluated and compared. In this study, we aim at
      comparing the efficacy and durability of interventions targeting sleep disturbances that
      occurred in relation to military service and or military deployment.

      The overarching objective of this study is to investigate and compare the efficacy and
      durability of adjunct sleep-focused interventions on sleep, daytime PTSD symptomatology, and
      mood in a sample of 90 male and female veterans who experience nightmares and insomnia. The
      specific aims and hypotheses are: 1. To investigate the efficacy of prazosin, integrated
      behavioral sleep intervention (IBSI), and placebo (PLA) on post deployment-related sleep
      disturbances; 2. To compare the efficacy of pharmacological and behavioral interventions
      adjunct sleep focused interventions; 3. To evaluate and compare the durability of active
      sleep-focused interventions on sleep, daytime PTSD symptoms, mood, and anxiety by conducting
      a naturalistic follow-up assessment 4 months after the end-of-treatment assessment. A
      secondary aim is to identify demographic, psychosocial, and clinical predictors of sleep
      treatment response in military veterans.

      Participants will be recruited from the Pittsburgh VA Health Care System clinics and
      services. Treatments will be administered over an eight-week period for all conditions.
      Primary outcome measures include (1) Sleep Quality as determined by polysomnographic (sleep)
      recordings, and global scores on the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) and PSQI Addendum
      for PTSD (PSQI-A). Sleep response will be defined as a sleep latency < 30 minutes, and wake
      time after sleep onset < 30 minutes, and a sleep efficiency > 85% as determined by sleep
      diaries and in-home sleep studies, or a decrease in > 5 points on the Pittsburgh Sleep
      Quality Index. Secondary outcome measures include PTSD symptom severity as determined by the
      Clinician-Administered PTSD scale, Part 2, and the self-report PTSD Symptom
      Checklist-Military version; depression severity (as determined by the Beck Depression
      Inventory) anxiety (Beck Anxiety Inventory), (4) health-related quality of life (SF-36). A
      naturalistic follow-up assessment will be conducted four months post-treatment.

      The proposed study will contribute to the development of effective therapeutic strategies for
      PTSD. This study will provide novel information regarding predictors of sleep treatment
      response in PTSD, which will contribute to facilitating care management in PTSD.
    
  