
    
      Extracellular RNAs (exRNAs) impact a wide range of biological processes and function to
      transfer genetic information between cells. In doing so, exRNAs affect cell-to-cell
      communications. Recent studies indicate that exRNAs are associated with a variety of
      diseases. Emerging data from elderly participants in the Framingham Heart Study (FHS)
      demonstrate that circulating levels of exRNA are correlated with several key traits including
      age, sex, and body mass index. Much more work is needed to determine the extent to which
      exRNAs are associated with a variety of clinically relevant traits across the age spectrum.
      We seek to measure a 665 exRNAs spanning a variety of classes in plasma from 4095 young to
      middle-aged adult participants in the Third Generation cohort of the FHS and to relate them
      to age, sex, and cardiometabolic risk factors (BMI, lipids, blood pressure, and fasting
      glucose) in cross-sectional analyses and to determine the relations of these exRNAs measured
      at baseline to serial changes in cardiometabolic risk factors during seven years of follow
      up. We also seek to relate exRNAs to subclinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease
      (ASCVD; assessed via multidetector CT measures of coronary artery calcium), and its
      progression during seven years of follow up. This grant application will establish an
      association of exRNAs with clinically relevant traits and diseases and will establish their
      utility as biomarkers of risk for cardiometabolic disease and subclinical ASCVD. To this end,
      we propose three aims: 1) To identify associations of exRNAs with age, sex, and
      cardiometabolic risk factors and subclinical ASCVD at a baseline examination, 2) To identify
      associations of exRNAs with longitudinal changes in cardiometabolic risk factors and
      subclinical ASCVD during seven years of follow up, and 3) To explore the genetic regulation
      of exRNAs via analysis of whole genome sequence data. We demonstrate that we have adequate
      power to detect associations of exRNAs with cardiometabolic risk factors and subclinical
      atherosclerosis at baseline and with their longitudinal change during follow up.
    
  