
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, non-blind trial performed in the period from December 2005
      and January 2010 in the teaching hospitals affiliated with Mansoura University (Egypt) and a
      private practice setting (Delta Fertility Center, Egypt). Thirty eight patients were assessed
      for eligibility, 6 patients were excluded and 32 with uterine adenomyosis were included in
      the study. Patients included in the study were premenopausal women aged 18-42 years with
      adenomyosis with abnormal uterine bleeding, unexplained infertility, pelvic pain,
      dysmenorrhea, or pressure effect. Excluded subjects included women who had myoma(s) measuring
      >2 cm, women with uterine adenomyoma who were under treatment with any type of hormonal
      therapy more recently than 1 month, and women with a history of major medical problem and/or
      previous medical or surgical treatment for the problem.

      Patients were randomly allocated into two treatments groups (A and B) using a
      computer-generated random table. Group A received oral letrozole (2.5 mg/day, Femara,
      Novartis PharmaServices, Basel, Switzerland) and group B received goserelin subcutaneosly
      (3.6 mg/month, Zoladex@, Zeneka Pharma International, UK) for 12 weeks. Because, for
      technical reasons, GnRHa was supplied in vials and aromatase inhibitor in tablets, a
      double-blind study design was not feasible. Instead an assessor-blind design was chosen,
      whereby preparation and administration were performed by a person who did not take part in
      any decision concerning medication administration during the study. The study was approved by
      the ethics committee of the university and institutional Review Board (IRB), and each subject
      provided written informed consent before participating in the study. All subjects underwent
      baseline measurement, performed in the early follicular phase.

      An expert gynecologist performed all transvaginal ultrasound scans and analysis using D 4000
      (Honda, Japan) ultrasound machine with a 5.5-MHz vaginal probe. Ultrasound criteria used for
      diagnosis of adenomyosis included uterine enlargement in the absence of leiomyomas,
      asymmetric enlargement of the anterior or posterior myometrial wall, lack of contour
      abnormality or mass effect, heterogeneous, poorly circumcised areas within the myometrium,
      hyperechoic islands or nodules, finger-like projections or linear striations. After
      identification of the adenomyosis, its volume was calculated with a stepwise planimetry
      method using an integrated software program. Measurements for the whole uterine and the
      adenomyoma volumes were performed at baseline and during treatment at weeks 4, 8, and 12.
      Symptoms at the start and after 12 weeks of therapy were evaluated.
    
  