
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Interview black and Latina women about their reasons for choosing to have, or not to
           have, breast reconstruction after mastectomy for breast cancer.

        -  Describe the context in which black and Latina women make decisions about breast
           reconstruction.

        -  Explore similarities and differences in factors affecting decision-making among black
           and Latina women.

        -  Identify factors that contribute to the low utilization of breast reconstruction among
           ethnic minority women.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients undergo a 1-hour interview to evaluate their rationale for choosing to have, or not
      to have, breast reconstruction after mastectomy. Interviews are conducted by a woman of the
      same ethnic background as the patient. Key factors influencing a patient's decision to
      consider having breast reconstruction are explored during the interview, including
      availability of educational materials on breast reconstruction and the adequacy of this
      information. Patients are asked to examine personal factors influencing their decision, such
      as feelings about living with or without a reconstructed breast; concerns about
      reconstructive surgery and its risks; potential complications; and impact of reconstructive
      surgery on sexuality and body image. Social and cultural factors are also evaluated,
      including influence of family and friends; degree of support for the patient's decision to
      have surgery; racial or ethnic differences in patient's preferences; and cultural values.
      Access-related factors, such as financial cost, insurance availability, or physician referral
      practices, are also explored.

      At the end of the interview, patients may be referred to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer
      Center or Ralph Lauren Center for Cancer Care and Prevention for oncologic surveillance or
      for additional information on breast reconstruction. Patients may also be contacted after the
      interview to answer follow-up questions, to clarify topics previously discussed, or to
      provide further input or feedback on preliminary study findings.
    
  