
    
      Importance / Relevance:

      Psychiatric disorders are etiologically complex and clinically heterogeneous which makes them
      challenging to diagnose and effectively treat. Thus, they pose a huge societal burden and
      involve substantial costs in human and financial terms. Specifically in the U.S., mental
      health disorders including MDD and PTSD account for 6.2% of the nation's health care
      spending. Major depressive disorder and schizophrenia are listed by the World Health
      Organization as being among the top 10 leading causes of years lost due to disability.

      The primary means of treating major mental illness remains psychotropic-based, whether alone
      or in combination with psychotherapy. Despite an ever-growing number of medication options,
      however, outcomes remain significantly suboptimal. In the landmark Sequenced Treatment
      Alternatives to Relieve Depression (STAR*D) study, only 37% achieved remission with
      first-line therapy with a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), whereas 16.3%
      withdrew completely from treatment due to drug intolerance. In the Clinical Antipsychotic
      Trails of Intervention Effectiveness (CATIE), over 74% eventually discontinued study
      medication either because of lack of efficacy or tolerability. And in the Systematic
      Treatment Enhancement Program for Bipolar Disorder (STEP-BD) trial, up to 75% patients
      experienced symptoms relapse over the course of follow-up.

      With the advent of the genomics revolution, and precision and personalized medicine,
      tailoring patients' medication treatment to their individual pharmacokinetic and
      pharmacodynamic characteristics is being increasingly embraced by various fields of medicine.
      Testing is currently available for cardiovascular, cancer, autoimmune, infectious, and
      psychiatric illnesses, etc. In fact, over 140 US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved
      drugs have pharmacogenomic-based guidelines; at least 27 of these are psychotropics,
      including Celexa for which the FDA specially recommend dose-reduction for P450 CYP2C19 poor
      metabolizers due to the risk of QT prolongation (FDA, 2014). Yet the vast majority of
      Celexa-prescribing clinicians are unaware of which of their patients are among the 3% of poor
      metabolizers or the 20% of the intermediate metabolizers who are also at increased risk.

      Genomind, a Pennsylvania-based personalized medicine company, provides genetic testing with
      the Genecept™ Assay that can help clinicians optimize treatment for their patients with
      mental illness. This test is an alternative to the traditional trial and error approach to
      psychiatric drug prescribing which fails approximately 50% of the time.

      The Genecept Assay identifies patient-specific genetic markers that indicate which treatments
      are likely to work as intended, be ineffective, or cause adverse effects. The assay is easily
      administered by a cheek swab test and analyzes variations in key genes that can inform
      treatment decisions. The assay is used to guide treatment for a broad range of psychiatric
      conditions including depression, anxiety, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), attention
      deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), bipolar disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder
      (PTSD), autism, schizophrenia, chronic pain and substance abuse. Each test provides
      clinicians with an easy-to-read patient report and complimentary psychopharmacogenomic
      consultation with Genomind's expert scientific staff (including Physicians, PhDs, and
      PharmDs). Additionally, the assay has been shown in peer reviewed published studies to
      improve patient outcomes and reduce overall medical costs.

      Brief summary of procedures and recruitment:

      This is a six month naturalistic prospective, randomized, open label study of pharmacogenetic
      testing and clinical outcomes in inpatients across diagnoses, including Treatment Resistant
      Depression (TRD) with or without Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), recruiting from the
      Short Term Unit at McLean Hospital.

      Specifically the investigators will enroll 200 inpatient subjects over 2 years who will
      donate saliva/undergo a cheek swab to collect DNA for the Genecept assay. For 100 patients in
      the assay-guided group, treating Clinicians will receive the Genecept report prior to patient
      discharge and use it to guide psychoeducation and medication management. For the additional
      100 inpatients, treating clinicians will not receive the report during the patient's
      inpatient stay (treatment as usual. Clinicians will receive the assay report for patients in
      the treatment-as-usual group at the 3-month followup period. Thus this group will serve as
      the control group for the outcomes related to Genecept-guided decision making.

      Primary Objectives:

      Objective 1: Does Inpatient Genetic Testing Improve Symptoms at Follow-up: This aim will test
      if, by the 3-month follow-up, inpatient psychopharmacogenetic testing will reduce symptoms of
      depression and anxiety.

      Objective 2: Does Inpatient Genetic Testing Improve Readmission: This aim will test if, by
      the 3-month follow-up, inpatient psychopharmacogenetic testing will reduce frequency of
      inpatient readmission.

      Secondary Objectives:

      Objective 3: Does Inpatient Genetic Testing Improve Discharge Measures: This aim will test
      if, by discharge, inpatient psychopharmagogenetic testing enhances measures of patient
      satisfaction, and symptom measurement.

      Objective 4: Does Inpatient Genetic Testing Improve Follow-up Measures: This aim will test
      if, by the time of 3-month and 6-month follow-up, inpatient psychopharmacogenetic testing
      will increase measures of follow-up treatment compliance, reduce time to stable medication
      regimen; and suicide attempts; reduce self-medication with substance of abuse.

      Objective 5: Does Inpatient Genetic Testing Improve Medication Management: This aim will
      test, if when examined retrospectively across the discharge and 3-month data and 6-month
      data, inpatient psychopharmacogenetic testing will improve medication adherence, reduce
      number of medication trials, and reduce time-to-effective dose.
    
  