
    
      The effect of platelet-rich plasma prolotherapy on the pain score and frequency of luxation
      in temporomandibular joint subluxation. A prospective randomized placebo controlled trial

        -  After detailed clinical evaluation, every patient will undergo routine preoperative
           laboratory tests (complete blood cell count, HCV , HBV , Tomogram of TMJ examination).
           In cases in which special diagnostic procedures will be needed for more detailed
           evaluation of the patients, they will also be performed.

        -  All cases will undergo to withdraw 40 ml of blood from the patient's upper limb cubital
           vein using an 18G needle, subsequently 5 ml of citrate sodium solution is added to the
           sample as an anticoagulant. One milliliter of the blood sample will be sent for complete
           blood count.

        -  To prepare of high concentration PRP the blood sample will be then centrifuged for 15
           minutes at 1600 rpm resulting in three layers: the lower layer made up of red blood
           cells, the intermediate layer is composed of white blood cells, and the upper layer is
           composed of plasma. The Buffy coat layer and the plasma layer will be later collected
           and centrifuged for another 7 minutes at 2800 rpm in order to concentrate platelets. The
           final product will be about 4-6 mL of PRP containing leukocytes.

        -  the skin surface of the preauricular area will be disinfected with Betadine surgical
           scrub solution. The anatomic landmarks will be located by asking the patient to open
           widely to allow drawing of the articular fossa and then to close lightly on the
           posterior teeth to draw the condyle within the glenoid fossa.

        -  Typically, each joint had 3 injection sites:

        -  The needle will be inserted at lateral margin of the glenoid fossa and 0.5 ml of the PRP
           will be slowly injected at the superior capsular attachment .Then needle will be
           directed immediately under the lateral margin of the glenoid fossa superiorly and
           medially toward the apex of the fossa.1ml of the PRP will be then slowly injected into
           the superior joint space

        -  The needle will be inserted at the condylar neck and 0.5 ml of the PRP will be injected
           at the inferior capsular attachment. Then needle will be directed superficial to the TMJ
           capsule, 0.5 ml of the PRP will be deposited as needle will be withdrawn.

        -  patients in the placebo group received injections of placebo (saline) using the same
           volume on the same schedule.

        -  Post operative care and instructions:

        -  Bleeding from the injection sites will be generally minimal and could be controlled with
           direct pressure on the injection site for a few seconds.

        -  All patients will be advised to take "paracetamol", one tablet when needed and to stop
           the use of other pain and anti-inflammatory drugs during the treatment phase.

        -  Each patient will be instructed to receive soft diet only for two weeks in order to
           decrease the effort upon TMJ .
    
  