
    
      Background:

      Primary brain tumors are an increasingly important cause of cancer-related morbidity and
      mortality in this country. Little progress has been made in the treatment of patients with
      gliomas over the last decade. One of the largest problems in our understanding, and
      ultimately in our successful treatment of gliomas is the great heterogeneity between tumors.

      Objective:

      The purpose of this study is to generate a large publicly accessible molecular and genetic
      database with prospective corollary clinical data for 1000 gliomas for the purpose of
      allowing investigators from around the world to ask important questions regarding the
      pathogenesis of these tumors, the development of novel molecular classification schemas, and
      the identification of potentially new and important therapeutic targets.

      To substantially enlarge the growing glioma genomic and corollary clinical database currently
      being generated by the Glioma Molecular Diagnostic Initiative (GMDI) and recorded in the
      Repository of Malignant Brain Tumor Database (REMBRANDT), through the accrual of any
      potential glioma patient with banked formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue blocks
      rather than restricting accrual to only those patients undergoing surgical resection of their
      tumor. (NCI Only)

      Cell lines will be created using glioma tissue harvested during surgery. The cell lines will
      be used for research in the NOB laboratory as well as to advance the public s scientific
      knowledge by making them available to intramural, extramural and private sector investigators
      for their own research. This would be done after executing a Material Transfer Agreement
      (MTA) as needed on a case by case basis. The PI of this study should be contacted directly
      for initiation of a cell line transfer to another organization or investigator. (NCI Only)

      Eligibility:

      Any patient with radiographic suggestion of a primary glial neoplasm or any patient with a
      known glial neoplasm.

      Medically indicated (diagnostic and/or therapeutic) tumor resection, or biopsy.

      Design:

      All attempts will be made to obtain specimens immediately adjacent to the areas of resection
      taken for "permanent sections" in order to optimize the likelihood that the tumor seen on
      permanent sections is representative of that taken for genetic analysis.

      Once tumor specimens have been acquired, they will be immediately brought to a liquid
      nitrogen cell/tissue storage container, -70/-80 degrees C, or -20 degrees C freezer (in order
      of preference) for storage.

      Following storage of the specimens, the NCI-based study specimen coordinator will be
      contacted for determination of when frozen specimens will be sent to the NCI for analysis.

      10 ml of whole blood will be obtained for analysis of SNP Analogs.

      Patients will be evaluated every 6 months at a minimum.

      A total of 1000 patients will be enrolled.
    
  