
    
      This project is designed as a prospective, single-center observational study. The cohort will
      consist of 600 consenting subjects ≥ 65 years of age that agree to have a study investigator
      speak with them during their preoperative evaluation prior to elective spine surgery. These
      ages are chosen as significant clinical data demonstrate increased cognitive impairment in
      community dwelling elders. Eligibility criteria include: patients ≥ 65 years of age with an
      American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) physical status classification of I-III
      presenting for elective spinal surgery. Exclusion criteria will include history of stroke
      (not including transient ischemic attacks, or TIAs) or brain tumor, a history of autoimmune
      disorders, medications likely to significantly impact inflammation (e.g. steroids), current
      infection, uncorrected vision or hearing impairment (unable to see pictures or read or hear
      instructions); limited use of the dominant hand (limited ability to draw); and or inability
      to speak, read, or understand English.

      Patients will be introduced to the study through a flyer provided to them as part of a packet
      from their surgeon's office. A study team member will speak with those who have agreed during
      their preoperative evaluation to discuss studies from the department of Anesthesiology and
      satisfy eligibility criteria. After obtaining informed verbal consent over the telephone,
      study staff will gain information about the patient's age and years of education. Study staff
      will conduct the following preoperative measures over the telephone: the Geriatric Depression
      Scale-Short (GDS), the Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI), the Visual Analog Scale for Pain (VAS),
      the Fatigue, Resistance, Ambulation, Illness, and Loss of Weight scale (FRAIL), Instrumental
      Activities of daily living (IADLs), the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI), the World Health
      Organization Disability Assessment Schedule (WHODAS). In addition, all patients will be asked
      if they've had a fall within the last 6 months, whether they've been evaluated for a change
      in memory or thinking, who accompanied them to their appointment, their employment status and
      their living situation (alone, institutionalized, living with family members), and whether
      they have ever tested positive for COVID-19 in a patient survey. The study staff will
      administer the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MOCA) simple cognitive screening tool that
      takes less than 10 minutes to complete and has little or no education, language, or race
      bias. Frailty will be measured using the Frail Scale. Other measures of cognitive impairment
      will be obtained by study staff through: documentation on the patient's standard preoperative
      form, patient or informant report of diagnosis or evaluation for cognitive impairment or
      memory concerns, and systematic medical record review. Each enrolled patient will be advised
      to expect a follow up telephone up to 3, 6, and 12- months after surgery to verify data
      elements and reassess functional outcome.

      Delirium will be assessed prospectively once per day on postoperative days 1, 2, and/or 3 by
      a trained study team member using the Confusion Assessment Method [CAM] if the patient
      remains in the hospital and agrees to the evaluation. Delirium by chart review and CAM-ICU
      scores from the nursing staff will also be documented. Delirium is most common on
      postoperative days 1-3 and the CAM is a well-validated measure of delirium in surgical
      patients. To evaluate cognition and functional status, the MOCA and the WHODAS will be
      administered 3, 6, and 12- months postoperatively by study staff over the telephone if the
      patient can be contacted and continue to agree to participate. The investigators will also
      collect information on secondary outcomes including whether they had a surgical procedure,
      time to postoperative anesthesia care unit (PACU) discharge, discharge to place other than
      home (rehabilitation, skilled nursing facility), hospital length of stay (LOS), 30-day
      reoperation or readmission rate, and 30-day, 6-month, and 1-year mortality when available.
      These outcomes are recorded in the medical record, the BWH Balanced Scorecard, an electronic
      database of all hospitalized patients that tabulates 31 elements of the hospital event, or
      the Brigham and Women's Hospital BWH Research Patient Database Enhanced Query. Data will also
      be confirmed by a follow up telephone interview.
    
  