
    
      Study Procedure

        -  Male patients aged 40 years or older, having LUTS for at least 3 months (IPSS ≥ 8), a
           serum PSA level ≥ 4 ng/mL, without a palpable prostatic nodule will be enrolled into
           this prospective randomized trial to investigate whether COX-2 inhibitor can decrease
           serum PSA level and acts as a biomarker to differentiate between chronic inflammation
           and prostate cancer.

        -  Eligible subjects will be randomly assigned to the study and control groups at 2:1
           ratio. The study group will receive doxazosin 4mg every day (QD) plus celecoxib 200mg QD
           for 3 months and the control group will receive doxazosin 4 mg QD for 3 months. Patients
           will be investigated for IPSS, total prostatic volume, transition zone index, maximum
           flow rate, voided volume, postvoid residual, serum PSA, free PSA and serum C-reactive
           protein (CRP) levels at baseline and 3 months after treatment. If the serum PSA levels
           remained higher than 4 ng/mL, patients of either group will be advised to receive
           prostatic biopsy for histopathological investigation.

        -  The prostatic biopsy will be advised at the end of the study in both groups of patients.
           Ten prostatic biopsied strips will be sent to pathological department for investigating
           the existence of prostatic cancer. The other two strips will be stored in liquid
           nitrogen for further investigation of inflammatory biomarkers.

      Data Analysis

        -  The efficacy evaluation will be performed on intention-to-treat populations (ITT) and
           per-protocol populations (PPP) datasets while the safety evaluation will be performed on
           ITT datasets. The primary conclusion will be made for the primary endpoint and secondary
           endpoint on the ITT population.

      Efficacy Endpoint Analysis

        -  Net change of each efficacy item will be analyzed by paired t-test between baseline and
           post-treatment in the treatment group and controlled group. The net changes of each
           efficacy item will be analyzed by ANOVA test to compare between treatment group and
           controlled group. The global assessment by the patients will be analyzed by chi-square
           test between the treatment and controlled group.

        -  All efficacy variables will be reported of respective point estimated and 95% confidence
           interval. Comparison tests will be reported of respective p value.

      Safety Endpoints

        -  Adverse events will be reported by both controlled and treatment groups and by
           physiological systems as appropriate. Incidence of adverse events and the categories of
           adverse event severity between treatments will be analyzed by Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel
           test. The coding system used will be the Coding Symbols for a Thesaurus of Adverse
           Reaction Terms (COSTART).

      Changes in physical examinations will be displayed for each individual system.

        -  All statistical tests used will be two-tailed with α= 0.05.

      Expected Results and Conclusion

        -  Chronic inflammation has been considered a possible but important factor to induce LUTS
           and promote prostatic growth. PSA elevation is a sensitive but not specific sign for
           prostatic cancer. In order to reduce the need for prostatic biopsy in patients with an
           elevated serum PSA level, the results of this study might provide a simple way for
           initial differential diagnosis of chronic inflammation from prostatic cancer. If serum
           PSA can be reduced significantly after celecoxib therapy and the positive biopsy rate of
           the following prostatic biopsy is lower than the control group, we might use this
           treatment for the initial management of high PSA level in men with LUTS/BPH.
           Furthermore, if chronic inflammation of the prostate can be reduced, the bothersome of
           the LUTS as well as voiding condition might be improved. This result can be another
           benefit for men who are suffering from LUTS and worried about surgical intervention.
    
  