
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the analgesic properties and safety of topical amitriptyline and ketamine
           hydrochloride cream vs placebo in cancer patients with chemotherapy peripheral
           neuropathy (CPN) who have received taxanes or other cancer chemotherapy agents.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study. Patients
      are stratified according to Community Clinical Oncology Program (CCOP) site. Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients apply amitriptyline and ketamine hydrochloride topical analgesic cream
           twice daily to areas of pain, numbness, or tingling in the hands and/or feet.

        -  Arm II: Patients apply a placebo cream twice daily to areas of pain, numbness, or
           tingling in the hands and/or feet.

      In both arms, treatment continues for 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients may continue treatment for up to a total of 12 weeks.

      Patients complete a peripheral neuropathy intensity and quality of sleep diary daily.
      Patients also complete the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality
      of Life-Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy (EORTC-CIPN20) to assess change in sensory
      score and the Brief Pain Inventory and Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale to assess
      health-related quality of life in week 3 and 6. The Vulnerable Elders Survey (VES-13) is
      administered at baseline to assess level of physical activity and the University of Rochester
      Cancer Center (URCC) symptom inventory is administered to track other potentially important
      symptoms. The Patient Global Impression of Change Questionnaire is administered in week 6 to
      assess the patient's overall assessment of change since beginning treatment, including
      changes in pain, side effects, functional status, and overall satisfaction with treatment.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 462 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  