
    
      Primary Objective: To identify as completely as possible all veterans with ALS and to collect
      data which will be available for approved studies examining the cause(s) of ALS.

      Secondary Objective: To provide a mechanism for the VA to inform veterans with ALS about
      clinical trials and other studies for which they may be eligible.

      Primary Outcomes: Identification of all living veterans with ALS.

      Intervention: N/A

      Study Abstract: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is an adult-onset, rapidly fatal
      neuromuscular disease of unknown etiology. ALS is a disease of high priority to the VA,
      particularly due to ongoing concerns about the health of veterans who served in the Gulf War.
      Efforts are needed to systematically identify and track veterans with ALS. Accordingly, the
      Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is developing a national registry of veterans diagnosed
      with ALS.

      Research Design: The registry will not be designed to test specific hypotheses but will focus
      on comprehensive identification of veterans with ALS who may be eligible for other studies.

      Methodology: Eligible participants will include all living veterans with a physician
      diagnosis of ALS. Veterans with possible ALS will be identified through VA medical records,
      the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA), and self-referral. Neurologists with expertise in
      ALS will review veterans' medical records to verify the diagnosis and determine eligibility.
      Upon enrollment, veterans will be asked to complete a brief telephone interview. Registry
      participants will also be contacted by telephone biannually to assess health and functional
      status. The VA may notify registry participants about clinical trials for which they may be
      eligible. A Scientific Review Committee will evaluate all studies that request use of
      registry data and/or access to Registry participants.

      Results: N/A

      Impacts: The registry will provide the VA with a valuable mechanism for involving veterans in
      clinical trials and other studies that may yield improved outcomes for ALS. In addition, data
      gathered as a part of the registry has the potential to benefit not only veterans, but also
      the larger community of individuals with ALS.
    
  