
    
      This is a multicenter, randomized, controlled, open-label study including patients with
      malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) in tumor stages I-III who have previously undergone
      cytoreductive surgery by extended pleurectomy/decortication with or without hyperthermic
      intrathoracic chemoperfusion (eP/D ± HITOC).

      Patients who have histologically proven initial diagnosis of malignant pleural mesothelioma
      of epithelioid subtype (including biphasic histologic subtype identified during surgery),
      will be included in this study. Patients must have confirmed Eastern Cooperative Group (ECOG)
      status 0 to 2 as well to able to be included to the study.

      Patients will be centrally randomized 1:1 to receive either platinum-based adjuvant
      chemotherapy iv (Arm A) or platinum-based adjuvant chemotherapy iv together with nivolumab
      (Arm B) and stratified to (HITOC (yes vs. no)), (ECOG (0,1 vs. 2)), (Result of prior
      resection (macroscopic complete vs incomplete resection) with macroscopic complete resection
      defined as residual amounts of tumor being less than 1 cm3.

      Arm A (platinum-based adjuvant chemotherapy iv) patients randomized to Arm A will receive 4
      cycles (q4w) chemotherapy i.v. (carboplatin AUC5 (area under curve) or cisplatin 75 mg/m2 and
      pemetrexed 500 mg/m2). Usually, pemetrexed is administered first as a 10 min infusion,
      followed by infusion of the platinum component (starting 30 min after pemetrexed infusion).
      Active treatment within this arm is limited to 4 months.

      Arm B (platinum-based adjuvant chemotherapy iv) patients randomized to Arm B will receive 4
      cycles (q4w) chemotherapy i.v. (carboplatin AUC5 (area under curve) or cisplatin 75 mg/m2 and
      pemetrexed 500 mg/m2) together with up to 12 cycles (q4w) maintenance immunotherapy with
      nivolumab iv (480mg fixed dose over 60 minutes). During cycles 1-4, when nivolumab is
      administered along with chemotherapy, nivolumab will be administered as the first infusion,
      followed by the chemotherapy components. Subjects may be dosed with nivolumab i.v. no less
      than 26 days from the previous dose of drug. Active treatment within this arm is limited to
      16 cycles (4 cycles adjuvant combination therapy + 12 cycles maintenance immunotherapy).

      Tumor tissue, blood and stool samples will be collected for accompanying research project.
      (Participation is optional for participant).

      During treatment, clinical visits (blood cell counts, ECG, detection of toxicity) occur prior
      to every treatment dose. Safety of chemotherapy/nivolumab will be monitored continuously by
      careful monitoring of all adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs) reported.

      During treatment, tumor response will be assessed by the Investigator according to modified
      RECIST for pleural lesions and RECIST 1.1 for non-pleural lesions (radiological imaging by CT
      and/or MRI of the chest and upper abdomen [including the entire liver and both adrenal
      glands] at 8 weeks (±7days) from the date of first drug administration, at 16 weeks (±7 days)
      and every 12 weeks (±7 days) thereafter, until the initiation of the next anti-cancer therapy
      or death. A post-End-of-Treatment anticancer therapy status (EOT and follow-up (FU)) as well
      as a Survival Status (follow-up (FU)) will be assessed 30 days-, 100 days- and every 12 weeks
      after End of Treatment (EOT).
    
  