
    
      Postoperative permanent visual loss is a rare but devastating complication of surgery
      estimated to occur after approximately 1/60,000 anesthetics. After procedures involving
      cardiopulmonary bypass and prone spinal surgery, the estimates are higher, 1/1600 to 1/1100,
      respectively and have led to the formation in July of 1999 of the Postoperative Visual Loss
      (POVL) Registry under the auspices of the American Society of Anesthesia (ASA) Committee on
      Professional Liability. The majority of reported cases as of early 2003 were associated with
      spine surgery (67%).

      Of the spine cases, the majority were due to ischemic optic neuropathy (ION) (81%) followed
      by central retinal artery occlusion (13%) and unknown diagnosis (6%). Central retinal artery
      occlusion is characterized by periorbital edema, a cherry red spot at the fovea and monocular
      blindness. It is thought to be due to direct prolonged extraocular pressure on the globe and
      thus is preventable. Direct pressure on the eye is the etiology most often mentioned by spine
      surgeons in an attempt to explain all forms of postoperative visual loss.

      Post anesthetic ION, affecting both the anterior and posterior portions of the optic nerve,
      however, is the more common diagnosis. The etiology is unclear but hypo perfusion of the
      optic nerve has been associated with multiple risk factors. The four patient factors are
      obesity, hypertension, diabetes and low preoperative hematocrit. There are five surgical
      factors, which include an operation of long duration, large blood loss, prone position,
      deliberate hypotension, and blood replacement strategies which increase the tissue fluid
      compartment while decreasing the hematocrit. ION occurs in patients who had their heads
      suspended in Mayfield tongs (18% of ION cases), virtually eliminating any source of external
      pressure. In addition, 58% of these patients had bilateral disease, making direct pressure
      less likely.

      Thus, most POVL cases appear to be directly related to a change in retinal and/or optic nerve
      perfusion. The visual loss associated with anterior ION is caused by infarction in the
      watershed zones between the areas supplied by the posterior ciliary arteries, which are end
      arteries without anastomosis. Posterior optic neuropathy is thought to be caused by decreased
      oxygen delivery to the posterior portion of the optic nerve between the orbital apex and the
      entrance of the central retinal artery.

      Critical to any discussion of perfusion to the eye is the concept of ocular perfusion
      pressure (OPP), defined as the difference between the mean arterial pressure (MAP) and the
      intraocular pressure (IOP). Unopposed decreases in MAP, increases in IOP or a combination of
      the two may result in hypo perfusion of the eye and can cause an ocular infarction at the
      level of the retina or optic nerve, leading to varying degrees of visual loss which is
      frequently bilateral and irreversible.

      Animal data indicate that IOP increases with downward head tilting in the supine position,
      possibly due to increased episcleral venous pressure. Limited data for awake human volunteers
      indicate that IOP increases with supine positioning and is further elevated with head down
      tilting and prone positioning again possibly due to a rise in episcleral venous pressure.

      This is a randomized prospective study examining the effect of the table position on
      intraocular pressure and ocular perfusion pressure during spine surgery.

      Subjects will be recruited following the preoperative visit to the Neurosurgical office. An
      informed consent will be obtained after the consent for surgery is signed. A visual acuity
      exam will be performed with one of the study team members with the subject wearing corrective
      lenses on the morning of the surgery. The reactivity of the pupil will also be assessed via a
      penlight.
    
  