
    
      Electronic personal health record systems (PHRs) support patient centered healthcare by
      making medical records and other relevant information accessible to patients, thus assisting
      patients in health self-management[1,2]. The Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires (HIBA) is a
      private hospital in Buenos Aires, capital of Argentina. It has 500 beds and serves around
      50,000 patients per month. Its main facilities cover a surface area of 78,000 m² (850,000
      ft²). The hospital treats both private patients and those derived by social security. It also
      provides its own Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) being the most important pre-paid
      healthcare service in Argentina, with about 150,000 clients. HIBA has a Health Information
      System (HIS) and Electronic Health Records (EHR) since 1998 and implemented a PHR in 2007.
      The PHR gives patients access to aspects of the EHR related to their Health Care (laboratory,
      diagnosis, preventive information, medications lists), supports messaging with their
      physician, scheduling services and medication delivery for Self management, among other
      things. The majority of HIBA HMO affiliates are enrolled to this PHR. In 2015 HIBA underwent
      the process of accreditation by the United States Joint Commission[3]. As part of this
      process, HIBA redefined and refined the EHR/PHR data set, including new fields and regrouping
      pre-existent ones. EHR/PHR's personal data set is now composed of a series of fields grouped
      as depicted below. Personal data information is a difficult data set to capture, particularly
      those regarding social and cultural background information[4]. This data set is not only
      useful to help better healthcare system management, it is also relevant as it is used for
      epidemiological and preventive purposes[5-7].

      Gamification is a term used to describe using game elements in non-game environments to
      enhance user experience[8,9]. It has been incorporated with commercial success into several
      platforms (Linkedin, Badgeville, Facebook). While over the past years gamification elements
      have been incorporated in healthcare scenarios there is still little evidence on how
      effective they are[10-12]. Game elements provide engagement consistent with various theories
      of motivation[13], positive psychology (e.g., flow)[14], and also provide instant feedback.
      Feedback is more effective when it provides sufficient and specific information for goal
      achievement and is presented relatively close in time to the event being evaluated. Feedback
      can reference individual progress, can make social comparisons, or can refer to task
      criteria.

      In order to assess whether gamification is an effective tactic to drive PHR users' behavior,
      an intervention was designed. The investigators used gamification elements such as points,
      graphical representations and playful attitude to the design and interactions of the Bio page
      in the Hospital's PHR. These elements provide instant feedback to user actions. A control
      group with no game elements will be compared with a gamified group to see if these new game
      elements would increase patient's personal data rectification, validation and completion in
      the Hospital's PHR. A status variable was created and assigned to all fields according to the
      following scheme:

        -  Completed: user has modified empty field.

        -  Corrected: user has modified non-empty field.

        -  Verified: user has updated Group but field data has experienced no change.

        -  Validated: user has clicked on the "validate" button.

      EHR/PHR Personal data set

        1. Contact Information

             -  First Name

             -  Last Name

             -  Date of Birth

             -  ID Number

        2. Nationality

             -  Citizenship

             -  Languages Spoken

        3. Place of Residence

             -  Street

             -  Number

             -  Floor

             -  Zip Code

             -  Town

             -  Province

             -  Country

        4. E-Mail

           - E-mail address

        5. Phone Numbers

             -  Home Number

             -  Work Number

             -  Fax

        6. Emergency Contact

             -  First Name

             -  Last Name

             -  Relationship with patient

             -  Address

             -  Phone Number

        7. Billing Information

             -  Street

             -  Number

             -  Floor

             -  Zip Code

             -  Town

             -  Province

             -  Country

        8. Social Aspects

             -  Type of Residence

             -  Living Situation

        9. Education

           - Highest Academic Degree Achieved

       10. Cultural Aspects

           - Religious Belief

       11. Special Needs
    
  