
    
      The hypothesis is that liver-localized radioembolization will stimulate tumour and/or HBV
      specific T cell responses that are associated with favourable patient outcomes and that can
      be boosted using nivolumab anti-PD1 checkpoint blockade immunotherapy.

      Primary objective

      To evaluate the response rates of Y90 radioembolization in combination with nivolumab in HCC

      Secondary objectives

        1. To evaluate time to response, response duration, time to treatment progression and sites
           of progression when RE is combined with nivolumab

        2. To assess progression free survival and overall survival when RE is combined with
           nivolumab

        3. To assess the quality of life using the FACT-HEP score and EORTC QLQ-C30

        4. To assess the safety and tolerability of the combination of RE and nivolumab

      Exploratory objectives

        1. To evaluate the relationship between tumor biopsy PD-L1 expression and response to
           treatment with Y90 radioembolization in combination with nivolumab

        2. To assess relationship between blood lymphocyte (e.g., T cell) activation and phenotypic
           profiles with response to treatment with Y90 radioembolization in combination with
           nivolumab, using mass cytometry and fluorescence flow cytometry.

        3. To assess relationship between HCC tumour mutational burden and response to treatment
           with Y90 radioembolization in combination with nivolumab using whole-exome sequencing of
           tumour biopsy samples

        4. Where possible, to evaluate antigen-specific T cell responses to known HBV, HCC tumour
           (including candidate mutation-derived tumour neo-antigens) and other unrelated antigens
           (e.g. CMV, EBV, Influenza) in the blood and to assess kinetic changes in these responses
           associated with response to treatment with Y90 radioembolization in combination with
           nivolumab using mass cytometry and fluorescence flow cytometry.

      Administration of study drug The first dose of nivolumab will be administered 21 days (+/- 3
      days) after completion of RE. [The dose of Yttrium-90 will be determined as per institution
      norm by the Nuclear Medicine physician, based on factors such as the subject's Body Surface
      Area (BSA), the size of the tumour within the liver, and any dose modifications required for
      percent lung shunting between 10 - 20% on the Tc-99MMA scan].

      The dose given will be intravenous 240mg absolute over 30 minutes. Subsequent doses of
      nivolumab will be administered in the outpatient setting at NCCS. After the first dose,
      intravenous nivolumab 240mg will be given every 2 weeks.

      A US or CT guided liver biopsy will be conducted by an interventional radiologist on C1D8
      Subjects will be assessed for the following at EVERY visit: physical examination, ECOG
      status, vital signs, Child-Pugh score and ALBI score CT or MRI scans to assess response to
      treatment will be done before cycle 4, 8, 12 and then after every 12 weeks thereafter (±7
      days).

      FACT-HEP and EORTC QLQ C30 version 3.0 questionnaire at cycle 4 and 8.

      Follow-Up Visit will be done 2-3 months after last dose. Survival updates will be obtained by
      phone every 3-4 months after the follow-up visit and any new anti-cancer treatment given to
      the subject will be recorded.
    
  