
    
      Although balance is one of the most common and debilitating complaints after mTBI, the
      investigators currently lack clear guidelines on when to initiate balance rehabilitation and
      it is unclear if early physical therapy is beneficial. There is a clear gap in clinical care
      guidelines after mTBI and it is unclear if initiating rehabilitation early would improve
      outcomes related to imbalance. Measures of imbalance are subjective and are easily overlooked
      as a treatable deficit. Even with rehabilitation, recovery of balance in people with mTBI is
      challenging, particularly in people with central vestibular and sensory integration deficits.

      Although vestibular and balance rehabilitation after mTBI relies heavily on a home exercise
      program and repetition is essential for recovery; The slow progress in balance rehabilitation
      may be partially due to an inability of people with mTBI to correctly perform the prescribed
      rehabilitation exercises on their own. Biofeedback is a clinical technique that provides
      physiologic information that would otherwise be unknown to patients and may improve outcomes
      after mTBI. There are no commercially available systems to provide the physical therapist
      and/or patient objective information on the quality of head movements during training of
      rehabilitation tasks that involve balance and walking.

      Therefore, the three objectives of this study are: 1) to determine how the timing of
      rehabilitation affects outcomes after mTBI; 2) to determine if home monitoring of balance
      exercises using wearable sensors improves outcomes; and 3) to develop a novel feedback system
      using wearable sensors to provide the physical therapist information, in real-time during
      training, about quality of head and trunk movements during prescribed exercises.

      160 individuals with acute mTBI within 12 weeks of the injury will be randomly assigned to
      receive early onset of physical therapy (n=80) right away or be randomly assigned to receive
      delayed rehabilitation by 3 months in the standard of care physical therapy group (n=80). A
      subgroup of participants in the early physical therapy (n=40) and standard of care physical
      therapy (n=40) will be randomly assigned to home monitoring. The participants will wear
      wireless sensors while completing the rehabilitation program in order to better inform the
      physiotherapist of their progress.

      The outcome measures will consist of a battery of self-reported questionnaires, balance and
      gait measures, as well as vestibular measures and will be tested at Pre I (baseline), Pre 2
      (3 months later for the delayed rehabilitation group), Post (after the intervention), and
      Retention (3 month follow-up).

      The central hypothesis is that rehabilitation after mTBI is suboptimal due to late initiation
      of and inadequate performance of exercises that do not adequately challenge vestibular and
      sensory integration function. The long-term goal is to clarify best practices for the
      rehabilitation of balance deficits in people with mTBI by comparing early vs late (standard
      of care) initiation of physical therapy with and without wearable sensors on balance deficits
      after mTBI. The findings from this research could be very readily adopted into military
      protocols for post-mTBI care and have the potential to produce better balance rehabilitation
      and quality of life for mTBI patients and their families.
    
  