
    
      Postoperative atrial fibrillation (POAF) is a serious complication that can occur after
      thoracic surgery. A substantial proportion of AF is clinically silent, detectable only by ECG
      monitoring. Despite the lack of symptoms, it is still associated with increased risk of
      stroke, and may partly explain the risk of postoperative mortality after discharge from
      hospital.

      No studies have been completed investigating the occurrence of AF in an extended period of
      monitoring following non-cardiac surgery, including thoracic surgery. In the limited
      literature on extended ECG monitoring following cardiac surgery, recurrent AF affected 24% of
      patients after discharge from hospital, and only 30% had symptoms. In total, 49% of patients
      in these studies had POAF up to two weeks after surgery.

      Detection of POAF increases with more intensive monitoring. Therefore investigators believe
      that the incidence of POAF is underestimated, and extended monitoring using a patch ECG
      device will allow increased detection of clinically evident and silent POAF.

      Investigators will place CardioSTAT (Icentia Inc, QC, Canada) patch ECG devices on patients
      immediately after thoracic surgery. They will be worn for two weeks continuously, following
      which they are returned by mail to the manufacturer. These devices are simple to apply and
      can be worn even in the shower and while exercising. Technologist interpretation is provided
      by the manufacturer, and will be corroborated by our study cardiologist.

      Patients will also wear the patch ECG for 14 days prior to surgery. This will provide
      information on how many patients have silent AF at baseline, and will make it possible to
      determine whether AF after surgery is new or is an exacerbation of a pre-existing but unknown
      condition.

      A total of 100 patients will allow a 95% confidence interval of 21-40% around an assumed true
      POAF incidence of 30%. The lower limit exceeds conventional estimates of POAF following
      thoracic surgery, and would provide strong support for our hypothesis.
    
  