
    
      Rationale. Despite the exciting developments in the treatment of acute ischemic stroke (AIS)
      in last years, the problem of neurological deterioration in patients with AIS remains
      unresolved and poorly understandable. This is especially correct about patients with AIS
      resulted from large vessel occlusion (LVO), mainly internal carotid artery (ICA) and middle
      cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion. Such deterioration is observing in up to forty percent of
      patients with acute ischemic stroke due to LVO. On the other side, according to the
      literature about 40 % of LVO strokes resulted from atrial fibrillation. Until now, there is
      no automated monitoring system for early detection of neurological deterioration in AIS
      patients. Such monitoring system may save millions of lives of stroke victims all over the
      world. As a first step to develop such system based on change of brain electrical activity
      registered by electroencephalography (EEG) in patients with AIS investigators suggest this
      study.

      Overall goal. The aim of the suggested research is to evaluate patterns of brain electrical
      activity registered by EEG in patients with AIS attributed to the MCA or ICA territory in
      correlation with location and extension of ischemic lesions as determined by non-contrast CT
      (NCT). Based on these data, the attempt to find algorithms, describing such correlation will
      be done.

      Target population. The prospective study will include at least 200 AIS patients with acute
      stroke resulted from MCA or ICA occlusion.

      Methods. Non contrast CT and EEG will be done at the same day. Neurologist will evaluate
      neurological status at the day of EEG and CT performing and clinical score by National
      Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) will be obtained. EEG will be performed continuously
      for at least 30 minutes with 19-channel EEG machine.

      Assessment. After gathering clinical, EEG and NCT data mathematical and computerized analysis
      (including Artificial Intelligence methods) will be applied aiming to find algorithms
      describing relationship between size and location of AIS and change in brain electrical
      activity registered by EEG in AIS patients.
    
  