
    
      An abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is present in 5-10% of men aged between 65 and 79 years
      and may be defined as an abdominal aortic diameter 3cm or above. In 2013 the NHS AAA
      screening programme (NAAASP) was fully rolled out across England with the aim of reducing AAA
      mortality in men aged 65 and over, based on evidence that screening reduces AAA-related
      mortality, and is highly cost effective. Within NAAASP, men with a large AAA (≤5.5cm) are
      referred for consideration of surgery whilst men with small AAA (≥5.4cm) are referred into
      surveillance (3.0-4.4cm: 1 year surveillance, 4.5-5.4cm: 3 months surveillance) as per
      standard operating procedures. In England 284,583 men were offered ultrasound screening
      (2015-2016), however, the number of men identified with AAA was 2,549 at a cost of
      approximately £7,755,000. This highlights one of the main problems with AAA screening in that
      the majority of men screened do not have disease. This also brought the number of men within
      AAA surveillance to 13,104 whom do not require early surgery.

      The incidence of AAA is falling in western populations likely secondary to a reduction in the
      number of individuals smoking cigarettes in addition to other pharmacological (increase in
      the use of anti-platelets and statins) and lifestyle (exercise) modifications. This reduction
      in the number of men with AAA raises the question of whether in the long term community AAA
      screening will remain cost effective, however, to examine cost effectiveness it is important
      to establish what happens to all men invited to AAA screening over time. One aspect of this
      is examining the long term outcomes of men who have an aortic diameter above 3.0cm whilst
      another highly debated topic is the outcome of men with an aortic diameter between 2.5-2.9cm
      which may be defined as sub-aneurysmal. This group of men have been demonstrated to be at
      risk of developing AAA in later life (over 10 years) and there is a risk that these
      discharged men later go on to be at risk of aneurysm rupture.

      the study would also like to examine the impact of deprivation on uptake of the screening
      programme is England. Uptake of the screening programme in 2015-2016 was 85.4%, however this
      varies from 76.6% in Merseyside to 92.0% in less deprived parts of England. Previous studies
      have highlighted the association between social deprivation and poor uptake and pilot data
      from our study suggests that this deprived group are also more likely to have an abdominal
      aneurysm. This puts this group at great risk without the benefit of screening to prevent
      rupture. Within this study outcomes in this group (AAA related death, admission and all-cause
      mortality/morbidity) will be assessed in order to accurately assess the cost benefit of new
      patient pathways to improve AAA screening uptake in the most deprived group.

      Lastly, over time NAAASP will detect a large number of patients with small aneurysms that
      will require regular surveillance. Patients with AAA are widely recognized to be at a higher
      cardiovascular risk then the general population for example one recent systematic review
      identified a strong link between cardiovascular death and time from diagnosis of small AAA
      with a 3% increased risk of cardiovascular mortality per year compared with the general
      population. Duncan and Colleagues also described long term outcomes of men screened for AAA
      in Scotland finding that the most common cause of death in those with AAA was cardiovascular
      disease and that this risk increases with aortic diameter. Increasing aortic diameter and
      poor cardiovascular outcomes have also been noted in several other large cohort studies.

      Aortic Diameter may be an independent marker of cardiovascular risk that could improve the
      sensitivity of current cardiovascular risk prediction models used commonly in England.
      Screening may also be an opportunity to identify men at higher cardiovascular risk (both with
      an aneurysm and without) creating added benefit to the screening programme. None the less
      contemporary data suggests that cardiovascular risk is inadequately addressed in this high
      risk cohort and requires further study.
    
  