
    
      This study is designed to evaluate the safety and feasibility of ischemic conditioning of the
      colon prior to resection. Colon and rectal resections require the removal of a section of
      colon or rectum with re-attachment (anastomosis) of the two ends. This joining together of
      the intestine is at risk for leaking if healing does not occur appropriately. Factors
      postulated to lead to anastomotic leak include ischemia as well as tension and infection
      among others.

      The concept of ischemic conditioning is based upon the innate ability to compensate and
      increase the blood flow to a section of the intestine which is locally ischemic. By inducing
      ischemia to a segment of intestine prior to resection, one could theoretically increase blood
      flow via collateral vessels prior to resection. This would then, in turn, lead to more
      initial blood flow to an anastomosis at the time of surgery via these collaterals, thereby
      decreasing ischemia to a new, healing anastomosis.

      Ischemic conditioning was first described in animal models proving its safety and efficacy.
      In the rat model, ischemic conditioning demonstrated a return to baseline of tissue perfusion
      by the time of resection, improved anastomotic leak rate and higher anastomotic wound
      breaking strength. The first time this idea was implemented in the human model was in a study
      by Akiyama et. al. where preoperative embolization was shown to be safe and improved blood
      supply to the distal end of anastomosis after esophagectomy (remaining stomach). Further
      basic science studies have shown improved angiogenesis, vasodilation, less anastomotic
      collagen deposition and minimized ischemic injury. Further clinical studies demonstrated
      improved stricture rates (0% from 40%), leak rates (0-6% from 5-15%) and mortality (0% from
      5-10%).

      One of the major complications in colon and rectal surgery is improper healing of the
      anastomosis (connection between the remaining, cancer free rectum with the remaining colon).
      This results in an anastomotic leak or dehiscence leading to abscess, abdominal sepsis
      requiring longer hospital stays, IV antibiotics, reoperation or possibly even death. It can
      also lead to the late complication of stricture impairing function and often requiring repeat
      dilations or operative revision. Recent reviews show rates of anastomotic complications in
      upper rectal resection at 8-17% for leaks, and an average hospital stay of 10 days.

      In the current study, preoperative embolization of the Inferior Mesenteric Artery (IMA) is
      performed for patients scheduled to undergo colon or rectal resection. The surgery is then
      performed in the standard fashion (either laparoscopically or open) several days later (1-5
      days). The study is designed as a prospective, non-randomized, safety (pilot) study. Since
      there are no reports of performing this exact procedure, we feel it is necessary to initially
      proceed with safety study without a comparative arm prior to a large scale, multicenter trial
      evaluating outcomes. Therefore, in this study we will not be evaluating morbidity or
      mortality outcomes to any statistical significance.
    
  