
    
      In recent years, numerous studies have investigated the potential contributing role of the
      autonomic nervous system (ANS) in psychiatric disorders, including autism spectrum disorder
      (ASD). One of the most commonly adopted physiological parameters for assessing ANS
      functioning in psycho-physiological research is based on the assessment of heart rate
      variability (HRV). The heart's pacemaker is controlled by both the sympathetic and the
      parasympathetic nervous system, which results in the natural variation of the interval
      between heart beats. One important component of HRV is commonly known as respiratory sinus
      arrhythmia (RSA). This component is solely mediated by the parasympathetic subsystem through
      direct projections of the vagus nerve from the brain stem to the heart and is therefore also
      known as an index of cardiac vagal modulation. The term RSA is adopted since it defines the
      phenomenon of the relation between heart rate variability and the respiratory cycle in
      certain circumstances. The clinical importance of RSA has been reported in multiple studies
      as higher RSA is associated with higher cognitive abilities, effective social behavior, fewer
      internalizing symptoms (e.g. anxiety and depression) and appropriate emotion regulation. In
      addition, lower RSA has been linked to conduct problems, trait hostility, anxiety disorders
      and depression. With respect to children and adolescents with ASD, several studies have
      investigated the ANS functioning by assessing RSA during various activities (e.g. cognitive
      tasks, non-social auditory tasks, social cognition tasks and social interaction tasks) as
      well as during resting situations. While some studies revealed no significant differences in
      RSA levels between ASD and typically developing (TD) peers, the majority of studies seemed to
      converge on demonstrating lower levels of RSA in patients with ASD. Furthermore, in these
      studies, lower RSA levels in ASD were associated with more social problems, internalizing
      problems, higher levels of anxiety, problems with emotional control, the presence of more
      severe visual and/or auditory sensory problems and the presence of repetitive and restrictive
      behaviors. In line with the link between lowered RSA and more psychological and social
      problems, it has been posited that it would be of great relevance to develop and validate an
      intervention that specifically targets the up-regulation of RSA-values, or the cardiac vagal
      modulation, in individuals with ASD . To do so, biofeedback-based interventions have been put
      forward as these involve the recording of physiological signals (e.g. RSA or skin
      conductance) which are transformed into visual (or auditory) presentations and subsequently
      provided to the individual as direct feedback. This visualisation of ongoing bodily
      sensations would provide an added value for individuals with ASD, as previous studies have
      reported a lower ability to consciously perceive internal bodily sensations (interoceptive
      awareness) in this population. Considering that adolescence is a vulnerable period with rapid
      changes in distinct developmental domains, this population will be targeted during this
      research project. As previously mentioned, the clinical importance of RSA in both typically
      developing populations and populations with ASD has already been demonstrated. However, due
      to methodological differences, these studies are frequently incomparable and/or often lead to
      conflicting evidence. Therefore, a cross-sectional phase will be conducted first in this
      research project in which adolescents with and without ASD will be recruited. In this phase,
      they will perform a stress-inducing test in which physiological, endogenic and behavioral
      data will be collected. The main focus of this first part is on RSA in which lower RSA-values
      are hypothesized in adolescents with ASD as compared to their typically developing peers,
      based on previously mentioned study results. The second part of this research project
      consists of the evaluation of an RSA-based biofeedback approach for the up-regulation of RSA
      in adolescents with ASD. In other words, we will explore the potential of this intervention
      for enhancing cardiac vagal modulation and the influence on behavioral problems related to
      lower RSA in individuals with ASD as determined in previous research and based on findings
      during the first part of this study. Importantly, the validation of an RSA biofeedback
      intervention for adolescents with ASD may open novel avenues for home-based interventions in
      this population where therapist contact can be limited and integration into the daily routine
      can be supported using biofeedback apps. In addition, the current worldwide circumstances due
      to the corona virus disease has provided clinicians with new and useful information regarding
      their patients with ASD as these patients perceived the increase of home-based interventions
      as something positive. Therefore, the biofeedback intervention in this research project may
      have an additional advantage due to its home-based approach. Finally, the promising results
      of RSA biofeedback interventions in clinical populations, including ASD, are reported in
      various domains, going from decrements in anxiety and depression symptoms to improvements of
      social functioning. Therefore, this intervention may be valuable for adolescents with ASD
      given their vulnerable position in development.
    
  