
    
      Patients with autoimmune destruction of hematopoietic cells frequently have severe and
      debilitating disease requiring aggressive and frequent medical management. These patients are
      often treated with non-specific immunosuppressive medications with limited efficacy and
      untoward side-effect profiles. We have been investigating the use of an immunosuppressive and
      anti-cancer agent, sirolimus in patients with an autoimmune cytopenias syndrome: Autoimmune
      Lymphoproliferative Syndrome (ALPS). ALPS is a primary immune deficiency caused by mutations
      in the Fas apoptotic pathway, leading to abnormal lymphocyte survival. Clinical
      manifestations in patients with ALPS typically include autoimmune cytopenias,
      lymphadenopathy, hepatosplenomegaly, and a propensity to develop secondary malignancies.
      Thus, far we have found excellent results albeit the total number of patients treated is
      small.

      Sirolimus is a signal transduction inhibitor with a tolerable side effect profile. Sirolimus
      has two properties making it an attractive agent to treat patients with autoimmune cytopenias
      syndromes, including ALPS. First, sirolimus induces apoptosis in normal and abnormal white
      blood cells, the cell type dysregulated in patients with autoimmune disease. In addition,
      sirolimus increases a T cell subset called Regulatory T cells (Tregs). Tregs are a cell
      population designed to suppress the immune system and control autoimmunity. These combined
      properties make sirolimus unique as compared with other immunosuppressive agents. Ample
      preclinical and clinical data exists demonstrating sirolimus in effective in patients with
      autoimmunity. Accordingly, we hypothesize sirolimus is a safe and efficacious medication for
      patients with autoimmune destruction of blood cells..

      We plan to confirm our hypotheses by performing a pilot series in children with autoimmune
      cytopenias who are either refractory to standard therapy or have significant toxicity from
      standard treatments. Our primary aim is to define the toxicities of administration of oral
      sirolimus in children with autoimmune cytopenias. Our secondary aims are to evaluate the
      efficacy of sirolimus in children with autoimmune cytopenias, to determine the trough levels
      of sirolimus when used in these patients, and to evaluate the effects of sirolimus on
      intracellular targets of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR). We intend to enroll 50
      children with autoimmune cytopenias and treat for a 6 month period, however, if we find
      sirolimus is effective, we anticipate these children will continue to take sirolimus for a
      longer period of time. We anticipate the results of this work will establish sirolimus is an
      effective and well tolerated medication and will lead directly to a larger national phase II
      clinical trial.
    
  