
    
      Objective

      The primary objective is to contribute to the understanding of non-penetrating traumatic
      brain injury (TBI) through the description of the relationships between neuroimaging,
      hematological, and extensive functional/cognitive phenotyping measures. We will generate
      natural history data for cohort-based comparisons and to serve as the basis for future
      hypothesis-driven protocols. In addition, we will create and test a series of new taxonomies
      to describe TBI severity and predict outcome.

      Study Population

      Three hundred adult subjects with a clinical diagnosis of non-penetrating TBI (mild, moderate
      and severe) will be enrolled. Subjects will be recruited from NIH, affiliated
      hospitals/clinics, and in the community. Additionally, a select group of up to 80 US
      government associated personnel experiencing TBI-like symptoms arising after possible
      exposure to a non-natural energy source, will be studied (select exposure group). This select
      group will require a separate age and sex matched group of 80 unaffected volunteers.

      Design

      This is a natural history study following a prospective cohort of subjects with a clinical
      diagnosis of non-penetrating traumatic brain injury with a cross-sectional sub-study.
      Subjects will be enrolled in the prospective cohort within one year of their head injury and
      then followed periodically for five years, with neuroimaging, including Magnetic Resonance
      Imaging (MRI), hematological, and extensive functional/cognitive phenotyping measures.
      Subjects will be enrolled in the cross-sectional sub-study within five years of their head
      injury and may be evaluated with MRI, hematological, and functional/cognitive measures
      usually within a single visit. However, procedures may be scheduled during multiple visits,
      depending on the number of procedures performed. Study participants may be offered standard
      of care rehabilitation therapies provided at no cost by Investigators and supervised by Dr.
      Chan. Tests will be subject to investigator discretion and subject willingness to participate
      in evaluation. After first MRI, future MRI s will be obtained based on subject willingness
      and investigator discretion from findings on previous imaging. Subjects will be stratified
      according to findings into cohorts for comparison. Subjects will not be treated with
      experimental therapies as part of the research study. This study will provide direct benefit
      to subjects as they will receive sensitive neuro-imaging and clinical testing that may have
      diagnostic value and rehabilitation therapies that might not be provided to them in the
      community. In addition to the TBI patient group, a longitudinal control group comprised of
      healthy volunteers will be collected. The control group participants may complete the
      Neuroimaging (MRI without gadolinium), hematological and functional/cognitive phenotyping
      measures as the TBI patient population.

      The prospective select exposure group of US government associated personnel will be followed
      periodically for a total of six years. Subjects may complete neuroimaging, including Magnetic
      Resonance Imaging (MRI), hematological, and extensive functional/cognitive, auditory,
      vestibular, and oculomotor phenotyping measures. In addition to the select exposure group, a
      longitudinal control group comprised of unaffected volunteers matched to this group will be
      collected. The control group participants will complete the same Neuroimaging (MRI without
      gadolinium), hematological and functional/cognitive phenotyping measures as the select
      exposure patient population. Additionally, if a select exposure matched control participant
      is subsequently exposed, they may enroll into the select exposure group arm of the study for
      pre and post exposure analysis.

      Outcome Measures

      A variety of outcome measures will be used including MRI, to include Diffusion Tensor Imaging
      (DTI), Dynamic Susceptibility Contrast (DSC), and functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging
      (fMRI), high field 7T MRI. In addition, extensive and sensitive clinical phenotyping will be
      performed to assess functional and cognitive impairment, and quality of life assessments.
      Blood and saliva (buccal cells may be collected in lieu of whole blood for subjects unwilling
      or unable to provide blood draw) may also be collected and sent to a biorepository for future
      analysis if subject agrees to participation in sample collection.
    
  