
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of ibrutinib that can be combined with
      lenalidomide and dexamethasone in relapsed multiple myeloma (MM) patients. (Phase I) II. To
      estimate the overall response rate (ORR) including partial response (PR) or better of the
      combination of ibrutinib, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone in subjects with newly diagnosed MM
      who are not candidates for high dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplantation
      (ASCT). (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety profile of this regimen in relapsed MM patients. (Phase I) II. To
      evaluate the progression free survival (PFS) of the combination of ibrutinib, lenalidomide,
      and dexamethasone in MM patients. (Phase II) III. To evaluate the safety profile of this
      regimen in untreated MM patients. (Phase II) IV. To evaluate the duration of response for
      patients treated with this 3-drug regimen. (Phase II) V. To evaluate overall survival (OS)
      for patients treated with this 3-drug regimen. (Phase II)

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore compliance to treatment. II. To assess effects of treatment on patient-reported
      quality of life (QoL) measures.

      III. To determine the role of members of the BTK signalosome in achievement or lack thereof
      of response to ibrutinib.

      IV. To explore biologic effects of ibrutinib on microenvironment in MM and correlate with
      response to treatment.

      V. To evaluate pharmacodynamic measures including receptor occupancy for BTK prior to
      introducing lenalidomide in patients treated with ibrutinib and dexamethasone.

      VI. To evaluate the impact of ibrutinib on platelet aggregation.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of ibrutinib followed by a phase II study.

      PHASE I: Patients receive ibrutinib orally (PO) on days 1-28, lenalidomide PO on days 1-21,
      and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 24
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning course 25,
      patients receive lenalidomide PO on days 1-21 and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22.
      Courses repeat every 84 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients receive ibrutinib and dexamethasone as in phase I and lenalidomide PO on
      days 1-21 beginning course 2. Beginning course 25, patients receive lenalidomide and
      dexamethasone as in phase I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months, then every 6
      months for up to 3 years.
    
  