
    
      Arterial blood gas (ABG) analysis is essential in assessment of respiratory and metabolic
      status in acutely ill patients. In comparison to peripheral venous blood (PVG) sampling, the
      ABG sampling procedure is more painful for the patient and technically more challenging for
      the clinician to perform. Other drawbacks of ABG sampling include adverse events such as
      subcutaneous hematoma, arterial thrombosis or embolization, and pseudoaneurysms.

      Peripheral venous blood gas (VBG) sampling has been suggested as an alternative to the ABG
      procedure. This procedure causes less patient discomfort and the sample can be analysed in
      combination with other venous blood tests. Studies have revealed that pH and bicarbonate have
      good correlation, whereas venous and arterial blood gasses (pO2 and pCO2) show low agreement.

      However, a new method has been developed to calculate ABG values mathematically from
      peripheral venous blood by use of venous to arterial conversion (v-TAC) software (Obimedical,
      Denmark), supplemented with oxygen saturation measured by pulse oximetry. The principle of
      the method is a mathematical transformation of VBG values to arterialized values (aVBG) by
      simulating the transport of blood back through the tissue. Initial testing of the method in
      an emergency department setting showed acceptable clinical congruence between arterial and
      mathematically arterialized pH and pCO2 with a small difference (+/- SD) on 0.001 +/- 0.024
      and 0.00 0.46 kPa, respectively. However, inaccurate values of pO2 were seen when oxygen
      saturation measured by pulse oximetry was above 96%, due to the flat shape of the oxygen
      dissociation curve (ODC).

      Although most patients in the ICU have arterial catheters therefrom ABG can be drawn,
      applying arterial catheter is difficult or even impossible in some patients. In relation to
      step-down some patients get arterial catheters removed and in the event of deterioration in
      patients acid-base or respiratory disease aVBG could prove useful as a minimally invasive
      tool to assess patients status.

      The aim of this study is to investigate if v-TAC is reliable and safe to use in patients with
      critically respiratory or metabolic disease admitted to the ICU.
    
  