
    
      The Study Treatment:

      Fludarabine is a chemotherapy drug that is designed to make cancer cells less able to repair
      damaged DNA (the genetic material of cells). This may increase the likelihood of the cells
      dying.

      Busulfan is a chemotherapy drug that is designed to bind to DNA, which may cause cancer cells
      to die. It is commonly used in stem cell transplants.

      Plerixafor and filgrastim are designed to cause cancer cells to move from the bone marrow
      into the blood stream. This may help to make the cancer cells more sensitive to being killed
      by the chemotherapy.

      An "allogeneic" (from a donor) stem cell transplant is designed to help the recipient's body
      attack the cancer cells that may remain in the body after chemotherapy.

      Study Groups and Plerixafor Dose Levels:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a study
      group based on when you joined this study. Up to 4 groups of 3 participants will be enrolled
      in the Phase I portion of the study, and up to 48 participants will be enrolled in Phase II.

      If you are enrolled in the Phase I portion, the dose of plerixafor you receive will depend on
      when you joined this study. The first group of participants will receive the lowest dose
      level of plerixafor. Each new group will receive a higher dose of plerixafor than the group
      before it, if no intolerable side effects were seen. This will continue until the highest
      tolerable dose of plerixafor is found.

      If you are enrolled in Phase II, you will receive plerixafor at the highest dose that was
      tolerated in the Phase I portion.

      In this study, plerixafor is the only study drug where different dose levels are being tested
      and compared.

      Drug Administration Before the Transplant:

      You will receive your first dose of filgrastim on Day -9. (Day -9 means 9 days before the
      stem cell transplant, which will occur on Day 0).

      Filgrastim is injected under the skin once a day from Day -9 through Day -4. Plerixafor is
      injected under the skin once a day from Day -7 through Day -4. The plerixafor injections will
      occur 8 hours before the fludarabine and busulfan chemotherapy.

      The fludarabine and busulfan will be given by vein through a central venous catheter (CVC). A
      CVC is a sterile flexible tube that will be placed into a large vein while you are under
      local anesthesia. Your doctor will explain this procedure to you in more detail, and you will
      be required to sign a separate consent form for this procedure.

      Fludarabine is given once a day from Day -6 through Day -3, over 1 hour each time. On these
      same days, busulfan will be given after the fludarabine, over 3 hours.

      You will also receive tacrolimus in order to lower the risk of graft vs. host disease (GVHD).
      GVHD is a disease that occurs when the donor's immune cells react against the recipient's
      body, attacking the recipient's cells and tissues.

      Starting on Day -2, tacrolimus will be given as a continuous (non-stop) infusion through the
      CVC. When the study doctor decides it seems safe, you will begin taking tacrolimus by mouth
      instead, for as long as the study doctor decides is necessary.

      If your stem cell donor is not someone who is related to you, you will receive antithymocyte
      globulin (ATG) through the CVC once a day from Day -3 through Day -1. On Day -3, it will be
      given over at least 6 hours. On Days -2 and -1, it will be given over at least 4 hours. This
      drug is given in order to weaken your immune system in order to lower the risk of your immune
      system rejecting the transplanted cells.

      Blood Tests Before the Transplant:

      If you are in the Phase I part of this study, the following blood samples will be drawn and
      are not optional. Eight total blood samples (about 1 1/2 teaspoons each) will be drawn daily
      with your routine morning labs beginning before your first dose of study therapy (or Day -9)
      through Day -3. These samples will be used for research purposes, to study how the
      chemotherapy drugs and transplant may affect your normal cells and cancerous cells.

      If you are in the Phase II part of the study the following blood samples are optional and if
      you agree, eight total blood samples (about 1 1/2 teaspoons each) will be drawn daily
      beginning before your first dose of study therapy (or Day -9) through Day -3. These samples
      will be used for research purposes, to study how the chemotherapy drugs and transplant may
      affect your normal cells and cancerous cells.

      Stem Cell Transplant:

      On Day 0, after 2 days of rest from chemotherapy, the donor's stem cells will be given to you
      by vein (through the CVC). This should take about 30-60 minutes.

      Drug Administration After the Transplant:

      In addition to continuing to receive tacrolimus to lower the risk of GVHD (as described
      above), after the transplant you will also receive methotrexate to lower the risk of GVHD.
      Methotrexate will be given by vein, through the CVC, over 15 minutes on Days 1, 3, and 6. It
      will also be given on Day 11 if your stem cell donor is someone who is not related to you.

      Once a day, starting at 1 week after the transplant, you will receive filgrastim as an
      injection under your skin. These daily injections will continue until your blood counts
      recover.

      Reasons for Stopping the Study Treatment Early:

      If you experience intolerable side effects or the disease gets worse during study treatment,
      you will be taken off the study treatment.

      Other Procedures After the Transplant:

      You will remain in the hospital until your blood counts recover (usually about 4 weeks after
      the transplant). You will continue being monitored for any infections and transplant-related
      side effects for at least 100 days after the transplant.

      At 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after the transplant, you will have blood tests (about 3
      tablespoons) and bone marrow biopsies performed to check the status of the disease.

      Length of Study Participation:

      Your active participation in this study will be over at 12 months after the transplant. The
      study staff will continue to contact your local doctor regularly from then on. The purpose is
      to check the status of the disease and see how you are doing.

      Up to 72 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at The University of
      Texas (UT) MD Anderson.
    
  