
    
      Background The formation of the early relation between parents and infant has a significant
      impact on the infant's mental, social and cognitive development and competencies. Parental
      psychopathology may interfere with a healthy interaction by reducing the ability to be
      sensitively attuned to the infant's signal and needs due to the nature of the psychiatric
      symptoms. A healthy psycho-social development starts in the perinatal period in which the
      parent-infant interactions comprise of one of the most influential experiences which make
      infants vulnerable and exposed to mental health risks in a lifespan perspective.
      International research has found that the consequences of being born by a mother suffering
      from mental illness influences on the infant's risks of developing psychopathology,
      developmental disorders, and problems related to the social negative heritage. In order to
      initiate preventive programs, the long-term effects of being born by a vulnerable mother need
      to be investigated to target and design effective interventions. In a Danish context it is
      also of interest to investigate how the proportions of children with poorer developmental
      outcomes are distributed between vulnerable and not-vulnerable families.

      It is well-documented that early intervention improves the prognosis for infants of
      vulnerable families and short-term programs consisting of a moderate number of sessions aimed
      at improving interaction are especially effective in enhancing parental sensitivity and
      infant attachment security. Furthermore, the World Health Organization recommends that new
      families are supported in the development of a healthy parent-infant relationship. The
      postpartum period has been identified as particularly important for the establishment of
      early healthy parent-infant relationship and health professionals at the obstetric department
      (obs. dept.) and health visitors in the primary health care sector are in a perfect position
      to initiate intervention programs that enhances this. Understanding and identifying the
      quality of the parent-infant relationship is important in both hospital setting and in the
      primary health care sector which also demands knowledge-sharing across sectors to create
      coherence. In Denmark the antenatal care is differentiated according to the recommendations
      from the National Board of Health, offering families categorized as level three and four an
      extended stay at the obs. dept. following birth. Level three covers vulnerable families
      comprising of families experiencing social, medical or psychological problems such as e.g.
      anxiety or depression. Level four covers families experiencing complicated and severe
      problems with drug abuse or severe psychiatric disorders. These families are offered an
      extended stay at the obs. dept. which in most Danish hospitals are 5 days.

      It is estimated that around 10-14 percentage (n= 980) of families giving birth at Hvidovre
      Hospital (HVH) are vulnerable. The care and the content of the extended stay is based on
      recommendations, and is not standardized. Further it has not been investigated what the
      families' preferences and wishes for the extended stay consists of or what the health
      professionals experience when taking care of vulnerable families at the obs. dept. The
      transition to the primary health care sector is also not standardized and trading of
      information and observation are not ensured.

      Vulnerable families need support in the relationship formation . A mentally ill mother
      demands activation and involvement of the family as a resource to facilitate the best
      possible prerequisites for a healthy relationship formation with the infant. Substantial
      evidence have formed an understanding that treatment of postnatal depression might require
      specific parenting components to benefit child outcome. In addition, some studies have found
      that intervention programs designed specifically towards improvement of the mother-infant
      relationship in the context of postnatal depression benefit both the relationship formation
      and reduces the negative effects of maternal depression on child development. Therefore it is
      assumed that a combination of a family approach assessing family resources and a relationship
      based tool that helps parents read their infants self-regulatory cues resulting in an
      enhanced relationship-formation may decrease the prevalence of maternal post-partum
      depression.

      Aim The aim of this study is to investigate how the extended postpartum stay at the obs.
      dept. and the transition to the primary health care sector can be optimized for vulnerable
      families. Furthermore, to develop and test an intervention program that aim to increase
      parental sensitivity and facilitate a healthy early relationship formation with their infant
      which may reduce depressive symptoms among vulnerable mothers.

      The aim of the study will be achieved by answering the following research questions:

        1. To which extent can adverse child developmental outcomes be predicted by the
           vulnerability groups?

        2. How do health care professionals experience the extended stay at the obstetric
           department and the transition to the primary healthcare sector?

        3. Does a standardized program offered at the obstetric department containing elements from
           NBO and FFN and a systematic transition to primary health care improve prerequisites for
           a healthy early relationship formation between parents and infant and thereby reduced
           depressive symptoms among vulnerable mothers?

      Sub-study 1: Register-based study Being born by a vulnerable mother is associated with
      adverse child developmental outcomes and being born into a vulnerable family may have wide
      ranging effects on child development. These effects include impairment in cognitive
      performance, behavior disturbances and mental problems that may persist into late childhood
      and adolescence. However, it is of interest to investigate if the classification of
      vulnerable groups, the strategy used by the antenatal care to predict vulnerable groups and
      designing intervention programs only aiming at these groups is enough.

      This study aim to investigate how the proportion and the absolute risk of children with
      predefined adverse developmental outcomes is distributed between families defined as level
      three or four compared to families defined as level one and two according to the to the
      antenatal care defined by The National Board of Health . Adverse child developmental outcomes
      will be defined completion of ninth grade before age 18, grade point average at the
      ninth-grade exams in Danish public and private schools and social professional interventions
      in the home. The study is conducted as a national register-based cohort study with a study
      population consisting of all Danish children born from 1980-2015. Data will be extracted from
      the Medical Birth Registry, the Danish National Patient Registry and Statistics Denmark's
      Registries. Descriptive statistics will be applied using STATA (StataCorp. 2015). The study
      will be carried out in collaboration with an epidemiological research unit at the University
      of Copenhagen that has great experience with register-based research.

      Sub-study 2: Interviews The interview-study aim to uncover the experiences of the health care
      professionals.

      Focus group interviews. Two focus group interviews (FGI) will be held of 2 hours
      respectively. Both with 3-5 nurses from the obs. dept. and 3-5 health visitors from
      collaborating municipalities. In total 12-20 participators.

      The FGI will take place at the hospital and will be facilitated by two researchers (PhD
      student and senior researcher). An interview-guide will be developed to guide the discussions
      and the FGI will be digitally recorded. Data will be analyzed using content analysis

      Sub-study 3: Intervention study The intervention study is designed as a feasibility study,
      that aim to test and put the developed intervention program into practice. The study will
      investigate enquiries related to content, recruitment, applicability of the outcome measures,
      time-frame and follow-up period, reasoning and adaptability of statistics. Further the study
      is unique in terms of complexity and collaboration across sectors. The health professionals
      from the obs. dept. will be trained to carry out the intervention program. Data on the on the
      control group will be collected prior launch of the intervention program to prevent bias and
      to ease the logistic concerning organization of the health professionals at the obs. Dep. The
      control group consists of women giving birth at HVH meeting the same criteria as the
      intervention group and they will receive care as usual.

      The intervention program comprises of results and knowledge gathered from sub-study 1 and 2,
      standardized transition to primary health care sector and the beneath listed components:

      Family-focused nursing. The theoretical framework is the philosophy of Family Centered Care
      (FCC). It embraces respect and equality, shared responsibility, knowledge-sharing,
      cooperation and partnership between health care professionals and families. Family Focused
      nursing (FFN) is the practical application of delivering FCC. Assessing family resources,
      coping strategies and processes relating to relations and communications among family
      members, through FFN conversations provides the foundation of assisting families in their
      adaption and attainment of a higher level of family function, support, health and well-being.
      FFN conversations are based on systems theory, change theory and communication theory using
      genograms to map the structure of the family and used as a basis for the subsequent
      interventions.

      Newborn behavioral observation System (NBO) The NBO is an individualized, infant-focused,
      family-centered and systematic observational system that is designed to be used by health
      professionals to assist, elicit and describe the newborns' competencies and individuality,
      with the explicit goal of strengthening the relationship between parents and the infant and
      it has been developed as a means of supporting parents in the transition to parenthood. The
      NBO system comprises of 18 neuro-behavioral observations of the infant when sleeping, being
      awake or crying. Combining FFN and NBO in an intervention program will increase focus on the
      family's resources and ensure that the infant gets an explicit voice that is thought to
      increase parental sensitivity and thereby decrease the risk of maternal post-partum
      depression.

      The intervention program is thought as preventive and aim to increase parental sensitivity
      expressed as a lower prevalence of maternal postpartum depression symptoms. In total10 health
      professionals from the obs. dept. will be theoretically and practically educated in the
      methods: FFN (3days) and certified in the NBO (3days). The intervention program delivered to
      the intervention group participators consists of FFN conversations and NBO sessions that will
      be structured throughout the stay at the obs. dept. At the first day following birth an
      admission dialogue is held with the family that implies a FFN conversation. On the second,
      third and fourth day of the stay NBO sessions will be held with the family. On the third day
      the NBO session will be combined with another FFN conversation and on the last day of the
      stay a transition dialogue will be held together with a health visitor from the family's home
      municipality. This transition dialogue will contain a FFN conversation. The conversations and
      sessions will vary in length (but are estimated to last around 45 minutes per conversation)
      and content and will be shaped by the needs and preferences of the family. The
      transition-dialogue on the day of discharge will be held to ensure that important
      observations, knowledge and concerns are shared with the family and between the health
      professionals. Contact and formal agreements with the collaborating communities will be made
      prior launch of the intervention program.

      Descriptive statistics will be applied using STATA (StataCorp. 2015) and T-tests, Chi2 and
      regression analysis will be performed and when relevant comparison will be controlled for
      confounding. Process evaluation is applied to ensure that the intervention program is
      delivered according to the intention. During the intervention period documentation for held
      FFN conversations and NBO sessions will be collected and ongoing evaluation will register
      drop-outs or recruiting problems. Besides the PhD student will randomly witness both FFN
      conversations and NBO sessions in order to ensure intended content.

      The sample size is calculated on the basis of the difference between the control and the
      intervention group on the maternal Edinburg Postnatal Depression scale (EPDS) at follow-up.
      It is estimated that the prevalence of an elevated EPDS score will be 50% in the study
      population due to the inclusion criteria (42,43) and a power calculation shows that with a
      significance level of 5 % and a power of 80% 55 participating and followed-up families in
      both the control and the intervention group is needed to detect significant difference (N =
      110). Ethics: Participating families are informed about the purpose of the study and will
      receive both oral and written information about the study prior participation. The study will
      be reported to the Committee on Health Research Ethics and the Danish Data Protection Agency.

      Perspectives Combining research from three sub-studies this PhD study will increase the
      understanding of how the time immediate after birth may facilitate family consciousness of
      their resources' and help evolve early healthy relationship formation. This study will be the
      first to implement and adapt FFN and NBO to a high-risk population at an obs. dept. in
      Denmark. Furthermore, it is expected that this study will impact and profile clinical
    
  