
    
      Design:

      A randomized controlled trial in pregnant women with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) will
      be performed at 24-28 weeks of gestation until the 42 days after delivery. Participants will
      be randomly assigned to the control group (Medical Nutrition Therapy) or the intervention
      group (Medical Nutrition Therapy combined with TFP-DM). The control group will receive the
      individualized Medical Nutrition Therapy, which focuses on restricting energy intake combined
      with behavioral lifestyle modification through participation in group sessions and individual
      counseling. The intervention group has two components. The first part has the same
      intervention with the control group. The second part has the additional Enteral Nutrition
      Suspension (TFP-DM, Diason 0.75 kcal/ml) intervention based on the standard Medical Nutrition
      Therapy. It meant 200ml/150Kcal TFP-DM will be suggested to participants in the intervention
      group 2 times per day. The 400ml TFP-DM will replace the 25 grams of grains and dairies
      during breakfast and the snack session after dinner. Overall, the control group and the
      intervention group will receive the same amount of carbohydrate and calorie intake. The
      primary outcome will be fasting plasma glucose concentration, HbA1c concentration. The
      secondary outcome will be serum glycated albumin, serum insulin concentration, the rate of
      using insulin for patients, the insulin sensitivity (HOMA-IS), the gestational weight gain,
      the incidence of macrosomic infants.

      Hypothesis:

      Medical nutrition therapy combined with the enteral nutrition suspension (TFP-DM, Diason 0.75
      kcal/ml) in pregnant women with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) will improve in glucose
      and lipid metabolism and the relevant adverse pregnancy outcomes, and provide the
      evidence-based in clinical nutrition therapy for gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) disease.
    
  