
    
      Background: In households heavily dependent on livestock, declining availability of forage is
      associated with decreased consumption of animal source foods such as milk and meat, and
      consequently decline in child nutritional status. Populations living in Kenya's Arid and
      Semi-Arid Lands(ASALs) are predominantly pastoral, heavily dependent on livestock and
      practice seasonal mobility to access livestock pasture and water. Livestock interventions
      that maintain or improve health and productivity of animals have been postulated as important
      for reducing the risk of malnutrition during critical drought periods.

      Objectives: Here the investigators implement a cluster randomized control study trial to
      determine the effect of providing livestock feed, livestock feed and nutritional education
      and counselling during critical dry periods on household milk availability and consumption,
      and the risk of malnutrition in pregnant and lactating mothers, and children 5 years and
      below.

      Methods: A total of 1800 households owning livestock and with children 3 years and below in
      Marsabit County will be enrolled into three equal groups (arms) of 600 households each. Each
      household and participant will be followed for 18 months. Households in Arm 1 will receive
      livestock feed enough to maintain 2-3 milking animals during the critical dry period. Arm 2
      will receive similar livestock feed and human nutritional education and counselling. Arm 3
      (control arm) will not have any of the two interventions. Primary outcome measures will be
      child anthropometric indicators (height-for-age, weight-for-age and middle upper arm
      circumference) and maternal anthropometric measures (middle upper arm circumference, height,
      weight, weight-gain during pregnancy) collected quarterly. Data on a 24-hour recall of diet
      (number of meals taken, type/diversity of foods consumed including animal source foods,
      frequency of times and quantity of specific foods consumed) will be collected every 6 weeks.
      To control for additional factors that would influence nutritional status, the investigators
      will collect human health syndromic data (fever, diarrhoea, respiratory syndromes) and
      livestock health data every six weeks and socio-economic data quarterly including household
      demographics, incomes, expenditures, asset accumulation, gender roles, workload and time
      allocation. To control for exposure to infections such as brucellosis in humans and animals
      and for micronutrient and mycotoxin analysis, biological samples (venous blood of mother and
      child), animal biological samples (blood and milk) and household drinking water will be
      collected at recruitment, 6 months and at 12 months. The study will test the
      cost-effectiveness of livestock interventions and nutritional counselling in prevention of
      malnutrition and its health consequences, compared to treatment of malnutrition. Cost data
      associated with each study arm will be tracked to provide estimates of resources required to
      scale up for implementation. Results from this study will form the basis for monitoring
      efficiency and effectiveness of interventions aimed at reducing seasonal spikes in levels of
      acute malnutrition in children under five years and pregnant and lactating women in
      pastoralist communities.

      Study duration: Each study household and participant is followed for a period of 24 months
      from the time of enrolment into the study.
    
  