
    
      The myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN), most notably polycythemia vera (PV), essential
      thrombocythemia (ET), and primary myelofibrosis (PMF) are a diverse but inter-related suite
      of clonal disorders of pluripotent hematopoietic stem cells (Tefferi et al., 2008). The MPN
      share a range of biological, pathological, and clinical features including the relative
      overproduction of one or more cells of myeloid origin, growth factor independent colony
      formation in vitro, marrow hypercellularity, extramedullary hematopoiesis, splenomegaly and
      hepatomegaly, and thrombotic and/or hemorrhagic diatheses (Tefferi et al., 2005).

      This is an open-label, non-randomized, dose-escalation study, to be conducted in two phases:
      a single-centre dose-escalation phase with supernumerary patient addition (Part 1), to
      determine the safety and tolerability of CYT387, and to identify a therapeutic dose for the
      confirmation portion of the study; and a multiple-centre dose-confirmation phase (Part 2),
      which will be a cohort expansion at or below the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of CYT387.

      In Part 1 of the study, patients will be assigned to dose levels in successive cohorts
      starting with a dose in the first cohort of 100 mg/day, administered orally as a single daily
      dose (ie QD: at least 20 and no more than 28 hours apart, preferably in a fasted state at
      least one hour before and two hours after a meal). Dose-escalation will proceed initially
      with a 1.5-fold increment however, based on toxicity and efficacy information at a specific
      dose level, the dose escalation increment may be reduced to a 1.25-fold escalation at the
      discretion of the investigator. At any dose level, if one patient experiences a Grade 2
      toxicity or higher, the dose-escalation may only proceed with 1.25-fold increments.

      The MTD is defined as the highest dose level at which > 2 of 6 subjects develop first cycle
      DLT. New dose levels may begin accrual only if all subjects at the current dose level have
      been observed for a minimum of 28 days from the first day of treatment. The recommended Phase
      II dose will be the MTD unless significant clinical activity (efficacy) is seen below the
      MTD. With the exception of the first cohort, dose levels may be decreased from the intended
      dose levels for the next cohort, if Grade 2 or greater toxicities are observed.

      Twenty (20) patients will be assigned to receive CYT387 at 150 mg twice daily (BID) with
      doses approximately 10-12 hours apart to determine the comparative safety, tolerability and
      preliminary activity of CYT387 administered twice-daily. Initially, a maximum of 6 (six)
      patients will be enrolled for safety assessment. If none of the six patients experiences a
      first-cycle DLT, then the remaining 14 patients may be enrolled following approval by the
      Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB).

      In the multi-centre portion of the study (Part 2), sixty (60) additional patients will be
      dosed at either 150 mg or 300 mg once daily (QD). Subjects will be evaluated weekly for the
      first cycle, every 2 weeks for cycle 2, and at the end of each subsequent cycle for up to 9
      cycles of CYT387 treatment. If, after 6 months of therapy an individual patient has not
      experienced a drug-related serious adverse event (SAE), the investigator may, with the
      written concurrence of the independent safety monitor, elect to have that patient's monthly
      safety assessment performed by a registered medical practitioner remote to the
      investigational centre. Subjects will return for a follow-up visit 30 days after completion
      of the last dose of study drug. Subjects who achieve at least stable disease or better and
      tolerate the drug well may be allowed to continue to receive CYT387 beyond the planned 9
      cycles under the extension protocol CCL09101E.
    
  