
    
      This is a multicentre, randomised controlled, open label, investigator sponsored, two arms
      study.

      The study will involve 7 Italian Academic and non-Academic Internal Medicine Units, 2
      Infectious Diseases Units, 1 Respiratory Diseases Unit.

      Patients who satisfy all inclusion criteria and do not have any exclusion criteria and have
      signed written informed consent, will be randomly assigned to a Low-Dose LMWH group (Control
      Group) or High-Dose LMWH group (Intervention Group) in a 1:1 ratio.

      Control Group (Low-Dose LMWH): patients in this group will be administered Enoxaparin
      (Inhixa®) at standard prophylactic dose (i.e., 4000 IU subcutaneously once day).

      Intervention Group (High-Dose LMWH): patients in this group will be administered Enoxaparin
      (Inhixa®) at dose of 70 IU/kg every 12 hours, as reported in the following table.

      The study is conceived as open-label: patients and all health-care personnel involved in the
      study will be aware of the assigned group.

      The treatments will be initiated as soon as possible after randomization (maximum allowed
      starting time 12h after randomization).

      Patients allocated to the two arms will maintain the doses of Enoxaparin, as stated in the
      protocol, until:

        1. hospital discharge or

        2. when at least one of the following events occurs:

             1. Acute Myocardial Infarction [AMI]

             2. Objectively confirmed, symptomatic arterial or venous thromboembolism [TE]

             3. Need for either non-invasive - Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (Cpap) or
                Non-Invasive Ventilation (NIV) - or invasive mechanical ventilation for patients,
                who are in standard oxygen therapy by delivery interfaces at randomisation

             4. Need for invasive mechanical ventilation for patients, who are in non-invasive
                mechanical ventilation at randomisation

             5. Major bleeding

             6. Any adverse events and clinical condition requiring interruption of the scheduled
                intervention according to the judgement of the physician in charge

             7. Death

      The decision about what type and dose of antithrombotic treatment to administer, after the
      interruption of assigned dose of Enoxaparin, will be left to clinical judgement of the
      physicians in charge.

      Any information about the type and dose of antithrombotic treatments administered after the
      interruption of the assigned dose of Enoxaparin will be collected until the hospital
      discharge or death.

      Each patient will be followed-up until hospital discharge. Information about the status
      (dead/alive) of patients who are discharged from hospital before 30 days will be sought on
      Day 30 from randomisation.
    
  