
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the 2-year progression-free survival (PFS) rate in patients with progressive,
      surgically unresectable desmoid tumor treated with nirogacestat.

      II. To describe the toxicities of nirogacestat in children and adolescents with desmoid
      tumor.

      III. To characterize the pharmacokinetics (PK) of nirogacestat in children and adolescents.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the objective tumor response rate (ORR) of nirogacestat in children and
      adolescents with progressive, surgically unresectable desmoid tumor.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To collect blood, archival tumor samples and on-study/post-treatment tumor samples (if
      available) from patients enrolled on this trial to correlate various CTNNB1 and APC gene
      mutations and genomic signatures with tumor response and PFS.

      II. To explore the effect of nirogacestat on immune cells and immunoglobulin levels in the
      peripheral blood.

      III. To collect blood samples for banking at baseline, during treatment, and at the time of
      progression for future research.

      IV. To compare assessment of tumor response using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
      Tumors (RECIST), World Health Organization (WHO) criteria, and T2 and volumetric changes
      using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

      V. To utilize a tool developed to specifically assess patient reported outcomes (PROs) in
      adult patients with desmoid tumor (GOunder/DTRF DEsmoid Symptom/Impact Scale [GODDESS]) and
      the Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) to explore the
      relationship between PROs and tumor response and PFS.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive nirogacestat orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Cycles repeats
      every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.
    
  