
    
      Left ventriculography is a routine and accurate method of evaluating left ventricular
      ejection fraction (EF) at the time of coronary angiography. Power injected left
      ventriculography (Power LV) using standard volume (36 ml over 3 seconds) of contrast through
      a 5 Fr. angled pigtail catheter in the left ventricle is currently a routine clinical
      practice during left heart catheterization via the radial artery. With coronary angiography
      from the radial approach increasing in popularity there is a growing interest in hand
      injected left ventriculography (Hand LV) using a very low volume (8ml) of contrast through a
      5 Fr. radial angiographic catheter. Potential benefits of this method include reduced
      contrast load, reduced procedure time and overall reduction in cost (less catheters used per
      procedure) as the procedure can be completed using a single diagnostic catheter. Potential
      limitations of this method include reduced opacification of the left ventricle and decreased
      number of cardiac cycles available to estimate EF. It is currently unknown if Hand LV is
      accurate in estimating EF when compared to the standard Power LV.

      Objective: The primary objective of this study is to directly compare the accuracy of the
      very low volume Hand LV to the standard volume Power LV in estimating EF.

      Methods: This study will be conducted in an outpatient setting. The subjects enrolled in this
      study will be adults referred for radial coronary angiography with left ventriculography for
      clinical indications. Subjects will undergo both Hand LV and Power LV at the time of
      angiography. EF for both Hand LV and Power LV will be estimated for each subject in a blinded
      fashion by 2 independent experienced cardiologists. Additionally, quantitative EF
      measurements will be made using integrated standard computer software for both the Power LV
      and the Hand LV. Each patient will serve as their own control.

      Research Design: This is a prospective single center study designed to evaluate clinical
      techniques for diagnostic accuracy.

      Clinical Relationships: It is anticipated that Hand LV will be and accurate method to
      estimate EF when compared to Power LV. (e.g. within a 5% difference is clinically is
      considered within inter and intra-individual variability.) This knowledge will allow
      clinicians to confidently perform Hand LV at the time of radial coronary angiography to
      estimate EF, reducing procedure time, contrast load and overall cost of the procedure.
    
  