
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To characterize patterns and identify predictors of post-treatment physical activity and
           dietary changes made by colorectal cancer survivors.

      Secondary

        -  To identify the affective and cognitive effects of post-treatment physical activity and
           dietary changes in these patients.

        -  To identify these patients' preferences regarding diet and physical activity health
           promotion programs.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients complete surveys at baseline and at 3 and 6 months. A randomly selected subset of 84
      patients also receive an activity monitor to be use at each of the 3 time points. The
      acceptability of their use is assessed and whether activity levels change across the 3 time
      points and the extent to which they are convergent with self-reported physical activity are
      examined.

      During each survey, questionnaires are administered to assess the following areas:
      physical/medical characteristics (self-reported), self-efficacy for physical activity, fruit
      and vegetable consumption, and dietary fat intake; outcome expectations for physical
      activity, fruit and vegetable consumption, and dietary fat intake; physical activity and diet
      behavioral self-regulation; illness representations (causal attributions and controllability
      of recurrence); perceived risk of colorectal cancer (CRC) recurrence; emotional
      representations of CRC (cancer-related anxiety and worry about cancer recurrence); healthcare
      provider recommendations to alter physical activity and dietary intake; social influence from
      important others; current physical activity and dietary intake; and diet and physical
      activity program preferences. Patients who received the activity monitor are asked feedback
      on acceptability of them.

      Measures of sociodemographics and disease/treatment characteristics (via medical chart
      review) are recorded.
    
  