
    
      This study will require participants to stay in the room calorimeters for up to 5 hours on
      each of the 3 test sessions. The participants are to avoid intense physical activity/alcohol
      and to record their food intake for the day prior to test day. They will record their food
      intake for the day prior to test session 1 in a food diary (to be provided to them on the day
      of screening). Records will be used to ascertain participants' food intake patterns. They
      will report to Clinical Nutrition Research Centre (CNRC) in the morning after an overnight
      (10-12 hours) fast. Basic anthropometric measurements will be taken at the start of the test
      session before participants enter the room calorimeter. The room calorimeter is a 13.5 m3
      chamber furnished with features to give an impression of a normal room with windows on three
      sides of the chamber for outside view and visual contact with researchers. It has a full
      sized foldaway bed, a fold-down writing table, an office chair, a built-in sink and mirror, a
      portable freeze-dry toilet bowl, a television, a telephone, computer network connection, an
      intercom system. During their stay in the room calorimeter, energy expenditure will be
      measured based on recorded oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production over 10 hours.
      Participants are allowed to rest, sit and move freely, except sleep or exercise during their
      stay. On each of the 3 test sessions, the subjects will perform up to 4 common household
      activities (e.g. mopping floor, washing dishes, etc) 1 hour after consuming the light
      breakfast. On test session 1, the light breakfast consist of biscuits and a juice drink and
      will be provided to the participants after they have undergone assessment of metabolism at
      rest for approximately 45 minutes in the room calorimeter. On test session 2 and 3, the same
      light breakfast will be provided after approximately 15 minutes after they have entered the
      room calorimeter. During their 4-5 hours stay in the room calorimeter, they will simulate a
      particular household activity for up to 20 minutes and rest for 30 minutes before continuing
      with another household activity and so on for up to 4 different household activities at each
      of the test sessions.
    
  