
    
      Rationale: Peripheral artery disease (PAD) is a manifestation of systemic atherosclerosis,
      causing patients to be at high risk of major adverse cardiovascular events and major adverse
      limb events, including amputation. Therefore, clopidogrel or Aspirin depending on national
      guidelines, is recommended as single antiplatelet therapy when patients are symptomatic or
      have undergone revascularization. Anticoagulant therapies have not shown to be superior in
      PAD patients and have high rates of major bleedings. However, rivaroxaban (2.5 mg twice a
      day), an oral factor Xa inhibitor, in addition to Aspirin (100 mg once a day) has shown to be
      effective in reducing morbidity and mortality from coronary artery disease and major
      cardiovascular and limb events in patients with stable peripheral or carotid artery disease
      compared to Aspirin alone. Although a higher rate of major bleeding was detected, the
      incidence of fatal or critical organ bleedings was not increased.

      Endothelial dysfunction is one of the first signs of atherosclerosis and is present before
      clinical symptoms appear. Endothelial dysfunction contributes to the progression of
      atherosclerosis and is related to major cardiovascular events. The level of vascular
      endothelial dysfunction can be measured using the carotid artery reactivity (CAR) test. This
      test measures the CAR in response to sympathic stimulation and can also be used to measure
      endothelial dysfunction in PAD patients and how a combination of rivaroxaban and Aspirin
      affects it. The investigators hypothesized that a combination of low-dose rivaroxaban and
      antiplatelet therapy would improve endothelial function in PAD patients.

      Objective: To study the effectiveness of low-dose rivaroxaban with Aspirin in improving
      endothelial function in patients with stable or symptomatic PAD.

      Study design: Two clinical cohort studies will be performed. Study population: Lower
      extremity PAD patients (n=330) with intermittent claudication (group A: Fontaine stages 1-2)
      or critical limb ischemia with pain at rest and/or foot ulcers (group B: Fontaine stages 3-4)
      who have an indication for single antiplatelet therapy are eligible for this study.

      Intervention (if applicable): Aspirin 100mg once a day + 2.5 mg rivaroxaban twice a day
      (combination therapy). The use of Aspirin alone (100 mg once a day) during the run-in period
      is used as reference.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The primary outcome measure is the CAR after 3 months
      combination treatment. The change in proportion of patients with CAR-constriction from
      baseline (Aspirin alone) to 3 months after adding low dose rivaroxaban will be compared for
      both study groups (A and B). Serum endothelin-1 levels will be quantified as a marker for
      cardiovascular disease at baseline and 3 months after adding low dose rivaroxaban.
    
  