
    
      Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) is an asymptomatic premalignant
      stage that almost always precedes multiple myeloma (MM) and amyloidosis. It is defined by a
      monoclonal-(M)-protein detected on serum protein electrophoresis or immunofixation
      electrophoresis and can be diagnosed with a blood sample. Approximately four percent of
      individuals 50 years or older have MGUS which is associated with a 1-2% annual risk of
      malignant transformation but it is impossible to predict which individuals diagnosed as
      having MGUS will progress and receive a diagnosis of malignant disease.

      To date, no evidence is available on the benefits and harms of population-based screening for
      MGUS and data from prospective studies that assess the optimal follow-up of MGUS are lacking.

      All individuals that are registered as inhabitants in Iceland and born in 1975 or earlier
      have been invited to participate in the study. After signing informed consent, serum from the
      participants will be analysed for MGUS. The participants will not be contacted for blood
      sampling. Instead, an innovative approach will be used by taking advantage of the fact that
      most people 40 years or older do a blood test for various reasons during a three year period.
      The ID-list of participants in the study will be cross-linked with all major laboratories in
      Iceland, covering approximately 90% of all blood sampling in Iceland. When a participant has
      a blood test, a small amount (1 ml) of serum will be sampled and put in a separate test tube
      belonging to the study and used for diagnosis of MGUS.

      Participants diagnosed as having MGUS will be randomized to three different arms, of which
      two arms will be called into a clinical study center for two separate types of follow-up. In
      arm one the participants will be asked to answer an electronic Mental Health and Quality of
      Life questionnaire annually but receive no active follow-up. In arm two and three the
      participants will be asked to answer the Mental Health and QoL questionnaire but also receive
      follow-up according to the International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) guidelines (arm two) or
      intensive (arm three) clinical follow-up. Participants without MGUS will be asked to answer
      Mental Health and QoL questionnaire annually.

      Results from two recent, population-based studies shows that early detection of MM through
      follow-up of MGUS is associated with fewer major complications and 13-14% better overall
      survival as compared to individuals presenting with MM without previous diagnosis of MGUS.

      This study aims to assess the benefits and harms of population-based screening for MGUS by
      analyzing overall and disease specific survival, complications associated with screening and
      the effects screening has on mental health and quality of life. Furthermore, the aim of the
      study is to evaluate the optimal follow-up strategy of MGUS and the cost-effectiveness of
      screening for MGUS.
    
  