
    
      Primary Hypothesis: The purpose of this study is to determine the safety of a sublingual
      tablet formulation of buprenorphine and naloxone by extending the combination tablet
      availability to physicians in office-based practice. The general consensus is that the
      initial effort should involve physicians experienced in the treatment of opiate dependence.
      The fact that buprenorphine is already in a formulation available as a schedule V analgesic
      should allow for its administration in and dispensing from a physician's office. The research
      data showing its high level of safety, patient acceptance and clinical efficacy, and its
      availability as a formulation that can be given for take-home dosing with low intravenous
      abuse liability, argue compellingly for exploring alternative implementation strategies in
      settings other than traditional narcotic treatment programs.

      Secondary Hypothesis: None

      Intervention: This is a single treatment study of a sublingual 4:1 buprenorphine/naloxone
      combination tablet. Dosing can range from 2 mg at baseline (expressed as amount of
      buprenorphine) to 24 mg (maximum dose used in study).

      Primary Outcomes: Patient retention rate, percentage of urine samples negative for opiates

      Study Abstract: The CS 1018 study recruited a total of 582 patients seeking treatment for
      opiate dependence. They were recruited from six states (Florida, New York, Texas, California,
      Washington, and Illinois), with up to ten private physician sites or clinics participating in
      each state. Coordination of the participating sites and clinics in each of the six states was
      performed from an associated Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center (Tampa VAMC, New
      York City VAMC, San Antonio VAMC, Long Beach VAMC, Seattle VAMC, and Hines VAMC). The
      Principal Investigator (PI) at each of the six VAMC's was a physician experienced in the
      treatment of opiate dependent patients. In addition, a study coordinator was hired at each of
      the six VAMC's to coordinate both the collection and completion of study forms. Editing and
      correction of all data study case report forms was coordinated and handled by one of the
      state specific study coordinators. Patients were recruited by any of numerous strategies
      including utilization of central recruiting telephone number systems, word of mouth,
      self-referral, local fliers, newspapers, and radio advertisements. This study was conducted
      open label with no random assignment or stratification. Patients were accepted for
      detoxification or longer-term treatment (6 to 12 months of buprenorphine/naloxone therapy).
      Patients under the age of 21 were initially admitted for detoxification; longer treatment of
      these patients was based on physician judgement of the necessary of continued treatment.
      Patients were inducted directly into buprenorphine/naloxone 4:1 combination tablets. Patients
      treated in private practice were asked to sign a treatment contract which delineated the
      terms and conditions of treatment.

      Results:

      Main Manuscript - (record authors, title, journal, year, volume, page nos.)
    
  