
    
      BACKGROUND & RATIONALE:

      Cardiovascular disease, which includes coronary artery disease (CAD), is a leading cause of
      death in Canada and worldwide. Cardiac rehabilitation (CR) is the gold standard intervention
      for tertiary prevention of CAD, and is associated with improvements in cardiovascular risk
      (e.g., blood pressure, psychological distress) and with 26% reductions in mortality. Despite
      these benefits, only 20-50% of eligible patients participate and even fewer attend all
      scheduled CR sessions. CR consists of multicomponent risk reduction interventions including
      exercise training and patient education (PE). An underlying assumption of PE is that
      imparting knowledge to patients will lead to changes in their adherence to health behaviours
      and, ultimately, influence cardiovascular outcomes. Decades of research from behavioural
      science, however, demonstrates that changing health behaviours, such as CR participation,
      requires more than knowing "what" to do, but also favourable attitudes and self-efficacy
      about behaviour change. PE has been demonstrated to enhance knowledge about CAD, but more
      work is needed to understand whether changes in knowledge translate into more positive
      attitudes, self-efficacy, and adherence to CR. To date, only one Canadian PE curriculum
      within a CR setting has been empirically evaluated, and cardiac PE classes across settings
      are often poorly described and variable in duration and format. To optimize adherence to CR
      and its associated survival benefits, there is a need to evaluate whether a well-described
      cardiac PE curriculum helps translate knowledge into favourable attitudes, self-efficacy, and
      CR attendance.

      PRIMARY AIM: To determine the impact of a Calgary-based patient education curriculum
      delivered in a CR setting (i.e., "Taking Charge of your Heart Health"; TCHH) on cardiac
      knowledge post-TCHH and at 12-week follow-up.

      SECONDARY AIMS:

        -  To examine the impact of cardiac education on attitudes toward CR, and self-efficacy for
           CR attendance from pre- to post-TCHH

        -  To examine whether increases in CAD knowledge are associated with improvements in
           attitudes toward CR, self-efficacy for CR adherence from pre- to post-TCHH oTo examine
           whether increases in CAD knowledge from pre- to post-TCHH are associated with CR
           adherence

      HYPOTHESES: It is predicted that (1) knowledge about CAD will increase from pre- to
      post-TCHH, and knowledge gains will be maintained at 12-weeks, and; (2) increases in
      knowledge will be positively associated with improvements in attitudes toward CR,
      self-efficacy toward CR participation, and actual CR adherence.

      METHODS:

      DESIGN: This is a prospective observational cohort study. As the cardiac education
      intervention is a mandatory component of participation in the CR program, the present study
      will observe and measure changes in CAD knowledge, CR attitudes, and CR adherence among
      eligible CR patients who choose to participate.

      CR PROGRAM: The CR program consists of four mandatory 2.5-hour group-based cardiac education
      classes (focused on physiology, risk factors, medications, nutrition, exercise, and stress
      management) followed by 12 weeks of supervised exercise training held twice weekly. All
      patients enrolled in the CR program are required to complete the 4 education classes prior to
      starting CR exercise.

      PROCEDURE:

      • Patients will complete a baseline battery of validated questionnaires assessing CAD
      knowledge, CR attitudes, and CR self-efficacy, as well as baseline demographic and medical
      information prior to their first TCHH class (T1). Measures of CAD knowledge, CR attitudes,
      and CR self-efficacy will be re-administered post-TCHH (T2), and after completion of CR
      exercise training (12-weeks; T3).

      DATA ANALYSIS: To evaluate the impact of patient education on knowledge, a repeated-measures
      ANOVA will be performed with time as the independent variable (T1, T2, T3), and CAD knowledge
      as the dependent variable. To evaluate the association between knowledge gains and CR
      attitudes, self-efficacy, and CR adherence, residualized change scores will be calculated for
      T1 to T2 knowledge, attitudes, and self-efficacy. The investigators will conduct separate
      regression models with knowledge change scores as the independent variable, and with CR
      attitudes change scores and CR adherence as dependent variables.

      IMPLICATIONS: This study will inform strategies to help increase knowledge, and translate
      knowledge into exercise adherence, among patients with CAD. Given the link between CR
      attendance and morbidity/mortality, efforts to optimize patient education interventions and
      CR utilization have the potential to significantly improve cardiovascular health outcomes.
    
  