
    
      Background:

        -  LMB-100, and a closely related immunotoxin, SS1P, also targeting mesothelin, have been
           studied in previous Phase 1 clinical studies for mesothelioma and pancreatic cancer.

        -  LMB-100 has demonstrated anti-tumor efficacy against several mesothelin expressing tumor
           models including mesothelioma PDX models

        -  PD-1 (encoded by the gene Pdcd1) is an Ig superfamily member related to CD28 and CTLA-4
           that has been shown to negatively regulate antigen receptor signaling upon engagement of
           its ligands

        -  The PD-1 receptor-ligand interaction is a major pathway hijacked by tumors to suppress
           immune control. The normal function of PD-1, expressed on the cell surface of activated
           T-cells under healthy conditions, is to down-modulate unwanted or excessive immune
           responses, including autoimmune reactions.

        -  In immune-competent mice bearing human mesothelin expressing tumors local administration
           of LMB-100 with CTLA-4 blockade eradicates murine tumors by promoting anti-cancer
           immunity.

        -  LMB-100 treatment increase CD8+ T cell infiltration in murine lung adenocarcinoma tumors
           that express human mesothelin.

        -  Combination treatment with LMB-100 plus anti-PD1 results in greater anti-tumor efficacy
           in murine lung cancer model

        -  Pembrolizumab is an anti PD-1 antibody that has demonstrated responses of long duration
           in clinical trials and has generally been well-tolerated

        -  It is hypothesized that the anti-mesothelin immunotoxin LMB-100 followed by
           pembrolizumab will result in greater anti-tumor efficacy in patients with mesothelioma.

      Objectives:

      - To determine the objective response rate of sequential therapy with LMB-100 followed by
      pembrolizumab in subjects with pleural and peritoneal mesothelioma.

      Eligibility:

        -  Histologically confirmed epithelial or biphasic pleural or peritoneal mesothelioma (with
           <50% sarcomatoid component) not amenable to potentially curative surgical resection.

        -  Subjects must have at least one prior chemotherapy regimen that includes pemetrexed and
           cisplatin or carboplatin.

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years.

        -  ECOG performance status of 0 or 1.

        -  Adequate organ and bone marrow function

        -  Prior PD1/PD-L1 inhibitor treatment is prohibited

        -  Chemotherapy within 4 weeks or radiotherapy within 2 weeks prior to start of study
           therapy is prohibited.

        -  Subjects with active CNS metastasis are excluded

        -  Subjects with active autoimmune disease for which they had received systemic treatment
           during the previous 2 years receiving systemic glucocorticoids (excluding daily
           glucocorticoid-replacement therapy for conditions such as adrenal or pituitary
           insufficiency) are excluded

        -  Subjects with active interstitial lung disease, or a history of pneumonitis for which
           they had received glucocorticoids are excluded

      Design:

        -  This is an open-label, single center phase II study of LMB-100 followed by pembrolizumab
           in subjects with advanced pleural or peritoneal mesothelioma who have progressed on
           standard therapies.

        -  Subjects will receive LMB-100 at the single agent MTD on days 1, 3 and 5 of a 21-day
           cycle for 2 cycles and pembrolizumab 200 mg on day 1 of each subsequent 21-day cycle
           until disease progression (on or after pembrolizumab) or intolerable toxicity for a
           maximum of 2 years (unless second course initiated).

        -  Tumor biopsies will be performed at baseline, at the end of cycle 2 and at the end of
           cycle 4 to evaluate changes in the tumor immune microenvironment following treatment
           with LMB-100 and pembrolizumab.

        -  Up to 35 evaluable subjects will be enrolled
    
  