
    
      This is a multiple-center, randomized (participants are assigned to study drug by chance),
      multiple-dose, double-blind (neither physician nor participant knows the treatment assigned),
      placebo (inactive substance that is compared with a drug to test whether the drug has a real
      effect in a clinical trial)-controlled, 2-period crossover (participants may receive
      different interventions sequentially during the trial) study to assess the pharmacodynamics,
      pharmacokinetics, safety, and tolerability of dapoxetine when concomitantly administered in
      adult male participants who have been on a stable dose of terazosin or doxazosin for at least
      6 weeks. Study drugs used will be terazosin (a drug given for the treatment of hypertension
      and benign prostatic hyperplasia) and dapoxetine (a new drug being studied for the treatment
      of premature ejaculation). This study consists of a screening phase followed by a
      double-blind, placebo-controlled treatment phase consisting of 2 treatment periods.
      Participants will remain on their prescribed dose of terazosin and participants taking
      doxazosin will be converted to terazosin using the protocol-defined dose conversion
      (including assessment of control of urinary symptoms and risk for urinary retention).
      Participants will be administered concomitant (at the same time) dapoxetine or placebo once
      daily. Blood samples for pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic measurements will be collected
      at selected times during the study. Safety will be monitored. The total duration of study
      participation will be approximately 49 days. Participants will remain on their prescribed
      dose of terazosin (2 to 10 mg taken once daily by mouth) and will be administered daily by
      mouth concomitant dapoxetine 60 mg or placebo doses during 2 treatment periods (each 7 days
      in duration conducted in the study center). A period of up to 14 days will separate the
      treatment periods.
    
  