
    
      This study will compare plain x-rays (XR), skeletal scintigraphy (SS), computed tomography
      (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and positron emission tomography/CT (PET/CT) in
      measuring response. MRI and PET/CT can be performed if they are needed by standard of care.
      We anticipate MRI will be performed most commonly due to back pain.

      Researchers will also compare three sets of standardized evaluation criteria (UICC criteria,
      WHO criteria, MDACC criteria). The MDACC criteria are new while the UICC and the WHO are
      standard criteria. The old criteria are no longer thought to be as reliable because they are
      based only on older technology (XR and SS). Since newer technologies are not included in the
      old criteria, most cancer doctors do not use these older criteria for evaluation of bone
      lesions. Therefore, new bone tumor criteria including newer imaging techniques (CT and MRI)
      are needed. At the end of the study, researchers will look at how sensitive and clear each
      imaging technique is, and they will use a set of criteria to learn which technique best
      measures the disease's response to therapy.

      Participants in this study will have a complete physical exam, including a score of their
      bone pain. Routine blood tests (between 1-2 tablespoons) will be performed before
      participation in this study begins. Women who are able to have children must have a negative
      blood pregnancy test before starting treatment.

      Participants will also have imaging examinations (XR, SS, CT, and MRI, PET/CT).

      All of the first examinations will be finished within one month before the start the
      anti-cancer therapy. If imaging examinations alone cannot prove that the disease has spread
      to the bone, a needle bone biopsy will be done. A bone biopsy means that researchers will
      collect a couple of small tumor samples from the suspicious bone site. The tumor samples will
      be taken using a large needle while you are under the appropriate anesthesia.

      If you are found to be eligible for this study, you will have imaging exams (described
      below), bone score evaluations, and blood tests (between 1-2 tablespoons) done before
      treatment and again at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after starting anticancer therapy.

      Plain radiographs:

      Also called X-rays. You will receive a complete bone survey. This consists of 2 views of
      spine, one view of the top of your head, one view of your chest, one view of your pelvic
      bones, and two of your ribs, one from each side. Any other symptomatic bone scans will also
      be included.

      Skeletal scintigraphy:

      Also called bone scan. You should not eat for more than 4 hours before this examination. You
      will get the pictures 2-3 hour after intravenous injection of Technetium-99m bound to
      methylene diphosphonate (Tc-99m MDP).

      CT:

      CT scan will include your chest, abdomen, and pelvis. You should not eat for more than 6
      hours before this examination. You will be given oral and intravenous contrast as is done in
      standard care.

      MRI:

      This is an optional procedure. MRI of the symptomatic areas will be performed and followed on
      the same schedule as other imaging. You will be given contrast dye by vein as is done in
      standard care.

      PET/CT:

      This is an optional procedure. The examination usually takes 30-40 min while you are lying on
      the moving bed with tunnel 60-90min after injection of 2-deoxy-2-[18F] fluoro-D-glucose (FDG)
      by vein. You should not eat for more than 6 hours before this examination.

      Your part in the study will end after the 12 month tests. However, you will be monitored for
      3 years after enrolling on this study.

      This is an investigational study. This study is not focusing to test the treatment agents but
      to test the imaging technique assessing bone tumor response. The exams performed in this
      study are commercially available and are part of routine examination. A total of up to 120
      patients will take part in the study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  