
    
      Patients will have a 1:1 randomization to receive subcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation
      (ScNS) to observe if the stimulation can reduce atrial fibrillation burden in patients with
      symptomatic atrial fibrillation (AF). All subjects will undergo the implant of a
      neurostimulator lead. The experimental group will receive stimulation and the control group
      will not receive stimulation. All subjects will complete the same follow up visits to compare
      the 2 groups.

      Primary Objective: To test the hypothesis that chronic subcutaneous nerve stimulation can
      reduce AF burden in patients with severe symptomatic AF unresponsive to conventional
      therapies

      The secondary objective:

      To test the hypotheses that the effect of ScNS on the following endpoints is different
      between the two randomization groups:

        1. Time-dependent reduction of AF burden

        2. Effects of ScNS on ventricular rate control during AF

        3. Reduction of SKNA

        4. Improvement of quality of life

      The study will enroll patients with symptomatic atrial fibrillation unresponsive to
      conventional therapy defined by not responding to at least 1 antiarrhythmic drug. The study
      will enroll 30 patients, including 15 men and 15 women between the 18 and 75 years old. There
      will be no sex/gender/racial/ethnic based exclusion. Patients will be enrolled from the
      Cedars Sinai Medical Center.

      The study will enroll patients with symptomatic atrial fibrillation unresponsive to
      conventional therapy defined by not responding to at least 1 antiarrhythmic drug. The study
      will enroll 30 patients, including 15 men and 15 women between the 18 and 75 years old. There
      will be no sex/gender/racial/ethnic based exclusion. Patients will be enrolled from the
      Cedars Sinai Medical Center.

      The patients will undergo surgical implantation of an externalized lead under the skin on the
      chest wall. The wire is then connected to a neurostimulator. The experimental group (Group A)
      will receive ScNS (3.5 mA) for two weeks. The shame group (Group B) will receive sham (0 mA)
      stimulation for two weeks. The AF burden will be assessed by either a 7- day patch monitor or
      a mobile cardiac telemetry through a skin patch on the chest wall.

      Study duration: 36 Months

      Subject duration: up to 4 months. (7 visits, including the procedure day)
    
  