
    
      This study aims to develop a novel manualized intervention using tailored
      cognitive-behavioral treatment (CBT) and buprenorphine medication to effectively treat the
      co-occurring disorders of non-malignant pain and opioid dependence (POD).

      Specific Aims:

        1. To conduct a pre-pilot phase with 16 patients with POD receiving buprenorphine
           maintenance treatment (BMT). In the pre-pilot phase, we will also explore the effects of
           different daily buprenorphine dosages on pain and opiate use.

        2. To conduct a pilot randomized, clinical trial to obtain data regarding the feasibility,
           acceptability and efficacy (compared to Physician Management(PM) only) of manual-guided
           CBT or Educational Counseling (EC) for patients with POD treated with BMT (N=75).

      The secondary outcomes: Development of a Treatment Manual and Development and Modification of
      Initial Therapy Training and Process Rating Measures were process measures and not been to be
      included as measures associated with RCT. These outcomes were removed when the RCT results
      were entered. In addition, outcomes were renamed for clarification.

      At results entry, the timeframe (16 weeks) was also corrected to account for the actual
      timeframe used for analysis in the study. The 16-week study period listed in the protocol
      included a 2-week buprenorphine induction period (before randomization) and up to a 2-week
      post-conclusion of the clinical trial continuation on buprenorphine and referral to
      continuing treatment. In prior studies with buprenorphine, the study team had observed an
      artificially high attrition during the last 2 weeks of the planned study protocol, when
      participants were attempting to transition to available clinical treatments outside of the
      study. Consequently, as per the original study protocol for this study, the plan was to
      analyze intake and induction data (as baseline data) and then the data from the first
      12-weeks post-randomization.
    
  