
    
      ROR1 is a cell-surface protein that has an important role in the formation of the nervous
      systems, bones, and blood vessels during the early development of the embryo. ROR1 disappears
      by the time of birth and is not detected on normal human tissues in childhood or adulthood.
      However, ROR1 can reappear on malignant tissues, including on hematologic cancers. This
      selective expression of ROR1 on cancerous cells but not on normal cells offers the potential
      for using VLS-101 to specifically kill the cancer cells while sparing normal cells.

      VLS-101 is an investigational drug consisting of a monoclonal antibody that binds to ROR1
      coupled with a potent toxin called monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE). After the antibody binds
      to ROR1 on cancer cells, the ADC can enter those cells, where the MMAE is released and can
      destroy the cancerous cells. In mouse models of human solid tumors, VLS-101 has caused highly
      significant tumor shrinkage.

      This clinical trial is a Phase 2 study evaluating VLS-101 in patients with metastatic solid
      tumors that are likely to express ROR1. Accrual of subjects with any of the following tumor
      types is planned:

        -  Previously treated triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC)

        -  Previously treated estrogen receptor (ER)-positive, progesterone receptor (PR)-positive,
           or human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER2)-positive breast cancer

        -  Previously treated non-squamous, non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) Cohorts of subjects
           may be added as ROR1 expression information and relevant supporting data becomes
           available for other tumor types.

      VLS-101 is administered intravenously in repeated 3-week cycles with a drug infusion on Day 1
      of each cycle. For each patient, therapy can continue as long as the patient is tolerating
      the therapy and appears to have evidence of benefit.

      During the study, blood testing is performed to assess for any VLS-101 effects on liver,
      kidney, and bone marrow (safety); evaluate how much VLS-101 and its breakdown products appear
      in the blood (pharmacokinetics); determine if VLS-101 is altering cancer cells or
      cancer-related proteins (pharmacodynamics); measure for antidrug antibodies to VLS-101
      (immunogenicity); and examine tumors to understand whether the types of cancer cells will
      affect the study drug effects. Scans are performed periodically to assess for changes in
      tumor status.
    
  