
    
      Rationale for conducting this study:

      Existing knowledge suggests that methenamine hippurate is a safe drug with few and mild side
      effects and with the potential to significantly reduce antibiotic usage for women with
      recurrent UTIs. Methenamine hippurate has been on the market for a long time but has never
      been tested to prevent recurrent UTIs in larger RCTs with long time follow-up. Hence, this
      must be proven in a large randomised trial before recommending large scale use of this drug.

      The primary objective of this study is to investigate if taking methenamine hippurate reduce
      the need for antibiotic usage due to recurrent UTI (measured as number of antibiotic
      courses). Pyelonephritis, hospitalization and death will be registered as safety endpoints in
      the study.

      Study design: Triple- blinded randomised controlled phase IV trial where patients are
      randomised to active intervention (methenamine hippurate) or controls (placebo). We will
      include women aged ≥ 70 years with recurrent UTIs, defined as ≥ 3 episodes of antibiotic
      treated acute cystitis (acute symptoms specific/related to the urinary tract) during the last
      twelve months or ≥ 2 episodes during the last six months.

      Setting and study population:

      Women aged ≥ 70 years with recurrent UTIs in primary care. A total of 400 patients will be
      randomized in this trial, with approximately 100 patients in each of the participating
      countries; Norway, Sweden, Poland and the Netherlands. The patients will be treated for 6
      months.

      Patients will be enrolled August-December 2019, including screening for eligibility and
      getting informed consent.

      Start of study with drugs is from October 1st 2019.

      Primary outcome: Number of UTI antibiotic treatments during the six months of treatment. If
      the participant receives >1 antibiotic courses for UTI without symptom relief it is regarded
      as one episode and counted as one antibiotic treatment. If there has been an asymptomatic
      period of at least 14 days in-between two UTI antibiotic courses, this is regarded as a new
      antibiotic treatment. Outcomes will be assessed after 6 and 12 months

      In the analysis standard linear regression will be used where number of UTI antibiotic
      treatments will be the dependent variable. Group allocation together with the confounding
      variables above will be independent variables. The dependent variable will be transformed
      using a rank transformation in case it is not normally distributed. A p-value will be
      delivered but no useful effect size if a rank transformation is used.
    
  