
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the response rate of ibrutinib plus rituximab in young newly diagnosed mantle
      cell lymphoma (MCL) including young high-risk patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the progression free survival of ibrutinib plus rituximab with rituximab -
      cyclophosphamide, vincristine (vincristine sulfate), doxorubicin (doxorubicin hydrochloride),
      and dexamethasone (hyper-CVAD) consolidation in newly diagnosed MCL patients and in high-risk
      patients.

      II. To further evaluate the toxicity profile of the ibrutinib/rituximab combination and
      consolidation therapy.

      III. To estimate the rate of complete response (CR) prior to and following consolidation
      therapy.

      IV. To estimate the response duration and overall survival. V. To analyze progression free
      survival in a subgroup of patients presenting with high risk features after receiving an
      additional 2 years of maintenance therapy with rituximab and ibrutinib at doses used in part
      1 of the study, starting after part 2 of the study ends.

      OUTLINE:

      PART I (IBRUTINIB PLUS RITUXIMAB): Patients receive ibrutinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on
      days 1-28 and rituximab intravenously (IV) over 6-8 hours on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of cycle 1
      and then over 4 hours on day 1 of cycles 3-12. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity or until patients
      achieve complete response.

      PART II (CONSOLIDATION THERAPY): Patients receive rituximab IV over 6 hours on day 1;
      dexamethasone PO or IV on days 1-4; cyclophosphamide IV over 3 hours twice daily (BID) on
      days 2-4; doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 15-30 minutes on day 5; and vincristine sulfate
      IV over 15-30 minutes on day 5 of cycles 1, 3, 5, and 7. Patients also receive rituximab IV
      over 6 hours on day 1; methotrexate IV over 24 hours on day 2; and cytarabine IV over 2 hours
      BID on days 3 and 4 of cycles 2, 4, 6, and 8. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 8
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  