
    
      1. Research aims

      The increasing prevalence of severe aortic valve defects is a corollary to increases in life
      expectancy (Lindroos et al. 1993). For many years, surgical valve replacement with
      extracorporeal circulation has been the gold standard in the treatment of severe aortic valve
      diseases. Every year, about 12,000 patients in Germany receive isolated aortic valve surgery
      (Gummert et al. 2009). Several alternatives to established procedures have recently emerged:

        -  V-TAVI, vascular transcatheter aortic valve implantation and

        -  A-TAVI, apical transcatheter aortic valve implantation (Cribier et al. 2002, Walther et
           al. 2008, Webb et al. 2007, Himbert et al. 2008, Walther et al. 2007).

      For some time, percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty (Sack et al. 2008) has been used as a
      palliative measure for specific patients.

      New developments have triggered assumptions that there will over the coming years be a
      certain reorientation to the treatment of patients with aortic valve defects. In a
      positioning paper published jointly by the German Cardiac Society (DGK) and the German
      Society for Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery (DGTHG), there is a consensus that these new
      techniques can be used on patients who have either contraindications against conventional
      surgery or who are at high risk of preoperative mortality, e.g. due to severe comorbidities
      (Figulla et al. 2009).

      As there is as yet only limited experience in this field and neither randomised trials nor
      long-term-results are available, the use of new implantation techniques is therefore not
      recommended for younger patients or patients without comorbidities (Figulla et al. 2009).
      There is accordingly an urgent need for any introduction of this innovative medical procedure
      to be stringently monitored according to scientific principles. The goal of the planned
      Germany Aortic Valve Register is to evaluate the new treatments from the point of view of
      benefits und risks with respect to the gold standard of conventional surgery, with a view to
      compiling evidence-based indication criteria. The register will furthermore allow for the
      first time a comparison of various operative procedures, such as Ross procedure, David
      procedure and various mechanical or biological aortic valve implants.

      2. Rationale of the study design Randomised trials in controlled environments are considered
      best scientific practice for verifying the efficacy of a new method. The disadvantage is that
      only a small part of potential patients can be included in the trial, and results therefore
      reflect only a small section of the real world. Furthermore, a randomised study design is for
      ethical reasons not an acceptable approach to all questions, especially when
      contraindications exist for a certain branch of treatments and the spectrum of treatments is
      to be expanded. Nevertheless, new procedures have to be critically and scientifically
      analysed if the risk-benefit ratio is to be accurately determined. National heath authorities
      therefore request register data in addition to controlled trials in order to verify the
      safety and efficacy of new procedures across larger patient populations.

      3. Objectives

        1. Description of structure, process and outcome quality for the various techniques of
           aortic valve therapies

        2. Definition of indication criteria (e.g. through scoring systems)

        3. Collection of information on quality and safety for special medical devices

        4. Evaluation of quality of care on the level of participating centres with a view to
           increasing quality

        5. Health economic evaluation of the applied treatments

           4. Study design Prospective, controlled, multicenter register study

           5. Inclusion criteria

           All consecutive patients from participating hospitals with aortic valve defects who have
           received one of the following therapies:

             1. surgical aortic valve replacement,

             2. aortic valve surgery (Ross procedure, David procedure)

             3. percutaneous transvascular (retrograde) aortic valve implantation

             4. percutaneous transapical aortic valve implantation

             5. aortic valve valvuloplasty

           6. Variables of measurement

           • Clinical short term and long term results (event free survival) after 30 days, one
           year and after 3 and 5 years

           • Indication for the various procedures

           • Documentation of surgical risk and quality of life

             -  Documentation of technical performance and the success of the intervention,
                including re-interventions

             -  Documentation of in-hospital mortality and non-fatal severe complications

             -  Documentation of medication at discharge / long-term medication

             -  Documentation of implants used

             -  Documentation of length of stay in hospital and rehabilitation

             -  Documentation of mortality and non-fatal severe complications, re-intervention,
                re-hospitalisation, as well as medication within 30 days, one year and after 3 and
                5 years.

                7. Statistical methods / evaluation plan All collected parameters are analysed
                descriptively for the entire study population for each of the included therapies
                (see: 5. Inclusion criteria). The absolute value and the percentage of the quality
                data are reported. For continuous variables median and quantities will be
                presented. Event free survival will be visualised through Kaplan-Meier graphs. The
                descriptive analysis of main measurement variables helps to illustrate the quality
                of the various techniques of aortic valve replacement from a structure, process and
                outcome point of view (objective a.).

           Within the different types of therapy, predictors for surgery/intervention without
           complications, and therefore also mortality, as well as improvement of quality of life
           will be ascertained through regression models. The results of these calculations will be
           used to detect criteria for indicating the various techniques (objective b.).

           Within the various techniques, alternative medical devices will be compared in respect
           to mortality and quality of life. Propensity-score models can be used for adjustment
           purposes (objective c.).

           All participating centres will receive a benchmark report once a year in which the
           patients of the respective centre will be compared to those in other hospitals. The
           report will distinguish between the various techniques of aortic valve replacement.

           In addition to a descriptive comparison, all complications will be reported
           risk-adjusted for each centre and analysed from the point of view of the centre-related
           effect (objective d.).

           An adjusted comparison of different types of therapies in respect to complications, cost
           and patients' quality of life through statistical methods will not be undertaken until
           the patient population of the various techniques overlap each other at least partially
           with regard to predictors for complications, costs and quality of life. This is to be
           examined during the development of the first report.

           The following data will be needed for evaluation from a health-economy point of view
           (objective e.):

           Demographical data, details regarding intervention, complications in the context of the
           intervention, clinical outcome parameters, quality of life (on the basis of a
           standardised questionnaire), medication, consulting of general practitioners and
           specialists, hospitalisation, rehabilitation measures, dependence on long term care
           (care level), employment as well as inability to work and reduction of earning capacity.

           A price for the consumption of resources will be determined after data are collected.
           This will allow a monetary value to be put on consumption of resources and calculation
           of the incurred expenses. It may in this context be necessary to incorporate a time
           factor in consumption in the form of a country-specific and sector-specific inflation
           adjustment of the costs in relation to a base year.

           This provides the possibility of analysing costs with regard to the chosen procedures
           (see: 5. Inclusion criteria). It is furthermore planned to run a
           cost-effectiveness-analysis in close cooperation with clinical experts, in which the
           costs of the procedures will be set against clinical effects achieved in a
           cost-effectiveness relation (ICER). Additionally, a cost-utility analysis will be
           conducted wherever possible. The costs of the various treatments will thereby be set in
           relation to so-called quality adjusted life years (QALYs), a combined endpoint
           consisting of quality of life and length of life. The survey of quality of life through
           a structured questionnaire allows quality of life to be presented in an index.

           The goal of the accompanying health economic research is therefore to provide a
           comparison of monitored therapy alternatives from the point of view of clinical and
           economic effectiveness.

           It has to be emphasised that a differentiated approach must be taken to any comparison
           of individual groups due to the absence of randomisation. Matching will be undertaken to
           minimise selection bias. Due to particularly high differences in the patient
           collectives, the question of whether it is possible to apply these methods to the
           anticipated data can not be conclusively answered until the data records have been
           received.

           8. Data model The register provides a complete survey. The data model is based on three
           data sources.

           1. Data set of the external performance measurement according to the German Social Code
           (§ 137 SGB V): The set provides data on pre-, intra- and postoperative processes during
           hospitalisation at the time of surgery.

           2. Register data set: Additional internet-based survey, e.g. specific indication
           criteria and indication for used medical devices 3. Follow-up: Survey of follow-up after
           30 days, 1, 3 and 5 years by the registry centre.

           The complete data collection is based on the consent of the patients from all hospitals
           performing surgical and catheter supported aortic valve procedures. From the point of
           view of data protection regulations, this is the safest and most feasible way to obtain
           longitudinal data. The completeness of data collection will be tested with an electronic
           tool analysing reimbursement data. Monitoring of data validity is carried out by a
           multi-stage plausibility check and a data crosscheck on a randomly selected sample
           (audit).

           9. Period of data collection The phase of patient-recruiting starts on 5 July 2010 and
           ends as decided by the Executive Board. Follow-ups take place 30 days, 1 year, 3 and 5
           years after the aortic valve procedure. Efforts will be made to achieve a central
           follow-up, but this can only be conducted if the written consent of the patient has been
           obtained and the hospital agrees to export data to the registry centre.

           10. Data management The address of the patient needed for follow-up via telephone will
           be kept separately from the medical data of the patient. Only persons in charge of
           telephone follow-up will have access to the address of the patient. Only anonymised
           medical patient data will be used for statistical analysis. Personal data will be
           anonymised immediately after the database is closed and will be deleted after the last
           scientific analysis.

           For the data transmission of the quality assurance data according § 137 Social Code book
           five to the register, a tool will be made available to the participating centres. For
           this purpose, the participating centre will have to conduct an "internal BQS-export".
           The file generated by internal-BQS-export includes all identification characteristics by
           which a combination of the data sets according § 137 Social Code book five and the
           e-sheet data-sets is possible.

           This will ensure that only data receiving the written consent of the patient will be
           transmitted to the register.

           11. Benchmark reports During the period of routine operation of the register all
           participating hospitals will receive benchmark reports at least once a year. The reports
           will be conducted individually for each hospital and compare data of the respective
           hospital with data from all other hospitals. The collected data will be analysed in
           respect to characteristics, therapy and clinical progress of the patients included. This
           benchmark system enables internal quality assurance for the participating hospitals.

           12. Supporting organisations and funding The register is supported by an Executive Board
           consisting of members of the two associations involved and various experts without
           voting right. All members have to disclose possible conflicts of interest. The Executive
           Board also has the support of the Steering Committee, which has a consultancy role and
           to which representatives of the industrials sponsors, insurance companies, health
           economic experts and representatives of political decision-making-bodies are invited.

           The supporting organisation of the register is the non-profit GmbH Deutsches
           Aortenklappenregister (GARY), the official holder of the data from a legal point of
           view.

           13. Independence of Register A funding agreement with the manufacturers of medical
           devices ensures full independence of the Executive Board. A disclosure stipulation
           guarantees that all evaluations and publications are conducted solely according to
           scientific criteria. This prevents any manipulative influence on publications or the
           withholding of publications. The involved societies and the BQS Institute are by virtue
           of their statutes autonomous bodies from a professional and scientific point of view.
    
  