
    
      Study design This study will use a before-after mixed-methods design. In the before group
      (BG) GPs will execute care as usual in the decision-making process for a diagnostic
      trajectory for memory complaints. In the after group (AG), a patient decision aid will be
      added to the decision-making process provided by the GP. The same GPs will participate in
      both the BG and the AG, which maximizes the comparability between the BG and the AG. The
      investigators aim to use the mixed-methods approach to gain a broad and in-depth
      understanding of the issues important for people with memory complaints, their significant
      others, and the GPs involved in the decision-making process. This approach is taken to fully
      unravel the complexity of the decision-making process for a diagnostic trajectory for memory
      complaints and of the SDM intervention.

      Setting The study was developed by Maastricht University Medical Centre (MUMC+) in close
      collaboration with Radboud University Medical Center Nijmegen (Radboudumc Nijmegen). The
      participating GPs, people with memory complaints and their significant others will be
      recruited from general practices located in the south-eastern part of the Netherlands.

      Participants Patient involvement Before the start of the study, a client panel of the
      Alzheimer Centre Limburg (i.e. a panel consisting of people with dementia and their
      significant others) was asked to reflect on the research design. During the study, people
      with memory complaints and their significant others will be closely involved in the
      development and implementation of the SDM-intervention.

      Recruitment and study participants First, the researchers will approach GPs working in the
      south-eastern part of the Netherlands with an information letter about the study. No specific
      inclusion and exclusion criteria have been formulated for the GPs. GPs who want to
      participate will be asked to return an application form to the research team. Subsequently,
      the research team will then provide participating GPs with study material (patient
      application forms, information letters, and informed consent forms). GPs will be asked to
      recruit patients with memory complaints during an inclusion period of 6 months in both the
      before and after group. In the before group, the GPs will inform potential participants about
      the study after a decision about a diagnostic trajectory (i.e. to wait and see, undergo
      diagnostic testing by the GP, or referral to a medical centre) has been made. Patients can be
      included up to a maximum of 3 months after a decision has been made. Significant others of
      people with memory complaints will be asked to participate as well; their participation is
      preferred, but not required. The inclusion and exclusion criteria of the study are shown in
      Table 1. If a potential participant is interested in the study, the GP will send his/her
      contact details to the researchers. The researchers will contact the potential participant to
      provide detailed information about the study. Eligible participants will sign informed
      consent forms before participation. The inclusion/consent procedure in the after group will
      be finalized based on the developed intervention in a later stage of the study.

      Sample size Given the dependence between patients and their GPs in our sample, clustering of
      patients per GP was taken into account in sample size calculations. Clusters were expected to
      include at least two people with memory complaints and intraclass correlation to be 0.05 or
      lower. To achieve power of 0.8 and 2-sided testing at 0.05, 35 GPs are required.

      The investigators therefore aim to include between 30 and 40 GPs in our study which seems to
      be a realistic number based on a previous (comparable) study.

      For the qualitative component of the study, it is expected that interviews with 15-30
      patients, with or without their significant other will be sufficient to reach data-saturation
      (i.e. the point at which interviews reveal no new information or insights). Participants will
      be asked to participate in an interview based on the outcome of the decision-making process
      (i.e. to wait and see, undergo diagnostic testing at the GP, be referred to a medical center
      for advanced diagnostic testing). In this way, the investigators can ensure that each
      'choice-category' is represented in the selective sample. From those patients not selected
      for the interviews, only qualitative data from their medical journals (e.g. free text notes)
      will be analysed. This procedure will be the same in the before and after group. For the
      interviews with the GPs, it is anticipated that participation of 20-25% of the included GPs
      will be enough to reach data-saturation.

      Data analysis Quantitative analysis Descriptive analyses will be conducted on the
      sociodemographic characteristics of people with memory complaints, their significant others,
      and GPs. To assess the decision-making process, descriptive analyses will be conducted on:
      number of consultations before final decision, final decision (i.e. number of decisions in
      each 'choice category'), level of SDM, and level of self-efficacy regarding SDM as indicated
      by GPs. Data will be reported as percentages, numeric counts, and means/standard deviations
      (SD). Furthermore, multiple regression analysis will be performed to investigate: (1) whether
      sociodemographic characteristics or characteristics of the decision-making process are
      related to the outcome of the decision-making process or to the level of SDM and (2) whether
      the level of SDM is associated with the outcome of the decision-making process. A random
      effect multilevel analysis will be used to assess changes in the decision-making process
      before and after implementing the SDM intervention while taking clustering at the GP level
      into account. Baseline characteristics will be added as confounders in case of observed
      differences in the before and after group. Integration of these analyses with qualitative
      measures will help explain these results. All analyses will be conducted using SPSS.

      Qualitative analysis Qualitative methods will be used to analyse data regarding experiences
      in the decision-making process, SDM, and decisional conflict. Interviews will be audio-taped
      and transcribed verbatim. Two independent researchers will analyse the transcripts using
      content analysis. The same researchers will agree on codes, combine codes to create
      categories (axial coding), and combine categories and refine themes (selective coding).
      Atlas.ti will be used to support the analyses.

      Mixed model analysis Integration of quantitative and qualitative research methods will be
      applied during data collection as well as during analyses. During data collection, attention
      will be paid to 'building' and 'merging'. Building will be applied by selecting patients for
      semi-structured interviews based on quantitative data such as age, gender, and the final
      decision outcome of the decision-making process. GPs will be selected based on their scores
      on the quantitative measures SDM-Q-Doc and the self-efficacy VAS as well as on the same
      criteria of age and gender. Merging will be applied through tailoring topic lists for the
      semi-structured interviews to the personal situation of patients and their significant
      others, a task which will be accomplished with the help of information from their medical
      record. During data analyses, 'merging' and 'embedding' will be applied (i.e. qualitative
      data will be used to explain identified patterns in quantitative outcome measures which will
      provide insight into the working mechanisms of the SDM intervention).

      Ethics and Dissemination Care as usual will most likely not be influenced in the before group
      of the S-DeciDeD project. Only a small-time investment will be required from GPs and
      patients: 5 minutes for completing the questionnaires and twenty minutes for participating in
      the interview. The protocol of the before group has been approved by the Medical Review
      Ethics Committee (MEC) of the Maastricht University Medical Centre (MUMC+) in the
      Netherlands, number 2018-0333. Data collection in the before group will start in the
      beginning of 2021.

      The protocol for the after group will be submitted to the MEC after the development of the
      patient decision aid as judgement should include full information on this novel intervention.
      The S-DeciDeD project is part of the national Memorabel programme funded by ZonMw.

      Furthermore, as Maastricht University aims to become a FAIR (Findable, Accessible,
      Interoperable and Re-usable) university, the data will also be published on DataverseNL
      (https://dataverse.nl/). This is a website where researchers can upload their anonymous data
      with restricted access, which allows other researchers to use the data or replicate the
      findings after receiving permission from the S-DeciDeD project. Finally, the findings will be
      published in peer-reviewed international journals and presented at conferences and in one
      dissertation.
    
  