
    
      This project is to determine the vitamin A value (equivalence) of dietary provitamin A
      carotenes from spinach, Golden Rice, and pure ß-carotene (ß-C) in oil. These experiments will
      be conducted in children (ages 6-8) with/without adequate (marginal deficiency) vitamin A
      nutrition. As plant provitamin A carotenoids are a major and safe vitamin A source for a vast
      population in the world, it is essential to determine the efficiency of provitamin A
      carotenoid (mainly ß-C) conversion to vitamin A. By introducing ß-C into rice endosperm,
      Golden Rice may directly benefit consumers by providing vitamin A nutrition. Our
      investigation uses hydroponically grown, deca-deuterium labeled spinach and Golden Rice,
      synthetic ß-C-d10 and a vitamin A isotope reference, C13 labeled retinyl acetate (13C10-RAc),
      to evaluate the bioavailability and the bioconversion of plant provitamin A carotenes to
      retinol as compared with ß-C in oil capsules in vivo.

      Seventy-two children each will take two meals, breakfast containing 13C10-RAc dose (0.5mg in
      0.2g oil capsule) and lunch containing spinach containing 1 mg ß-C (along with white rice),
      or Golden Rice containing 0.5mg ß-C (along with light colored vegetables), or ß-C oil
      capsules containing 0.5 mg ß-C in 0.2g oil (along with white rice and light colored
      vegetables) on the first day of the study. Blood samples will be collected at 1 3, 7, 14, and
      21 days after the study doses.

      The enrichment of labeled ß-C and labeled retinol in human circulation will be determined
      using advanced liquid chromatography / mass spectrometry and gas chromatography / mass
      spectrometry. Through the applications of these novel technologies, we will be able to
      determine the relative biological activities of endogenous carotenoids; that is, the vitamin
      A value of spinach, Golden Rice, and ß-C in oil capsules for children with/without vitamin A
      malnutrition.

      This study will be of importance in planning vitamin A deficiency prevention strategies and
      also will provide useful information regarding the potential efficacy of a bioengineered crop
      to provide vitamin A nutrition.
    
  