
    
      In the present study, a web-based intervention to promote women's mental health in the
      transition to motherhood (the Be a Mom program) will be tested. The design and content
      development of the Be a Mom program was conducted through a formative evaluation process.

      The transition to motherhood is a widely studied period that is characterized as demanding
      for mothers, and that entails an adjustment to lifestyle changes and new responsibilities.
      There is extensive research suggesting that this period is a time of increased risk for
      psychological problems, such as postpartum depression. In turn, this can lead to numerous
      negative consequences to the mother and the child's development.

      Even women who are not at an immediate risk of developing postpartum depression face numerous
      challenges and concerns that may place them in a vulnerable position (e.g., health needs,
      infant care, conflict with partner, changes in marital/social relationships, transitioning
      back to work). Despite this, research on the transition to motherhood has largely focused on
      women at risk or presenting mental illness, overlooking all women in the postpartum period
      and their positive mental health.

      Evidence shows that positive mental health over time functions as a resilience resource and
      protects against both physical and mental illness. There is also evidence suggesting that the
      lack of positive mental health may also make individuals more vulnerable to future
      adversities. This implies that the promotion of positive mental health should be an
      additional goal in public and mental health care that complements the treatment of
      psychopathology.

      Be a Mom is self-guided web-based intervention grounded on CBT principles that also includes
      recent developments in acceptance and commitment based-therapies, specifically for the
      perinatal context. This program focuses on the development and enhancement of psychological
      resources such as self-compassion and psychological flexibility and an increase of mental
      health literacy. Be a Mom has a modular set-up that is updated weekly, with each module
      addressing one or two specific thematic contents (Changes and reorganizations during the
      transition to parenthood; Emotional diversity; Cognitions; Relationship with others [social
      support and communication]; Couple relationship; Signs and symptoms of depression and
      help-seeking). In each module, participants will be provided with both psychoeducational
      content and therapeutic strategies. Informational material will be given in text format,
      combined with audio, video and/or animations. The Be a Mom program will also include
      interactive tools and feedback tools to support learning.

      The main goal of the research is to apply and evaluate Be a Mom for the promotion of maternal
      mental health, in terms of its efficacy, acceptability and feasibility (user's adherence,
      dropout), user's satisfaction and cost-effectiveness. The efficacy of the program will be
      assessed considering two indicators: a) increase in levels of positive mental health at
      post-intervention and throughout the first postpartum year; and b) post-intervention and
      follow-up improvements in mother's psychosocial adjustment indicators (e.g., depressive and
      anxiety symptoms, self-empowerment, quality of life, maternal self-efficacy, marital
      satisfaction). The present study will also aim to investigate the mechanisms explaining the
      treatment response (e.g., self-compassion, emotion regulation).

      The research design of the trial followed the methodological recommendations for the
      development and evaluation of web-based interventions. A pilot study was conducted in order
      to assess user's satisfaction and acceptability of the structure and content of the Be a Mom
      program and carry out appropriate adjustments. The results allowed to identify and implement
      modifications and the final version of Be a Mom was conducted, allowing for further efficacy
      studies.

      The RCT will be a two-arm prevention trial, conducted in low-risk women (PDPI-R < 5.5). The
      intervention condition (the Be a Mom program) will be compared with a control condition
      (Treatment as Usual). The sample will include women who delivered a healthy baby in the early
      postpartum period (up to 3 months postpartum). Women will be recruited online through social
      media and websites and forums focused on motherhood. A minimum number of 150 women per
      condition will be required (N=300). Accounting for the proportion of high-risk and low-risk
      women and the 50% of attrition rate over time, an anticipated sample of 1000 women will be
      enrolled in the study.

      Women who demonstrate interest in the study will be informed of the study goals, the
      structure and arms of the research and the researchers' and participants' roles. Women who
      agree to participate in the study will give their informed consent. All ethical requirements
      for research with humans are guaranteed. Women will be screened for the presence of risk
      factors for PPD. In case of presence of risk factors, women's participation in the study will
      end. In case of not presenting risk factors for PPD (PDPI-R < 5.5), women be randomly
      assigned (blocked randomization, with allocation concealment) to one of the conditions: the
      intervention (Be a Mom program) or the control condition.

      A researcher (licensed psychologist) will contact women in the intervention condition, aiming
      to explain the program's structure and provide assistance during the course of the study.

      Participation in the study will last 15 months. The Be a Mom program will last 5 weeks.
      Participants in both conditions will be invited via email to complete baseline,
      post-intervention and follow-up (4-months and 12-months after post-intervention) assessments.
      Assessments will include self-report questionnaires to assess several indicators (e.g.,
      mental health, quality of life, marital satisfaction, depressive and anxiety symptoms,
      maternal self-efficacy), mechanisms that may be involved in the treatment response (e.g.,
      self-compassion, emotional regulation), user's acceptability and satisfaction and
      cost-effectiveness.
    
  