
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy of the study drug, Nintedanib, on
      slowing the rate of lung fibrosis in patients who are noted to have infiltrates, or ongoing
      lung injury, on chest x-ray/CT 4 weeks or longer from their initial symptoms. In addition,
      the study will also investigate patient reported outcomes using questionnaires, and the
      safety and tolerability of the study drug. Blood specimens will be collected to assess
      biomarkers and monitor drug safety.

      The trial will be randomized 1:1 between Nintedanib and placebo.

      Nintedanib has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of chronic fibrosing ILD with a
      progressive phenotype, but has not been studies in patients with post COVID 19 lung fibrosis.

      Subjects participating in this study will:

        -  Attend in person visits to the study doctor's office on the date of enrollment, 15 days
           after enrollment, 45 days after enrollment, 90 days after enrollment, 135 days after
           enrollment, and 180 days after enrollment. If the participant is being enrolled in the
           study while hospitalized at Mount Sinai, the study doctor will travel to the hospital
           room.

        -  Undergo a HRCT (High-resolution computed tomography) scan of the chest within 14 days of
           enrollment, and then again at 180 days after enrollment.

        -  Have Pulmonary Function Tests within 14 days of enrollment, and then again 45, 90, 135
           and 180 days after enrollment.

        -  Have blood drawn routinely while participating in this study (15 days after starting
           medication, then again on day 45, 90, 135 and 180).

        -  Participants will not pay for physician visits, blood draws, breathing tests, CT scans
           or the medication for this study. Participants will receive a stipend to cover the
           transportation costs for your visits.

      The main risks to participants are:

        1. Common side effects include: nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, stomach discomfort

        2. Loss of appetite and weight loss

        3. Liver function abnormalities (blood work will be monitored periodic intervals at
           scheduled blood draws as listed above)

        4. Slightly higher risk of bleeding

        5. Slightly higher risk of blood clots that can form in the blood vessels that supply
           oxygen to vital organs such as the brain and heart

      Benefits from participation in this research include the possibility that Nintedanib may slow
      down/prevent progression of lung fibrosis. If the lungs can heal without fibrosis, this may
      result in fewer symptoms of shortness of breath, cough and need for added oxygen.

      Instead of participating in this research, subjects may choose to monitor their lung
      condition with their doctor or participate in another research study.
    
  