
    
      Cancer chemoprevention uses natural, synthetic, or biologic chemical agents to reverse,
      suppress, or prevent carcinogenic progression (Sporn MB Cancer Res 1976). Genetic changes
      exist throughout the field and increase the likelihood that one or more premalignant and
      malignant lesions may develop within that field. Multistep carcinogenesis describes a
      stepwise accumulation of alterations, both genotypic and phenotypic. Arresting one or several
      of the steps may impede or delay the development of cancer. Several epidemiological,
      pre-clinical and clinical studies support Vitamin D as preventive and therapeutic cancer
      agent, for a wide spectrum of cancer. Calcitriol (1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D [1,25(OH) D]), the
      hormonal derivative of vitamin D, has been established since the 1980s as an
      antiproliferative and prodifferentiation agent, and as a proapoptotic agent and an inhibitor
      of cell migration, which may imply an inhibitory effect in cancer. Vitamin D is more like a
      hormone and not strictly a vitamin according to the classical criteria that an essential
      nutrient is a substance the body cannot synthesise in sufficient quantities itself. Also,
      vitamins are usually involved in biochemical reactions, while 1_,25-dihydroxyvitamin D exerts
      its action via VDR. Vitamin D is a group of fat-soluble prohormones, the two major forms of
      which are vitamin D2 (or ergocalciferol) and vitamin D3 (or cholecalciferol). Endogenous
      synthesis of vitamin D3 takes place in the skin under the influence of ultra violet B (UVB)
      radiation. Exogenous vitamin D2 or D3 comes from dietary intake. The overall vitamin D intake
      is the sum of cutaneous vitamin D and nutritional vitamin D and D. Vitamin D on its own has
      no physiological action. To be physiologically active, vitamin D must first be hydroxylated
      in the liver by the enzyme 25-hydroxylase, encoded by CYP27A1 (also called the
      25-hydroxylase) in 25-hydroxyvitamin D or 1,25-hydroxyvitamin D (1,25-hydroxyvitamin D). The
      25-hydroxyvitamin D is inactive, and an additional hydroxylation in the kidney by the enzyme
      1_-hydroxylase, encoded by CYP27B1, (also called 1_-hydroxylase) is necessary for production
      of the physiologically active vitamin D metabolite, the 1_,25-dihydroxyvitamin D
      (calcitriol). When 1,25(OH) D is sufficiently available, the enzyme mitochondrial protein
      encoded by CYP24A1 metabolises the 1_,25-dihydroxyvitamin D in 1_,24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D,
      which is further catabolised to calcitroic acid. 25(OH)D and 1,25(OH)2D are transported in
      serum by the vitamin D-binding protein (gene name: GC, group-specific component). Ahn
      systematically investigated the association of 48 SNPS in four vitamin D metabolizing genes
      (CYP27A1, GC, CYP27B1, and CYP24A1) with serum 25(OH)D levels. Four tagSNPS in GC, the major
      serum 25(OH)D carrier, were associated with 25(OH)D levels (Ahn et al.Carcinogenesis 2009).
      CYP24A1 encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450
      proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and
      synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This mitochondrial protein initiates the
      degradation of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D by hydroxylation of the side chain. In regulating the
      level of vitamin D, this enzyme plays a role in calcium homeostasis and the vitamin D
      endocrine system. Of interest, epigenetic silencing of CYP24A1, which is overexpressed in
      many cancers, in tumour-derived endothelial cells renders the tumour sensitive to the
      anti-angiogenic effects of 1,25(OH) D. Various molecules can inhibit 24-Ohase. These merit
      exploration and further development as specific small molecule 24-OHase inhibitors,
      especially in combination with 1,25(OH)D or other vitamin D analogues. These may maximize
      intracellular 1,25(OH)D content and exert optimal antiproliferative effects (Deeb 2007;
      Mantell 2000; Nishimura 1994). Binding of 1,25(OH)D to the vitamin D receptor (VDR)
      suppresses proliferation and induces differentiation of cancer cells in tumour tissue,
      suggesting that high levels of vitamin D metabolites may be protective against cancer (Deeb
      2007; Reichel 1989).
    
  