
    
      The investigators aim to compare the effectiveness and safety of two management strategies
      currently used in basal insulin adjustment for treatment of Type1 diabetes (T1DM) during
      fasting the holy month of Ramadan.

      Primary Objective:

      To determine if taking basal insulin Glargine at 6 pm is associated with less rates of
      hypoglycemia -(we will consider glucose level of 70 mg/dl ( 3.9 mmol/l) and below as the
      level of hypoglycemia ) - compared to bedtime timing (10-12pm) during fasting Ramadan in
      patients with T1DM

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To estimate the difference between the two groups in glucose variability

        2. To estimate the difference between the two groups in number of days they needed to brake
           their fast

        3. To assess the difference in glycemic control between the two groups

        4. To estimate the difference between the two groups in overnight and daytime
           hyperglycemia.

        5. To estimate the difference between the two groups in rate of severe hyperglycemia and
           /or DKA

      It is a multi-center open label randomized study that will take place in the
      diabetes/Endocrine clinics at National Guards Hospitals in four cities (Jeddah, Riyadh,
      Alhasa, and Dammam)

      Variables to be Assessed:

        1. Patient's demographics including (age, gender, type and duration of diabetes), and
           baseline measurements (weight, height,BMI, …).

        2. Rate of Hypoglycemic events (as per SMBG records and CGM) in both groups

        3. Number of days fasting was broken in both groups

        4. Rate of severe hyperglycemic episodes (BG>250mg/dl) or DKA in both groups

        5. Mean blood glucose for the month of Ramadan as calculated from sum of each patient's
           7-point blood sugar home measurements in both groups.

        6. Mean 24-hour blood glucose as measured by a continuous glucose monitoring devise in both
           groups.

        7. Mean fasting blood glucose for the month period as calculated from patients home blood
           sugar measurements in both groups.

        8. Mean 2-hour post-prandial blood glucose for the as calculated from patients home blood
           sugar measurements in both groups.

        9. Fructosamine and HbA1c level before and after Ramadan in both groups

      Results of this study will help fill a current gap of knowledge and may also contribute to
      the development of future guidelines for the management of type1DM during Ramadan.
    
  