
    
      The incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has recently increased in the US mostly due
      to an increase in chronic hepatitis C infection. Angiogenesis is critical for the growth and
      metastatic progression of HCC. With the development of new antiangiogenic drugs such as
      sorafenib, imaging methods to predict and assess therapeutic response beyond changes in size
      become critical. However, validated imaging methods to predict and assess early HCC response
      to targeted agents are lacking.

      In this study, the investigators would like to develop quantitative MRI methods interrogating
      different features of HCC tumor biology and pathology, including tumor cellularity, grade,
      angiogenesis and hypoxia. The investigators propose a multiparametric approach combining
      advanced DWI (IVIM: intravoxel incoherent motion diffusion measuring perfusion fraction and
      true diffusion coefficient), DCE-MRI (dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI, which measures arterial
      and portal flow, mean transit time, blood volume and distribution volume), and BOLD MRI using
      oxygen or carbogen challenge. This protocol will be performed in patients with HCC undergoing
      hepatic resection. Routine and advanced histopathologic methods will be performed (tumor
      grade, CK19 expression, presence of microvascular invasion, VEGF expression, microvessel
      density, HIF 1-alpha expression). MRI metrics will be correlated with histopathologic
      metrics.

      The first portion of the proposal involves the development of a QC algorithm assessing MR
      data quality and test-retest. The investigators will propose solutions to improve data
      acquisition and processing. The last 2 years of the study will be dedicated to a prospective
      randomized study comparing Yttrium 90 radioembolization to sorafenib, assessing the role of
      baseline MRI metrics and early changes (at 2 weeks) in these metrics as markers of tumor
      response and time to progression in patients with unresectable HCC.
    
  