
    
      Bacterial and fungal infections in neutropenic patients or in patients with inherited
      disorders of neutrophil function continue to cause substantial morbidity and mortality. In
      particular, fungal infections are an increasingly important cause of death in patients
      receiving aggressive chemotherapy, in patients undergoing hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation (HSCT), in patients with chronic granulomatous disease, and in patients with
      bone marrow failure syndromes such as severe aplastic anemia. The strongest predictor of
      progression and death from invasive mold infection in the cancer/ HSCT setting is the
      duration of neutropenia. Any modality which increases the granulocyte count during periods of
      profound neutropenia and severe infection is thus likely to be of clinical benefit. In the
      1970-80 s, collection of granulocyte concentrates by apheresis of healthy donors stimulated
      with corticosteroids alone yielded products with an insufficient number of granulocytes to
      substantially raise the circulating counts in neutropenic patients. Transfusion of such
      components was variably associated with clinical benefit. More recently, the ability to give
      donors recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) in combination with
      corticosteroids (dexamethasone) dramatically increases the circulating neutrophil count prior
      to apheresis and results in the collection of granulocyte concentrates containing 2 to 6
      times as many cells as those collected using steroids alone. Transfusion of granulocyte
      concentrates collected after G-CSF and dexamethasone stimulation of the donor typically
      increases the recipient s granulocyte count by 1,000 cells/uL, and the increase in counts is
      generally sustained for 24 to 48 hours. Transfusion of daily or every other day granulocytes
      derived by apheresis of G-CSF and dexamethasone-stimulated donors has been associated in
      observational and retrospective studies with clearance of life-threatening infections in
      neutropenic patients, but a single small randomized prospective study did not demonstrate
      improved survival in neutropenic infected patients who received granulocytes. Granulocyte
      components are not recognized as a licensed blood component by the Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA), and neither G-CSF nor dexamethasone is approved by the FDA for use in
      allogeneic granulocytapheresis donors. Studies at the NIH Department of Transfusion Medicine
      (DTM) have defined the optimal timing and dose of these drugs in granulocyte donors, and
      these components have been used for clinical care since 1996. Short term adverse effects of
      G-CSF and dexamethasone, including bone pain, myalgias, headache, insomnia and fatigue, are
      well known and possible long term effects, including cataracts from serial steroid
      administration, have been described. The purpose of the current protocol is to determine the
      operational feasibility of managing a volunteer community donor granulocytapheresis program
      and to provide informed consent for the administration of filgrastim and dexamethasone to
      volunteer donors donating granulocytes by apheresis. Donor accrual and retention, immediate
      short term adverse effects of G-CSF and dexamethasone, and any long term effects, will be
      assessed in healthy subjects who will be permitted to donate granulocytes a maximum of 12
      times per year. Participants will be selected based on general blood donor eligibility
      criteria, adequacy of antecubital venous access, and interest in the program. Most subjects
      will already have experience as plateletpheresis donors. The toxicity of granulocyte
      transfusions and the survival and discharge rates of the transfusion recipients will be
      monitored, but the protocol is not designed to evaluate the efficacy of granulocyte
      transfusions.
    
  