
    
      PLEASE NOTE: Phase II of this protocol will now be conducted under protocol CCR5119/IRAS
      264012 (NCT03946202)

      Aim: To test a slow release gel containing a commonly available and inexpensive chemical
      (hydrogen peroxide) for safety and activity in sensitizing large cancerous lumps in the
      breast or armpit to a standard 3-week course of radiotherapy in women with poorly controlled
      symptoms.

      Background: Laboratory research and initial clinical trials conducted in Japan raises the
      possibility that a simple and inexpensive treatment based on a very dilute (0.5%) hydrogen
      peroxide injected into cancers under local anaesthetic greatly increases the effectiveness of
      standard doses of radiotherapy. The side effects appear to be limited to mild/moderate
      discomfort at the injection site for up to 24 hours in one-third of patients. Rapid, complete
      and durable tumour disappearance has been reported in 49/55 bulky breast cancers in Japanese
      women treated using this approach, a response that is at least 3 times the success rate of
      radiotherapy alone in our own patients and in a contemporary Japanese control population. The
      inventor, Prof Ogawa of Kochi University, has approached the investigators to lead the
      further clinical evaluation and commercial development, starting with the proposed early
      phase trials testing safety and anti-cancer activity described below.

      Design and methods: After numbing the skin with local anaesthetic, a specialist doctor
      (radiologist) or trained radiographer will use ultrasound to guide the injection of a small
      volume of dilute (0.5%) hydrogen peroxide solution into the tumour twice a week during 3
      weeks of standard radiotherapy. The drug is suspended in a natural gel (1% sodium
      hyaluronate, licensed for treating stiff knee joints) that ensures its slow release over 48
      hours. The injection procedure lasts for 10-15 minutes altogether. Tiny oxygen bubbles are
      released from the hydrogen peroxide which help the radiologist guide the injection of drug to
      the proper places under the skin. The investigators want to test this approach, starting with
      a careful study of side effects in 12 patients (pilot study) followed by a randomised trial
      in 84 patients to test activity against cancer (Phase II). Patients participating in Phase II
      will either have standard radiotherapy or the same radiotherapy plus the drug under test.
      Neither the patient nor the doctor will choose who has which treatment, which is allocated
      randomly. Review of the Pilot study data by an independent committee of experts will be
      completed before starting the phase II (efficacy) study.

      Patient and public involvement: Independent Cancer Patient Voice, a patient advocate group in
      the field of cancer, is collaborating with the investigators on the research plan, commenting
      and advising on the content and clarity of the written proposal. This group plays a prominent
      role in promoting UK clinical research, being represented on the Trial Management Groups of
      several national randomised cancer clinical trials.

      Dissemination: The results of this study will be presented at scientific meetings and at
      meetings of the patient advocate group in order to judge if the results for safety and
      activity are promising enough to justify taking the research further.
    
  