
    
      Asthma is a common chronic illness in children and young people. It affects, for example, an
      average of two children in every UK classroom. Initial treatment usually consists of
      salbutamol used on demand at step 1 of British Thoracic Society (BTS) guidelines. At step 2,
      regular anti-inflammatory 'controller' therapy starts with the regular use of inhaled
      corticosteroids such as beclomethasone. Therapeutic efficacy with inhaled steroids usually
      peaks around 400 micrograms per day of beclomethasone (or equivalent). With inadequate asthma
      control at step 2, inhaled long-acting β2 agonists (LABA) such as salmeterol, or leukotriene
      receptor antagonists (LTRA) such as montelukast are added or inhaled corticosteroids are
      increased; this represents BTS step 3 for asthma management.

      Overall, in children with asthma managed on step 3, salmeterol appears to provide better
      asthma control than montelukast in the setting of a randomized controlled trial. However, in
      real life, the efficacy of salmeterol at step 3 for improving asthma control in individual
      children appears rather variable, and some children continue to experience day-to-day
      symptoms and exacerbations.

      In this study of 1182 UK children and young adults (4-22 years), 50% of those on regular
      salmeterol experienced asthma exacerbations over a 6-month period, and 18% required inhaled
      salbutamol at least daily for symptom relief. Indeed, the investigators reported a step-wise
      increase in the risk of asthma attacks related to each copy of the Arg16 allele on the β2
      receptor gene (1.7-fold) in asthmatic children and young adults exposed to regular salmeterol
      in conjunction with inhaled corticosteroids. This led the investigators to hypothesize that,
      contrary to the observations on the overall population of children and young adults where
      salmeterol is superior in efficacy to montelukast at step 3, those possessing susceptible
      Arg16 β2 receptor genotype may experience better asthma control with the addition of
      montelukast rather than salmeterol as second-line controller medication, in addition to
      inhaled corticosteroids. As such the investigators elected to identify from the database
      those children with two copies of the Arg16 polymorphism [i.e. homozygous Arg genotype (∼15%
      of overall population) who would potentially be at greatest risk]. The mechanism for worse
      control with regular salmeterol involves a greater susceptibility to agonist-induced
      down-regulation and uncoupling of airway β2 receptors and associated sub-sensitivity of
      response in the Arg16 genotype.

      The investigators therefore performed a proof-of-concept randomized controlled trial to
      determine whether genetically susceptible children with homozygous Arg16 genotype experience
      superior long-term asthma control with montelukast compared with salmeterol when used as
      tailored second-line controller therapy as add-on to the inhaled steroid fluticasone. The
      purpose of this preliminary study was to provide evidence to support the potential for
      personalised medicine based on the individual genotype to improve asthma-related
      quality-of-life and control. This study was published in 2013, and represents the first
      prospective randomized controlled study in children with asthma that addresses personalised
      medicine based on genotype. The results of this study showed that in children expressing the
      homozygous Arg 16 genotype, in comparison with salmeterol, adding montelukast to inhaled
      fluticasone significantly improved asthma-related quality-of-life and clinical symptoms,
      while reducing school absences and inhaled reliever use. The relative benefits of montelukast
      in comparison with salmeterol became evident within the first 3 months and persisted
      throughout the whole year.

      Subsequently, the investigators used Pubmed to search the Medline database for other
      randomised controlled trials comparing the effects of salmeterol (or other long-acting beta2
      agonist) with montelukast (or other leukotriene antagonist) within the context of Arg/Gly
      variation, in children with asthma. No studies could be identified. In particular, there are
      no trials in either adults or children that have studied quality-of-life, which is a key
      outcome of interest in the context of asthma-related disability, and which is often unrelated
      to outcomes such as lung function. This led to the development of the Personalised Medicine
      for Asthma Control (PACT)-study, a randomised controlled trial to determine if personalised
      medicine improves quality of life and asthma control in 12-18 years olds. Results of this
      trial when published, will provide more conclusive evidence as to the effectiveness of
      personalised medicine in this age group. However, there is an absence of trials in a younger
      age group of children with asthma (5-11 years) and no evidence to determine if a personalised
      medicine clinic is feasible within a hospital setting, which underscores the need for this
      study.

      There is an absence of trials in a younger age group of children with asthma (5-11 years) and
      no evidence to determine if a personalised medicine clinic is feasible within a hospital
      setting and this underscores the need for this study.

      This research proposes two stages of work and has two main objectives:

        1. Feasibility study: Conduct a feasibility study to determine important parameters
           (standard deviation of outcomes, recruitment and retention) to inform the design of a
           definitive randomised controlled trial

           Research questions:

             1. Are children with asthma and their parents willing to be recruited and randomised
                to a trial of genotyping and personalised management for asthma?

             2. Are there retention issues? If yes, at what stages did these occur? What were the
                reasons?

             3. Are follow-up data complete?

             4. Can the intervention (genotyping plus medication) be delivered with sufficient
                fidelity?

             5. Is there sufficient evidence for scaling up to a definitive randomised controlled
                trial?

             6. What sample size is needed to power a full scale randomised controlled trial?

             7. Are there any safety issues or adverse events?

             8. What are the associated costs of running a personalised asthma clinic and is it
                cost effective?

        2. Qualitative aspect: Assess the acceptability of a personalised asthma clinic for
           children with asthma

      Research questions:

        1. How acceptable do children with asthma and their parents find genotyping and the
           personalised approach? How does this compare with their views on acceptability of
           conventional clinics?

        2. Was there any aspect of genotyping and personalised medicine clinic which children with
           asthma and their parents thought was particularly good or worked well?

        3. Was there any aspect of genotyping and personalised medicine clinic which children with
           asthma and their parents thought was particularly bad or difficult?

        4. How satisfied were children with asthma and their parents with the genotyping and
           personalised medicine clinic?

        5. How did the genotyping and personalised medicine clinic differ from usual care?

        6. What would encourage other children with asthma and their parents to participate in a
           genotyping and personalised medicine clinic?

        7. What would participants change about the personalised clinic?

        8. How has the genotyping and personalised medicine clinic impacted on the child and their
           parent?

        9. Were there any outcomes which weren't measured which should have been?

       10. What did the health professionals involved think about the clinic? (in primary and
           secondary care)

      Two arm, randomised controlled feasibility trial of genotyping and personalised medicine
      versus usual care with qualitative aspect to assess acceptability and impact.

      The genotyping and personalised medicine clinic is based in the Royal Alexandra Children's
      Hospital in Brighton, England. Participants are referred to the research team by their health
      care professional (primary and secondary care).

      The intervention and follow up period will last 4 months per participant. Outcomes will be
      measured at baseline and 3-months.
    
  