
    
      The NADEGE cohort involves 75 centres and had enrolled 365 patients. Among them 232 patients
      had a resection of the primary tumour in 58 centres. This will is be the largest series in
      the world of SBA for biological study. The patients enrolled in the NADEGE cohort were aware
      of the biologic study and their authorisation to perform is already collected.

      Baseline clinical data of patients enrolled in NADEGE cohort are already available and were
      presented in a poster discussion session at the European Society for Medical Oncology
      congress 2013. In all the cohort the primary location was duodenum in 51% of the patients,
      and a predisposing disease was reported in 18.8% of the patient mainly Crohn disease in 8%
      and Lynch syndrome in 6% of the patients. The follow-up is ongoing. The analyses of 3-years
      recurrence-free survival is planned in 2015 and the analysis of 5-years overall survival in
      2017.

      Today 187 tumour sample are collected and archived in the pathology department of Saint
      Antoine hospital (Paris). Among these 187 tumours the tumour stage are: stage 0: 4, stage I:
      10, stage II: 34, stage III: 63, undetermined stage non-metastatic: 30 (thus 141
      non-metastatic tumours) and stage IV: 48, and the primary are: duodenum: 128, jejunum: 31,
      ileon: 27, undetermined: 3. The chemotherapy performed was FOLFOX in 80% of the cases.

      Work Package 1: Database (team 1) The clinical data of NADEGE cohort are collected with an
      e-crf. The initial descriptive data are already monitored by the GERCOR team. The results
      have been already presented. BIONADEGE is a planned ancillary study of the NADEGE cohort. The
      complementary queries for the purpose of BIONADEGE will be addressed by the team 1 to the
      NADEGE investigator. The follow-up data for progression (metastatic patients), recurrence
      (non-metastatic patient) and death (all patients) will be obtained every 6 months. Follow-up
      data will be collected until 2019 in order to obtain 5-years follow-up for all the patients.

      Work Package 2: Anatomopathology (team 2) All the tumour samples are already bank in the
      pathology laboratory of Saint Antoine hospital. Slides from representative tumour area will
      be selected and send to Paris Descartes university to allow DNA extraction. Tissue
      microarrays (TMA) for immunohistochemistry validation studies will be performed. Several
      potential prognostic markers will be assessed as MismatchRepair (MMR) protein, P53,
      beta-catenin, c-myc protein. Other predictive markers for chemotherapy as hENT1,
      O6-methylguanine DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) and for targeted therapy as Proto-oncogene
      tyrosine-protein kinase (ROS1), hepatocyte growth factor receptor c-Met (HGFR), Alk, Human
      Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor-2 (HER-2) and Programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) will also be
      assessed. The cases overexpressing HER-2 and HGFR protein by immunohistochemistry will be
      tested by Fluorescent In Situ Hybridisation (FISH).

      Work Package 3: Biochemistry (team 3) DNA will be extracted from tumour block in the
      university unit S1147 according to the following protocol. Using a 1.0-mm punch, paraffin
      embedded tissues from all cases will be sampled from representative areas that will contain
      more than 50% of tumour cells. DNA will be thereafter extracted from each sample following
      the manufacturer's recommendation. The team3 will use a competitive allele specific taqman
      probe designed on Kras wild type allele (Hs.00000174-rf - Life Technologies) on serial
      dilution of each DNA sample in order to quantify amplifiable DNA. Only samples with more than
      10 ng of amplifiable DNA will be retained for the sequencing. DNA from each sample will be
      amplified. The presence of more than 740 hot spot somatic mutations in the 46 genes will be
      investigate. Data analysis, including alignment to the hg19 human reference genome and
      variant calling, will be done using the Software of Life Technologies. Alignments will be
      visually verified and annotated with the software of Integrative Biosoftware. A sequence
      variation will be considered as a potential mutation if (i) the coverage is superior to 200×,
      (ii) the allelic frequency is superior to 10%, (iii) the strand bias is from 0.2 to 0.8, (iv)
      the variation is not reported in the 1000 genomes database, (v) the variation is a missense
      or a non-sense variation. All these selected variations will be controlled using the Sanger
      sequencing technics using amplified fragments of less than 150 bp centred on the potential
      mutation.
    
  