
    
      ZIO-101 is a drug that may change cancerous cells into healthy (benign) cells. It is also
      designed to cause cancer cells to destroy themselves; a term called apoptosis.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have what are called "screening tests"
      no more than one week before starting the study. These tests will help the doctor decide if
      you are eligible to take part in the study. You will have a complete medical history and
      physical exam, including measurements of your weight, blood pressure, pulse, and temperature.
      You will also be asked what other medicines you are taking and about your general well-being.
      You will have an electrocardiogram (ECG - a test to measure the electrical activity of the
      heart). Blood (about 2 1/2 tablespoons) will be drawn. A sample of urine will be also be
      collected and tested to see if your kidneys are working correctly. Women who are able to have
      children must have a negative urine pregnancy test.

      To see the current condition of your tumor, additional tests may need to be performed if they
      have not already been done recently. These tests may include a chest x-ray, a CT scan
      (imaging computer pictures of your body), a bone scan (an imaging test of your bones with a
      contrast material), or an MRI (a detailed imaging scan of certain areas of your body).

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will begin treatment with
      ZIO-101. Immediately before being treated with ZIO-101 on Day 0, you will have another
      physical exam and you will be asked about any medicines you are taking and how you are
      feeling. You will also be asked a series of questions which will assess your mental health.
      This is called a mini-mental status exam and will take approximately 10 minutes to complete.
      The blood tests may need to be repeated along with the ECG and the urine test. In addition, a
      small blood sample (about 10 teaspoons) must be taken immediately before the injection of
      ZIO-101. This blood will be used to help in the measurement of drug levels in the blood.
      These are called pharmacokinetic (PK) tests. This blood sample will also be used to measure
      arsenic levels in your blood.

      ZIO-101 will be injected into your vein over 60 minutes in the clinical translational
      research center of UTMDACC. This drug must be given through a special IV called a central
      line catheter so that it does not damage your surrounding tissue. You will have to sign a
      separate consent document before placement of a catheter can be performed. Special care will
      be taken to be sure the drug does not leak into surrounding tissue. The use of anti-nausea
      and other supportive care medications may be given during the infusion.

      Following the injection, you will have 6 samples of blood taken for PK tests at half an hour
      and 1, 2, 4, 8, and 12 hours after finishing the treatment.

      For the next 4 days at about the same time as your first infusion, you will be prepared for
      treatment with ZIO-101. Before each injection, you will be asked how you feel, an ECG will be
      performed, and a small sample of blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for PK tests. The
      Day 1-4 infusions will also each take about 1 hour. In total you will receive 5 daily
      injections of ZIO-101. On Day 4 at the end of the infusion, another sample of blood will be
      drawn (about 5 teaspoons) to measure arsenic levels in your blood.

      Your next visit will be Week 2 and at the start of this visit, a blood sample (about 2
      teaspoons) will be drawn for PK tests, and you will be asked how you feel. At Week 3, another
      blood sample (about 7 teaspoons) will be drawn for PK tests, and to measure arsenic levels in
      your blood, and you will again be asked how you feel.

      At Week 4, a new cycle begins. Immediately before being treated with ZIO-101, you will have a
      physical examination and you will take a mini-mental status examination; you will be asked
      about any medicines you are taking and how you are feeling. The blood tests will be repeated
      along with the ECG and the routine urine test. In addition, tests to measure your tumor will
      be repeated.

      This study is trying to find the best dose of ZIO-101. At first, 3 patients will be assigned
      to the first dose level. They will be followed to evaluate their side effects for a period of
      4 weeks before 3 more patients are enrolled. If none of the patients develop serious side
      effects, the dose escalation will continue. If 1 of the 3 patients in a particular dose level
      develops significant side effects, 3 more patients will be enrolled at that level. If 2 or
      more of the 6 patients develop serious side effects, then the escalation will finish and all
      future patients on this study will be treated at a lower dose level (half way between this
      level and the previous one).

      You may receive up to 6 cycles of treatment. You may be taken off study early if your disease
      gets worse or intolerable side effects occur. Once you go off study, you will have an end of
      study visit. During this visit, you will have a physical exam, a mini-mental status exam and
      blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      This is an investigational study. ZIO-101 has been authorized by the FDA for use in research
      only. ZIO-101 will be provided free of charge during the study. Also, any tests or procedures
      that are being done solely for the purpose of this research study will be provided free of
      charge. Up to 50 patients will take part in this multicenter study. All will be enrolled at
      M. D. Anderson.
    
  