
    
      Most men with fatal prostate cancer develop bone metastases and bone is often the dominant or
      the only site of metastatic disease. Bone metastases are an important cause of morbidity
      since they are associated with skeletal related events (SREs) including pathologic fractures,
      spinal cord compression, and need for surgery or radiation therapy to bone.
      Osteoclast-mediated bone destruction is the key pathologic mechanism for SREs in prostate
      cancer and other malignancies. Zoledronic acid (ZA) is a potent inhibitors of
      osteoclast-mediated bone resorption. ZA has demonstrated to be effective in preventing SREs
      in patients with castrate resistant disease; however, its efficacy in hormone naïve disease
      is uncertain.

      In the last few years new drugs targeting directly the androgen receptor such as Enzalutamide
      have shown to be very effective in terms of survival prolongation in the management of
      castration resistant disease and the efficacy in hormone naïve patients is currently under
      investigation. Interestingly, the results of a large scale, prospective, randomized clinical
      trial have shown that Enzalutamide administration is also associated with a reduction in the
      risk of SREs and this raises the question of the usefulness of the addition of bone
      resorption inhibitors to Enzalutamide.

      The evaluation of bone response of antineoplastic therapies has always been difficult in
      metastatic bone prostate cancer patients due to their osteoblastic nature. Whole body
      diffusion-weighted (DW) MRI has been recently proposed as new imaging tool for grading
      treatment response in patients with skeletal metastases from prostate cancer. According to
      the literature data DW images can allow the identification of bone marrow infiltration and
      tumor necrosis induced by treatment. In addition, this technique allows to monitor the bone
      marrow restoration. This, this technique was selected to evaluate bone response in metastatic
      prostate cancer patients treated with Enzalutamide with or without Zoledronic Acid in
      combination with LHRH-A.

      Moreover, since androgen-receptor isoform encoded by splice variant 7 (AR-V7) is an
      androgens' receptor variant that could have a potential clinical utility as a prognostic
      factor and predictive marker of therapy response, an ancillary study will be conducted to
      evaluate ARV7 expression in Circulating Tumor Cells (CTC).
    
  