
    
      Apatinib mesylate has demonstrated good efficacy and acceptable safety in patients with
      metastatic or recurrent soft tissue sarcoma (STS). A retrospective study has evaluated the
      efficacy of apatinib in the treatment of advanced soft tissue sarcoma. A total of 31 patients
      with soft tissue sarcoma were enrolled in this study, including 4 patients receiving apatinib
      first-line treatment, 8 patients receiving second-line treatment, and 19 patients receiving
      third-line or post-third-line treatment. The results showed that ORR 33.3%, DCR 75%, and mTTP
      4.6 months (1.8-11.6 months). In another multicentric retrospective study of apatinib for
      osteosarcoma and soft tissue sarcoma, a total of 56 patients were enrolled and 44 were
      treated with apatinib monotherapy. The overall results showed that ORR was 62.5%, mPFS was
      6.6 months, and mOS was 9.9 months. In a phase II multi-center single-arm study results
      published by Yang Jilong Yang et al at the 2018 AACR conference, ORR and DCR at 3 months also
      reached 13.95% and 81.39%, respectively. The end point assessment ORR was further increased
      to 15.25% at the end of the study, because some patients achieved partial remission after a
      long period of treatment, and the final DCR reached 57.63%. Apatinib had a significant effect
      in the treatment of stage IV osteosarcoma with failed chemotherapy. Jing Chen et al published
      a study researching the effectiveness and security in advanced sarcoma patients after
      apatinib treatment , the results show that 24.3% of subjects to achieve objective response,
      including 1 case of adenoid vesicular soft tissue sarcoma patients achieved CR, seven adenoid
      vesicular soft tissue sarcoma patients achieved the objective response, indicates that
      apatinib is effective and well tolerated in some specific sarcoma subtype.

      In this study ,Apatinib mesylate combined with doxorubicin and ifosfamide regimens were
      evaluated in the treatment of advanced or inoperable STS to determine the potential to
      achieve better outcomes.
    
  