
    
      The trial will recruit 12,702 patients from approximately 200 hospitals within the China
      Diabetes Clinical Research Network. Eligible criteria include men and women aged ≥50 years;
      type 2 diabetes mellitus; elevated systolic blood pressure; and a history of clinical
      cardiovascular disease or increased risk for cardiovascular disease. Main exclusion criteria
      include known secondary cause of hypertension, symptomatic heart failure, end-stage renal
      disease, and other serious illness. The proposed trial has 90% statistical power to detect a
      20% reduction (hazard ratio of 0.80) in major cardiovascular disease between intensive and
      standard treatment groups at a 2-sided significance level of 0.05.

      To achieve the proposed study objectives, the following specific aims will be accomplished:

        1. Recruit 12,702 study participants who meet the eligibility criteria and randomly assign
           6,351 to the intensive blood pressure treatment and 6,351 to the standard blood pressure
           treatment groups;

        2. Achieve and maintain two-level targets of systolic blood pressure (<120 mmHg vs. <140
           mmHg) with a mean systolic blood pressure difference of ≥15 mmHg;

        3. Employ a study-wide strategy to encourage standard of care for all participants for the
           treatment of type 2 diabetes and dyslipidemia other than blood pressure;

        4. Obtain clinical data on study outcomes for up to 60 months of follow-up among all trial
           participants;

        5. Perform strict quality control procedures for intervention and data collection;

        6. Conduct data analysis according to the intention-to-treat principle; and

        7. Disseminate the study findings to influence clinical practice and clinical guidelines.

      Findings from this trial will provide evidence as to whether intensive blood pressure
      management to achieve a systolic blood pressure target of <120 mmHg has additional benefits
      over standard management of systolic blood pressure <140 mmHg. These findings will help in
      the development of clinical guidelines for blood pressure management among patients with type
      2 diabetes and will have important clinical impact.
    
  