
    
      Transcatheter embolization has become the standard of care in the treatment of Pulmonary
      Arteriovenous Malformations (PAVMs). PAVM embolization is performed to prevent right to left
      shunting which puts patients at risk of stroke, brain abscess, hypoxia and even sudden death.
      Despite long procedure times, numerous coils that are often required to occlude a single PAVM
      and recanalization rates ranging from 5% to 15%, the most widely used embolic device is still
      the detachable coil delivered through a microcatheter. An alternative to coil embolization is
      the Amplatzer Vascular plug (AVP). AVPs allow for quick delivery of a single occluding
      device. AVPs, however, cannot be delivered through a microcatheter, limiting the AVPs'
      utility to larger PAVM with larger feeding arteries. The new MVPTM Micro Vascular Plug System
      (MVP, Medtronic) was designed to combine the best of both devices and allows for the
      occlusion of small vessels in a quick and predictable manner with a single embolic device
      through a micro catheter. At the investigators' institution the investigators have a very
      large PAVM practice, as the investigators are a large Hereditary Hemorrhagic Telangiectasia
      (HHT) center of excellence. Currently there is a paucity of data comparing these devices for
      the treatment of PAVMs. Specifically, there is little data to inform interventional
      radiologists' decision making process about which device to choose based on the patient's
      clinical characteristics, the size of the PAVM feeding artery, and cost.

      The investigators will create a registry/database of all patients who undergo embolization
      for Pulmonary AVM at the investigators' HHT center of excellence collecting data and adding
      in data from the investigators' existing PAVM database dating back at least the last 7 years.
      Patients with MVP embolizations will be assessed and compared to patients who are embolized
      with other solid embolic devices (coils/plugs). The investigators will assess reperfusion
      rates, immediate technical success, procedural attributes including procedure time,
      fluoroscopy time, contrast administration, and finally embolic and overall procedural costs.
    
  