
    
      Group 1: SGR Program For participants in the SGR program, this program will occur for up to
      12 weeks. The intent of this program is to reduce the number of times participants use
      smokeless tobacco to zero by reducing their tobacco use by 1/4th each week. Participants will
      also be provided with cessation support messages. During the first week, participants will be
      asked to use smokeless tobacco as per their regular habit. They will be required to text "s"
      every time they use smokeless tobacco . At the end of the week we will confirm how many times
      you dip a day on average. Based on this number participants will be texted a reduction
      schedule over the next several weeks to assist with cessation. During these weeks
      participants will be instructed not to use smokeless tobacco unless they receive a text
      message telling them to do so. Within 30 minutes after participants receive the text message,
      they will be required to respond to that message and text the study team "s" if they used
      smokeless tobacco. Participants will still be required to let the study team know if they
      used smokeless tobacco at a different time than the time we text participants. This will help
      the study team know if participants have followed the schedule or not. However, if the
      pattern continues then participants will receive a call from the study coordinator to
      reexamine their pattern of smokeless tobacco use and readjust your schedule.

      Group 2: Control Group

      Participants in the control group will be sent the Enough Snuff cessation manual. One week
      after it is sent, participants will then receive two text messages a week from the study for
      five weeks. These messages will reference the cessation manual.

      End of Intervention and 3 and 6 Month Follow-up Assessments For both study groups,
      participants will be asked to take a follow-up survey at end of program and 6 months after
      the baseline survey. At three months all participants will be sent a brief assessment about
      smokeless tobacco use via text. If participants have reported to the study team that they
      have quit using smokeless tobacco, a small percentage of participants may be asked to provide
      a saliva sample to check for nicotine.
    
  