
    
      Study Design:

      This study has a prospective, open, randomized, unblinded, group-sequential design. Study
      initiation will be proceeded by a program of education and training for all the nurse
      participants to ensure proper handling of both systems and standard insertion and maintenance
      techniques for both catheter systems. This standardization will include disinfection of the
      skin and access ports as well as fixation of the catheter using a standard transparent
      dressing. Also training will be given on best practice procedures for removing the catheter,
      on sterile technique for culture of the catheter tip and on proper data capture methods using
      the Clinical Report Form (CRF). All the nurses participating in the study will certify their
      attendance to all trainings, their acceptance of the present protocol and their voluntary
      participation by signing the Participant Registry at the conclusion of the trainings. They
      must give their full names as well as personnel and unit numbers, which will then be used to
      constitute the Investigating Group as well as to protect identities while providing a
      traceable record of participants.They must have passed a training examination consisting of
      10 questions related to the study with a passing mark of at least 80% questions correct. The
      study will be preformed in three medical and surgical units of the University Clinical
      Hospital San Carlos of Madrid, which is affiliated with the Madrid Health Service, and is an
      integral part of the Autonomous Region (Community) of Madrid.Trainings and other activities
      related to the study will not begin until formal approval of the protocol by the Ethics
      Committee (abbreviated CEIC in Spanish) of this hospital. In order to reduce variability in
      the study, all catheters will be inserted using only 70% alcohol for disinfection of the skin
      and access ports.

      Following manufacturer recommendations, all three-way taps (in USA, 'stop cocks') with
      extension tubes will be changed every 72 hours and split-septum connectors will be changed
      every 8 days. In order to calculate colonization rates in both catheter systems and the
      correlation of colonization with clinical complications, tip cultures will be taken of a
      representative sample of catheters in each arm. This process will be randomized and will
      coincide with catheter withdrawal. Additionally all catheters removed because of pain,
      phlebitis or suspected infection will have their tips cultured. Our sample size target for
      cultured tips is 380 in total. During the study, six nurse-coordinators, with experience in
      intravenous therapy and special training in study procedures, will actively supervise all
      aspects of catheter management and will report to the Principal Investigator (PI) on a
      regular basis. They will ensure the randomization processes are followed and that all
      procedures established by the Protocol, as well as of the correct filling out of the CRF, are
      rigorously adhered to. In order to accomplish this they will make daily inspections of all
      catheters included in the study, will check each item on each CRF daily to ensure all are
      properly and promptly filled out and will follow the catheter tip cultures to certify that
      the results are registered on the CRFs. The coordinators will not otherwise intervene in
      patient care. Any decision related to placing or removing a peripheral catheter for any
      cause, all decisions on the care and maintenance of the catheter system, and all treatment
      decisions related to the patients will be the sole responsibility of the doctors and nurses
      caring for the patient. Nurse-coordinators and/or the PI will not intrude in any way in these
      decisions. An intermediate analysis will be done when each unit reaches 166 catheters
      inserted. This analysis will allow us to confirm the power calculation of the study and
      determine final sample size targets. All patients admitted to one of the three participating
      units, who needs a peripheral venous catheter of gauge size18 G, 20 G or 22 G, will be
      evaluated for potential inclusion in the study. Using the CRF a determination of eligibility
      will be made and then study purpose and requirements will be explained in layman's terms to
      the patient by his primary nurse. If accepted into the study patient informed consent will be
      obtained. Informed consent may be verbal on the condition that it is witnessed by one of his
      or her relatives and is documented in the CRF. After this the patient will be randomized to
      the experimental group (closed system) or to the control (open system).
    
  