
    
      In laparoscopic bariatric procedures, CO2 is used to insufflate the peritoneal cavity and
      increase the intra-abdominal pressure for optimal exposure and a suitable operating field.
      However, the increased intra-abdominal pressure during pneumoperitoneum has profound
      physiological effects including a reduction in urine output,portal venous flow,respiratory
      compliance,and cardiac output.

      Abdominal muscle relaxation and changes in abdominal wall compliance, produced by the use of
      anesthetics and muscle relaxants, are important contributors for the achievement of optimal
      surgical field using minimal abdominal pressure. A practical dilemma is how to maintain good
      surgical conditions till the end of the operative procedure by deep anesthesia and muscle
      relaxation on one hand, and to have an awake and spontaneously breathing patient at the end
      of surgery on the other.

      Reversal agents are often used to ensure the reversal of nondepolarizing neuromuscular
      blockade (NMB). The most widely used is the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor neostigmine
      (Prostigmin®, Vagostigmin®). However, neostigmine is only partially effective when NMB is
      deep (less then 1 response using train of four monitoring) and may also be associated with
      adverse effects, such as cholinergic cardiovascular and gastrointestinal events.Sugammadex
      (bridion®) is a modified gamma cyclodextrin specifically designed for the reversal of NMB
      induced by the aminosteroid muscle relaxants including rocuronium bromide (Zemuron®,
      Esmeron®). Sugammadex (bridion®) acts by encapsulating unbound rocuronium bromide (Zemuron®,
      Esmeron®)molecules and reducing their concentration at the neuromuscular junction.Studies in
      surgical patients have shown that sugammadex (bridion®) rapidly and safely reverses
      rocuronium bromide (Zemuron®, Esmeron®)induced NMB. Unlike acetylcholinesterase inhibitors,
      sugammadex (bridion®) is also effective in the reversal of deep NMB (no response in train of
      four monitoring or even no response in post tetanic count monitoring).

      Laparoscopic weight reduction surgery requires the appropriate use of muscle relaxation;
      however, uncertainty remains including indeterminate dosing and unpredictable effect.
      Additionally, the time to the recovery to a train of four (TOF) ratio of 0.9 in the obese
      [25.9 (6.7, 13.5-41.0) min] and the overweight groups [14.6 (7.7, 3.3-28.5) min] were
      significantly longer than that in the normal weight group [6.9 (2.0, 3.0-10.7) min].
      Therefore, obese patients are at increased risk for residual muscle relaxation following
      surgery. Sugammadex (bridion®) has recently been found to reach a peak effect faster than
      neostigmine(Prostigmin®, Vagostigmin®), in obese patients. In this study, the time to a TOFR
      ≥ 0.9 was 13 min with 50 μg/kg neostigmine (Prostigmin®, Vagostigmin®)and only 1.7 min with 2
      mg/kg sugammadex. Therefore, it appears that sugammadex (bridion®) may more predictably
      prevent the occurrence of residual muscle relaxation compared to neostigmine (Prostigmin®,
      Vagostigmin®).

      The aim of the present study is to prospectively assess whether deep NMB (zero response to
      train of four and a post tetanic count of no more than 10 responses using a nerve stimulator
      monitoring) till the end of surgery, followed by sugammadex (bridion®) reversal is superior
      to the present practice of gradual NMB reduction at the end of surgery followed by
      neostigmine (Prostigmin®, Vagostigmin®)reversal, in patients undergoing laparoscopic sleeve
      gastrectomy. The investigators hypothesize that providing deep NMB throughout the procedure
      creates better conditions for surgery, while reversal of deep muscle relaxation with
      sugammadex (bridion®) will enable quick and full reversal of relaxation and fewer
      postoperative respiratory events as compared to neostigmine (Prostigmin®, Vagostigmin®)
      reversal. Surgical conditions will be assessed by the surgeons, blinded to the treatment
      given to the patients, on a 1-4 Likert scale in 5 minutes intervals from abdominal
      insufflation with gas till the end of surgery (estimated time of 120 minutes). Participants
      will be followed for respiratory adverse events from admission to the post anesthesia care
      unit to discharge to the surgical department (continuous measurement of hemoglobin oxygen
      saturation and respiratory rate for an expected average of 3 hours) and from admission to the
      surgical department till the time of home discharge (measurement of hemoglobin oxygen
      saturation and respiratory rate every 6 hours for an expected average of 5 days).
    
  