
    
      Patients scheduled for elective major knee surgery will be assessed for eligibility and after
      written informed consent included in this clinical trial. Prior to surgery, the patient will
      receive a femoral catheter with either ultrasound placed in-plane (IP) or with ultrasound
      placed out-of-plane (OOP) as perioperative analgesic regimen using well-established and
      previously published techniques. The allocation to the different groups will be according to
      a computerized random-list established the day prior to surgery. In all cases, continuous
      regional anaesthesia regimen will be started after surgery. For surgery the patient can
      receive spinal anaesthesia, or a general anaesthesia. The use of a sciatic block will be
      applied according to the clinical standards of our department. Ropivacaine 0.3% (bag with 100
      ml, Sintetica SA, Mendrisio Switzerland) 20 ml for the femoral catheter insertion. In both
      groups 10ml of ropivacaine 0.3% will be applied over the needle and 10ml over the catheter
      after its placement. In both groups the catheters will be connected to the electronic pump in
      the recovery room and run with ropivacaine 0.3% at 6 ml/h with boli of 4ml every 20min.

      First rescue medication: ropivacaine 0.3% 20ml up to 3 x day. The catheters will stay in
      place for 48 hours and removed only if VAS< 40 with standard analgesia.

      At 24 and 48 hours after placement of the femoral catheter, a bolus of NaCl 0.9% 10ml will be
      applied under ultrasound control in both groups and dislocation will be noted if the local
      anaesthetic does not reach the femoral nerve. In that case it will be noted where the local
      anaesthetic is localised. Block quality will be checked by applying cold on the front of the
      knee and measuring the sensation to cold in a scale from 0 to 2 (before NaCl 0.9%
      application). Pain will be assessed before the dislocation test only for in front and medial
      side of the knee in a regularly used NRS scale from 0 to 10. Complications and side effects
      of regional anesthesia in both groups will be documented (toxicity, blood in catheter,
      infection).
    
  