
    
      Using information from an England and Wales audit of acute coronary syndromes (the Myocardial
      Ischaemia National Audit Project (MINAP)) we aim to assess:

      (i) Survival from first time MINAP-registered event to death as a function of secondary
      prevention medications: To what degree do the effects of medications (assumed equal,
      independent and additive) relate to patient survival? Is there evidence of a differential
      effect of discharge medications? (ii) (a) Survival from first time MINAP-registered event to
      death or second time MINAP-registered event as a function of secondary prevention
      medications: To what degree do the effects of medications (assumed equal, independent and
      additive) relate to competing risks? Is there evidence of a differential effect of discharge
      medications? (b) Survival from first time MINAP-registered event to death or second time
      MINAP-registered phenotyped as STEMI, NSTEMI or Unstable Angina. To what degree do the
      effects of medications (assumed equal, independent and additive) relate to competing risks?
      Is there evidence of a differential effect of discharge medications? (iii) What impact would
      ensuring all medication is taken have on event free survival?

      This study is part of the CALIBER (Cardiovascular disease research using linked bespoke
      studies and electronic records) programme funded over 5 years from the NIHR and Wellcome
      Trust. The central theme of the CALIBER research is linkage of the Myocardial Ischaemia
      National Audit Project (MINAP) with primary care (GPRD) and other resources. The overarching
      aim of CALIBER is to better understand the aetiology and prognosis of specific coronary
      phenotypes across a range of causal domains, particularly where electronic records provide a
      contribution beyond traditional studies. CALIBER has received both Ethics approval (ref
      09/H0810/16) and ECC approval (ref ECC 2-06(b)/2009 CALIBER dataset).
    
  