
    
      Comprehensive discharge instructions are an integral part of care children discharged from
      the emergency department (ED). Unfortunately, providing consistent and thorough discharge
      instructions is highly limited by the workflow constraints of a busy ED. Currently, paper
      instructions are the standard for providing ED discharge information. Yet, there remains a
      great deal of variety in delivery of discharge instructions (1) and there is evidence that
      patients often do not fully comprehend (2, 3), recall (4), nor comply (5) with discharge
      instructions. Consequently, caregivers often commit errors related to knowledge and execution
      of ED discharge instructions (6). The use of a smartphone app following discharge from the ED
      offers a potential means to improve adherence to discharge instructions through consistent
      information, simplification of content, and reminders (2). Acute ankle sprains are one of the
      most common complaints presenting to primary care offices and EDs (7). In Canada and the
      United States, there are more than 2 million ED visits annually due to ankle trauma in
      children; 85% due to forced inversion (8). Adolescents and young adults have the highest
      incidence of ankle sprain (7.2 per 1,000 person-years). Although ankle sprains are often
      perceived as minor injuries, they can have a highly variable prognosis, with up to 64% of
      patients failing to achieve full recovery (9). Current guidelines are limited in determining
      prognostic factors associated with functional recovery (9). The resulting 'one-size fits all'
      approach (controlling acute inflammatory symptoms (9), using cryotherapy and
      anti-inflammatory medications, and early mobilization (7)) fails to consider the grade of
      injury, baseline level of functioning, and individual pain tolerance of the child.
      Educational guidance individualized to pain beyond the ED may improve functional outcomes. As
      of 2015, 82% of people age 18-49 years owned an app-enabled smartphone, and over half (58%)
      download health related smartphone apps (10). In adult medicine, many health-related
      smartphone apps have been shown to be associated with greater caregiver knowledge and
      improved outcomes in allergic rhinitis (10), post-operative monitoring (11), and
      musculoskeletal conditions (12). In children and adolescents, several studies have explored
      smartphone apps for asthma (13) and diabetes (14, 15). To date however, no smartphone apps
      have been developed for acute musculoskeletal injury management in children.
    
  