
    
      Biliary tract cancer is one of the most lethal malignancies worldwide, with surgery
      representing the only potentially curative treatment for this disease. However, many patients
      are diagnosed as far advanced stage, which is too late for curative resection, and even if
      surgery can be performed, the likelihood of relapse is very high. Lymph node metastasis is
      the most powerful prognostic factor in biliary tract cancer, which makes accurate
      preoperative assessment of lymph node metastasis important for indication of resection.
      However, the diagnostic accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity of conventional imaging
      techniques, including computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), seem to
      be insufficient for accurate detection of lymph node metastasis. Previously, the
      investigators reported FDG-PET is useful for prediction of lymph node metastasis.

      On the other hand, gemcitabine has been widely used to treat the patients with unresectable
      or recurrent biliary tract cancer. In the Advanced Biliary tract Cancer (ABC)-02 study, the
      first prospective multicenter phase III study in this field, the combination of
      gemcitabine/cisplatin was compared with gemcitabine monotherapy and found that the
      combination regimen significantly prolonged Median Survival Time (MST) (from 8.1 to 11.7
      months; P < 0.001). Gemcitabine/cisplatin combination therapy is now considered to be the
      standard regimen for advanced biliary tract cancer. S-1 is an oral fluoropyrimidine prodrug
      that has confirmed efficacy against various solid tumors, both alone and in combination with
      other cytotoxic drugs. S-1 monotherapy has yielded good results against advanced biliary
      tract cancer and gemcitabine/S-1 combination therapy has yielded promising results with
      acceptable toxicity levels for patients with advanced biliary tract cancer.

      Furthermore, the investigators reported the safety and efficacy of adding S-1 to
      gemcitabine/cisplatin combination regimen (GCS) for advanced biliary tract cancer.

      In this study, the investigators evaluate the efficacy and the safety of preoperative
      chemotherapy with Gemcitabine/ Cisplatin /S-1 for biliary tract cancers with lymph node
      metastasis by FDG-PET
    
  