
    
      Once the eligibility for the study is determined and patient has consented for participation,
      all study participants will undergo a baseline evaluation (within 6 weeks prior to 2 weeks
      after CRT device implant/upgrade). Echocardiogram, quality-of-life questionnaire, 6-minute
      hall walk, blood test, vital signs, ECGs, device interrogation and baseline demographic and
      medical history including chart review will be obtained. After CRT device implant/upgrade,
      participants will undergo physiologic evaluations at various (up to 10 or more) RV-LV offset
      settings including ECGs and echocardiography. A randomized assignment using a random
      allocation table in REDCap will be used to program patients to (A) intervention or (B)
      control RV-LV offset setting. Patients will return for study follow-up between 3-12 months.
      Follow-up evaluations will include echocardiography, quality-of-life questionnaire, 6-minute
      hall walk test, blood test, vital signs, ECGs, device interrogation, and follow-up medical
      history including chart review. The patients will continue to be in extended follow-up
      through review of their medical charts till the end of the study (12 months from date of CRT
      implant/upgrade of the the last study participant).

      Treatment and control arms: All study patients will receive standard of care clinically
      indicated medical and device therapy per their treating physicians. After implant of a
      clinically indicated CRT device or upgrade of a preexisting pacemaker or defibrillator device
      to CRT system, participants will be randomized 1:1 to treatment arms (A) active intervention
      of programming individualized RV-LV pacing offset to optimize ECG or to (B) active control of
      nominally programming CRT device without RV-LV offset. Of note, both intervention and control
      treatment are active FDA-approved CRT therapies and no investigational device or programming
      will be used, and no clinically indicated treatment will be withheld from any patient. At any
      time, if in the judgment of the patient's treating physicians or the research team, any
      treatment including CRT programming different from the study protocol is necessitated for
      clinical reasons, the appropriate clinically indicated changes will be made. At the end of
      the study, if the participant is clinically doing well and the programmed CRT settings are
      deemed clinically appropriate they will be retained, else the CRT programming may be changed
      as per standard of care.

      Enrolled participants who have a failed or unsatisfactory LV lead implant will not be
      randomized.
    
  