
    
      The Philadelphia chromosome-negative chronic myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs) are a group
      of hematopoietic stem cell malignancies that include polycythemia vera (PV), essential
      thrombocythemia (ET), and primary myelofibrosis (PMF). PV and ET can evolve into
      myelofibrosis, termed post PV/ET MF. ET, PV and PMF have variable tendencies to transform to
      blast phase disease with a dismal prognosis. JAK2V617F is a point activating mutation
      resulting in the constitutive activity of the JAK-STAT pathway within hematopoietic cells in
      approximately 96%, 50%, and 50% of patients with PV, ET, and MF, respectively.

      Polycythemia Vera is characterized by an absolute increase in red cell mass. Patients with PV
      have a median survival if untreated of approximately 18 months from the time of diagnosis and
      treated of approximately 18 years. PV-related symptoms include headache, weakness, dizziness,
      epigastric distress, and pruritus. PV-related signs include hypertension, gout, left upper
      abdominal quadrant pain, high hematocrit, leukocytosis, and thrombocytosis. Major causes of
      reduced survival include thrombosis (29%), bleeding (7%), evolution to myelofibrosis (3%),
      transformation to acute leukemia (23%), and solid tumors (16%). PV patients are stratified
      for risk of thrombosis by age >60 and history of prior thrombotic events. Therapy for low
      risk PV includes low dose aspirin and therapeutic phlebotomy to maintain a hematocrit <45% in
      a man and 42% in a woman. Cardiovascular risk factor modification such as weight loss,
      control of hypertension and hypercholesterolemia, and smoking cessation are also important
      adjunctive approaches to all patients with PV. High risk patients are also treated with
      cytoreductive therapy in the form of hydroxyurea to further reduce the risk of thrombotic
      complications.

      Essential Thrombocythemia is characterized by persistent isolated thrombocytosis and tendency
      for arterial and venous thrombosis. A similar pattern of symptoms as noted above with PV are
      also seen in patients with ET. The median survival of patients with ET is similar to that of
      age and sex matched cohort and in some patients is limited by thrombotic complications (22%),
      evolution to MF (10%), and acute leukemia (2%) (Barbui. J Clin Oncol. 2011; 29(23):3179).
      Risk stratification for occurrence of thrombosis is based on age >60 years and/or history of
      thrombosis. Additionally, cardiovascular risk factors and persistent thrombocytosis >1.5 x
      109/L are believed to influence thrombotic risk and leukemic transformation has been shown to
      be associated with anemia, older age, and leukocytosis. JAK2V617F is present in approximately
      50% of cases and helps establish a diagnosis of a clonal thrombocytosis, and has been shown
      in some studies to predict for a higher risk of thrombosis and potential for transformation
      to PV. Management is aimed at reducing thrombotic risk with the use of low dose aspirin in
      low risk patients (no risk factors) and cytoreductive therapy in high risk patients (at least
      one risk factor). Hydroxyurea, anagrelide, and interferon (IFN) have all been used to
      maintain a platelet count below 400 x 109/L in patients with a history of thrombosis
      (secondary prophylaxis). Currently, hydroxyurea is considered standard of care for high risk
      ET patients based on the results of the PT-1 study which demonstrated superiority of
      hydroxyurea over anagrelide in arterial thrombosis risk reduction and worsening marrow
      reticulin fibrosis in patients receiving anagrelide (Harrison N Engl J Med. 2005;353(1):33).
      Hydroxyurea is associated with a risk of oral and skin ulcers, rash, and unacceptable
      myelosuppression that can sometimes limit use in patients with ET/PV. Additionally, some
      patients are unable to achieve adequate control of blood counts at doses below 2000 mg/daily
      and this has been termed "resistance". Importantly, although a theoretical concern of
      leukemogenic potential of hydroxyurea exists, based on the mechanism of action of this
      chemotherapeutic agent, there are no definitive prospective studies clearly documenting an
      increased risk of leukemic transformation.

      More recently, a renewed interest in interferon-α for the treatment of PV as an alternative
      therapeutic approach has led to the evaluation of pegylated interferon-α 2a (Pegasys, Roche)
      in several phase II studies. Pegasys has an improved toxicity profile over intron-a and can
      be self-administered by the patient on a weekly basis. Currently, Pegasys is being evaluated
      in two large international trials within the myeloproliferative disorder research consortium
      (MPD-RC). The MPD-RC 111 study is a phase II study intended to evaluate the response by
      European LeukemiaNet (ELN) criteria in patients with high risk ET/PV who are intolerant or
      resistant to hydroxyurea therapy treated with Pegasys. In addition, patients with documented
      JAK2V617F and splanchnic vein thrombosis are also eligible for this clinical trial. MPD-RC
      112 is a phase III study for newly diagnosed high risk PV/ET patients in which patients are
      randomized to either Pegasys or hydroxyurea with a primary endpoint of response rate
      comparison between the two treatment arms.

      The use of intron-a (rIFN-α) and Pegasys has been extensively studied in patients with PV and
      reported rates of discontinuation in the first year of therapy range from 14-40%. Objective
      hematologic responses are seen in approximately 80% of treated patients and achievement in
      complete phlebotomy free state in 60% of PV patients. Trials of Pegasys in the treatment of
      PV have further demonstrated major molecular responses of 19% and complete eradication of
      JAK2V617F in 14-24% of patients. Although hematologic remission can often be achieved within
      months of starting rIFN-α treatment, molecular responses require longer term administration
      and are rarely seen before completion of 12 months of therapy. Additionally, sustained
      molecular remissions have been documented in patients that have discontinued therapy for up
      to 30 months of follow up. In a retrospective review of 118 MPN patients receiving Pegasys
      throughout multiple MPN centers included 55 PV patients with an ORR of 87% (54% CR, 33% PR)
      by ELN criteria [21]. In this review, the most common non-hematologic toxicities were Grade
      1-3 fatigue in 24 patients (20%), Grade 1 liver function test (LFT) elevation in 7 (6%), and
      Grade 1-2 skin/allergic reaction in 6 (5%). Adverse effects leading to discontinuation were
      primarily non-hematologic, although one patient (<1%) discontinued Pegasys therapy due to
      Grade 2 anemia.

      Although the biological mechanism of recombinant IFN in the treatment of PV is not completely
      understood, evidence to suggest promotion of immunoregulatory cell function, inhibition of
      angiogenesis, induction of pro-apoptotic gene expression, alteration of the bone marrow
      microenvironment, suppression of hematopoietic progenitor cells, and increase cycling of
      hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) has been reported.

      In the last several years, oral small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors of JAK2 have been
      tested in both pre-clinical and clinical trials of patients with MPNs including PV/ET. These
      agents have demonstrated remarkable responses in terms of reduction in splenomegaly and
      correction of leukocytosis, erythrocytosis, and thrombocytosis. However, mature follow up of
      PV patients treated with JAK2 inhibitors evaluating reduction in thrombotic risk and
      evolution to MF is not known. Currently, Ruxolitinib (Jakafi) is being evaluated in a phase
      III study in patients with high risk PV that are refractory/intolerant to hydroxyurea
      [Response trial: NCT01243944].

      The tumor suppressor p53 plays an integral role in the regulation of the cell cycle,
      apoptosis, DNA repair, and senescence. Fifty percent of cancers are found to have
      inactivating mutations of p53. Although, inactivating mutations of p53 are uncommon in the
      chronic phases of MPNs, they increase in frequency in the blast phase of MPNs. The p53
      pathway can also be down-regulated in MPN cells that express wild-type p53 through
      alternative pathways. Over-expression of the ubiquitin ligase murine double minute 2 (MDM2;
      HDM2 in humans) is a regulator of wild type p53 through a variety of different mechanisms.
      MDM2 1) promotes proteosomal degradation and 2) inhibits p53 transcription, and 3) inhibits
      transactivation 4) facilitates export from the nucleus. Inhibition of MDM2 is expected to
      release the negative regulation of p53 and ultimately promote tumor suppressor function. MDM2
      overexpression can be a consequence of gene amplification, increased transcription, and
      increased translation. It has previously been shown that in primary hematopoietic cells from
      patients with JAK2V617F PV, reduced expression of p53 is a result of increased La autoantigen
      expression leading to increased translation of MDM2. It would appear that JAK2V617F induces
      this ribonucleoprotein and furthermore, La protein expression can be down-regulated by in
      vitro JAK2 inhibitor treatment. Lu et al demonstrated increased MDM2 expression and reduced
      p53 levels in JAK2V617F-positive PV CD34+ cells. The physical structure and interaction of
      p53 and MDM2 is known and has allowed for the development of small molecule inhibitors of
      MDM2-p53 interaction. Nutlin-3, a small molecule antagonist of MDM2, was shown to inhibit the
      proliferation of PV CD34+ cells through increased p53 mediated apoptosis. Moreover, in vitro
      combination of low doses of Pegasys with nutlin-3 resulted in selective and significant
      inhibition of JAK2V67F-positive CD34+ PV colony formation compared to normal colony
      formation. Thus, MDM2 appears to be a novel therapeutic target in JAK2V617F-positive PV and
      ultimately may prove to be most effective when used in combination with Pegasys.

      RG7388 is an MDM2-p53 binding cell cycle inhibitor (antiproliferative) and is expected to be
      myelosuppressive at sufficiently high doses. Nonclinical safety findings with RG7388 that may
      have potential clinical relevance include thrombocytopenia and neutropenia, as well as
      general pancytopenia, and effects on liver function parameters.

      Clinical experience to date suggests a dose relationship for RG7388 and gastrointestinal AEs
      with increased incidence of nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea at higher dose levels;
      gastrointestinal prophylaxis with anti-emetics is recommended. Cytopenias, manifesting as
      thrombocytopenia and neutropenia, occurring at higher dose levels appear to be related to
      exposure.

      Iancu-Rubin et al have investigated the biological effect of RG7112 (first generation MDM2
      inhibitor) induced p53-MDM2 disruption on megakaryopoiesis and platelet production in order
      to better elucidate the mechanism of treatment associated thrombocytopenia (ASH 2012). Bone
      marrow derived CD34+ cells exposed to RG7112 for 7 days generated fewer viable cells, fewer
      CFU-MK colonies as compared to untreated cells. Based on these findings, it would appear that
      RG7112 impacts megakaryopoiesis by two potential mechanisms: 1) Impairing the ability of
      CD34+ cells to generate MK precursors due to increased apoptosis; 2) Limiting DNA synthesis
      and polyploidization during the late stages of MK development due to pharmacological
      activation of p53. A combination of these two effects may provide an explanation for
      thrombocytopenia observed in patients receiving this drug and suggests that p53 plays an
      important role in normal human thrombocytopoiesis.

      Study NP27872 is a multi-center, open-label, first-in-human, Phase I dose-escalation study of
      single agent RG7388, a small molecule MDM2 antagonist, administered orally in patients with
      advanced malignancies except leukemia. The first patient received RG7388 on 15 November 2011.
      As of 13 September 2012, 51 patients have been enrolled in the study.

      Evaluable PK data is available for 22 patients in Study NP27872. There has been no evidence
      of significant accumulation (defined as a mean ratio of area under the curve [AUC]τ [on Day
      15 or 5] to AUCinf [on Day 1] > 2) observed in the study thus far, except for one patient who
      exhibited a long half-life (t½) and consequently had an accumulated drug exposure that
      increased 5-fold from Day 1 to Day 5. This was possibly due to concomitant controlled-release
      oxycodone, as opioids are known to cause delayed gastric emptying and decreased intestinal
      motility. In addition, data from the study demonstrate an approximately linear dose-exposure
      (Day 1 maximum plasma concentration [Cmax]) relationship in RG7388 with moderately high
      inter-patient variability without an absorption plateau to date.

      Macrophage inhibitory cytokine (MIC-1, a secreted protein that is strongly induced by
      activated p53) serum levels has been used to assess pharmacodynamic (PD) effects in this
      Phase I study. Analysis of patients on 100 to 800 mg/day of RG7388 showed that the minimum
      level for p53 induction occurs at a dose of 100 mg/day or a corresponding plasma level of 500
      ng/mL of RG7388. Preliminary analysis of PK and safety data showed that there is an apparent
      PK/PD relationship between an AUC per cycle and Cycle 1 platelet nadir.

      At the data cutoff of 13 September 2012, 51 patients with advanced malignancies had received
      R05503781 in Study NP27872. Fifty patients experienced at least 1 adverse event (AE) and 11
      patients experienced at least 1 serious adverse event (SAE).

      Thirteen SAEs in patients (white blood cell count decreased, platelet count decreased, 2
      cases of neutrophil count decreased, febrile neutropenia, 5 cases of thrombocytopenia, 2
      cases of neutropenia, and diarrhea) were considered by the investigator to be probably
      related to study treatment; 4 SAEs (2 cases of febrile neutropenia, urinary tract infection,
      and anemia) were considered possibly related; 1 SAE (lung infection) was considered remotely
      related; and the other 6 SAEs (infection, sciatica, non-cardiac chest pain, dyspnea, wrist
      fracture, and neutropenia) were considered unrelated. Three patients died due to disease
      progression.

      Eleven patients across all groups and schedules had at least 1 event considered a dose
      limiting toxicity (DLT): a treatment-related SAE of Grade 3 febrile neutropenia, a
      treatment-related SAE of Grade 4 febrile neutropenia, a treatment-related SAE of Grade 4
      platelet count decreased, 3 cases of treatment-related SAEs of Grade 4 thrombocytopenia, a
      treatment-related AE of Grade 4 thrombocytopenia, 3 cases of treatment-related AEs of Grade 4
      thrombocytopenia, a treatment-related AE of Grade 4 neutropenia, a treatment-related SAE of
      Grade 4 neutropenia, a treatment-related AE of Grade 3 diarrhea, 2 cases of treatment-related
      AEs of Grade 3 nausea, and a treatment related AE of Grade 3 vomiting. Six patients
      experienced 8 AEs that led to withdrawal from treatment: 1 (Grade 3 AE of cataracts) was
      considered remotely related to study treatment, 4 (Grade 4 AE of thrombocytopenia/Grade 3 SAE
      of febrile neutropenia, Grade 2 AE of neutropenia, Grade 3 SAE of febrile neutropenia) were
      considered possibly related to study treatment, and 3 (Grade 4 SAE of neutropenia, Grade 4
      SAE of thrombocytopenia/Grade 4 SAE of neutrophil count decreased) were considered probably
      related to study treatment.

      RG7388 is representative of an entirely new branch of the nutlin family of MDM2 antagonists
      and the second agent with this mechanism of action sponsored by Roche. As with the lead
      compound (RO5045337), RG7388 binds selectively to the p53 site on the surface of the MDM2
      molecule in vitro with high affinity and can effectively displace p53 from MDM2, leading to
      stabilization and accumulation of p53 protein and activation of the p53 pathway. RG7388 is
      from a different chemical series compared to the lead compound and binds with higher potency
      and selectivity to the MDM2 protein. This follow-on compound has substantially improved
      pharmacological properties. Preclinical models predict superior efficacy of RG7388 in the
      clinic at lower doses and exposures. Compared to the lead molecule, lower variability may be
      seen given that RG7388 does not have significant pH dependent solubility (fasted and
      fed-state simulated intestinal fluid solubilities are similar). RG7388 at 0.3 μM has
      equivalent apoptotic activity to RO5045337 at 10-fold higher (3 μM) concentration and at 25
      mg/kg has equivalent efficacy to RO5045337 at 4-fold higher dose (100 mg/kg) and better
      potency when given once weekly.

      RG7388 exhibits improved in vitro and in vivo potency against tumor cell lines and
      xenografts, improved CYP inhibition profile, and 2.5- to 20-fold lower projected human
      efficacious dose. Preclinical studies have indicated that tumors expressing wild-type p53 may
      respond to this novel therapeutic strategy that releases p53 from MDM2 inhibition, and tumors
      with wild-type p53 and MDM2 over-expression or amplification are likely to be the most
      sensitive. Results from preclinical safety and toxicology studies support further exploration
      of this compound in cancer patients. In view of the existing unmet medical need in advanced
      cancers expressing the above molecular signature, RG7388 is believed to be a promising agent
      that may offer a new therapeutic option.

      The use of Pegasys in combination with other targeted agents for the treatment of PV/ET would
      allow for the administration of lower doses of Pegasys, thereby reducing dose dependent
      toxicities. Preclinical studies by Lu et al. have demonstrated preferential inhibition of PV
      CD34+ cell proliferation and colony formation at subtherapeutic doses of Pegasys in
      combination with Nutlin-3 [33]. Pegasys increases p53 expression through enhanced
      transcriptional activity via the p38 Map kinase pathway and Nutlin-3 prevents p53 degradation
      via interruption of the MDM2-p53 interaction [34]. Due to the common downstream target effect
      of increased tumor suppressor p53 expression with combination Pegasys and Nutlin-3, lower
      doses of each agent can be used together in PV patients. Thus, the use of RG7388 alone or in
      combination with Pegasys would be anticipated to enhance p53 expression by different
      mechanisms and presents a novel approach to the treatment of PV/ET.
    
  