
    
      Ureteral stents are commonly used to maintain patency of the ureter and are placed for
      several common reasons including ureteral obstruction due to nephrolithiasis, cancer, or
      fibrosis as well as after surgical interventions involving ureteroscopy, ureteral anastomoses
      or prophylactically prior to extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy. Ureteral stents have been
      associated with significant discomfort and dissatisfaction among patients.5 Bosio and
      colleagues noted that among patients with indwelling stents, 59.1% reported daily urinary
      frequency ≥ 1 per hour, 90.1% reported ≥ 1 nocturnal micturition episodes, 86.6% reported
      urinary urgency, and 82.3% reported dysuria. Further, 83.2% complained of pain, mostly in the
      kidney (67.9%) or in the bladder area (31.3%), particularly during physical activity. Over
      90% of patients reported that this pain interfered with their everyday life.

      The Ureteric Stent Symptom Questionnaire (USSQ) was developed in 2003 by Joshi and colleagues
      to quantify patients' discomfort relating specifically to ureteral stents. The USSQ measures
      several domains relating to stent pain including general health, urinary issues, pain, work
      performance, sexual matters, and quality of life with stent in situ. The USSQ has been
      validated and translated and is currently a widely used measure.

      While commonly used for treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia, several studies have
      evaluated the efficacy of α-blockers for stent pain and have demonstrated a significant
      improvement in USSQ scores using α-blockers (mean reduction of 8.4 in urinary symptom scores
      and 7.2 in body pain scores). To date, randomized controlled trials have used one of two
      types of α-blockers: tamsulosin (0.4mg) vs. alfuzosin (10 mg). In treating benign prostatic
      hyperplasia, a total maximum dose of 0.8mg tamsulosin is used (either 0.4mg BID or 0.8mg
      daily), which has shown increased efficacy compared to the 0.4mg QD dose without an increase
      in adverse effects. Currently, tamsulosin 0.4mg daily is the off-label dosage indicated for
      lower urinary tract symptoms for patients with an indwelling stent. No study to date,
      however, has evaluated the clinical impact of a higher daily dose of tamsulosin (0.8mg) on
      stent-related symptoms. The objective of this study is to assess two different dosing
      regimens (0.4 mg QD vs. 0.4 mg BID) of tamsulosin for ureteral stent-related discomfort.
    
  