
    
      Retinoblastoma (RTB) is the most frequent tumour of the eye in early childhood and the
      commonest cancer in the first year of life. Approximately 60% of cases are sporadic and
      unilateral. Unilateral tumours are usually diagnosed in the advanced intraocular stage and
      the most frequent treatment prescribed is enucleation. This prevents disease progression but
      has an important visual risk, and also constitutes a mutilation, with potentially devastating
      psychological effects on patients and their relatives.

      At diagnosis, patients affected with RTB and their relatives are faced with the important
      effects of this disease, such as a threat to life, although rare in developed countries, and
      the risk of losing their sight, which depends on the uni- or bilateral nature of the tumour,
      the topography of the tumour or tumours, and the still prevalent need for enucleation as a
      treatment. In fact, almost all advanced stage unilateral RTBs are treated with enucleation.
      In addition to the risk to life and the patient's sight associated with this treatment, it is
      also important to take into account the risk to the eye itself. For selected cases with
      advanced intraocular involvement (stage V of the Reese-Ellsworth classification) in which
      enucleation would usually be the standard therapeutic approach, in this project we propose an
      alternative conservative treatment using intra-arterial chemotherapy with melphalan, via
      direct administration by catheterization of the ophthalmic artery.

      The treatment aims to preserve the eye ball and visual acuity as much as possible in these
      patients, and has been demonstrated to be extremely effective at achieving volumetric
      reduction of tumours, which permits, if necessary, the subsequent conservative treatment,
      mainly with brachytherapy for anterior tumours or thermotherapy with laser diode for
      posterior tumours. In cases of retinal detachment, significant volume reduction, such as that
      achieved after injection with melphalan would, in most cases, permit retinal reapplication
      that would favour visual prognosis.

      This technique was first described by David H. Abramson in the Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
      Memorial Hospital of New York (A Phase I/II Study of direct Intra-arterial (Ophthalmic
      Artery) Chemotherapy with Melphalan for Intraocular Retinoblastoma). Here, in this study we
      propose using this technique for the first time outside New York city, in our own clinical
      setting (Retinoblastoma Unit, affiliated to the Oncology Development Department and the
      Ophthalmology Department of the Sant Joan de Déu Hospital in Barcelona).

      The attainment of positive results, in addition to those previously obtained by the New York
      project, could consolidate this treatment as an alternative to enucleation in most cases of
      advanced intraocular RTB, and open the way for the future indication of this technique in
      other stages of RTB.
    
  