
    
      OBJECTIVES

        -  PRIMARY To determine the antitumor efficacy ( response rate) of sunitinib

        -  SECONDARY To determine: safety, duration of response, Quality of life (QoL), progression
           free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS).

      PLAN OF TREATMENT Patients received sunitinib at a starting dose of 50 mg per day in repeated
      6-week cycles for 4 consecutive weeks followed by 2 weeks off treatment.

      Sunitinib was self-administered orally once daily without regard to meals. Dose reduction for
      toxicity was allowed to 37.5 until 25 mg/day depending on the type and severity of toxicity
      encountered.

      Sunitinib treatment was continued until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or
      withdrawal of consent.

      EVALUATION

      Baseline evaluations included:

        -  medical history

        -  physical examination;

        -  tumor assessment (total body TC and bone scan )

        -  assessment of ECOG PS

        -  QoL assessment

        -  Assessment of left ventricular ejection fraction by echocardiography

        -  ECG

        -  Laboratory measurements. Assessment of efficacy and safety

        -  Evaluation according RECIST criteria every 2 cycles (12 weeks) with TC

        -  Safety according NCI version 3 every cycle

        -  QoL every cycle EORTC-QOL-C30.• RESOURCE UTILIZATION ASSESSMENTS

      EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire, developed by the EORTC for the measurement of quality of life in
      cancer patients in clinical trials.

      For the analysis, the raw scores of the questionnaire are transformed into a 100-point scale.
      For the functional scales, the computed scores range from 0 to 100, with the higher scores
      representing a higher level of functioning. For the item scales relative to physical symptoms
      and financial impact, higher scores represent a higher level of symptoms or problems .

      STATISTICAL METHODS

      Benefit anticipated (%): >30% of response rate. Test size: 5%. Power 80%. Sample size: 25
      patients.
    
  