
    
      Study Treatment Arms:

      The transacral lumbar interbody fusion (including 1L+ and 2L+) is a minimally invasive
      technique that uses a transacral approach to achieve fusion at the L5-S1 or L4-L5-S1 spinal
      levels. The transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (TLIF) is performed by using a posterior
      unilateral or bilateral incision in which the lumbar spine is accessed. Both study procedures
      are approved for use and conform to US regulatory requirements. The study employs these
      procedures and devices for uses that are consistent with their 510(k), legally cleared,
      labeling.

      Study Design, Objective:

      The study objective is to demonstrate non-inferiority between the transacral lumbar interbody
      fusion procedure and the transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion procedure (TLIF) by meeting
      the primary and secondary study endpoints as listed below.

      Study design, Endpoints:

      Primary Endpoint:

      Efficacy: Fusion of the targeted vertebral bodies (L4-L5 or L5-S1) by 24 months as determined
      by Central Radiographic Reviewer's interpretation of high resolution Computed Tomography (CT)
      scan.

      Secondary Endpoints:

      Safety: Incidence of major device-related adverse events and/or failures by 24 months,
      defined as those requiring revision surgery or a secondary operation, or events resulting in
      permanent disability or death.

      Clinical Effectiveness: A 20% decrease in back pain compared to baseline by 24 months as
      measured by the Visual Analog Scale (VAS) score.

      Clinical Effectiveness: A 20% decrease in disability compared to baseline by 24 months as
      measured by the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI).

      Study Design, Enrollment and Analyses:

      Approximately 200 subjects will be enrolled in this study and will receive one of two study
      treatments in the study. The enrollment period is expected to last approximately 18 months,
      with a 24 month follow up period. Approximately 15-20 sites will participate, and
      Investigators must be proficient in both of the lumbar fusion procedures.

      Analyses:

      Eight evaluations: Pre-Operative, Operative, Discharge, and at 1, 3, 6, 12, and 24 Months.

      Safety and efficacy analyses will be performed at all follow-up points during the study as
      well as a final analysis when all subjects have completed the study.
    
  