
    
      Health conditions resulting from household air pollution (HAP) are responsible for
      approximately 3.9 million premature deaths each year. Exposure to HAP is the third largest
      preventable contributor to illness worldwide. Even so, HAP exposures persist since 3 billion
      individuals worldwide continue to rely on biomass fuel for cooking and heating, especially in
      the developing world. Though the transition away from traditional biomass stoves is projected
      curb the health effects of HAP by mitigating exposure, the benefits of newer clean cookstove
      technologies can only be fully realized if use of these stoves is exclusive and sustained.
      Most studies indicate that the provision of clean cookstoves to these individuals is, on its
      own, insufficient to encourage and foster adoption. In order to better understand how to
      promote clean cookstove adoption, the proposed study aims to (1) develop an educational
      intervention to promote clean cookstove adoption and sustained use and (2) determine the
      influence of liquid petroleum gasoline (LPG) accessibility on product demand.

      Households enrolled into the control and the BioLite arms of GRAPHS (the parent study) will
      receive clean LPG cookstoves for their participation in the study (clinicaltrials.gov
      registration: NCT01335490). The objective of this study is to test the relative impact of two
      approaches to encourage stove use: providing a behavior change intervention and offering
      convenient access to LPG refueling. The investigators hypothesize that these interventions
      will increase overall use of LPG cook stoves.

      Prior evidence on the role of health information in promoting the adoption of
      health-promoting technology is limited, and the results are mixed. Although little work has
      been done to investigate the importance of accessibility to sustained use of cookstoves,
      accessibility remains one of the basic market drivers of product demand.

      A total of 27 communities will be cluster randomized, with 979 study households nested
      throughout the sites. The study arms will be arranged as a 2x2 factorial design, with
      approximately equal numbers of households in each arm.
    
  