
    
      Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC), collectively known as inflammatory bowel
      disease (IBD) are chronic, life-long, destructive inflammatory conditions of the
      gastrointestinal tract. IBD onset can occur at any age but the highest incidence occurs in
      late childhood, adolescence and young adulthood. The incidence of IBD in children and
      adolescents has significantly increased over the last 40 years. The precise factors
      underlying IBD pathogenesis are not yet defined but may involve persistent bacterial
      infection, a defective mucosal barrier, or an imbalance in the regulation of the immune
      response. Epidemiologic studies from adult populations have identified a significant genetic
      contribution to the etiology of CD, but simple Mendelian models of IBD inheritance are not
      supported by segregation analysis. Taken together, these observations support a complex
      immunogenetic model of IBD whereby genetically susceptible individuals harbor an aberrant
      response to yet-unidentified environmental influences. Attempts to localize IBD
      susceptibility genes through genome-wide linkage studies have identified putative loci on
      chromosome 16. Recently 3 groups of investigators have shown that sequence variations within
      the NOD2 gene (MIM 605956) on chromosome 16q12 were strongly associated with susceptibility
      to CD. Attempts to link NOD2 mutations with disease phenotype have recently identified an
      association between ileal specific-disease and patients with NOD2/ CARD 15 mutations. This
      initial association between genotype and phenotype suggests that genetic factors influence
      disease location. At this time the frequency of NOD2 gene mutations in a population based
      sample, specifically in a cohort of newly diagnosed patients is not known. In addition, all
      attempts to correlate genotype with CD phenotype have been performed in adults, and no data
      has been generated in children. Identification of these mutations in children will be of
      particular interest, as the presentation of initial disease will manifest disease in its
      "purest" form, where the long duration of chronic inflammation typically seen in adult
      patients will not have exerted influence on disease phenotype (i.e. stricture formation
      secondary to longstanding, poorly controlled inflammation). Thus, genotype/phenotype
      correlation in children in a prospective fashion will function to characterize NOD2/ CARD15
      mutations in a general population, and will also begin the evaluation of disease progression
      and prediction of disease severity and behaviour over time, with the starting point being the
      time of diagnosis. This will have obvious clinical and therapeutic implications, and will
      begin the process of linking disease genotype to optimal therapy. Therefore, our central
      hypothesis: Identification of NOD2/ CARD 15 mutations in newly diagnosed CD children will
      predict disease location, disease behaviour and will identify optimal approaches to therapy.
      This will be tested by the following three Specific Aims.

        1. Genotype a cohort of WI IBD children for 4 NOD2 / CARD 15 mutations.

        2. Statistical analysis of phenotype and genotype correlation in a cohort of WI pediatric
           IBD alliance children with or without a family history of IBD.

      The Wisconsin pediatric IBD alliance was formed in January of 2000 to track all new diagnoses
      of IBD occurring in children younger than age 18. This clinical consortium has successfully
      recruited 100% of the pediatric GI specialists within Wisconsin to prospectively record all
      new IBD diagnoses, in order to obtain a population based incidence of CD and UC within the
      U.S. Between 1/1/00 and 12/31/01, we have identified 192 new cases of IBD within the state.
      Sixty-five percent of these children were from Southeast Wisconsin, and were diagnosed at
      Children's Hospital of Wisconsin. In addition to these newly diagnosed children, a cohort of
      294 additional pediatric IBD children followed at the Children's Hospital of Wisconsin will
      serve as a reference population. The focus of this proposal will be to correlate genetic
      influence on the clinical disease course and behavior using a molecular classification of
      pediatric CD children in a population based pediatric cohort. This DDC grant will allow the
      PI and the co-investigator to generate sufficient preliminary data in the under-researched
      area of pediatric CD and to continue this investigation for support from national foundations
      (CCFA) and /or the NIH.
    
  