
    
      Primary Goal:

        -  To determine the effectiveness of two doses of daily vaginal prasterone
           (dehydroepiandrosterone [DHEA]) versus placebo for alleviation of the most bothersome
           vaginal symptom (vaginal dryness or dyspareunia) over 12 weeks.

      Exploratory Goals:

        -  To evaluate any toxicities arising from DHEA in this patient population. (Exploratory)

        -  To evaluate the impact of vaginal DHEA on negative sexual thoughts, sexual function and
           urologic symptoms. (Exploratory)

        -  To explore the role of psychologic (mood, stress), physical (demographics and treatment
           variables) and situational factors (partner variables and fatigue) as predictors of
           vaginal dryness and performance outcomes at baseline and at various endpoints throughout
           the study. (Exploratory)

        -  To explore the characteristics of vaginal atrophy and the relationship between vaginal
           atrophy and quality-of-life questionnaire responses and exposure to hormonal therapy
           (tamoxifen, exemestane, anastrozole, or letrozole). (Exploratory)

        -  To examine the effects of the use of open-label vaginal DHEA gel over 8 weeks in women
           completing the placebo gel arm of the randomized trial. (Exploratory)

      Correlative Research Goals:

        -  To evaluate the impact of vaginal DHEA on maturation index and pH (select institutions).

        -  To evaluate the impact of vaginal DHEA on sex steroid concentrations (estradiol, free
           testosterone, estrone, and DHEA-S) and markers of bone turnover (osteocalcin and bone
           alkaline phosphatase). (Correlative)

        -  As part of ongoing research for NCCTG Cancer Control studies, we are banking blood
           products for future studies. (Correlative)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to current tamoxifen
      therapy (yes vs no), concurrent aromatase inhibitor use (anastrozole/letrozole vs exemestane
      vs none), hysterectomy (yes vs no), and cigarette smoking (current vs past vs never).
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms, patients receive low dose vaginal DHEA,
      high dose vaginal DHEA or vaginal placebo gel.

      Participants may complete the Profile of Mood States (POMS), the Perceived Stress Scale
      (PSS), the Fatigue: Vitality subscale of the SF-36, the Vaginal Symptom Quality
      Questionnaire, the DHEA Side Effect Questionnaire, the Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI),
      the Sexually Related Intrusive Thoughts - ITS, Impact of Treatment Scale, the Urogenital
      Atrophy Questionnaire, and the Subject Global Impression of Change at baseline and
      periodically during study.
    
  