
    
      hile not fully integrated in the Caribbean culture, nursing homes may well become a
      necessity, and their number is growing. For example, there are now 6 nursing homes in
      Jamaica, and since the first one in 1991, 20 more have opened in Guadeloupe. Being admitted
      in a nursing home may be beneficial for the residents as well as for their families since it
      offers around-the-clock medical care and a secure living environment. On the other hand,
      living in a nursing home also tend to alter the medical and psychological state of the
      resident. Little is known about the characteristics of nursing home residents in Guadeloupe.
      Epidemiological and medico-economic data on older people in nursing homes are essential to
      assess the relevance of this type of care, and several and yet unanswered questions come to
      mind: what is the residents' annual hospitalization rate and the associated costs? What is
      the prevalence of geriatric syndromes in this population, and the incidence of mortality?
      What is the incidence of pneumonia, the leading cause of death and emergency hospitalization
      in older people? What is the quality of life of the older residents and their professional
      caregivers? KASEHPAD, an epidemiological cohort, aims to answer these questions. This
      longitudinal study will assess the health status and medical and economic data of 500 nursing
      home residents and their professional caregivers over a year. A similar study (KASAF, for
      Karukera Study of Aging in Foster Families) will be conducted simultaneously among 250 older
      people in foster families, as to compare these two types of care.

      The main outcome is the number of hospitalizations over a year. Local PMSI (Medicalization
      program of the information system) hospitals databases will provide information on hospital
      admissions.

      500 people aged 60 and older and living in nursing homes in Guadeloupe will be included. Data
      collection will be conducted using face-to-face interviews with the participants and their
      professional caregivers at baseline and after 6 and 12 months, and phone interviews with the
      professional caregivers, after 3 and 9 months. Anthropometric measures, information on
      general health status and care pathways (hospitalization, medical and paramedical
      consultations), as well as data on medical history, cognition, nutritional status, and
      physical frailty will also be collected. Depressive and anxiety symptoms will also be
      assessed along with functional abilities (mobility, instrumental activities of daily living
      and activities of daily living). A systematic update of vital status (death) and care pathway
      will be carried out at each follow-up. Additional information on the residents' living status
      and potential hospitalizations will be collected after 3 and 9 months. Finally, professional
      caregivers will be interviewed at inclusion, after 6 months and after a year to assess their
      own quality of life and burnout symptoms.

      This study was supported by a grant from the Agence Régionale de Santé de la Guadeloupe.
    
  