
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To define the recommend phase II doses of intracranially administered active modified
      human form of carboxylesterase (hCE1m6)- neuronal stem cells (NSCs)
      (carboxylesterase-expressing allogeneic neural stem cells) in combination with intravenous
      irinotecan (irinotecan hydrochloride).

      II. To determine the biologic activity of the hCE1m6-NSCs by comparing SN-38 concentrations
      in the brain after treatment with hCE1m6-NSCs and irinotecan compared to irinotecan alone.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To investigate the relationship between hCE1m6-NSC dose and SN-38 concentrations in brain
      interstitium.

      II. To characterize the relationship between intracerebral and systemic concentrations of
      irinotecan and SN-38.

      III. To assess for possible development of NSC immunogenicity after first exposure and with
      repeat doses of NSCs.

      IV. To evaluate the intracerebral distribution of NSCs by using iron-labeling as a cellular
      tracker.

      V. To describe the clinical benefit (defined as stable disease, partial response, or complete
      response) in patients who receive treatment with repeat cycles of NSCs and irinotecan.

      VI. To determine, at time of autopsy, the fate of the NSCs.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of carboxylesterase-expressing allogeneic neural
      stem cells.

      Patients receive carboxylesterase-expressing allogeneic neural stem cells via intracerebral
      catheter on day 1 of week 1; weeks 1 and 3, weeks 1, 2, and 3; or weeks 1, 2, 3, and 4.
      Patients also receive irinotecan hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on day 3 of
      week 1; weeks 1 and 3, weeks 1, 2, and 3; or weeks 1, 2, 3, and 4. Courses repeat every 6
      weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for at least 15 years.
    
  