
    
      Hypothesis (es) and Aims:

        1. The investigator aims to evaluate the natural development of the pouch microenvironment
           among post-IPAA patients over one year of followup, and associate dietary intake with
           shaping the pouch microbiome composition, metabolic activity, proteoplitic activity and
           with development of pouchitis.

           The investigator hypothesizes that the different dietary pattern of post-IPAA patients
           will be associated with different pouch microenvironments, and with the development of
           pouchitis.

        2. The investigator aims to measure the effect of the CDED on shaping the pouch
           microenvironment among post-IPAA patients over one year of followup, compared with a
           control standard diet.The investigator further aims to assess if the CDED is an
           effective meand of prevention of pouchitis in post-IPAA patients.

           The investigator hypothesizes that adherence to the CDED post-IPAA will positively
           effect the pouch microbiome composition, metabolic activity and proteoplitic activity,
           and be an efficient means to maintain surgical remission in pouch patients, compared
           with a control standard diet.

        3. The investigator aims to evaluate the effect of the CDED on acute pouchitis activity
           compared with a control-standard diet.

           The investigator hypothesizes that the CDED will induce clinical, biological and
           endoscopic remission in pouchitis patients, and that remission will be maintained
           through 24 weeks. Results are expected to show superiority over a standard diet for
           clinical remission in pouchitis patients.

        4. The investigator aims to examine whether changes in circadian rhythm are associated with
           improvement in clinical and biological disease activity.

      Study plan:

        1. POST IPAA SURGERY PATIENTS:

           1.1 Twenty patients, at 0-3 months post ileostomy closure will be enrolled for the
           study. Patients will be randomized to receive the CDED or standard diet at a ratio of
           1:1. Patients will undergo 5 clinic visits for dietary education and guidance at
           baseline, weeks 3, 6, 12 and 24 in which they would be closely monitored for dietary
           adherence, physician assessment of disease ativity, patient reported outcomes (PROMS)
           and quality of life. Patient followup under the CDED maintenance phase, including data
           collection will continue every 8 weeks up to 52 weeks.

           1.2 Pouchoscopy will be performed at baseline (unless preformed within 2 months of
           inclusion), week 12, week 24 and week 52, to assess pouchitis activity and to retrieve
           mucosal samples for histology, mucosal adherent bacteria assessment, and RNA extraction
           1.3 Screening: At baseline, inclusion and exclusion criteria will be evaluated, informed
           consent obtained and participants asked to provide stool, urine and blood samples,
           undergo anthropometric evaluation, and fill in lifestyle, quality of life and
           nutritional questionnaires.

           Baseline pouchoscopy will include validation of endoscopic inclusion criteria and
           sampling of intestinal tissue.

           Patients will be randomized to undergo the CDED or receive a standard diet personally
           tailored for patient's nutritional needs and symptoms by a trained dietitian.

           1.4 Follow-up Patients will be evaluated for a disease activity index (mPDAI), CBC, CRP,
           calprotectin, albumin and weight at each of the visits (baseline, week 3, week 6, week
           12, week 24 and week 52). Biological samples will be analyzed and preserved for future
           analysis at -80 at each visit.

           Dietary compliance will be assessed by a modified MARS questionnaire at each visit and
           by dieticians using a 3 days food diary at four time points (week 3 , 6, 12 and 24), and
           two telephone calls one week after each change at weeks 1 and 7.

           All patients will undergo a pouchoscopy at the end of 12 and 24 weeks of the diet for
           evaluation of disease activity and tissue sample collection.

           After week 24, patients who do not respond to treatment at either arm, will be defined
           as treatment failures. Those who do respond and who achieve steroid free clinical
           remission, will be instructed to continue with the maintenance diet until week 52 of the
           study followup.

        2. study plan: 2.1 Fourty two adults with a diagnosis of acute exacerbation of pouchitis
           will be included in the study. Participants will be randomized to receive the CDED or
           standard diet at a ratio of 1:1. Patients will undergo 5 clinic visits for dietary
           education and guidance at baseline, weeks 3, 6, 12 ans 24 in which they would be closely
           monitored for dietary adherence, physician assessment of disease activity, patient
           reported outcomes (PROMS) and quality of life.

      After 6 weeks of CDED phase 1, patients will be clinically evaluated to define clinical
      response as reduction in clinical PDAI>1 point. Patients receiving the standard diet who do
      not achieve clinical remission at week 6 will be able to be re-allocated to the CDED arm per
      protocol. Patients who do achieve remission will continue with their tailored diet until week
      24. Patients receiving the CDED who do not achieve clinical response at 6 weeks, will be
      considered as treatment failure, and will discontinue their participation in the study.
      Patients who do achieve remission will continue with CDED diet phase 2 and 3 until week 24
      per protocol. Pouchoscopy will be performed at baseline (unless preformed within 2 months of
      inclusion), week 12 and week 24 to assess pouchitis activity and to retrieve mucosal samples
      for histology, mucosal adherent bacteria assessment, and RNA extraction 2.2 Follow-up:
      Patients will be evaluated for a disease activity index (mPDAI), CBC, CRP, calprotectin,
      albumin and weight at each of 5 visits (baseline, week 3, week 6, week 12, and week 24).
      Biological samples will be analyzed and preserved for future analysis at -80 at each visit.

      Dietary compliance will be assessed by a modified MARS questionnaire at each visit and by
      dieticians using a 3 days food diary at four time points (week 3 , 6, 12 and 24), and two
      telephone calls one week after each change at weeks 1 and 7.

      All patients will undergo a pouchoscopy at the end of 12 and 24 weeks of the diet for
      evaluation of disease activity and tissue sample collection.
    
  