
    
      According to the World Health Organization, by 2025 hypertension will affect 1.5 billion
      adults worldwide. Half of the adult population is not diagnosed, and half of the treated
      population is not at the defined target of BP. Widespread use of out of office BP measurement
      is one of the proposed strategies to fight against hypertension worldwide.

      The current Ambulatory Blood Pressure Monitoring or Home Blood Pressure Monitoring are
      performed with a cuff placed around the arm. This 110-year-old technology is not only
      uncomfortable for the patient but can also result in a number of overestimated readings due
      to the stress induced while inflating the cuff.

      Aktiia S.A. has developed an intermittent automated non-invasive cuffless blood pressure
      monitor determining over a series of cardiac cycles the values of the systolic blood
      pressure, the diastolic blood pressure and the heart rate. This miniature device is
      comfortably positioned with a bracelet on a user's wrist. The optical sensors integrated
      within the device exploit the principle of reflection photoplethysmography (PPG) to capture
      the user's skin pulsatility (change of arterial diameter occurring at each heartbeat). Aktiia
      OBPM algorithms are further applied to the recorded PPG signal to determine user's blood
      pressure and heart rate.

      Because the measurement relies on optical sensors, and not on pneumatic cuffs, Aktiia OBPM
      device provides an increased overall comfort to the patient throughout the monitoring, does
      not induce sleep arousal during the night measurements and decreases the false positive
      readings induced by the stress associated with the cuff inflation. Aktiia OBPM device is
      intended to be used in the long term, as compared to one-day or one-week use of Ambulatory
      Blood Pressure Monitors.

      This study over several visits has been designed to assess both the accuracy and the
      stability of the Aktiia OBPM. The automaticity of the measurement when performed in different
      body positions and upon aerobic exercise was also evaluated.

      By demonstrating both the accuracy and the stability of the measurements that can be
      performed in different body positions with a comfortable and miniature Aktiia OBPM device,
      Aktiia SA aims to make one step further in facilitating blood pressure measurement and
      monitoring in the out-of-clinic scenarios and integrating blood pressure monitoring into
      user's daily life. The diagnosis and treatment of hypertension in ambulatory settings is
      expected to largely benefit from these advancements
    
  