
    
      Specific Aims:

      Acute chest syndrome (ACS), a lung complication in sickle cell disease (SCD), is the second
      most common cause of hospitalization and leading cause of death in SCD. Recurrent ACS has
      been associated with poor lung function outcome that is comparable to cystic fibrosis. ACS is
      associated with airway inflammation, and a major cause is pulmonary infection from atypical
      organisms. To date, there are no drugs available to reduce inflammation and risk of recurrent
      ACS. Thus newer therapies are urgently needed to address this important issue associated with
      increased morbidity from debilitating chronic lung disease and mortality in SCD. Macrolides
      are a group of antibiotics that exert immunomodulatory and anti-inflammatory actions both in
      vitro and in vivo. It has been shown to inhibit neutrophil activation and mobilization,
      modulate oxidant production by neutrophils and of proinflammatory cytokine synthesis and
      release by leukocytes, reduce systemic markers of inflammation, inhibit intercellular
      adhesion molecules on epithelial cell surfaces, and block the activation of certain nuclear
      transcription factors. In addition, macrolides reduce bacterial burden in the airway of
      atypical organisms, all of which play an important role in the pathophysiology of ACS.
      Indeed, numerous studies have evaluated macrolide prophylaxis in conditions associated with
      lung inflammation, such as cystic fibrosis, asthma, bronchiectasis etc., and high quality
      evidence have found macrolides to be beneficial as a disease modifying agent that leads to
      improvement in airway inflammation, reduced pulmonary exacerbations and improved lung
      function. However, azithromycin has never been studied before in SCD. The investigators
      hypothesize that azithromycin prophylaxis is well tolerated and has the potential to reduce
      inflammation and improve lung outcome in children with SCD with a history of ACS.

      A prospective, single arm, open label feasibility study of azithromycin prophylaxis will be
      performed in children with SCD with a history ACS with the following specific aims:

      Specific Aim 1: Examine the feasibility, safety and tolerability of azithromycin prophylaxis
      administration in children with SCD. A cohort of 15 participants with sickle cell disease 6
      to 16 years old will be placed on azithromycin prophylaxis, and followed closely to evaluate
      medication adherence and for any adverse effects from taking the medication.

      Specific Aim 2: Examine whether azithromycin prophylaxis has the potential to improve lung
      outcome in participants with SCD with a history of ACS. In the same cohort of 15 patients,
      baseline pulmonary function testing will be performed evaluating Forced expiratory volume 1
      sec (FEV1) and Forced vital capacity (FVC) measurements prior to starting azithromycin
      prophylaxis, and then again at study end period after 1 year to evaluate for any change.

      Specific Aim 3: Determine whether azithromycin prophylaxis reduces inflammation in
      participants with SCD with a history of ACS. In the same cohort of 15 participants, baseline
      markers of inflammation will be performed, specifically C-reactive protein (CRP), Tumor
      necrosis factor Alpha (TNF-α), interleukin IL-1, IL-1β, IL-4, IL-6, and IL-8, and then
      repeated at specific time intervals of 16 weeks, 32 weeks and 48 weeks (study end).
    
  