
    
      Methodology

        1. Study design:

           This is an investigator-initiated multi-center, prospective, randomised, controlled,
           two-arm parallel-group study. The participating centers will be Singapore General
           Hospital and Tan Tock Seng Hospital.

           Patients are eligible for enrolment if they have CLI and at least one infragenicular
           lesion with a maximal total lesion length of 20cm. Randomisation will be performed on a
           1:1 ratio to either DEB PTA or CB PTA. Patients will be assessed prior and directly
           after the intervention, at 3, 6 and 12 months by Rutherford classification,
           ankle-brachial index, toe pressure and adverse events. Duplex will be performed at 3
           months. Angiography will be performed before and directly after PTA and at 6 months.
           Primary end-point will be primary patency of the treated lesions at 6 months on
           angiography (defined as <50% stenosis, without re-intervention in the interim).
           Secondary end-points are limb salvage at 3, 6 and 12 months, primary patency of the
           treated lesion on Duplex at 3 months (defined as patency of the treated artery with peak
           systolic velocity (PSV) ≤2.0 m/sec), Rutherford classification, minor and major
           amputation, infrapopliteal endovascular re-intervention, patency of treated
           femoropopliteal sites (if applicable), infrapopliteal surgical bypass, peri-procedural
           complications and death at 3, 6 and 12 months.

           A cost-effectiveness analysis will be performed alongside the 3-year randomized clinical
           trial of DEB PTA versus the CB- PTA. Both cost and utility outcomes will be determined
           from data sampled from the patient enrolled in the study and will be estimated using
           comparable time horizons. The time horizon of the economic analysis is 12 months, from
           the patient's study inclusion up to 12 months after PTA. Analysis will be performed from
           a societal perspective.

           Direct healthcare and non-health care costs incurred will be presented in 2013 Singapore
           dollars (SGD). Hospitalization costs will be determined from cumulative hospital billing
           data. Other healthcare costs outside SGH/TTSH and indirect costs will be determined by
           patient surveys at 3, 6, and 12 months post-procedure. Information on Qualify of Life
           (QoL) will be measured using the EQ-5D-3L (at baseline, 3 months-, 6 months- and 12-
           months) and used to calculate Quality-Adjusted Life Years (QALY) after incorporating
           mortality.

        2. Participants:

           Patients with critical limb ischaemia who meet all of the inclusion and exclusion
           criteria will be enrolled.

           Participation is entirely voluntary and eligible subjects should be competent to
           understand the implications of participation in the study. Informed consent forms are
           designed to assure the protection of patient's rights.

           Before enrolment all patients will have to give their written informed consent. The
           centre's local investigator ensures that the patient will be informed on the basis of
           the Informed Consent Form.

        3. Outcome Measurement

           (3.1) Primary outcome: Primary patency of the treated (index) site at 6 months. Primary
           patency is defined as less than or equal to 50% loss of luminal diameter at the treated
           site on angiography without re-intervention in the interim.

           (3.2) Secondary outcomes: • Limb-salvage rate of the trial leg at 3, 6 and 12 months.

           • Primary patency on duplex sonography of the treated (index) site at 3 months.

           • Clinical categorisation of the treated ischemic leg by means of the Rutherford
           classification at 3, 6 and 12 months.

           • Minor amputation (below the ankle excluding the toes) of the trial leg at 3, 6 and 12
           months.

           • Infrapopliteal surgical bypass of the trial leg at 3, 6 and 12 months.

           • Infrapopliteal endovascular re-intervention of the trial leg at 3, 6 and 12 months.

           • Primary patency of treated femoropopliteal sites, if applicable.

           • Peri-procedural (within 30 days) complications.

           • Death.

           • Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) , i.e., the mean difference in costs
           divided by the mean difference in QALY

        4. Investigational product:

      (4.1) Paclitaxel: Paclitaxel inhibits SMC replication in the G2/M phases, SMC migration and
      extracellular matrix formation, thus inhibiting neointima formation. Neointima formation
      causes restenosis.

      (4.2) Drug eluting balloon: A drug-eluting balloon (DEB) is a paclitaxel-coated peripheral
      angioplasty balloon catheter specifically designed for PTA of small peripheral
      atherosclerotic obstructed arteries. DEBs are available in different sizes of 2mm, 2.5mm,
      3mm, 3.5mm and 4mm in diameter and 40mm, 80mm and 120mm in length. The DEBs are coated with a
      proprietary hydrophilic formulation of paclitaxel with a matrix substance. Paclitaxel coated
      DEB are currently registered in Singapore for use.

      Protocol

        1. Randomisation:

           Patients will be randomized to either DEB-PTA or CB-PTA after the lesion has been
           crossed with the guidewire. The allocation ratio will be 1:1. Randomization will be
           stratified by diabetes and renal failure status. Patients will be blinded to the
           assigned treatment. The operators from SGH and TTSH site will perform the angioplasty
           and angiogram procedures. The operators who perform angiogram at 6 month follow-up will
           be blinded to the treatment arm to prevent bias. For the reading of the images, the
           radiologists who read those images will also be blinded to prevent bias.

        2. Procedure

      Following antegrade or retrograde femoral puncture and insertion of an arterial sheath with a
      haemostatic valve, angiography is performed. Angiographic features of the lesion(s) are then
      assessed. If endovascular treatment is not considered feasible, the patient is excluded from
      the study.

      The lesion is crossed under fluoroscopic guidance with the combination of a catheter and
      guidewire according to the choice of the operator. Following lesion crossing the patient will
      be randomised to receive either DEB-PTA or CB-PTA. If crossing of the lesion is unsuccessful,
      the patient will not be randomized.

      (3) DEB-PTA arm

      After successful crossing of the target lesion, angioplasty with a conventional angioplasty
      balloon is performed before DEB-PTA. A conventional angioplasty balloon with a diameter 0.5mm
      less than the intended DEB balloon is advanced over the guidewire and is inflated at the
      trial lesion site, according to the normal practice of the operator. A DEB with a diameter
      matching the target vessel and lesion length is then advanced over the 0.018 inch guidewire
      and inflated at the target lesion site for 60 seconds. If the lesion length is longer than
      the length of the balloon, a second inflation with another DEB will be required. The maximal
      total lesion length of the treated lesions will not exceed 20cm, as this is the maximal
      length that can be treated with two DEBs. Comparisons of pre- and post-implantation percent
      stenosis will be made in the same angiographic projection(s). Whenever stent placement is
      required as 'bail-out' in cases of post-PTA occlusion or flow-limiting dissection, a bare
      metal (non-drug eluting) stent will be used.

      (4) CB-PTA arm

      After successful crossing of the target lesion, a conventional angioplasty balloon with a
      diameter matching the target vessel is advanced over the guidewire and is inflated at the
      target lesion site, according to the normal practice of the operator. Comparisons of pre- and
      post-implantation percent stenosis will be made in the same angiographic projection(s).
      Whenever stent placement is required as a 'bail-out' in cases of post-PTA occlusion or
      flow-limiting dissection, a bare metal (non-drug eluting) stent will be used.

      (5) Morphologic lesion classification:

      Morphologic lesion classification on angiography will be performed according to the
      Transatlantic Intersociety Consensus (TASC) document on management of peripheral arterial
      disease:

      TASC Type A infrapopliteal lesions:

        1. Single stenoses shorter than 1 cm in the tibial or peroneal vessels.

           TASC Type B infrapopliteal lesions:

        2. Multiple focal stenoses of the tibial or peroneal vessel, each less than 1 cm in length.

        3. One or two focal stenoses, each less than 1 cm long, at the tibial trifurcation.

        4. Short tibial or peroneal stenosis in conjunction with femoropopliteal PTA.

           TASC Type C infrapopliteal lesions:

        5. Stenoses 1-4 cm in length.

        6. Occlusions 1-2 cm in length of the tibial or peroneal vessels.

        7. Extensive stenoses of the tibial trifurcation.

           TASC Type D infrapopliteal lesions:

        8. Tibial or peroneal occlusions longer than 2 cm.

        9. Diffusely diseased tibial or peroneal vessels.

      TASC classification is done for investigational purposes only and it does not influence
      treatment in this study.

      (6) The following information relating to the procedure is collected:

        -  General participant demographics (initials, subject-number, date of birth, gender)

        -  Number of lesions

        -  Location of each lesion

        -  TASC morphology classification

        -  Contrast medium type and amount administered

        -  Type and size of sheaths, guidewires and catheters

        -  Diameters of non-diseased arterial lumen proximal and distal to the target site for each
           treated lesion

        -  Percentage stenosis of the lesion before and after treatment for each lesion

        -  Lesion length prior to treatment for each treated lesion

        -  Quality of runoff (number of vessels and presence of stenoses or occlusion) distal to
           the target site before and after treatment

        -  Type, size, length and number of balloon used/ Numbers of stents used

        -  Presence or absence of complications

        -  Use of closure-device (if used, type)

           (7) Escape procedure: In case stent placement is required to treat dissections proximal,
           distal or at the site of the treated lesion, the operator must consider the best
           interest of the patient. Patients should receive bare metal (non-drug eluting) stents if
           'bail-out' stenting is required due to post-PTA occlusion or flow-limiting dissection,
           as is common practice.

      In cases of acute arterial thrombosis or embolism, on table or infusional thrombolysis (using
      urokinase or rTPA) or mechanical thrombectomy is permitted according to the preference of the
      operator and the local hospital protocol.

      (8) End of the procedure The procedure is considered complete once all the delivery material
      including catheter sheath introducer has been removed.

      (9) Anti-platelet medication The following anti-thrombotic medications are to be
      administered.

        -  During the procedure, at least 2000 units of heparin are administered intravenously or
           intra-arterially. If necessary this dose may be increased or repeated in cases of
           prolonged procedures

        -  Overnight treatment with heparin is permitted

        -  Clopidogrel 75 mg daily should be administered for at least 6 months following the
           procedure

        -  Aspirin 100 mg daily should be administered for at least 12 months following the
           procedure.

      Follow Up

      All patients will be evaluated prior to hospital discharge, at 3 months (± 14 days), 6 months
      (± 14 days) and at 12 months (± 30 days) post-procedure, or upon return of complaints.

      All patients will be followed during a 12 month follow-up period. They will be seen for
      duplex sonography at 3 months or upon return of complaints. Angiography is performed at 6
      months.

      All reported AEs and SAEs will be followed-up and closed. SCRI will keep an electronic SAE
      tracking log at SCRI to track all reported SAEs. This is to ensure that the SAE is followed
      until it is resolved and reported to the accredited IRB.
    
  