
    
      OBJECTIVES

      Primary endpoint To assess the effect of VSL#3 on cognitive functions in patients with
      cirrhosis.

      Secondary endpoint

      To assess the effect of VSL#3 on:

        -  risk of falls

        -  HRQoL

        -  incidence of complications of cirrhosis and mortality during the study

        -  metabolomics in urine

        -  endocannabinoid system (MAGL and FAAH enzymes)

        -  soluble CD163 in blood as index of macrophage activation and portal hypertension (39)

        -  portal hypertension evaluated by abdominal doppler ultrasonography

      PATIENTS AND METHODS

      Inclusion criteria

      Outpatients with cirrhosis cognitive dysfunction and/or falls in the previous year visited at
      Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau.

      Cirrhosis will be diagnosed by clinical, analytical and ultrasonographic findings or by liver
      biopsy.

      Exclusion criteria

        -  Hospitalization in the previous month due to decompensation of cirrhosis. Hepatocellular
           carcinoma or any other malignancy.

        -  Active alcohol intake (in the previous 3 months).

        -  Current overt acute or chronic hepatic encephalopathy.

        -  Clinically significant cognitive impairment according to Short Portable Mental Status
           Questionnaire (SPMSQ) > 5 points.

        -  Neurological disease.

        -  Inability to perform psychometric tests.

        -  Marked symptomatic comorbidities (cardiac, pulmonary, renal, untreated active
           depression).

        -  Life expectancy less than 6 months.

        -  Treatment with non-absorbable disaccharides.

        -  Treatment with antiviral drugs.

        -  Antibiotic treatment (norfloxacin).

      Study Agent

      VSL#3 is a probiotic mixture of 8 proprietary strains, namely Streptococcus thermophilus,
      bifidobacteria (B. breve, B. longum, B. infantis) and lactobacilli (L. paracasei, L.
      acidophilus, L. delbrueckii subsp bulgaricus, L. plantarum) . The active agent will be
      supplied as a 4.4g sachet at a dose of 450 billion live bacteria per sachet with maltose and
      silicon dioxide as excipients.

      Placebo will be formulated as identical in appearance and administered according to the same
      schedule as the active agent. Placebo contains maltose and silicon dioxide as inactive agent.

      VSL#3 is a food supplement which has been marketed in Europe since 2002. The study agent
      needs to be kept refrigerated at all times. It may be kept at room temperature for up to a
      week without affecting its potency.

      Study agent will be supplied by Actial Farmaceutica Lda, Funchal (Portugal)

      Study design

      Double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trial.

      Forty consecutive patients with cirrhosis and CD (PHES<-4) and/or falls in the previous year
      will be randomized to receive VSL#3, sachets containing 450 x 109 bacteria, 1 sachet every 12
      hours during 3 months (n=20), or placebo (n=20).

      Patients will be randomly assigned either to the active study agent or to the placebo and
      randomization list will be elaborated by a specific software and supplied by Actial
      Farmaceutica Lda.

      The first box with the product (60 sachets) will be given to the patients at the beginning of
      the study. Patients will be instructed to take all the doses, to register if they miss some
      dose and to bring back the boxes at the next visit.

      Patients will also be instructed to bring the urine samples in Falcon tubes that will be
      provided in the previous visit.

      Then, the patients will give back the boxes and receive the next set of product every month.
      The investigators will count the number of remaining sachets in the returned boxes.

      Patients will be visited at 0, 4, 6, 8, 12 and 20 weeks.

      ASSESSMENTS

      Patients will be visited at 0, 4, 6, 8, 12 and 20 weeks. The following patients' assessments
      will be performed.
    
  