
    
      Patient satisfaction with physical therapy has become an important concern in health care,
      used to monitor patient perceptions of the quality of physical therapy care services.
      Measurement of patient satisfaction may provide useful information which may improve the
      quality of health care. The "MedRisk Instrument for Measuring Patient Satisfaction With
      Physical Therapy Care" (MRPS) is one of these instruments, which has undergone reliability
      and validation testing.The MRPS is a 20-item (18 items and 2 global measures) questionnaire
      which assess patient experience about therapist, registration process and convenience of
      environment.

      A survey on a consecutive sample of patients from various regions in Turkey who were
      receiving outpatient physiotherapy programs was recruited.The study was divided into two
      phases: Phase I, the cross-cultural adaptation, which involves the translation procedures
      into Turkish and preliminary probe in the target population; and phase II, which involves the
      reliability and validation study.

      After providing informed consent, for test-retest reliability, all subjects were asked to
      complete the MRPS twice; the first at least after receiving three sessions of physiotherapy
      and the second four days later which could coincide with the date of their discharge but not
      later. Subjects provided information regarding their age, sex, and location of primary
      symptoms prior to completing the instrument.Factor structure.

      The construct validity was evaluated by factor analysis method. An exploratory factor
      analysis, using principal components analysis with varimax rotation was performed.Criterion
      validity was addressed by determining the correlation between two global measures of
      satisfaction and each of the 18 items. The measurement properties of the potential factors
      were investigated by determining correlations of the factors to the global measures and 10-cm
      Visual Analog Scale (VAS) which evaluates the level of patient satisfaction with higher
      scores indicating better satisfaction. Pearson correlation coefficient was used to assess the
      strength of the linear relationships. Test-retest reliability was examined by calculating the
      Intraclass Correlation Coefficient (ICC). Internal consistency relates to homogeneity of an
      instrument, which is assessed with Cronbach's alpha
    
  