
    
      Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a condition commonly associated with a state of chronic
      inflammation due to a number of factors. A loss of motor and sensory function typically
      results in a greater susceptibility to the development of acute secondary health
      complications such as urinary tract infections and pressure sores resulting in frequent bouts
      of inflammation. The loss of mobility also places these individuals at an elevated risk for
      the development of a variety of metabolic disorders such as obesity and type 2 diabetes; each
      of which are independently associated with chronic inflammation. Additionally, elevated
      levels of circulating proinflammatory cytokines and autoantibodies have been shown to be
      present in the serum of individuals with SCI even when asymptomatic for other secondary
      health complications. As such, following SCI, individuals are commonly in a state of
      perpetual low grade inflammation. It has yet to be established whether or not such elevations
      in proinflammatory mediators are beneficial to patients or if they are in fact surrogate
      markers of further neurological impairment. Such mediators play critical roles tissue repair
      however, it is also well established that the immune system has the ability to communicate
      with other systems of the body. As such, the immune system has the ability to influence and
      be influenced by other systems suggesting that immune dysfunction has the capability (and
      likelihood) of influencing the nervous system to some degree. A variety of neurological and
      behavioural disorders including depression, cognitive impairment, and neuropathic pain have
      each been linked to a state of chronic inflammation and are each at a dramatically elevated
      prevalence following SCI.

      Pro-inflammatory mediators have been suggested to influence the nervous system via both
      direct and indirect mechanisms. There is evidence to suggest cytokines may directly influence
      somatic nerves by altering ion channel kinetics through channelopathy. Pro-inflammatory
      cytokines have also been shown to possess the ability to up-regulate key enzymes resulting in
      protein imbalances and/or increased production of neuromodulatory proteins, which may
      influence the severity of a variety of neural disorders.

      Presently, the majority of treatment strategies for conditions such as major depression and
      pain utilize drug treatments which target "downstream" enzymes and receptors. As such, these
      treatments provide fairly rapid and affective relief from symptoms. However, as this strategy
      does not target the inflammatory basis of such disorders it provides only a temporary
      solution whereby symptoms are likely to return upon the cessation of the treatment. In
      addition, long term use of certain drug treatments such as selective serotonin re-uptake
      inhibitors (SSRI's) may only enhance biochemical vulnerability and exacerbate symptoms
      long-term. An understanding of how the immune and nervous systems interact may provide a
      unique opportunity to treat neural and behavioral disorders by targeting aspects of the
      immune system via anti-inflammatory interventions.

      Natural anti-inflammatory interventions including a diet consisting of foods and supplements
      with anti-inflammatory properties may be an effective option for treating inflammation in
      this population. As this treatment strategy will target the inflammatory basis of many
      disorders it would be expected to lead to a reduction in pro-inflammatory mediators thereby
      leading to more sustainable long-term immune improvements. Despite this, surprisingly little
      research has focused on the use of anti-inflammatory foods for the treatment of chronic
      inflammatory conditions, and effects specific to SCI have been almost completely neglected.

      The research objective of the present study is to evaluate the effects of a reduced
      inflammatory state by means of an anti-inflammatory diet on depression, cognitive impairment,
      neuropathic pain, and somatic and autonomic nerve function. Participants will be placed on a
      3 month anti-inflammatory diet consisting of daily supplementation including omega-3
      polyunsaturated fatty acids, InflanNox (curcumin), anti-oxidants, chlorella, and a vegetarian
      protein powder. A focus on foods and supplements with natural anti-inflammatory properties is
      expected to lead to beneficial reductions in the incidence of infections as well as positive
      metabolic adaptations. Together, this should help to reduce elevated levels of
      proinflammatory mediators. It is hypothesized that a reduction in pro-inflammatory mediators
      will result in positive alterations in enzyme regulation leading to beneficial changes in
      protein balances and ultimately improvements in each of the measures of outcome.
    
  