
    
      Almost four million women give birth each year in the United States with more than 27% of
      them undergoing induction of labor. Generally, labor induction is indicated when the benefits
      of expeditious delivery outweigh the risks of continuing the pregnancy. Additionally, labor
      induction is increasingly seen as a potentially therapeutic intervention even in the absence
      of any pregnancy complication for nulliparas after 39 weeks of gestation. However, induction
      of labor is usually associated with a longer latent phase compared to spontaneous labor, and
      may result in the need for cesarean delivery at an individual level when an induction attempt
      fails. Furthermore, it has been shown that women who are induced are less likely to be
      satisfied with their birth experience compared to those with spontaneous labor. Women are
      increasingly interested in a less medicalized birth experience and desire more control during
      their labor process. Lastly, the cost and infrastructure that would be required to
      universally apply routine induction of labor at 39 weeks of gestation are frequently cited as
      prohibitive, despite its associated improved outcomes.

      Breast stimulation has been purported as a natural and inexpensive non-medical method for
      inducing labor that may give patients greater control over the process and have other
      potential clinical benefits. It is thought that breast stimulation induces uterine
      contractility by increasing the level of endogenous oxytocin hormone. Breast stimulation was
      historically used successfully for inducing contractions for the purposes of contraction
      stress testing.

      A Cochrane review was performed in 2010 that compared breast stimulation with either no
      intervention or oxytocin infusion for labor induction. They found a significant reduction in
      the number of women not in labor at 72 hours (62.7% vs. 93.6%, RR 0.67, 95% CI 0.60-0.74) and
      the incidence of postpartum hemorrhage (0.7% vs. 6%, RR 0.16, 95% CI 0.03-0.87) among those
      who underwent breast stimulation compared to those who did not receive any intervention for
      induction. There were no benefits seen when comparing women who underwent breast stimulation
      versus those who received oxytocin alone. Despite the promising findings, the Cochrane Review
      raised the possibility of safety concerns due to one trial that reported four perinatal
      deaths (three in the breast stimulation group and one in the oxytocin group). However, that
      study was conducted in India, women were not monitored during breast stimulation, there was
      no clearly reported method of randomization, and there were very few study details divulged.
      The Cochrane Review ultimately had limited conclusions for several reasons. First, most
      included studies compared breast stimulation to no intervention, which is not the appropriate
      alternative when it has been determined that a labor induction is indicated. Additionally,
      most studies involved breast stimulation by hand at home for 1-3 hours per day and included
      only women with "low-risk" or un-specified risk pregnancies.

      Only one previous trial has tested breast stimulation by breast pump, which showed that the
      time to reach the active phase of labor was significantly reduced among women who underwent
      breast stimulation compared to those who received oxytocin in the hospital setting. There was
      no difference in the length of labor between groups once women were considered to be in the
      active phase of labor or mode of delivery, but the trial included just 62 women.
      Reassuringly, only one of the 30 women assigned to breast stimulation requested
      discontinuation due to nipple soreness after 5.5 hours of intermittent stimulation.

      Breast stimulation by hand or with an electronic breast pump is a biologically plausible
      method of labor induction that can potentially allow labor induction to be more efficient and
      may also have other benefits. These may include effects related to improved uterine
      contractility (e.g., successful labor induction and decreased postpartum hemorrhage risk),
      patient satisfaction with the induction process, and the stimulation of endogenous oxytocin
      which may improve postpartum breastfeeding and positive emotional responses. A well-designed
      randomized clinical trial is needed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of breast
      stimulation, particularly in comparison to the clinical alternative (use of exogenous
      oxytocin).

      This is a proposed prospective parallel group randomized controlled external pilot study of
      breast stimulation by hand or with an electronic breast pump compared to exogenous oxytocin
      infusion to assess acceptability and feasibility prior to conducting a large non-inferiority
      randomized trial.

      The two arms in this study are: (1) Breast stimulation by hand or with an electronic breast
      pump (intervention) compared to (2) Exogenous oxytocin intravenous infusion (current standard
      of care, control).
    
  