
    
      Severe alcoholic hepatitis is associated with significant morbidity and mortality.

      Diagnosis: The diagnosis of (AH) is made by the following criteria11

      I.Chronic active alcohol abuse - > 80 grams in males and > 20 grams in females. II. Duration
      of jaundice < 3 months III. Serum Bilirubin >5 mg/dl IV. AST/ALT > 2:1 V. AST <500 IU/L, ALT
      <300 IU/L VI. Neutrophilic leucocytosis VII. Alcohol - non - alcohol index (ANI) determines
      the aetiology in an obese patient who drinks excessively. The ANI uses body mass index, mean
      corpuscular volume (MCV), AST/ALT ratio and gender to determine whether the aetiology is
      alcoholic steatohepatitis or non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). A high MCV, AST/ALT ratio
      > 1, low BMI and male gender favours alcohol as the aetiology, and this is reflected as a
      positive ANI score. A negative score implicates NASH as the cause of liver disease. The ANI
      calculator is available online (http://www.mayoclinic.org/girst/mayomodel10.html) VIII. Ethyl
      Glucuronide in urine12 detects alcohol intake within the last 3 days IX. Ethyl Glucuronide in
      hair13 detects intake of alcohol within the last few months X. Serum Enzyme linked
      immunosorbent Ethyl Glucuronide has a sensitivity and specificity of 92% and 91% respectively
      XI. Liver biopsy is useful when the diagnosis is uncertain and when corticosteroids are to be
      given for the treatment of SAH. A Transjugular liver biopsy is performed in most patients due
      to the coagulopathy in SAH.

      Assessment of Severity Maddrey's Discriminant Function14 Discriminant Function Index (DFI)
      was originally described by Maddrey and colleagues in a placebo controlled study to assess
      the benefit of corticosteroids in patients with AH. The original formula was 4.6 x
      prothrombin time (PT) (seconds) + serum Bilirubin (mg/dl). It was observed that patients with
      a DFI >93 and treated with placebo had a 28 day survival of 25%, whereas those with a DFI <
      93 had a 100% survival. Subsequently this score was modified in 19896 and called Modified
      Discriminant Function (MDF). MDF = 4.6 x (Patient's PT - Control PT) + serum bilirubin
      (mg/dl). Untreated patients with MDF >32 had a survival of 68%. The American College of
      Gastroenterology9 recommends that patients with MDF > 32 and / or Encephalopathy (SAH) be
      treated with Corticosteroids. The prothrombin time varies greatly depending on the
      sensitivity of the thromboplastin reagent used for the test. This is the drawback of the MDF.

      MELD score15 The model for end stage liver disease (MELD) score predicts survival in patients
      with cirrhosis and is used to prioritize patients for liver transplantation.

      MELD score = (0.957 x log serum creatinine + 0.378 x log serum bilirubin + 1.120 x log INR +
      0.643) x 10. The advantage of MELD score is the use of INR in place of PT. The INR is
      comparable and uniform across laboratories worldwide. The American Association for Study of
      Liver Diseases (AASLD) recommends that a MELD score >20 predicts SAH and should be the
      criterion for initiating treatment. Serial monitoring of MELD score with a change of 2 or
      more points over the first week on treatment has independently predicted mortality.

      GAHS score16 Glasgow Alcoholic Hepatitis Score (GAHS) includes age, peripheral Total
      Leucocyte Count, serum Bilirubin (at days 1 and 6-9), blood urea nitrogen and PT. It is a
      better predictor of mortality at 28 days than MDF. GAHS score > 9 has an extremely poor
      prognosis unless treated with Corticosteroids. The drawback is lack of international
      validation.

      Child - Turcotte - Pugh score17 It is not traditionally used for predicting mortality of SAH.
      However, it helps to predict mortality at 3 and 6 months.

      Treatment Abstinence from alcohol This is the most important factor in predicting the outcome
      after surviving the acute alcoholic hepatitis (AH) episode. The incidence of recidivism after
      recovery from the first episode of AH varies from 10 - 70 %.

      Nutrition Enteral nutrition is the preferred mode for supplemental nutrition. It is cheap,
      maintains gut mucosal integrity. This in turn decreases the risk of bacterial and endotoxin
      translocation resulting in less infections and endotoxemia. Pooled data from 5 RCT's of AH
      have demonstrated improved nutritional status compared to standard dietary intake, but
      without improving survival rates.18 Pharmacotherapy Corticosteroids Corticosteroids (CS) are
      the most extensively used treatment for SAH. 6/13 RCT's and 4/6 meta-analysis have supported
      the use of CS in SAH. The last meta-analysis of individual patient data from 5 high quality
      RCT's using CS for SAH concluded that CS confers a 50% relative survival benefit at 1 month
      (85% versus 65% survival amongst those treated with CS versus untreated patients. The number
      of patients needed to treated (NNT) is 5 to reduce one death. Oral Prednisolone 40mg daily or
      parenteral methylprednisolone (for patients unable to take orally) 32 mg intravenously daily
      for 4 weeks is the standard therapy. The CS is tapered off over the next 4 weeks. A Lille
      score of >0.45 after 7 days of treatment with CS is an indication of non-response, increased
      susceptibility to infections and diminished survival19. The CS should be stopped if the lilli
      score is >0.45.

      Pentoxifylline Pentoxifylline is a phosphodiesterase inhibitor. It is given orally in the
      dose of 400mg thrice a day for 28 days. In a pivotal study of 101 patients of SAH21, it was
      associated with survival benefit of 50%. In another study, it was found to be superior to
      CS20. In a recent study involving 50 patients at our center21, we found that 20% vs 40%
      mortality in patients treated with Pentoxifylline versus controls, after 4 weeks of
      treatment. Acute kidney injury was the cause of death in 20% compared to 70% patients in PTX
      group versus controls. PTX induces recovery of renal & hepatic functions with a trend towards
      increased survival. However, a metanalysis of 5 RCT failed to show any benefit with PTX22.
      The major adverse effects include vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, headache and skin rash.

      N-Acetylcyteine N-acetylcysteine could have value as an antioxidant in the treatment of acute
      alcoholic hepatitis, because the thiol group in N-acetylcysteine is able to reduce levels of
      free radicals. Administration of N-acetylcysteine might reconstitute the glutathione stocks
      of the hepatocytes.

      At present, N-acetylcysteine is used in the treatment of acetaminophen induced hepatitis.
      Intravenous (I.V.) acetylcysteine is most often used as an antidote for acetaminophen
      overdose due to its ability to increase levels of glutathione; however, it is also used to
      treat non-acetaminophen-induced acute liver failure (NAI-ALF) and severe alcoholic hepatitis
      and to prevent contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN). Although the i.v. and oral formulations of
      acetylcysteine have been evaluated for these indications, most studies have examined the i.v.
      form. I.V. acetylcysteine is used in the treatment of NAI-ALF to improve oxygenation to the
      liver. A trial to evaluate the efficacy of glucocorticoids plus N-acetylcysteine, as compared
      with glucocorticoids alone, in patients with severe acute alcoholic hepatitis.23 reported
      improved one month survival in the combined treatment group. However the 6 month survival was
      not different in the two groups.

      Bovine colostrum Human colostrum (HC) is the first milk produced after birth and is
      particularly rich in immunoglobulin (Ig), antimicrobial peptides (lactoferrin and lacto
      peroxidase) and other bioactive molecule, including growth factors which are important for
      nutrition, growth and development of newborn infants and also for passive immunity. Bovine
      colostrum (BC) is produced by the cows during the first 2 days post parturition. This "early"
      milk has nutrient profile and immunological composition substantially different from 'mature'
      milk. It contains macronutrient like proteins, carbohydrate, oligosaccharides, fats and
      micronutrients like vitamins and minerals, also growth factors, anti-microbial compounds and
      immune regulating constituents either not present in mature milk or present substantially in
      lower concentration.24,25 Historically colostrum has been used for various illnesses in India
      as well as abroad for thousands of years. Ayurvedic physicians of India have used bovine
      colostrum for both medicinal and spiritual purposes since cows were first domesticated. By
      the late 18th century, Western medicine started to take an interest in colostrum and study it
      for its potential health benefits. As a consequence, it was prescribed for many conditions,
      including immune system enhancement. Interestingly, until the development of penicillin and
      other artificial antibiotics in the 20th century, colostrum was commonly used for fighting
      bacterial infections. In the early 20th century it was noted that antibody levels in the
      first milk produced after birth were much higher than levels found in the milk that was
      produced 72 hours later. There are now over 2000 published scientific articles that document
      the safety and efficacy of using colostrum. This seemingly perfect food has been shown to be
      non-species specific26. In 2005, it was reported that is safe and effective in repair of
      tissues as well as for enhancing immunity.27 The use of bovine colostrum as dietary
      supplement has increased substantially over the past decades. Bovine colostrum is harvested
      within first few hours of calving from dairy animals. The herds of cows are kept under close
      supervision in good state of hygiene without exposure to antibodies, pesticides and
      anithelmintic. They are monitored according to FDA criteria. The colostrum collected within
      24 hours contains maximum substances but less in amounts, colostrum collected later will be
      more but contain less immunoglobins.27 Colostrum contains the growth factors that help build
      lean muscle, including insulin-like growth factors (IGF-I & IGF-II) and growth hormone (GH).
      IGF-I, which is found naturally in colostrum, is the only natural hormone capable of
      promoting muscle growth by itself. The IGFs in humans and cows are identical, but bovine
      colostrum actually contains a greater concentration of IGF-I than human colostrum. This fact
      makes bovine colostrum attractive to bodybuilders, athletes and others seeking to gain muscle
      mass. According to a study conducted in Finland, IGF-1 induces protein synthesis, which leads
      to an increase in lean muscle mass without a corresponding rise in adipose (fat) tissue. The
      growth factors in colostrum "shift fuel utilization from carbohydrate to fat. It mean that
      body will burn more fat, including fat made from the carbohydrate and protein that are
      consumed, producing fuel more efficiently.28 Bovine has hormone factor like gastrin which
      plays a role as a trophic factor for mucosal growth with in stomach. GLP-2 has shown a
      general trophic response with in the gut.

      Peptide growth factors in colostrum can influence the maintenance of mucosal mass and
      integrity. EGF stimulates cell proinfection and also influences crypt fission.

      Human colostrum has higher concentration of growth factors as compared to bovine colostrum.
      The tables and figure below indicate how HC and BC differ in their nutrient content,
      immunological factors and growth factors (Table 1, 2,3)

      While BC are considered a rich source of Ig, growth factors, and lactoferrin, currently no
      specific standards exist that define BC dietary supplements with respect to actual
      constituents or amounts of constituents. The following constituents are generally present in
      bovine colostrums: macronutrients; vitamins; minerals; Ig (IgG, IgM, and IgA - including the
      secretory form); cytokines including interleukin-1beta (IL-1β), interleukin- 6 (IL-6), tumor
      necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), and interferon-gamma (INF-γ); growth factors including
      insulin-like growth factor (IGF) I and II, transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β), and
      epidermal growth factor; lactoperoxidase; and lactoferrin. Depending on the health of the
      cows, feeding practices followed, collection period, and the processing/concentration
      practices utilized by specific manufacturers, the actual range and quantities of specific
      macro- and micronutrients, Ig, cytokines, growth factors, and other compounds might vary
      considerably.

      BC contain relatively high amounts of Ig. Typically, Ig in general, and IgG specifically,
      constitutes the largest contribution to protein content in BC, with lactalbumin and casein
      contributing lesser amounts. Mean percentages of fat, protein, and lactose in colostrum were
      6.7, 14.9, and 2.5, respectively. Other reports have estimated Ig concentrations from bovine
      mammary secretions with ranges for IgG1 (52-87 g/L), IgG2 (1.6-2.1 g/L), IgM (3.7-6.1 g/L),
      and IgA (3.2-6.2 g/L).35 As a rule, the Ig contribution will decline substantially in any BC
      collected more than 24 hours post-parturition and the amount of lactalbumin and casein will
      increase proportionately.

      Table : Immunoglobulin Composition during the first 10 hours post parturition

      Constituents Concentration (g/L) IgG 30.4 IgA 3.5 IgM 9.6

      Detailed research plan (Materials and Methods) Study design and setting Twenty five Patients
      will be enrolled in this pilot study. The study will be conducted on patients of Severe
      Alcoholic Hepatitis admitted in the Department of Gastroenterology, Dayanand Medical College
      and Hospital, Ludhiana. Informed consent shall be taken from the patient/nearest relative of
      the patient for enrollment in the trial.

      Study population

      Inclusion Criteria:

      1. Severe Alcoholic hepatitis (mDF > 32) 2. Age 18-65 Years 3. DF>32 4. Actively consuming
      alcohol within 6 weeks of entry into the study Exclusion Criteria

        1. Failure to obtain informed consent

        2. Active infection or sepsis

        3. Other concomitant causes of liver disease: viral hepatitis, autoimmune liver disease,
           metabolic liver disease, vascular liver disease

        4. HIV positive

        5. Cow milk allergy or severe lactose intolerance

        6. Active Gastrointestinal bleeding

        7. Acute kidney injury at time of randomization with Creatinine > 1.5 mg/dL

        8. Evidence of acute pancreatitis or biliary obstruction

        9. Subjects who are pregnant or lactating

       10. Significant systemic cardio-pulmonary illness

       11. Patients requiring the use of vasopressors or inotropic support in 12 hours prior to
           randomization

       12. Treatment for alcoholic hepatitis within 1 month of study entry with corticosteroids
           use>1 week.

       13. Any patient who has received any investigational drug or device within 30 days entering
           into the study.

      Study Methods Enrolment of patients, assessing eligibility and obtaining informed consent
      will be carried out by one of the investigators (S.S. Sidhu, O. Goyal) Study Intervention

      Treatment for SAH:

        1. Enteral nutrition: Protein 1.0-1.5 gm/kg/day, energy (kcal) 30-40/kg/day, carbohydrate
           67-80%, Fat 20-33%.

        2. Steroids were administered according to protocol. The initial dose of methyl
           prednisolone (40 mg/day) for one month was tapered to (<40 mg/day) for one month.

           If Lilli score > 0.45 after 7 days, then GC would be stopped and patients will be
           counselled for liver transplantation.

        3. Oral BC (200 ml (20 gram/day) TDS × 8 weeks.

      Laboratory tests Biochemical tests Hemogram, blood glucose, liver function tests, prothrombin
      time, serum electrolytes, blood urea and serum creatinine will be done at baseline, and at
      2nd and 7th day of treatment, or earlier if indicated. AFP and Lipase will be done at
      admission.

      Microbiologic tests:

      A diagnostic paracentesis will be done in all patients with ascites, at baseline, to diagnose
      Spontaneous Bacterial Peritonitis. A repeat cell count (Total and differential) shall be done
      on day 7 in patients diagnosed to have Spontaneous Bacterial Peritonitis. Blood culture,
      urine culture, cultures of aspirates from endotracheal tubes in ventilated patients for
      aerobic and anerobic bacteria, and fungi shall be done on at admission. A chest radiograph
      shall also be done.

      Tests for etiologic evaluation:

      Etiology of cirrhosis will be taken as alcohol if there is a history of significant alcohol
      intake (20-40 gm/day for females, and 60-80 gm/day for males for 10 years or more). Each
      patient will be tested for Hepatitis B surface antigen (HbsAg) and Anti-hepatitis C (HCV)
      antibody using a third generation commercial ELISA. Wherever indicated, autoimmune hepatitis
      will be diagnosed using antinuclear antibody, anti-smooth muscle antibody and anti-LKM; and
      hemochromatosis using serum iron, TIBC, ferritin and transferrin saturation. Each patient
      shall have an abdominal ultrasonography. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy would be done, if
      indicated.

      Outcome measures and endpoints

      Primary outcome measure

      (a) Change in mDf at 2 month

      Secondary outcome measures

        1. Survival at 1 month

        2. Survival at 2 month

      Study Endpoints

        1. Liver related death

        2. Death due to other causes

        3. Discontinuation due to adverse effects

        4. Discharge from hospital

      Monitoring for Adverse Events:

      Any adverse event will be recorded specifying the time of onset, the duration, the severity
      and the relationship to the test medication.

      Tolerability Tolerability of the study drug will be assessed by comparison of full blood cell
      count, liver function tests and renal function tests at baseline and at end of treatment.

      Follow-up All patients will be followed up until recovery.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Data will be present as means+ SD for quantitative variables and percentage for qualitative
      variables. The change in the mDf score and Lille score with in the group will be assessed by
      analysis of variance. A P- value of <0.05 will be considered statistically significant.
    
  