
    
      BACKGROUND Indirect muscle injuries (IMIs) are a considerable burden to elite football
      (soccer) teams and prevention of these injuries offers many benefits. Preseason medical,
      musculoskeletal and performance screening (termed periodic health examination (PHE)) is used
      to help determine players at risk of injuries such as IMIs, where identification of
      PHE-derived prognostic factors (PF) may inform IMI prevention strategies. Furthermore, using
      several PFs in combination within a multivariable prognostic model may allow individualised
      IMI risk estimation and specific targeting of prevention strategies, based upon an
      individual's PF profile. No such models have been developed in elite football and the current
      IMI prognostic factor evidence is limited. This study aims to: 1) to develop and internally
      validate a prognostic model for individualised IMI risk prediction during a season in elite
      footballers, using the extent of the prognostic evidence and clinical reasoning; 2) explore
      potential PHE-derived PFs associated with IMI outcomes in elite footballers, using available
      PHE data from a professional team.

      METHODS A retrospective review has been completed of PHE and injury data, routinely collected
      over 5 years (from 1st July 2013 to 19th May 2018) from a population of elite male players at
      an English Premier League football club. Of 60 candidate PFs, 15 were excluded. Ten factors
      will be included in model development, identified from a systematic review, missing data
      assessment, measurement reliability evaluation and clinical reasoning. A full multivariable
      logistic regression model will be fitted, to ensure adjustment before backward elimination.
      The performance and internal validation of the model will be assessed. The remaining 35
      candidate PFs are eligible for further exploration, using univariable logistic regression to
      obtain unadjusted risk estimates. Exploratory PFs will be grouped according to type and
      incorporated into multivariable logistic regression models to determine risk estimates.

      DISCUSSION This study will offer insights into clinical usefulness of a model to predict IMI
      risk in elite football and highlight the practicalities of model development in this setting.
      Exploration may identify other relevant PFs for future confirmatory studies, model updating,
      or influence future injury prevention research.
    
  