
    
      In the United States alone, more than five million people suffer from heart failure (CHF) and
      an estimated 400,000 to 700,000 new cases are diagnosed each year. Caused by a variety of
      cardiac conditions, systolic heart failire (HF) is the end-stage of heart disease where the
      heart is failing as a pump. Once diagnosed with the disease, less than 50% of the patients
      live for five years, and less than 25% survive for more than ten years. The number of deaths
      in the United States from this condition has more than doubled since 1979, averaging more
      than 250,000 annually.

      Paracor Medical, Inc. has developed an elastic prosthetic wrap that is designed to apply a
      gentle mechanical support to the failing heart. The Implant is a compliant elastic structure
      that is designed to conform to the epicardial surface of the right and left ventricles. It
      supports the heart throughout the cardiac cycle and was designed to offload the ventricles
      and reduce wall stress.

      The objective of this clinical trial is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the HeartNet
      Ventricular Support System with optimal medical and device therapy (Treatment group) when
      compared to optimal medical and device therapy (i.e., medications, cardiac resynchronisation
      therapy, pacemaker) alone (Control group) as treatments for patients with heart failure.

      Efficacy of the HeartNet Ventricular Support System in the Treatment group compared to the
      optimal medical and device therapy Control group will be evaluated based upon cardiopulmonary
      tests (Peak VO2), six (6) minute walk distance and quality of life assessment, as measured by
      the Minnesota Living with Heart Failure (MLWHF) questionnaire.

      Safety of the HeartNet Ventricular Support System in the Treatment group compared to the
      Control group will be evaluated based on the all-cause mortality rate.

      Paracor Medical intends to submit data obtained in this clinical trial to support a
      Pre-Market Approval Application to the United States Food and Drug Administration.
    
  