
    
      Objective: This protocol will integrate functional brain imaging of reward processing,
      together with assessment of the response to oral dextroamphetamine (d-AMPH), monoaminergic
      genotyping, and evaluation of past exposure to stress, in order to examine: (1) the
      relationship between these factors (i.e. dopamine function, brain activity, reward
      processing, genetic profile and exposure to stress) in normal healthy adults; and (2)
      variation in these factors between normal healthy adults and individuals with current
      cocaine-dependence, and how this variation contributes to observed behavioral and functional
      differences between these populations.

      Study Population: The study populations will consist of adult (18-45 years old) healthy
      volunteers with no history of substance abuse or dependence and a matched group of
      individuals with current primary cocaine-dependence.

      Experimental Design and Method: After being medically cleared and giving informed consent,
      each participant will undergo fMRI (four sessions, on separate days) and PET scanning (two
      sessions, on separate days). All brain imaging sessions will take place after single-blind
      administration of either d-AMPH (0.43 mg/kg orally) or placebo. Functional MRI will commence
      after dosing and will include several measures (both cognitive and affective) designed to
      activate neural circuitry involved in the processing of reward and punishment. PET scanning
      will also take place after d-AMPH or placebo and will involve administration of the
      radioligand [18F] Fallypride to assess CNS dopamine function.

      Outcome Measures: This study is concerned with differences in the noted factors between
      experimental cohorts (controls vs. cocaine-dependent adults) and conditions (baseline vs.
      post d-AMPH). The primary outcome measures, used to ascertain these differences, will be: (1)
      the percentage change in fMRI BOLD signal during performance of measures of reward processing
      and cognitive function; (2) alterations or differences in the binding potential of
      [18F]Fallypride; (3) variations in genes related to DArgic function between individuals and
      groups, and the contribution of this variation to other outcome measures; and (4) history of
      exposure to stressful events and its role in behavioral and functional outcomes.
    
  