
    
      Significance:

      Postoperative renal dysfunction is a common complication of cardiopulmonary bypass occurring
      in nearly 8% of all patients undergoing myocardial revascularization. Both diabetes and
      preoperative hyperglycemia are independent risk factors for postoperative renal dysfunction
      after coronary artery bypass surgery.

      The cause of renal injury is multifactoral and in most cases involves renal ischemia from
      alteration of renal perfusion, resistance, metabolic byproducts (free-radical species),
      inflammatory mediators and embolic processes.

      In the setting of ischemia, specifically, neuronal, hyperglycemia has been shown to worsen
      neurologic outcome and interfere with wound healing-possibly increasing the incidence of
      wound infection.

      Hyperglycemia is common during cardiopulmonary bypass in both diabetic and non-diabetic
      patients as a result of altered glucose regulation during hypothermic conditions (body
      temperature actively cooled to 28 degree centigrade) and, more importantly, from delivery of
      cardioplegia to arrest the heart allowing for surgical repair in a non-beating heart. The
      cardioplegia is rich in potassium, among other agents, believed to offer cardioprotection
      during cardiopulmonary bypass and is prepared in Dextrose 5% and normal saline. On average,
      each patient receives nearly 2 liters of this solution, amounting to 100 grams or more of
      glucose. In this setting, hyperglycemia is also promoted from insulin suppression, stress
      hormone induced gluconeogenesis and enhanced tubular resorption.

      Only recently have perioperative clinicians become aware about potential ischemic effects of
      hyperglycemia during bypass and the need to maintain 'tight' control of glucose to avoid
      stroke. This practice, however, is inconsistent and mostly applied to diabetic patients.

      We hypothesize that tubular injury may be exacerbated by hyperglycemia in non-diabetic
      patients while undergoing hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass and have undertaken this
      prospective observational study to investigate the relationship between intraoperative
      glucose and postoperative renal dysfunction.

      Methodology:

      We plan to study to 200 patients ≥ 50 years of age scheduled for procedures requiring
      cardiopulmonary bypass whether for coronary revascularization or valvular surgery. After
      informed consent is obtained each patient's preoperative lab values consisting of serum
      glucose, urine glucose, creatinine and BUN will be noted. Each patient's pre-induction
      hemodynamics will also be noted. During bypass, serum and urine glucose will be measured
      every 20 minutes in addition to collecting information on temperature of cardioplegic
      solution, lowest patient temperature, time of bypass, and use of diuretics, or vasoactive
      drugs. Additional sampling of serum creatinine and glucose and vital signs will take place
      upon arrival in the cardiac intensive care unit after surgery and throughout hospitalization
      as is standard of care in cardiac surgery at this institution. No extra samples will be taken
      but the standard measurements will be observed. The clinical outcome of interest is a new
      onset of renal dysfunction defined as a post-operative serum creatinine change of 0.5 mg/dl
      or greater after surgery.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        1. Male and female patients ≥ 50 years of age

        2. Patients undergoing on pump cardiopulmonary bypass for either myocardial
           revascularization (coronary artery bypass graft) or valvular surgery (valve repair or
           replacement)

      Exclusion Criteria:

        1. Patients with insulin dependent diabetes

        2. Patients with preexisting renal dysfunction defined as Creatinine> 2 mg/dl

        3. Patients in need of emergency cardiac procedures
    
  