
    
      Melanoma is the third most common form of cancer in adolescents and young adults in the
      United States. Unprotected sun exposure, particularly during childhood, is an important
      contributing factor in the risk of developing melanoma later in life. Targeting 2-6 year old
      children for primary prevention of skin cancer will minimize sun damage and may foster
      lifelong sun-protective behaviors that will reduce the likelihood of developing skin cancer,
      especially melanoma. Parental beliefs about and involvement in sun protection are important
      components of successful skin cancer prevention programs for children, especially young
      children.

      This is a 12-week summer pilot study. The research seeks to develop a multicomponent sun
      protection program that is feasible for family practice and pediatric clinicians to introduce
      with anticipatory guidance during well-child visits. The program will further be implemented
      through a sun protection read-along book in English and Spanish and weekly text message
      reminders.

      The sun protection program will enable behavioral change by caregivers and children of all
      ethnic and racial backgrounds. Testing the feasibility of delivering the intervention in a
      family medicine or pediatric practice will allow assessment of accrual and retention rates in
      a racially/ethnically diverse population, and lead the way to dissemination of good practice.

      Participant in this study will be asked to complete two in-person visits at an Advocate
      Medical Group pediatric clinic. These visits will take place over a four to six week period.
      The first visit, or Baseline, may be on the same day as the child's well-visit. The second
      visit, or Follow-Up, will take place at the same location as the Baseline.

      Participants randomized to the intervention group will receive the educational program at
      Baseline, whereas participants in the control group will receive the educational program
      during Follow-Up.

      At the first visit (Baseline), the participant will:

        1. Complete an anonymous short self-administered questionnaire about knowledge of sun
           protection and the child's sun protection habits

        2. Some participants will be asked to complete a survey about cultural affiliation.

        3. Receive the educational program at the first visit if randomized to the intervention
           group.

      At the second visit (Follow-Up), the participant will:

        1. Complete an anonymous short self-administered questionnaire about knowledge of sun
           protection and the child's sun protection habits.

        2. Receive the educational program at the second visit if randomized to the control group.

      At the end of each visit, the amount of melanin (pigment) in the child's skin will be
      measured. This involves the use of a Mexameter, a device that lightly presses on the child's
      arm to take a reading (picture) of how much pigment there is in his/her skin. This is neither
      painful nor invasive.
    
  