
    
      Background & Rationale:

      Increasing resistance to antibiotics is a growing problem in public health and is associated
      with treatment failures, increased health care costs, and prolonged hospital stays. Over the
      past years, one mechanism of resistance has been of particular concern: ESBL, which is
      produced mainly by Escherichia coli and Klebsiella species but also found in other gram
      negative bacteria. ESBLs are plasmid-encoded ß-lactamases conferring resistance to
      penicillins, cephalosporins and aztreonam.

      ESBL-producing enterobacteria are usually susceptible to carbapenems, such as ertapenem,
      imipenem or meropenem. Thus, treatment with carbapenems remains safe if the presence of ESBL
      is recognized. However, the confirmation of ESBL is not always a routine procedure in all
      laboratories. Furthermore, ESBL strains with high resistance to ertapenem and decreased
      activity to imipenem and meropenem have already been described. The mechanism among these
      strains however, appears to be a combination of the expression of ESBL and impermeability or
      increased efflux for carbapenems. Infection with ESBL-producing E. coli or K. pneumoniae is
      potentially hazardous for patients. Mortality is significantly higher following a bloodstream
      infection caused by ESBL producing E. coli compared to non-ESBL producing strains.

      ESBLs are encoded on plasmids: classically, these plasmid mediated enzymes have been of the
      TEM and SHV type. However, in recent years CTX-M-type ESBLs have been increasingly identified
      worldwide throughout the world. CTX-M enzymes predominantly hydrolyze cefotaxime, but are
      weakly active against ceftazidime. However, some ESBLs of the CTX-M family also display
      increased hydrolytic activities against ceftazidime, as is the case for CTXM-15 and CTX-M-32.

      The prevalence of ESBL producing enterobacteria and particularly E. coli has significantly
      increased in recent years. This increase is primarily due to the spread of ESBL of the
      CTX-M-type. Genes encoding CTX-M enzymes are associated with mobile genetic elements allowing
      these enzymes to spread throughout the community. Well established primer sets are used in
      polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests for the detection of the blaTEM, blaSHV, and blaCTX-M
      genes, and are used to differentiate ESBL strains.

      ESBL-producing organisms were first detected in Europe in the 1980s. Although the initial
      reports came from Germany, the vast majority of descriptions in that first decade came from
      France. Consequently, it was not surprising that the first large outbreak occurred in France
      in 1986. Other outbreaks with ESBL-producing organisms have now been reported from almost
      every European country. In southern Europe, the prevalence of ESBL in hospitals is estimated
      around 25% for Klebsiella species, while in the community it is 1.7% for E. coli, and 4% for
      K. pneumoniae. In the USA, ESBL-producing organisms were first reported in 1988. Similarly to
      Europe, these strains expanded over the following years, and in 2002, 6.1% of the K.
      pneumoniae isolates were found to be resistant to third-generation cephalosporins.
      Furthermore, in at least one tenth of intensive care units, ESBL producing K. pneumoniae
      quickly exceeded 25% of all isolated strains. In contrast, in regular inpatient areas
      prevalence rates remained around 5.7% of all isolated K. pneumoniae. ESBL strains have also
      been documented in South Africa, Israel, Saudi Arabia, and a variety of North African
      countries. In South America, the SENTRY antimicrobial surveillance program recovered ESBL in
      up to 10% of E. coli and 55% of K. pneumoniae. National surveys in Asia have revealed the
      presence of ESBL-producers in 5 to 8% of E. coli in Korea, Japan, Malaysia, and Singapore and
      in 12 to 24% in Thailand, Taiwan, the Philippines, and Indonesia. The prevalence in China
      ranged between 27% and 34% for E. coli and up to 38.3% for K. pneumoniae already in 2002.

      This worldwide distribution is reflected by the fact that ESBL producing enterobacteria are
      present in the community, and in adult as well as in children's hospitals. However, in this
      younger population, ESBL-producing strains are isolated not exclusively but essentially in
      neonatology, where various outbreaks have been described.

      Studies in neonates in India revealed ESBL-strains in half of the infants with early-onset
      sepsis, and in 82% with late-onset sepsis. A study of blood samples from suspected cases of
      neonatal sepsis detected ESBL in 87% of Klebsiella spp., 73% of Enterobacter spp. and 64% of
      E. coli strains.

      If considering resistance to 3rd generation cephalosporins as an indicator for ESBL, the
      prevalence of ESBL producing E.coli and Klebsiella pneumoniae among children in Switzerland
      was estimated 2.2% and 4.3% in 2006, respectively (www.search.ifik.unibe.ch). The frequency
      of ESBL producing enterobacteria in Geneva in the same year was 1.8% for E. coli and 4.9% for
      Klebsiella spp. (personal communication Dr. P. Rohner). In the Department of Paediatrics in
      Geneva, the majority of ESBL producers were found among children from "Terre des Hommes", a
      non-profit humanitarian organization, which brings African children to Switzerland for
      cardiac surgery. These children all had a history of multiple hospital stays in their country
      of origin, and possibly repeated antimicrobial therapies. However, most ESBL strains can be
      expected from urinary tract infections on a national basis. The new recommendations of the
      entire oral treatment with 3rd generation cephalosporins without initial intravenous
      application for uncomplicated febrile urinary tract infections in children will be effective
      by 2008. Therefore, most children will be treated fully on an outpatient basis by their
      paediatricians or general practitioners. Treatment over all might increase by the simplified
      therapeutic procedure and some general practitioners might switch from
      trimethroprim-sulfamethoxazole to 3rd generation cephalosporins.

      Risk factors for ESBL colonization or infection are well defined and similar to other
      resistant microorganisms such as methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA): serious illness with
      prolonged hospital stays, invasive medical devices (urinary catheters, endotracheal tubes,
      central venous lines), and repeated or prolonged antibiotic use, especially 3rd generation
      cephalosporins. Selective antibiotic pressure is clearly associated with the emergence and
      dissemination of ESBL-producing enterobacteria. Children with bloodstream infections due to
      ESBL producing K. pneumoniae were almost 6 times more likely of prior exposure to an
      extended-spectrum cephalosporin in the 30 days before infection.

      Enterobacteria can be transferred by direct contact or through fomites. Various outbreaks
      have been described incriminating sources such as other patients, artificial fingernails or
      ultrasonography gel. The identification of ESBL-producing bacteria should prompt the use of
      isolation and contact precaution measures. The application of such measures together with
      antibiotic stewardship was successful to overcome most outbreaks with ESBL-producing
      enterobacteria. However, the success of infection control measures depends largely on the
      recognition of risk and of carrier states. Therefore, not only infected children should be
      tracked but colonized patients as well, as they are capable of transmitting ESBL-producing
      bacteria to vectors such as health-care workers, or directly to other patients.

      Finally, additional costs and use of resources are important and ESBL infections are
      expensive. Average infection-related costs per patient are significantly greater for ESBL
      patients than for control patients without ESBL. Additional costs attributed to the infection
      of an ESBL producer were estimated to 16'450 $ per patient and hospital stay. This cost
      increase was mainly due to increased length of stay.

      The prospective surveillance of ESBL-producing enterobacteria in Switzerland is essential
      because ESBL-producing enterobacteria represent already a threat for the patients. This
      includes delayed treatment and therefore cure, and increased health costs. ESBL will probably
      be even more of a concern if no action is taken now in order to decrease its prevalence.

      Methods:

      All children aged 0 to 16 years admitted to a paediatric ward and either colonized or
      infected with an ESBL-producing strain will be included in the study. Identification of
      ESBL-producing strains will be performed in local microbiology laboratories using the local
      available detection methods. All strains will then be collected at the investigation centre
      for microbiological confirmation of ESBL-production and analysis of the genes associated with
      ESBL phenotype by sequencing. Because microbiological methods differ between laboratories,
      the investigation centre will therefore directly contact the local microbiology laboratories
      in order to obtain information about specific methods used to isolate the ESBL strains and
      feedback will be given after examination of the strains at the study centre. Hospitals
      reporting cases to SPSU will receive a case report form (CRF) for each patient in order to
      get patient data, medical history and implemented infection control measures. Strains
      isolated as potential ESBL should be stored and some colonies be sent to the study centre for
      microbiological analysis. The shipment will be organised and paid by the study centre. The
      shipment of stains is on a voluntary basis but recommended for quality control and to analyse
      the molecular resistance mechanisms. In order to ease logistic obstacles, hospitals are asked
      to only provide contact information of their respective laboratories; these however will be
      addressed directly by the study centre in order to obtain microbiological information and to
      organize shipment of the strains. Data management and entry will be performed by the study
      centre. This is an observational study. The study design with SPSU precludes any
      intervention.

      Analysis:

      Demographics will be reported by using standard descriptive statistics (mean, median,
      percentage) for the following variables: age (gestational age), sex, country of origin, last
      stay outside Switzerland, past hospitalisations, direct transfer from a hospital abroad,
      prior antibiotic use, and history of urinary tract infections. Risk factor analysis for ESBL
      infection vs. ESBL colonisation will be provided using standard statistical methods such as
      logistic regression analysis for the following variables: age (gestational age), gender, main
      diagnosis, comorbidity, immune-deficiency, length of hospital stay, length of neonatal stay,
      length of intensive care unit stay, medical devices (central venous lines, endotracheal
      tubes, urinary catheters), and antibiotic use (especially third generation cephalosporins).
      Furthermore, information about isolation precaution measures and outbreak investigation will
      be collected.

      Case Definition:

      All children (age range: birth until 16 years of age) colonized or infected with any
      ESBL-producing enterobacteria according to antibiotic testing of local microbiology
      laboratory, will be included. All isolated strains will be sent to the University Hospitals
      of Geneva's Microbiology Laboratory (Head: Prof. J. Schrenzel) for confirmation by specific
      ESBL culture techniques (double disc diffusion technique) and for identification of
      resistance genes by in-house sequencing. There are no exclusion criteria.

      Ethical issues:

      This is a descriptive study without having any direct effect on patient care. All information
      obtained in this study is already documented in the patients' chart and therefore no signed
      consent form will be asked. All data will be analysed anonymously and stored in a safe,
      password-protected computer. We will obtain an approval from the Ethical Committee of the
      University Hospitals of Geneva before the beginning of the study.
    
  