
    
      Advances in our understanding of cancer biology has led to a rapid expansion of molecularly
      targeted therapeutics in pre-clinical and clinical development over the last decade. The
      systematic sequencing of cancer genomes has revealed that individual tumours frequently
      harbor multiple "driver" somatic mutations that confer growth advantage and positive
      selection. Importantly, many of the altered proteins resulting from the mutations identified
      by these studies are in fact actionable, i.e. "druggable", targets. Hence, evaluating drug
      efficacy in tumours selected by a combination of histopathology and molecular analysis has
      the potential to result in a greater therapeutic gain. The premises behind personalised
      cancer medicine include: i) genetic aberrations exist in human malignancies; ii) a subset of
      these aberrations frequently exist across multiple tumour types and have functional relevance
      as drivers for oncogenesis and tumour progression; iii) the molecular effects of these
      genetic aberrations are potentially actionable targets; and iv) there are medicinal compounds
      that can safely and effectively modulate such targets in patients with these tumours. The key
      challenge to optimising this personalised approach to cancer therapy is to ensure that
      patients with tumours harbouring specific molecular/ genetic aberrations are specifically
      matched to a particular drug or combination of drugs. In this respect, molecular analysis of
      tumours to identify somatic mutations and/or other genetic aberrations are examples of
      enrichment strategies to assist in matching patients to drugs or treatments that have gained
      increasing interest in the oncology communityGenetic heterogeneity in gynaecological cancer
      underpins the observed variations in patient outcomes. Hence, the ability to characterise the
      unique genetic features of each patient's tumour will be a critical step to identifying the
      optimal therapeutic strategy for the individual.It is anticipated that once a validated
      process for molecular profiling is fully established at NUHS, this will eventually be
      integrated into patient care at a much earlier stage. The spectrum and development of
      molecularly-targeted agents is rapidly expanding, and it is increasingly likely that the
      future of cancer management will require the molecular and histological subtype of one's
      tumour to be defined in order to decide on the most appropriate treatment strategy. By
      initiating this first step towards the development of a well-validated, cohesive, streamlined
      and efficient process for molecular profiling, the eventual aim will be to obtain formal
      accreditation so that cancer physicians at NUHS/NCIS, NCC and KKH will be able to
      unequivocally use the data for patient care.
    
  