
    
      The objective of this study is to compare a fixed-schedule therapy versus a symptom-triggered
      therapy for alcohol withdrawal syndrome in medical outpatients.

      Objectives:

        -  Self-governance in monitoring AWS (alcohol withdrawal syndrome) symptoms and medication

        -  Clinically controlled trial of two regimens for medical treatment of alcohol withdrawal
           syndrome

        -  Outpatient treatment of alcohol withdrawal syndrome

      Patients and Methods:

      This study is a prospective analysis of patients admitted to a medical outpatient clinic
      between August 25, 2003 and July 1, 2006, who experienced AWS. This study is conducted at
      Copenhagen Hospital Corporation in Copenhagen, Denmark. Patients were divided into two
      randomized groups: a symptom-triggered treatment versus a fixed-schedule treatment (known)
      with chlordiazepoxide. They were diagnosed with AWS according to DSM-IV (Diagnostic and
      Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders Fourth Edition). They were diagnosed with alcohol
      dependence according to the ICD-10 (International Statistical Classification of Diseases and
      Health Related Problems).

      Methods:

      One hundred fifty consecutive patients who fulfill the inclusion criteria and not the
      exclusion criteria were offered to participate in the study, i.e. also patients who were
      detoxified at home or during admission. Patients were scored according to the DSM-IV for AWS
      and ICD-10 for alcohol dependence, and then they filled out a SAWS (Short Alcohol Withdrawal
      Scale). The score of 12 was the significant number of splitting patients to mild or moderate
      AWS. Randomization was done by the Research Unit. Patients were then treated with the
      traditionally fixed-schedule therapy (day 1, 200mg, chlordiazepoxide decreasing with 25 mg a
      day) or the new symptom-triggered therapy (up to 300 mg, chlordiazepoxide a day). For up
      until 10 days, patients monitored themselves for all ten days according to the SAWS. They
      were asked about mental conditions day 1-14 and every third month using the World Health
      Organization (WHO)-5 schedule.

      On day 10 they filled out an adverse reactions questionnaire on chlordiazepoxide and a DTSQ
      (Diabetes Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire) and an ASI (Addiction Severity Index) every
      third month.

      Relapses and intake of any alcohol during a year are monitored.
    
  