
    
      Single centre, interventional study. There will be no randomisation or blinding.

      This study evaluates the stress ECG test as a non-invasive method of risk stratification in
      patients with WPW syndrome. For the non-invasive part a stress electrocardiogram on a
      treadmill is used. The invasive comparison is made with an electrophysiological study (EPS)
      in the catheterization laboratory. Nowadays the gold standard for measuring the antegrade
      effective refractory period of the accessory pathway is the invasive EPS.

      Study category A; there is only a minimal risk and a minimal burden to the study
      participants; The stress ECG test is a recommended test for this specific patient group as
      indicated in international guidelines.

      The responsible investigator at the single study site ensures that approval from an
      appropriately constituted Competent Ethics Committee (CEC), is sought for the clinical study.

      Objectives: 1) The study seeks primarily to evaluate the reproducibility of the loss of the
      preexcitation in repetitive stress ECG test in paediatric patients with WPW pattern in the
      view of an accurate estimation of the individual risk for sudden cardiac death.

      2) To compare the results of non-invasive ECG measurements with measurements taken during
      invasive EPS and clinical/anatomical parameters.

      Planned Analysis: Descriptive statistic is applied to all clinical parameters. All the 3
      cycle lengths out of the stress ECG are compared individually with the ERP-AP from the
      invasive EPS. If there is an average from the cycle length, this would be compared with the
      ERP-AP as well. And then we compare whether the difference between the cycle length and the
      ERP-AP is similar in a group of patients (high/low risk) or even in all patients.

      To demonstrate those results we use the Bland-Altman plot. There will also be a graph with
      the distribution of age of all patients. It will be interesting to see whether the age
      influences the results for example in relation to high or low risk.

      After the EPS, the patients are divided into 2 risk categories: high risk (ERP-AP ≤ 250 ms)
      and low risk (ERP-AP > 250ms) as measured at the EPS.

      At the end a risk factor analysis is made. All the parameters out of the case report form
      will be analysed whether the patient has high or low risk.
    
  