
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained cardiac arrhythmia, affecting an
      estimated 5 million Chinese. Atrial fibrillation is the primary cardiac abnormality
      associated with embolic stroke; among patients with AF, there is an annual stroke rate, about
      5 times for the same age population in sinus rhythm.

      Although warfarin therapy is effective at reducing the risk of stroke, chronic
      anticoagulation presents problems of safety and acceptability for many patients. Drug and
      dietary interactions, frequent blood tests, and compliance issues all contribute to
      difficulties with chronic warfarin therapy. New oral anticoagulant compounds with better
      therapeutic range and without need for similar monitoring, such as Dabigatran, Rivaroxaban,
      Apixaban and Edoxaban,have been studied, but there is no direct comparison with left atrial
      appendage closure(LAAC).

      However,the left atrial appendage (LAA) is the major location of thrombi in patients with AF.
      In patients with nonrheumatic AF and thrombus in the left atrium, the clot was located in the
      LAA in 90%. And the WATCHMAN Left Atrial Appendage System is a novel device designed to
      prevent the embolization of thrombi that may form in the LAA. It is hypothesized that it may
      prevent ischemic stroke and systemic thromboembolism in patients with AF.The PROTECT-Af and
      PREVAIL trails confirmed this device's efficacy and safety, compared with warfarin, for
      preventing the combined outcome of stroke,systemic embolism, and cardiovascular death. And
      the device has been approved by China's FDA.

      Stroke is the primary cause of death in China, and recurrence of stroke remains a major
      public health issue.

      This cohort study is designed to evaluate the effects of mechanical left atrial appendage
      (LAA) closure for secondary prevention of ischemic stroke in the patients with nonvalvular
      atrial fibrillation in China, compared with medicine approach (Warfarin or NOAC),.
    
  