
    
      Chronic total occlusion (CTO) is defined as the complete blockage of the coronary artery
      characterized by a TIMI 0 flow present for at least 3 months. The presence of chronic
      blockage of coronary arteries, which we may accept as the terminal point of atherosclerotic
      coronary artery disease, is closely associated with a poor prognosis. In coronary angiography
      tests conducted due to stable angina pectoris, it was observed that the incidence of chronic
      total occlusion varied in the range of 15-30%. Moreover, its actual incidence in society is
      unknown as it is generally asymptomatic. The Discovery of markers that may distinguish
      patients with a high risk of chronic total occlusion development among patients monitored
      with the diagnosis of stable coronary artery disease may be important for being able to
      reduce the increased mortality and morbidity rates.

      Oxidative stress status may be one of the markers that play a role in and/or show the
      development of chronic total occlusion. Reactive oxygen species which show an increase in the
      case of oxidative stress emerging by increased production of oxidants on the cellular level
      or a reduced antioxidant system result in disorders on the tissue and organ levels as a
      result of the damages they induce on DNA, protein, and lipid structures. It was reported that
      it has a role in the progression, erosion, and instability of atherosclerotic plaques in
      coronary arteries. Furthermore, the relationship between oxidative stress and the progression
      of atherosclerosis in coronary arteries has been usually studied in acute coronary syndrome
      patients. To the best of our knowledge, the relationship between chronic total occlusion
      development and oxidative stress status in stable coronary artery disease has not been
      studied.

      This study investigated the relationships in the oxidative stress status evaluated over TAS,
      TOS, OSI, Thiol/Disulfide Homeostasis, and antioxidative vitamin levels and possible
      differences in patients with noncritical coronary artery disease and those with chronic total
      occlusion.
    
  