
    
      To accomplish the study's aims the investigators propose a three phase study: PHASE 1)
      Formative phase (n=40) to pretest text messages and to explore barriers to cessation and
      adherence to cessation medication; PHASE 2) a Pretest phase (n=10) to test and revise the
      intervention components and to assess design issues that may emerge, including those
      associated with contacting subjects via cell phone, participant capacity to view text
      messages, timing and content of text messaging, and use of the eCAPs system; and PHASE 3) a
      Pilot randomized control trial (RCT) in which the investigators will randomize 190
      participants, recruited at St. Luke's Roosevelt Comprehensive Care Clinics, to a three-arm
      study that compares: 1) Standard care (SC), which includes receiving varenicline and brief
      counseling; 2) SC + daily text messages medication reminders (TxT); or 3) SC + TxT + seven
      sessions of cell-phone-delivered, adherence-focused behavioral therapy (ABT). Text messages
      will include medication reminders and motivational messages related to adherence and
      maintaining abstinence. Participants in all three arms will receive varenicline for 12 weeks.
      To have a total sample of 150 subjects through the end of treatment at 12 weeks, or 50
      subjects in each arm, the investigators will randomize 190 patients to account for a 20%
      attrition rate. Subjects will be surveyed at six time points including the baseline
      assessment.

      PHASE 1: FORMATIVE EVALUATION Focus groups with patients. Focus groups (lasting from 60 to 90
      minutes) will be conducted with HIV+ smokers. To recruit patients for Phase 1, research
      assistants will approach all individuals within the clinic setting to screen for tobacco use.
      If they are a current smoker they will be asked if they wish to participate in a scheduled
      focus group at a convenient time. The research assistants will recruit 80 patients and expect
      to complete 4 focus groups with 10 participants in each for a total of 40 participants. The
      main aims of these focus groups are: 1) to obtain feedback on the text message library to
      determine which messages will be most acceptable and useful, and how often the patients would
      like to receive messages; 2) to assess comfort with using the pre-paid phone to receive and
      send messages; 3) to assess confidentiality concerns regarding receiving the text messages
      and how the patients may be edited to avoid loss of confidentiality; and 4) to explore
      attitudes and beliefs about varenicline, previous experiences using varenicline, potential
      challenges with adhering to varenicline, and similarly to explore experiences with past quit
      attempts and barriers (individual, social, structural) to quitting.

      The focus groups will follow written guides. In addition to pre-specified domains drawn from
      the research questions above, the group facilitator will also listen for and explore emergent
      topics. Focus groups will be audio-recorded and two research assistants will take notes
      during each group discussion. All audio recordings will be transcribed verbatim, and
      transcripts will be supplemented with notes taken during the focus group to ensure accuracy.
      These transcripts will be analyzed for both pre-determined and emergent themes.

      PHASE 2: PRE TEST Prior to starting the RCT the investigators will pre-test the intervention
      components (ARM 3) to assess study design issues that may emerge, including those associated
      with contacting subjects via cell phone, participant capacity to view text messages, timing
      and content of text messaging, and use of the eCAPs system. Ten patients will be enrolled for
      this phase with a target sample of 6 at end-of-treatment. Quantitative data collection,
      described below, will follow. The investigators will also conduct post-intervention in-depth
      interviews with all enrolled subjects to obtain feedback on the components' utility,
      acceptability, and safety. The research team and consultants will meet after this pilot test
      to make adjustments to the intervention components prior to the RCT.

      PHASE 3: PILOT RCT Overview. This phase of research will compare three smoking cessation
      interventions that were tested and refined in Phases 1 and 2. A total of 190 PLWHA who are
      patients at CCC will be screened for this phase with a target sample of 150 at
      end-of-treatment. The investigators will use a randomized controlled trial design. This is
      not a formal efficacy trial but a test of the interventions feasibility, safety, and
      acceptability. Additionally the study will provide preliminary evidence of efficacy of the
      intervention components with respect to the study's main endpoints: a) adherence to
      varenicline and b) smoking abstinence at 12 and 24 weeks. This data will inform the design of
      a larger R01.

      Intervention conditions ARM 1: Standard Care (SC). All CCC patients are screened for tobacco
      use during their routine visits and offered a referral to the New York State (NYS) Quitline.
      As part of current standard care, all trial participants will receive a self-help information
      sheet, tailored to HIV+ smokers with frequently asked questions about using varenicline, and
      a wallet card with the State Quitline number. All subjects will be offered varenicline for 12
      weeks. All study participants will be asked whether they prefer to receive phone calls and
      text messages from the study staff via their own phone or a phone provided by the study, at
      no cost to the participant. If they choose the latter option, they will be given a pre-paid
      cell phone for 3 months. Subjects in the SC arm will receive phones to facilitate their
      ability to call the Quitline for assistance and to enable us to send follow-up appointment
      reminders via text message. Each pre-paid phone will have an allowance of 200 minutes and
      unlimited text messages per month. The investigators will instruct participants to use their
      minutes only toward tobacco treatment or study related purposes. The investigators will track
      minutes used and if minutes are used out, the investigators will add just enough minutes when
      they need to contact the subject.

      Varenicline therapy: All patients enrolled in the study will be given a 12-week supply of
      varenicline. The dose will be 0.5 mg/day for 3 days followed by 0.5 mg BID for the next 4
      days, and 1 mg BID after first 7 days. The research assistant will explain the use of the
      medication, review potential side effects, and provide each subject with a wallet size
      instruction card that will have the dosing schedule and information on how to use the
      medication. Subjects will receive the medication at a follow-up study visit one week after
      they are consented. Subjects will receive a three-week supply of varenicline and return at
      week 4 of the study (timed from the first week they receive the medication). At the week 4
      visit they will receive another 4 weeks of medication and will be asked to return at week 8
      to receive the final 4 weeks of medication. More than one eCAP bottle will be distributed,
      depending on the dose of medication and the week of treatment.

      ARM 2: SC + Text messages (TxT). Subjects randomized to this arm will receive SC plus twice
      daily text messaging to remind them to take their medication. Participants will begin
      receiving text messages the day before they start taking medication, and text messaging will
      continue for 12 weeks. The text messages are designed to convey relevant information to the
      subjects while permitting a protective ambiguity. For example, none of the messages
      transmitted to participants will use the terms HIV or AIDS. In addition, each text message
      will have the tag "ACT" (Adherence to Cessation Treatment) indicating that it is coming from
      the study. Participants will receive one medication adherence reminder message and one
      motivational message regarding tobacco cessation each day. RTI staff will monitor the
      delivery of the text messages. If participants do not receive text messages for two
      consecutive days, the study research assistant will call them to assess reasons for message
      failure. During the study, participants may opt out of receiving any category of messages by
      contacting the study research assistants and informing him/her of their request. Requests to
      decline a specific message type or to fully withdraw from the study will be handled promptly
      and subjects will stop receiving messages within 48 hours of submitting their request to the
      study research assistant. The investigators will use both symbols and text to accommodate low
      literacy levels.

      ARM 3: SC + TxT + adherence-focused motivational and behavioral therapy (ABT). In addition to
      SC and TxT, the behavioral intervention group will receive seven proactive
      cell-phone-delivered counseling sessions over a 6-week period. Drs. Shelley and Krebs have
      adapted the telephone counseling manual that was developed and tested by Dr. Sherman which
      was based on Dr. David Kalman's "Treatment Manual for Extended Counseling to Treat Tobacco
      Addiction,". The draft manual will be reviewed by Drs. Sherman, Wolfe, and Morgenstern and
      then revised prior to the Phase 2 pretest. The research team will meet again to further
      revise the manual based on findings from the Phase 2 post-intervention qualitative
      interviews. The content of the manual combines the principles of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy
      (CBT) with Motivational Interviewing (MI) techniques, both of which have been applied to
      smoking cessation with promising results.
    
  