
    
      Recent dramatic increases in prevalence have made obesity the number one nutritional problem
      in the US. Of particular concern is the fact that, although available treatments are
      effective in producing clinically significant weight loss, their ability to sustain weight
      loss long term is poor. This study is based on a conceptual analysis of this problem that
      argues for greater attention to two issues related to the temporal dynamics of the challenge
      of long-term weight control. These are: 1) the environment is continually changing and is not
      supportive of weight control and 2) the intervention methods that are effective in inducing
      short-term changes in behaviors and weight often lose their potency over time because of
      habituation.

      This study is a randomized trial in which obese men and women are assigned to one of two
      study conditions, Standard Behavior Treatment (SBT) or Maintenance-Tailored Treatment (MTT).
      The MTT has adaptation to change as its central theme. A primary technique that is used to
      convey this theme that is different than traditional behavior treatment is that participants
      are asked to deliberately change weight-loss strategies systematically over time rather than
      to use the same approach consistently across time. Frequent change serves as a platform for
      teaching a larger variety of weight-control skills and thus strengthening study participants
      ability to adapt their weight-control strategies to changing circumstances. Changing
      weight-control strategies regularly also helps to reduce the extent to which habituation to
      strategies implemented invariantly over time diminish the salience of behavioral cues and the
      potency of behavioral reinforcers for sustaining weight-control efforts over time.
      Individuals in both treatment groups receive active intervention for a period of 18 months,
      followed by 12 months of no-treatment follow-up.

      The primary hypothesis tested is that MTT will produce larger mean weight losses at 30-month
      follow-up than SBT. Moreover, it is predicted that the better long-term success of the MTT
      group will be due primarily to better weight-loss success beyond 6 months, the point at which
      most people begin to regain weight with standard therapy.
    
  