
    
      The study will compare paper self management plans against the online version myCOPD. The
      study aims to recruit 60 patients with a diagnosis of COPD during their admission to hospital
      for an exacerbation or flare up of their COPD. Patients will be given an information sheet
      during their admission and prior to leaving hospital be asked if they wish to participate in
      the study. Patients will participate in the study for no less than two months and a maximum
      of three months. 30 patients will receive written self management and 30 will receive online
      self management. There will be a total of 6 visits for the duration of the study.

      Visit One - Screening Visit This visit will take place within two weeks of discharge from
      hospital in the participants home and comprise of written informed consent, Demographics,
      Medical, exacerbation and healthcare utilisation history, Quality of Life questionnaires,
      inhaler technique assessment This will be assessed using the critical errors list for each
      inhaler devices. Participants will also have their technique using each of their devices
      videoed. Those that fore fill inclusion and exclusion criteria will then be randomised in one
      of two groups, those receiving paper self management and those receiving online self
      management 'myCOPD'. For those receiving written self management The study nurse will
      complete with the participant a written self management plan. For those randomised to online
      self management they will be loan an android/iOS tablet computer and be given unique access
      codes and directed to the online 'How to tutorials .

      Visit Two,Three - Telephone Visits There will be 2 telephone visits during the study and will
      comprise of verbal consent completion of the COPD Assessment Test and adverse event
      reporting.

      Visit Four - End of Study Visit This visit will take place in the participants home and
      comprise of verbal consent, Demographics, Medical, exacerbation and healthcare utilisation
      history, Quality of Life questionnaires and assessment of inhaler technique. This will be
      assessed using the critical errors list for each inhaler devices and technique will be
      videoed. Participants will also be asked to complete a feedback questionnaire to evaluate
      user experience. Those allocated online will have their tablet computers collected by the
      study team and have a written self management plan delivered.
    
  