
    
      After study eligibility was confirmed and all screening procedures completed, subjects were
      randomized at Visit 1 to receive either NXN-188 600 mg or placebo in a 1:1 ratio. Study drug
      and diaries were dispensed, and subjects were instructed regarding when to dose with study
      drug. Subjects were also trained regarding the Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS), and
      made familiar with the study diary and the completion of study diary assessments. Subjects
      left the clinic to self-administer treatment as an outpatient at the onset of a moderate to
      severe migraine headache without aura (as rated on a 4-point categorical scale). Dosing with
      study drug was to take place within 42 days from Randomization (Visit 1). The subject
      contacted the investigatorI or designee at 14 and 28 days after Randomization if they had not
      yet treated a migraine headache without aura in order to receive verbal permission from the
      site personnel to continue in the study as appropriate. If the subject had not treated a
      migraine headache within 42 days of Visit 1, the subject did not take study drug and returned
      all materials, including the unused study drug, to the study site. If the subject experienced
      a qualifying migraine without aura during the treatment period, (s)he recorded headache
      symptoms in the study diary when first noticed (and menstrual cycle status [female subjects
      only]). If the subject met dosing requirements as outlined in the protocol, they dosed with
      the study drug, called the IVRS to report dosing, recorded all assessments and adverse events
      (AEs) and contacted the study center to schedule a post treatment visit (Visit 2) within 6
      days (± 2 days) of treatment. If study drug resulted in insufficient relief at 2 hours p.a.,
      subjects were permitted to use the non-triptan rescue medication recommended by the PI at
      Visit 1. Within 6 days (± 2 days) of treatment, the subject returned to the study center for
      Visit 2. The subject had a brief physical examination, a 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG), and
      had samples taken for clinical laboratory tests, including a serum pregnancy test for all
      females. Concomitant medications taken and adverse events (AEs) experienced from time of
      dosing to Visit 2 were reported to site personnel and recorded. Study diaries were reviewed
      and information recorded. Discontinuing subjects returned unused study drug and study
      material. One safety follow-up telephone contact was made within 15 days (± 2 days) post
      treatment. For those subjects not meeting the Treatment/Enrollment criteria by Day 42 (i.e.,
      not experiencing a qualifying headache) and for other subjects discontinuing the study
      protocol post Randomization (Visit 1), a second visit, Visit 2, was required and subjects
      underwent a brief physical examination, had vital signs and ECGs performed, samples collected
      for clinical labs, concomitant medications and AEs reviewed, and returned all study drug and
      study materials.
    
  