
    
      Very few recent lung cancer therapies have had as positive an impact on public health as lung
      SAbR. Lung SAbR involves the precise administration of very high, biologically potent doses
      (54-70 Gy) in 3-5 fractions. The most recent update of the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group
      (RTOG) 0236 Phase II multi-center lung SAbR trial showed 5-year primary tumor control >90% in
      inoperable Stage I NSCLC patients with tumors ≤ 5cm. However, the use of such highly potent
      doses puts patients at risk for collateral toxicity including radiation pneumonitis and
      radiation injury to airways, causing stenosis, atelectasis and ultimately fibrosis. A review
      of 35 early-stage NSCLC SAbR clinical studies found that the reported maximum values of Grade
      ≥3 toxicities were between 10-28%. In the RTOG 0236 trial, 17% patients presented Grade ≥3
      toxicities. Furthermore, toxicity has been shown to increase dramatically for
      centrally-located and/or larger (> 5cm) early-stage tumors. Due to these concerns, in current
      clinical practice, the use of high-dose-per-fraction lung SAbR is routinely indicated only
      for a small percentage (~3 - 4%) of the NSCLC population - inoperable, early-stage patients
      with small, peripheral lesions. Inoperable patients with early-stage central and/or larger
      tumors, higher stage and/or multiple lesions, and pulmonary oligometastases (metastatic
      disease that is limited in number of lesions and sites) are either treated with conventional
      radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy (~30 - 40% 5-year survival), or not treated (median survival
      ~1 year).

      The segmented structures will be imported into a clinical radiotherapy treatment planning
      system in order to calculate dose to individual BSS elements. Follow-up CT images and
      follow-up SPECT V/Q scans will be used to characterize the radiosensitivity of these
      structures and spatially map the potential radiation-induced loss of lung function.
      Eventually, using this information, the investigator will investigate treatment planning
      strategies that help limit radiation dose and consequent damage to BSS elements, thereby
      reducing lung toxicity. The investigator hypothesizes that - Anatomically variable radiation
      injury to the bronchial tree and pulmonary vasculature is an important determinant of
      post-SAbR pulmonary toxicity and residual pulmonary function.
    
  