
    
      Scientific context Elderly cancer patients need more help from their relatives and for longer
      than young adults. The person who takes primary responsibility for someone who cannot care
      fully for themselves is called the primary caregiver.

      A recent personal study concerning elderly cancer patients caregivers show that most
      caregivers reported high or moderate levels of psychological distress, with an impact on
      their own health status.

      In addition, family caregivers often report deficits in information about the disease, in
      training and skills related to their patients' care, and a lack of assistance from healthcare
      professionals.

      The ability of the primary caregiver to meet the medical, material and emotional needs of the
      patient depends on their own resources (psychological, physical, intellectual, physical,
      financial) and on the diversity of their social network, but it also depends on the quality
      of the personalized support program (including information and training) that has been
      established for them.

      Research hypotheses

      Our hypothesis of research is that the needs and resources to help the couple " elderly
      patient/caregiver ", are at least in part socially determined and that the implementation of
      a personalized support plan to help the caregiver (PSP) taking into account needs, resources
      and expectations of the primary caregiver in addition to those of elderly patients with
      cancer may partly correct inequalities. The PSP should allow a better management of cancer, a
      lesser burden for the caregiver and a better quality of life for both the caregiver and the
      patient.

      Intervention description

      Prospective, interventional, randomized trial, with 118 patients in each group:

        -  an experimental interventional arm including an interview of the primary caregivers to
           identify their needs and expectations, the implementation of a "personalized support
           program", including telephone follow-up

        -  A control arm corresponding to the standard care. Caregiver aid is usually proposed when
           accompanying a sick relative in consultation or hospitalization.

      All the "couples patient / caregiver' will benefit initially from:

        1. a comprehensive geriatric assessment (elderly patients with cancer)

        2. an assessment of caregiver burden by the Zarit burden interview (ZBI)

        3. an assessment of subjective well-being

        4. an individual assessment of the precariousness and health inequalities based on the
           score EPICES (Evaluation of precariousness and health inequalities in the health
           Centers)

      Randomization will be stratified according to:

        -  living in the same household or not

        -  score of initial Zarit Burden Interview

      Intervention Stage 1: A semi-structured interview centered on the caregiver's needs (COAT
      tool) Stage 2: guided questionnaires to assess the psychosocial situation of caregivers Stage
      3: implementation of a multi-component PSP (information, counseling, listening time, training
      to help overcome their difficulties as a caregiver, planning for future care) Stage 4: at
      least one monthly phone interview Stage 5: 6 months follow up on the psychosocial
      characteristics of caregivers

      Expected results in public health Our study will help to better define the way to take better
      account of the needs of the helper / helped couple, and reinforce the role of the
      coordinating nurse in the care pathways.

      If our hypotheses can confirmed that there is a link between the caregivers needs and the
      social determinants of health and that the intervention has a positive impact on the
      caregivers burden and stress, it will suggest that this intervention not only acts favorably
      on social inequalities in health, but it can help reduce health care costs, as the caregiver
      exhaustion increases the risk of health expenditure (drug consumption, hospitalization of the
      patient and of the caregiver).
    
  