
    
      A 25 fold increase in the risk of going blind on diagnosis of diabetes is one of the most
      daunting threats that patients face. People using insulin are particularly challenged because
      they are unable accurately to draw up their dose of drug. Most cases of vision impairment in
      diabetes are due to macular oedema that persists or recurs after laser treatment. There are
      now a number of uncontrolled, anecdotal reports that intravitreal triamcinolone (IVTA) is
      highly effective for the treatment of diabetic macular edema which is refractory to
      conventional laser treatment. We commenced the first placebo-controlled, double masked
      clinical trial of IVTA for refractory macular oedema in 2002. The 3 month results from this
      study provide the first scientific proof of principle that IVTA reduces macular thickness and
      improves vision. The two year results will be available in March 2005, but confidential
      interim analysis of efficacy data in September 2004 suggested that the beneficial effect of
      triamcinolone treatment persisted. Thus it appears that treatment with IVTA may be the most
      significant development for the prevention of blindness in people with diabetes since the
      introduction of laser treatment. It would also be a highly cost-effective intervention that
      could be administered by general ophthalmologists. The treatment cannot be recommended for
      routine use, however, until its long term efficacy and safety have been established. Since we
      already have a well studied group of patients who have received treatment for 2 years, we are
      in a unique position to extend the study in order to provide the long-term (5-year) safety
      and efficacy data that does not appear to be forthcoming from any other source. The
      completion of this study will have a direct and immediate effect on the risk of blindness in
      people with diabetes by allowing doctors to predict more accurately the long term effects of
      this promising new treatment.
    
  