
    
      STUDY OBJECTIVE The objective of the study is to estimate the frequency of cardiac
      arrhythmias and characterize the mode of death in patients with the novel coronavirus disease
      (SARS-CoV-2; COVID-19). The study will also evaluate the long term cardiac outcomes in
      patients previously diagnosed with COVID-19.

      INTRODUCTION, RATIONALE The novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) emerged in Wuhan, China, in late
      2019 and has quickly become a pandemic, significantly impacting the health and economy of the
      United States and the rest of the world. There are over 500,000 cases and 24,000 deaths
      related to COVID-19 worldwide, with an estimated mortality rate ranging from 1-8%. The United
      States has been impacted by this pandemic significantly with over 80,000 cases and thousands
      of deaths reported; these numbers will continue to worsen.

      Patients infected with COVID-19 can exhibit a wide range of clinical manifestations, ranging
      from an asymptomatic state to mild upper respiratory symptoms (with low-grade fever) to
      severe disease with hypoxia and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) type lung injury.
      In the setting of hypoxemic respiratory failure, ground glass opacification on chest imaging
      is found more than 50% of the time.

      COVID-19 has the potential to cause myocardial injury with at least 17% found to have an
      elevated troponin and 23% noted to have heart failure in a study of 191 inpatients from
      Wuhan, China. The prevalence of heart failure was significantly higher among non-survivors
      compared with survivors (52% vs. 12%). In a meta-analysis of 4 studies including a total of
      341 patients, standardized mean difference of cardiac troponin I levels were significantly
      higher in those with severe COVID-19 related illness compared to those with non-severe
      disease (25.6, 95% CI 6.8-44.5). Furthermore, cases of fulminant myocarditis with cardiogenic
      shock have also been reported, with associated atrial and ventricular arrhythmias. In a
      recent report from Wuhan, China, 16.7% of hospitalized and 44.4% of ICU patients with
      COVID-19 had cardiac arrhythmias. Given the potential sampling bias in sicker, hospitalized
      patients with hypoxia and electrolyte abnormalities in the acute phase of severe illness can
      potentiate cardiac arrhythmias, the exact arrhythmic risk related to COVID-19 in patients
      with less severe illness or those who recover from the acute phase of the severe illness is
      currently unknown.

      Furthermore, as it is currently unclear what medications may be beneficial for patients with
      COVID-19. Several medications eg: chloroquine, hydroxychloroquine, remdesivir, tocilizumab
      etc. are currently being investigated. Hydroxychloroquine is known to block Kv11.1 (HERG) and
      can cause drug-induced LQT. As such, these drugs are used concomitantly with other
      antiarrhythmic drugs such as amiodarone, Tikosyn, sotalol etc. which can be associated with
      QT prolongation requiring close EKG and cardiac monitoring. Improved characterization of
      arrhythmia burden and mechanism of death is critical, primarily in guiding the need for
      developing treatment strategies, additional arrhythmia monitoring and need to consider
      advanced prevention strategies including the role of implantable cardioverter defibrillator
      (ICD).
    
  