
    
      Design:

      This clinical investigation will be of a single group non-randomized open label prospective
      repeated measures (ABBA) design comparing subject´s current conventional socket and the
      CONNECT TF. The subjects will be asked to use the CONNECT TF as their primary prosthesis for
      up to six weeks. Subject will be fitted with the same foot-pylon-knee prosthetic system as
      used with their current conventional socket, with the CONNECT TF socket.

      Procedures:

      There are four scheduled study events. At the initial visit, the first study event, for each
      subject a qualified researcher will obtain an informed consent. Prior to fitting the patient
      subject to CONNECT TF he/she will be asked to provide feedback and perform tasks on/using
      their current conventional prosthetic socket. The patient subjects will be fitted with the
      CONNECT TF within the standard methods of prosthetic fitting, alignment, introduction,
      training and walking on various terrain.

      The CPO (Certified Prosthetis/Orthotist) will conduct the fitting and aligning of the CONNECT
      TF.

      A Co-Investigator will time the fitting procedure; from unpacking the device until it is
      correctly adjusted and properly fit to the subject.

      Data on initial feedback on the device will be collected from the subjects using the
      instruments specified above. Afterwards an appointment at 2 weeks is made and the subjects
      leave the clinic on the device.

      If the fitting of CONNECT TF fails, i.e. the PI/CPO does not manage to fit the device
      properly or the subject cannot use the device as intended during training at the clinic, a
      new appointment is made, if the subject is willing to continue participation.

      The second event will be according to the appointment scheduled 2 weeks earlier. During this
      visit the same set of information will be gathered from/on the subjects as at the initial
      visit using the conventional socket. A 6 week follow up (6WFU) visit is scheduled and the
      subject leaves on the CONNECT TF socket.

      The third event will be according to the appointment scheduled at the previous visit. During
      this visit set of information will be gathered from/on the subjects as at the initial visit
      using the conventional socket. A final 6WFU visit is scheduled and the subjects are fitted
      back to and leave on their current conventional socket.

      The fourth event will be according to the appointment scheduled at the previous visit. During
      this visit set of information will be gathered from/on the subjects as at the initial visit
      using the conventional socket. End of study.

      Data analysis:

      The dataset will be assessed with inferential statistics based on the acceptance criteria for
      the data, as applicable.

      Outcomes at each time point will be visually inspected for normality using histograms and
      qq-plots. If the data are deemed to be normal the hypothesis will be tested using a
      two-tailed, paired, student's t-test for 2WFU evaluation and mixed models for the 6WFU
      evaluation. Non-normal data will be tested using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test.
    
  