
    
      Fat tissue obtainment:

      Subjects will undergo liposuction under local anesthesia. In this procedure, Ringer's
      solution with the anesthetic lidocaine and vasoconstrictor adrenaline infused into the
      adipose compartment to minimize blood loss and contamination of the tissue by peripheral
      blood cells. 15 minutes later a hollow blunt-tipped 3 mm cannula introduced into the
      subcutaneous space through small (0.5 cm) incision. The cannula attached to syringe and under
      gentle suction moved through the adipose compartment, mechanically disrupting the fat tissue.
      Aspirate volume - approximately 150-200 cc. Procedure time - 30 minutes.

      ADRC isolation:

      Aspirated fat tissue placed into sterile vessel which inserted into Celution 800/CRS System
      (Cytori Therapeutics Inc) - closed system for automated and standardized extraction and
      concentration of ADRC. Celution 800/CRS System drains excess of fluid from fat tissue and
      estimate it's volume After that lipoaspirate washed extensively with equal volumes of
      Ringer's solution to remove blood. At the end of this process System indicates required
      volume of enzyme reagent (Celase®) which should be added immediately by operator. After
      enzyme treatment Celution 800/CRS System automatically transfers isolated ADRC into washing
      compartment where ADRC washed and concentrated in 5 mL suspension. Tissue processing time -
      approximately 60 minutes. ADRC suspension match all requirements listed in technical
      documentation for Celution 800/CRS System. Obtained ADRC divided into 2 portions. First
      portion (0.2-0.5 mL) used for counting, viability and sterility assessment. Second portion
      placed into sterile syringe for injection.

      Subtenon injection of ADRC:

      Antiseptic and anesthetic solutions instilled into conjunctival sac. After that blepharostat
      installed. The patient is asked to look in opposite to the injection side direction. Doctor
      inserts a needle into inferior temporal quadrant between rectus muscles,10-12 mm from the
      limbus. Needle should be moved slowly, as close as possible to the eyeball. After needle
      placement at the depth of 5-7 mm doctor injects concentrated solution of ADRC (up to 0,5 ml
      per single injection). Injection is made by insulin syringe with a needle size 0.45 mm * 12mm
      (26 G).
    
  