
    
      A. Study design

        1. Prospective randomization (cryoballoon PV isolation group vs. cryoballoon PV isolation
           group with additional RA linear ablation group) (Using the Python program, a random
           number module is imported with the import random syntax, and the random number table for
           the two groups is created.)

        2. Target number of subjects: 360 (180 per group)

        3. Rhythm FU : 2012 ACC/AHA/ESC guidelines (Holter monitoring at the baseline, 2 month, and
           thereafter every 6 months; ECG if the patient has any symptom)

        4. Anticoagulant therapy followed by 2014 ACC/AHA/ESC guidelines

        5. All complications in each group will be evaluated including the re-hospitalization rate,
           major cardiovascular event, and mortality rate.

      Cryoballoon PV isolation group

        1. Pulmonary vein isolation will be performed using a cryoballoon catheter.

        2. Esophageal temperature will be monitored to prevent esophageal injury.

        3. A 28mm cryoballoon catheter will be used.

        4. Cryoablation will be performed for 180 secs at -30 C or below on condition that the
           pulmonary vein is occluded with a cryoballoon.

        5. CMAP (compound motor action potential) monitoring will be done to avoid phrenic nerve
           damage during the freezing of the right superior pulmonary vein.

        6. The procedure and ablation times will be evaluated.

        7. The procedure will be completed without checking any other trigger came from beyond
           pulmonary vein after the administration of isoproterenol

        8. Rhythm follow-up will be performed after the procedure in accordance with the
           aforementioned study design.

      Cryoballoon PV isolation with Additional RA linear ablation group

        1. Pulmonary vein isolation will be performed using a cryoballoon catheter as the same as
           cryoballoon PV isolation group.

        2. Additional cavo-tricuspid isthmus ablation will be performed with a radiofrequency
           catheter.

        3. Additional SVC-right atrial septal linear ablation will be performed with a
           radiofrequency catheter.

        4. If any other trigger came from beyond pulmonary vein is detected after the
           administration of isoproterenol, additional local RF ablation will be followed.

        5. The procedure and ablation times will be evaluated.

        6. Rhythm follow-up will be performed after the procedure in accordance with the
           aforementioned study design.

      B. Progress and rhythm/ECG follow-up

        1. To be performed in accordance with the 2012 ACC/AHA/HRS guidelines for AF management

        2. Rhythm control at 2 weeks, 2 months, and thereafter every 6-month follow-up

        3. Rhythm control at 2 months, and thereafter every 6-month follow-up with Holter

        4. If the patient complains of symptoms, ECG will be performed at any time, and rhythm
           follow-up will be carried out with a Holter or event recorder.

      C. Follow-up All the patients will be followed-up at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months, and thereafter
      every 6 months. If the patient shows any symptom within the clinical study period, patient
      will visit the outpatient clinic. ECG will be performed at every outpatient visits, and
      24-hour Holter or event recording will be performed every 6 months for 2 years, and every
      year after 2 years (2012 Heart Rhythm Society/EHRA/European Cardiac Arrhythmia Society Expert
      Consensus Statement guidelines). If atrial fibrillation or atrial tachycardia lasting more
      than 30 seconds is observed in 12-lead ECG or Holter, it will be evaluated as recurrence.
      Recurrence within 3 months after the procedure will be classified as early recurrence, and
      that after 3 months will be classified as clinical recurrence.
    
  