
    
      Older adults with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) have an increased risk of developing
      dementia, but do not meet the criteria for dementia. Some of these individuals nevertheless
      remain in a stable state or even return to the norm. Currently, pharmacological treatments
      have not been shown to be sufficiently effective in treating cognitive deficits. The major
      challenge is to identify other therapeutic approaches to reduce the risk of cognitive
      impairment progressing to dementia. Deficits in working memory, which are very common in
      these individuals, have a prognostic value for progression to dementia of the Alzheimer's
      type. Cognitive re-education makes it possible to compensate, at least in part, for cognitive
      disorders with the ultimate goal of reducing their repercussions in daily life. Executive
      control training can improve working memory and attention, but how this gain is transferred
      to activities of daily living (ADLs) remains poorly understood to date. The generalization of
      cognitive gains to ADLs is crucial, however, as this generalization may contribute to
      patients' functional autonomy.

      This project aims to evaluate the effectiveness of attention and working memory training
      (APT-II) on cognitive function and ecological activities in MCI patients by means of a
      single-blind randomized controlled trial. Working memory is involved in information
      manipulation and attentional processes. This ability is called upon in higher cognitive
      functions such as language, reasoning, comprehension, but also in various complex ADL
      situations. Deficits in working memory thus contribute significantly to other cognitive or
      functional impairments in MCI patients. To date, some working memory training has been shown
      to have an immediate impact on working memory in this population. However, long-term
      maintenance and impact on daily life have not been demonstrated in this population.
      Researchers of this study propose to fill this gap by using the APT-II (or Attention Process
      Training) program, which focuses on the transfer of cognitive gains from the start of
      training. Indeed, the APT-II program was translated from English to French by the scientific
      coordinator (S. Blanchet). The English version has already been validated in various
      populations with mild cognitive dysfunction following brain injury, stroke or small vessel
      brain disease. The efficacy of APT-II has never been studied in older adults with IBD. For
      the first time a research team evaluate the short- and long-term efficacy of this program in
      MCI patients on cognition and ADLs using virtual reality. This new technology provides an
      ecological and objective measure for the evaluation of memory and other cognitive functions
      while simulating naturalistic and controlled situations. The objective is therefore to
      evaluate the effectiveness of an attention and working memory training program (APT-II) on
      cognitive function in patients with MCI. To achieve this objective, patients with MCI are
      randomly assigned to an APT-II program or to a control group. Cognitive training with the
      APT-II program will include progressively more difficult and adaptive exercises and will be
      varied to facilitate near and far cognitive transfer. Attention, working memory and episodic
      memory are measured at different time intervals (before, immediately after, 3 and 6 months
      after training). A unique feature of the cognitive training program is its emphasis on
      generalization by teaching participants how to maximize the transfer of the attention
      management strategies learned during the sessions to their various ADLs requiring attention
      and executive control. Homework exercises targeting these different cognitive functions in
      ADLs are also provided between sessions.

      The protocol is offered to elderly people with mild cognitive impairment. In this
      single-blind randomized controlled trial, participants are randomly assigned either to a
      "cognitive training" experimental group (n=20) or a "standard care" control group (n=20).
      Recruitment is multi-centric, and takes place via memory consultations from several sites:
      Tenon Hospital (collaboration with Dr Eric Bouvard), AP-HP Sorbonne University, and Dr
      Mettling's private neurology practice (Paris XI). MCI patients are selected according to the
      criteria of Petersen (2004). A battery of standardized neuropsychological tests is first
      administered to ensure that participants meet our criteria. Patients must be at least 55
      years of age and have an impairment of attention, exécutive, memory and/or working memory as
      evidenced by impaired performance on tests assessing attention or executive function (score
      1.5 standard deviation below the norm on these tests). Participants meeting the selection
      criteria are invited to continue the study. The project has already been approved by the
      Committee for the Protection of Persons (CPP) EST-III of the ANSM (BCR ID: 2018-A02377-48,
      N°CPP: 18.11.05, N° 18.08.21.66617). Patients in the experimental group receive the APT-II
      training program individually with a psychologist for 8 weeks (2 sessions/week). The
      exercises target different attentional components and working memory in the auditory-visual
      modalities. This exercices are of increasing difficulty while being adapted to each patient's
      profile in order to maximize the effects on cognitive reserve. During the sessions, the
      emphasis is on generalizing the gains towards the most problematic daily activities in order
      to reduce the impact of the patients' cognitive problems in their daily lives. Patients in
      the control group receive standard routine care. In order to test the impact of the APT-II
      training program on cognitive function and daily activities, cognitive and functional
      follow-up measures are administered in a blind condition just before (T0), after (T1), and 3
      (T2) and 6 months (T3) after the intervention. The last two measures will be used to study
      long-term maintenance of earnings. The cognitive follow-up measures will test the effects of
      near (attention, working memory) and far (episodic memory) cognitive transfers and
      generalization to daily activities with questionnaires. Functional follow-up measures include
      a virtual reality task assessing episodic memory in the presence of interferences in order to
      examine the effects of training on an ecological situation with high demands on attentional
      resources.

      MCI patients who received the APT-II training program should perform better on attention and
      working memory tasks after training, with a distant transfer to episodic memory tasks
      compared to the control group who received standard care during the training time interval.
      Following cognitive training, MCI patients should also be less susceptible to environmental
      interferences as assessed with the virtual reality task, while reporting fewer cognitive
      complaints in everyday life with maintenance of these gains over time. In patients in the
      control group, it is anticipated that there will be no difference in follow-up measures
      between the different times or the presence of decreased performance as these patients are at
      risk of developing neurodegenerative pathology. In a preliminary study evaluating the
      efficacy of the APT-II programme by the same team of research, six MCI patients (m = 68 ±
      10.56 years) attended 10 sessions of the APT-II programme (2 sessions/week). Statistical
      analyses indicate that after cognitive training, MCI patients tended to improve their
      performance on a working memory task (upside down number span, p = .06). There was also a
      gain in daily activities and well-being, as assessed by the Cognitive Failure Questionnaire
      (p = .04) and the Bravo Wellness Questionnaire (p = .04), respectively. These encouraging
      results support the effectiveness of the APT-II program in IBD patients. They remain to be
      confirmed on larger samples with a randomized controlled trial. This project could provide
      the clinic with a standardized cognitive intervention tool for better cognitive management of
      these patients. The clinical impact of the project will hopefully be significant.
    
  