
    
      This multicenter study used a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group
      design. A screening period running up to 10 weeks before randomization was used to assess
      eligibility, followed by 52 weeks of treatment.

      At baseline, subjects were randomized to one of the two treatment groups:

        -  Group 1: 300 subjects, secukinumab 150 mg (1 mL, 150 mg/mL) s.c. pre-filled syringes
           (PFS) at BSL, Weeks 1, 2, and 3, followed by administration every four weeks starting at
           Week 4

        -  Group 2: 150 subjects, placebo (1 mL) s.c. PFS at BSL, Weeks 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, and 12,
           followed by secukinumab 150 mg (1 mL, 150 mg/mL) administration every four weeks
           starting at Week 16

      The subjects were stratified at randomization according to the region (China and non-China).
      Approximately 70% of randomized subjects were from China (327 Chinese subjects) in order to
      evaluate the efficacy and safety in this subject population. No more than 30% TNFα inhibitor
      inadequate responders (TNF-IR) subjects were to be enrolled in the study.

      Starting at Week 16, all subjects switched to open-label secukinumab 150 mg, including all
      placebo subjects; however, all subjects and investigators/site staff remained blinded to the
      original randomized treatment group assignment (150 mg vs placebo). Study treatment continued
      up to Week 48.

      An end of treatment visit was done 4 weeks after last study treatment administration and a
      post treatment follow-up visit was done 12 weeks after last study treatment administration
      for all subjects (regardless of whether they completed the entire study as planned or
      discontinued prematurely).

      Subjects were instructed in detail how to self-administer the s.c. injection using PFS. Each
      injection was administered into an appropriate injection site of the body (thighs, arms, or
      abdomen). All injections were performed at the study site. Site personnel administered the
      injections to subjects who were not able to, or felt insecure to self-administer. Rescue
      medication was not allowed until Week 20. However, subjects who were deemed by the
      investigator not to be benefiting from the study treatment based on safety and efficacy
      assessments or for any reason of their own accord were free to discontinue participation in
      the study at any time.
    
  