
    
      1. Background

      Smoking is the major avoidable cause of preventable morbidity and premature mortality in the
      UK and internationally. Smoking is also the principal cause of health inequalities and is
      responsible for most of the difference in healthy life-expectancy between the richest and
      poorest in our society and those with and without mental health problems. It has been
      estimated that smoking-related illnesses cost the NHS approximately £5bn per year.
      Varenicline has been shown to be the most clinically effective smoking cessation medicine for
      short-term abstinence in randomized controlled trials (RCTs). However, there is very little
      evidence for its long-term effectiveness and impact on clinical outcomes which are relevant
      to the NHS.

      Although RCTs are considered the gold standard for the evaluation of the intended effects of
      medicines, they are less appropriate for determining unintended or unexpected beneficial or
      adverse effects for several reasons. Data from RCTs of varenicline typically have less than a
      year of follow-up, with relatively low power to detect effects on clinically-relevant
      outcomes, and are not informative about the longer-term consequences of varenicline
      treatment. Furthermore, these RCTs usually exclude smokers with chronic respiratory or heart
      disease and psychiatric illnesses, so their findings may not be generalisable to all
      patients. Observational studies using large primary care databases of electronic health
      records may be used to address these unanswered questions, as the investigators propose to do
      here.

      The investigators recently investigated the short-term relationships between smoking
      cessation treatment and suicide, self-harm, depression and all-cause mortality using CPRD
      data. The investigators found no evidence of an increased risk of suicidal behaviour in
      patients prescribed varenicline. The investigators were concerned that the conventional
      observational estimates of effects of varenicline were biased by residual confounding by
      indication. If patients prescribed varenicline differed from patients prescribed other
      smoking cessation treatments prior to their first prescription, then the investigators could
      not be certain whether any differences in outcomes were due to the medication the patients
      received, or because of the pre-existing differences between the patients. In the
      investigators previous study the investigators tried to overcome confounding by indication
      using three statistical approaches: conventional multivariable-adjusted regression,
      propensity score matched analysis, and an instrumental variable analysis.

      The investigators used physicians' prescribing preferences as instrumental variables, as
      described in Section 1, for the physicians' prescriptions of varenicline or nicotine
      replacement products. In the conventional observational analysis, after adjustment for a wide
      range of observable patient characteristics, patients prescribed varenicline had a 51% lower
      risk of all-cause mortality than those prescribed other nicotine replacement products in the
      nine months after their first prescription, (hazard ratio=0.49, 95% confidence interval
      (95%CI): 0.40 to 0.61). However, the investigators found little evidence of a reduction in
      all-cause mortality using instrumental variable analysis (risk difference per 1,000
      prescriptions=0.7, 95% CI: -3.3 to 4.7). This suggests that the conventional
      multivariable-adjusted regression may have suffered from bias due to unmeasured confounding,
      as the effect sizes are implausible.

      Smoking is strongly patterned by socio-economic status in the UK; in the 2011 Government
      Health Survey, prevalence of smoking was 31% amongst individuals in routine occupations
      compared to 10% amongst individuals in higher managerial and professional occupations (ASH).
      A recent systematic review reported that the NHS stop-smoking services may be helping to
      reduce inequalities in smoking prevalence by preferentially targeting smokers of lower
      socio-economic status (SES). These findings are supported by data from primary care records
      (The Health Improvement Network), which show that between 2008 and 2010, smokers in more
      deprived groups were more likely to receive smoking cessation interventions. A recent
      telephone survey in England found no evidence for differences in rates of self-reported
      smoking cessation medication use or type of medication used by category of SES. However, this
      survey demonstrated that there were clear differences in success of quit attempts by SES,
      with rates being lowest in the lowest SES group. More research is urgently required in this
      area using large clinical databases to further understand the differences in smoking
      cessation medication effectiveness by SES.

      Evidence explaining why this research is needed now:

      The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has mandated that varenicline carry a black box
      warning (the agency's strongest safety warning) on its labelling highlighting the increased
      risk of suicidal ideation and depression in patients prescribed varenicline based on
      spontaneous reports to the FDA Adverse Events Reporting (FDA AERS) database. These warnings
      are meant to indicate causal effects of pharmaceuticals. However, there is an increasing
      number of experimental and observational studies that suggest there is little difference in
      risk of adverse neuropsychiatric effects of varenicline compared to nicotine replacement
      products. On October 16th 2014, the FDA will hold a joint meeting of the Psychopharmacologic
      Drugs Advisory Committee and the Drug Safety and Risk Management Advisory Committee to:

      (i) Discuss safety data from observational studies and a meta-analysis of RCTs since the
      emergence of the original signal of serious neuropsychiatric adverse events with varenicline
      which led to the black box warning in 2009 and; (ii) Determine whether any changes should be
      made to the description of this risk in varenicline's product labelling.

      This project is a significant extension of previous research undertaken by this group as part
      of a Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) grant (SDS 33437) on
      "Medicines that may promote suicide: pharmacoepidemiological analysis of risk and risk
      assessment". The focus of this earlier grant was to investigate whether varenicline caused
      suicide and self-harm. The investigators produced a written report of the findings for the
      MHRA and presented these findings orally to the Pharmacovigilance Expert Advisory Group
      (PEAG) of the Commission on Human Medicines. This committee deliberates on potential new
      signals of risks associated with pharmacotherapies. Two major questions were identified as
      future research priorities by the PEAG: how should regulators interpret the results of
      instrumental variable studies when they conflict with conventional multivariable-adjusted
      observational analysis? Is it possible to give definitive guidance about when instrumental
      variable analysis is likely to have lower bias? Currently, the epidemiological literature is
      not sufficiently developed to conclusively do this. The investigators will address this gap
      in the literature in the methodological components of this proposal. This will significantly
      further understanding of when instrumental variable analysis should be used to address
      problems of confounding by indication. Additionally, this proposal will provide evidence
      regarding the effectiveness of varenicline with respect to long term smoking cessation and
      clinically relevant outcomes. This will aid regulators determine whether the benefits of
      varenicline treatment outweigh possible risks. The investigators will report the results of
      this research to regulators.

      2. Aims

        1. To investigate the long-term smoking abstinence of patients prescribed either
           varenicline or nicotine replacement products in the CPRD.

        2. What are the causal effects of smoking cessation on:

             1. frequency of GP attendance,

             2. frequency of all-cause and cause-specific hospitalisation,

             3. all-cause and cause-specific mortality,

             4. incident diagnosis of respiratory illness,

             5. incident diagnosis of myocardial infarction and

             6. incident diagnosis of depression or anxiety.

        3. To investigate differences in the effectiveness of smoking cessation medications for
           long-term smoking abstinence by area level deprivation.

        4. Design and theoretical/conceptual framework

           The investigators will use the CPRD to conduct a cohort study of all patients prescribed
           varenicline or nicotine replacement products. The study type is "Hypothesis testing".
           Exposure will be defined as the first prescription of either varenicline or nicotine
           replacement therapy. The investigators will investigate differences in the following
           outcomes described above.

           For the statistical analysis the investigators will use Cox-regression models adjusted
           for a range of baseline confounders, propensity score matched Cox-regression, and
           instrumental variable analyses using physicians' prescribing preferences as instruments
           for the prescriptions issued.

           Power calculations The following power calculations are based on effect sizes and
           confidence intervals observed in the investigators previous analyses, which had data on
           110,000 individuals prescribed either varenicline or nicotine replacement therapy. Based
           on the rate of 18,000 new prescriptions per year observed in the CPRD from 2006 to 2011,
           with a further 4 years of follow-up the number of patients prescribed either varenicline
           or nicotine replacement therapy will have increased by 72,000. Therefore the total
           expected sample size for analysis will be around 180,000.

           In the investigators previous analysis using CPRD data the age- and sex-adjusted hazard
           ratio for self-harm/suicide for varenicline vs. nicotine replacement therapy at nine
           months was 0.73 (95% CI: 0.54 to 0.99); after adjusting for possible confounders this
           became: 0.90 (95% CI: 0.66 to 1.22). A 70% increase in sample size would lead to a
           reduction of the standard error by a factor of 1.3, reducing the breadth of the
           above-adjusted confidence interval from 0.56 to 0.43.

           Rare outcomes, self-harm and suicide, were used in previous analyses; the investigators
           will have greater power to explore more common outcome measures within this project. For
           example, in the previous analysis the nine month age- and sex-adjusted hazard ratio for
           all-cause mortality nine months after first prescription for varenicline vs. nicotine
           replacement therapy was 0.43 (95% CI: 0.35 to 0.53); after controlling for possible
           confounders this became: 0.49 (95% CI: 0.40 to 0.61). A 70% increase in sample size
           would lead to a reduction of the standard error by a factor of 1.3, reducing the breadth
           of the above-adjusted confidence interval from 0.21 to 0.16.

           For the effects of varenicline versus nicotine replacement therapy on all-cause
           mortality, instrumental variable analysis found a risk difference of 0.7 (95% CI: -3.3
           to 4.7) per 1,000 patients treated after nine months. A 70% increase in sample size
           would narrow the confidence intervals from 8.0 to 6.2.

           Data collection and analysis The investigators will use the latest available release of
           the CPRD. This is because General Practices enrolled with the CPRD send regular tranches
           of data which are released to researchers throughout the year. This will guarantee that
           there is the largest possible sample of patients for the analysis.

           Data analysis Defining exposures, outcomes and covariates

           Exposures First time users of the smoking cessation therapies (varenicline or nicotine
           replacement therapy) will be defined as people who received at least one prescription of
           the product after the 1st of September 2006 but with no use of a related product during
           the 12 months before the index date (the first date on which a prescription was issued).
           Langley et al. (2010) found the smoking cessation prescription data in the THIN
           database, which is closely related to the CPRD, to be highly comparable to national
           dispensing data. The analysis will be limited to the first treatment episode. This will
           mimic an intention to treat analysis in a RCT. The prescriptions will be defined by the
           therapy file in the CPRD, which contains a list of all prescriptions issued to patients
           at the practices. Each therapy record records the date a prescription was issued, the
           quantity of drug prescribed and the dosage.

           To mimic an intention-to-treat analysis in an RCT in the primary analysis patients who
           are initially prescribed nicotine replacement therapy, but later switch to varenicline
           will be allocated to nicotine replacement therapy and vice-versa.

           Outcomes

           Smoking abstinence In the CPRD smoking status is indicated by whether the patient is a
           current, former or never smoker. As GPs are paid to record smoking status smoking
           behaviour is robustly recorded in the CPRD. Marston et al. (2014) found that 84% of
           patients had smoking status recorded within a year of registering at a practice, and
           that smoking prevalence rates by age were similar in CPRD and the Health Survey of
           England. Booth et al. (2013) found that the difference in prevalence of smoking estimate
           between the CPRD and the Health Survey for England was less than 1%, and the mean
           difference was 0.1% (95% CI: -1.5% to 1.7%). Using unpublished data from CPRD sampled as
           part of the research reported in Thomas et al. (2013) the investigators found that 74%
           of patients prescribed smoking cessation medication had a subsequent record indicating
           smoking status. Of these 66% were indicated as current smokers and 33% as ex-smokers.
           The investigators will initially define a patient as relapsed if they have any record
           indicating that the patient is a current smoker after their first prescription of a
           smoking cessation therapy. The investigators will not be able to determine the smoking
           status of patients who do not return to the GP. Therefore, the investigators will
           perform sensitivity analyses to examine whether the assumptions made about the smoking
           status of individuals who are not observed affect the results. For example, the
           investigators will conduct a sensitivity analysis to see if the results are altered by
           assuming that patients with missing data have relapsed, or by assuming that patients
           with missing outcomes have achieved abstinence.

           Service use

           The investigators will define service use as the number of visits to GP and hospitals in
           the 3, 6, 9, 12, 24 and 48 months after first prescription. The investigators will
           define the GP appointments using the clinical data file of the CPRD. This includes all
           the diagnoses and symptoms that GPs record about all of their patients. As with the
           other outcomes, the vast majority of diagnoses and symptoms include the date on which
           the data were added to the database. The investigators will use these dates to define
           visits to primary care. The investigators will define the hospital visits outcome using
           the linked Hospital Episodes Statistics data. This is available for approximately half
           of the sample. Again these data contain the date on which the event occurred, which the
           investigators will use to define attendance to secondary care within 3, 6, 9, 12, 24 and
           48 months after first prescription.

           All-cause and cause-specific mortality

           The investigators will define all-cause and cause-specific mortality using the linked
           Office of National Statistics mortality dataset. These include the date of death and
           cause of death using ICD-9 codes. The investigators will investigate three specific
           causes of mortality, 1) diseases of respiratory system (ICD-9=460-519), 2)
           cardiovascular disease (ICD-9=390-459) and 3) mental disorders (ICD-9=290-319).

           Adverse events

           The investigators will define the adverse event outcomes using the diagnosis records
           from the Clinical and Referral files in the CPRD. These files record all the diagnoses
           that the GPs input into their computer system. Each record in the table is given a
           diagnosis code based on the Read code categorisation. The investigators will use
           validated Read code lists, for the three adverse event outcomes, respiratory illnesses,
           myocardial infarction or depression and anxiety. For eligible patients the investigators
           will extract all records from the Clinical and Referral Tables that indicate the patient
           either received a specific diagnosis or were referred for a specific diagnosis. As with
           the therapy records for prescriptions described above, each Clinical and Referral Record
           indicates the date the information was inputted into the system. The investigators will
           use this date to define the date that the diagnosis was made.

           Covariates

           The investigators will include gender, age in years at time of first prescription,
           previous psychiatric illness/consultation, previous use of psychotropic medications such
           as hypnotics, antipsychotics and antidepressants, previous self-harm, measures of
           alcohol consumption where appropriate mean/median number of GP visits per year, body
           mass index, socioeconomic position (deprivation score for area or residence) and major
           chronic illness (including diabetes, cancer, arthritis) using the Charlson index.
           Relevant Read codes will be identified either by validated code lists or by searching
           for each of these events in the Read code dictionaries to identify any missing Read
           codes. Collider bias could occur if the investigators conditioned on events which
           happened as a result of the prescription the patient was issued. To prevent this bias
           from affecting the results, the investigators will define each covariate using data
           inputted prior to the first prescription.

        5. Statistical Analysis For investigating the effects of varenicline use on each outcome
           (long-term smoking cessation, frequency of GP and hospital attendance, all-cause and
           cause-specific mortality, primary care diagnosis of respiratory illness, myocardial
           infarction, depression or anxiety), the investigators will report a conventional
           multivariable-adjusted regression, propensity score regression and instrumental variable
           analysis.

      A. Conventional Cox-regression In the first analysis, a conventional observational analysis,
      the investigators will estimate hazard ratios of the outcomes using Cox-proportional hazards
      models and the actual prescriptions issued to the patients. Each patient's date of entry into
      the cohort will be the date they were first prescribed a smoking cessation therapy. The date
      of exit for each outcome will be the date on which they first have an event, or are censored
      due to end of follow-up or death or leaving the practice. The investigators will report these
      associations adjusted for basic confounders (age and gender), and results adjusted for all
      measured covariates described above.

      B. Propensity score regression In the second analysis the investigators will construct a
      sample of patients balanced on covariates and risk factors using a propensity score. The
      investigators will construct propensity scores using a logistic regression of the actual
      treatment received on the covariates described above. Therefore, each participant's
      propensity score will be their conditional probability (odds) of receiving varenicline versus
      nicotine replacement therapy. The investigators will match each patient receiving varenicline
      to another patient receiving nicotine replacement therapy with the closest propensity score
      on a ratio of 1:1 using a nearest neighbour algorithm with no replacement, and matching will
      be restricted to the common support region. Patients outside the common support region are
      those prescribed varenicline with propensity scores higher than any patient prescribed
      nicotine replacement therapy and vice versa. The investigators will estimate hazard ratios of
      the outcomes using the propensity score matched sample using Cox-regressions using the same
      entry and exit information as the conventional Cox-regression analysis described above.

      C. Instrumental variable analysis In the third analysis, the investigators will estimate the
      effects of smoking cessation therapies on the outcomes using physicians' prescribing
      preferences as instruments for the prescriptions the GPs issue to their patients. The
      investigators cannot directly measure the physicians' preferences, therefore the
      investigators will use the prescriptions they issued to their previous patients as a proxy
      for their preferences. For example, if the instrument was based on just one previous
      prescription, physicians who previously prescribed varenicline would categorised as a
      varenicline prescriber. See Section 2 for further details. As with the investigators'
      previous studies the investigators will use seven prior prescriptions to improve the strength
      of the instruments. Using multiple prior prescriptions will maximise power; as with previous
      studies, the investigators will include multiple prior prescriptions to improve the
      efficiency of the estimators. The investigators will report risk differences in the outcomes
      using additive structural mean models estimated via the generalised method of moments.

      The investigators will categorise each of the adverse event outcomes as occurring within 3,
      6, 9, 12, 24 and 48 months of first prescription. The investigators will do this because
      methods for conducting survival analysis using instrumental variables are not well developed.
      The investigators will use Stata 13.1 SE to generate all results. The instrumental variable
      analysis will be conducted using the ivreg2 command and psmatch2 will be used to construct
      the propensity score. All standard errors will be estimated using cluster robust standard
      errors which accounts for clustering of patients within practices.

      D. Socio-economic variation in effectiveness of smoking cessation treatments

      Area level deprivation will be assigned to each patient using their home address postcode and
      to each GP practice using the practice postcode. Deprivation levels will be based on the
      Indices of Multiple Deprivation (IMD) which are available from the Office of National
      Statistics. IMD statistics are updated every two years. The investigators will use the most
      recent IMD statistics preceding the date of entry into the study for each patient. Although
      area level deprivation statistics will only be a proxy for individual level deprivation,
      these demonstrate the expected associations with smoking prevalence. By using both individual
      and GP level IMD codes, the investigators will investigate whether the effects of smoking
      cessation therapies differ by IMD at both the level of GP practice and at the individual
      level. For each patient, the investigators will investigate treatment compliance by reporting
      the total number of prescriptions issued after the initial prescription.

      The investigators will estimate the effects of smoking cessation therapies within sub-groups
      defined by IMD level both at the individual and practice level using the three methods
      described above, multivariable-adjusted Cox regression, propensity score regression and
      instrumental variable analysis. The cohort of patients will be defined as described above.
      The investigators will report these associations adjusted for basic confounders (age and
      gender), and results adjusted for all measured covariates described above. Analyses will
      account for clustering of patients by GP practice.

      E. Sensitivity analyses The investigators will perform sensitivity analyses to examine
      whether the assumptions made about the smoking status of individuals who are not observed
      affect the results. For example, the investigators will conduct a sensitivity analysis to see
      if the results are altered by assuming that patients with missing data have relapsed, or by
      assuming that patients with missing outcome data have achieved abstinence.
    
  