
    
      Background:

        -  Opioids are the cornerstone of postoperative pain management. However, in light of the
           current opioid crisis, there is a recognized need for improved postoperative pain
           management to address pain with fewer side effects.

        -  New pain medications that are as effective and less problematic are a goal but much of
           the foundational knowledge required to meet these need is underdeveloped in human
           studies and are derived from rodent studies.

        -  We propose to identify critical human tissue nociceptive signals originating at the site
           of surgical incision initiating the pain response to identify biomarkers of human
           cutaneous pain signaling.

        -  Mechanisms of pain and pain sensitivities originating at the surgical site are not well
           understood.

        -  Clinical and basic research can unlock the etiology of surgical incisional pain and
           direct biomedicine to better address this area of underdeveloped research both now and
           in the future; uniquely providing opportunities to perform important studies on gene
           expression.

      Objectives:

        -  Identification of transcriptional alterations in epidermal and dermal tissue of at least
           four (4), but up to six (6) time points during surgical procedures.

        -  Tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) measurement from human epidermal sample to identify
           alterations in candidate oxylipins and peptide mediators of pain, inflammation and itch.

      Eligibility:

      -Male or female, aged 18 years and older that are consented for a primary surgical procedure
      of greater than four (4) hours. Participants without skin abnormalities at tissue sampling
      site.

      Design:

      -A single cohort study, of 12 surgical participants with a scheduled surgical procedure, of
      at least 4 hours, at the NIH Clinical Center, for up to six (6) timed tissue sampling at
      surgical incision. No investigational therapy is planned.
    
  