
    
      Objectives:

        1. To evaluate the impact of bisphosphonates on bone mineral density (BMD=primary endpoint)
           in women with gynecologic malignancies undergoing chemotherapy.

        2. To determine if bone loss in women with gynecologic malignancies undergoing chemotherapy
           is correlated with any of the clinicopathologic parameters gathered in this
           investigation i.e., race, tumor stage.

      Introduction:

      Dramatic bone loss in women during the first five years following cessation of ovarian
      function has been well documented (1). It is estimated that greater than 1.5 million
      fractures related to osteoporosis (OP) will occur in the US annually (2) and that 33% of
      women will have sustained hip fractures by age of 90 years(3). With increasing age also comes
      increasing risk of many cancers, including ovarian, uterine, breast, lung, and colon cancers.
      23,500 new cases of ovarian cancer and 38,400 new cases of uterine cancer were diagnosed in
      the US last year (4). Many of these patients are postmenopausal at the time of diagnosis, and
      many enter menopause secondary to surgical resection of the ovaries or chemotherapy prompting
      ovarian failure. This population of women therefore, is at significant risk for osteoporosis.

      To the author's knowledge, there has only been one study examining bone loss in menopausal
      women with gynecologic cancers undergoing chemotherapy (5). This was a small (n=25)
      prospective observational study with no controlled treatment arm. The authors observed a
      higher incidence of baseline bone loss and significant additional loss during chemotherapy
      treatment. Bone loss has also been described in breast cancer patients undergoing
      chemotherapy (6,7). Laboratory and animal studies demonstrate a deleterious effect of
      cytotoxic chemotherapy on protein synthesis and DNA replication, resulting in altered or
      diminished bone formation (8-10). We know of no intervention studies in postmenopausal women
      with cancer undergoing chemotherapy i.e., comparing different osteoporosis prevention
      strategies. Estrogen therapy is often contraindicated in gynecologic malignancies and
      alternative treatments for bone loss prevention are not routinely used by gynecologic
      oncologists. At present there are no guidelines and/or recommendations in the Gynecologic
      Oncology community for preventative treatment of bone loss in individuals undergoing
      chemotherapy (not even calcium and/or vitamin D supplementation recommendations).

      Justification:

      Women who undergo bilateral oophorectomy and receive chemotherapy are at risk of increased
      bone loss. At present, despite having a risk factor profile that fits the indications for
      assessment and treatment there are no routine interventions in this patient population i.e.,
      the standard treatment is no treatment. We hope to identify whether or not an intervention
      may be favorable in these women and change the standard of care in this vulnerable
      population.

      The use of placebo is justified in this investigation as our current standard of care does
      not include any treatment for prevention of bone loss during chemotherapy. A recent survey of
      our patients in active treatment at the BCCA revealed that only 1 of over 40 patients with
      gynecologic malignancies undergoing chemotherapy was taking any medical therapy for bone loss
      (Personal communication, J McAlpine J Pike). In order to provide some support for bone
      mineral density (BMD), all patients enrolled in this study (treatment and control arms) will
      receive Calcium (1000mg) and Vitamin D supplementation (1000 mg) during the 12 month study
      period. FOSAVANCE was chosen as the bisphophonate in this investigation as it is the most
      popular bisphosphonate in Canada and routinely prescribed to thousands of men and women. It
      has undergone rigorous scrutiny at the federal and provincial levels. Recently, Vitamin D has
      received considerable press for its "anti-cancer" activity in addition to its known
      contribution to bone growth and remodeling.

      Research Plan:

      This is a randomized prospective trial in which women who have undergone surgery for
      pathology confirmed ovarian (or more rarely advanced stage endometrial) malignancy and
      scheduled to initiate 6 cycles of chemotherapy (without radiation) will be asked to
      participate. The primary outcome measured will be change in bone mineral density on
      consecutive DEXA scans as compared to baseline. All of these patients will have undergone
      removal of their ovaries bilaterally. Some patients may have entered menopause naturally many
      years prior to surgical resection of their ovaries. Patients will be told that there will be
      no difference in their chemotherapy regimen, nor any perceived impact of bisphosphonates on
      the success of chemotherapy in treating their disease process. Patients fitting the inclusion
      and exclusion criteria (including blood tests and bone scan criteria) and consenting to
      participate will be randomized to receive either weekly oral FOSAVANCE 70 mg alendronate/2800
      IU cholecalciferol or placebo for the 12 months of the study duration. All patients will
      receive calcium 1000 mg and vitamin D supplementation 1000 IU daily throughout the study
      period. Bone DEXA scans will be obtained at baseline (post-surgery and prior to initiation of
      chemotherapeutic regimen), and after 6 and 12 months of treatment and comparisons made
      between BMD in the treatment vs. placebo groups. The use of placebo is justified in this
      investigation as our current standard of care does not include any treatment for prevention
      of bone loss during chemotherapy. Internationally, there is no recommendation in our
      subspecialty to do so.

      The following parameters will be collected on the enrolled patients: Age, race,
      tobacco/smoking history, height/weight/BMI, chemotherapeutic regimen, past medical history,
      tumor stage, grade, histology, complications, blood loss, length of hospital stay, 24 hour
      creatinine clearance, and serum albumin.

      In addition, , family history of osteoporosis and/or spinal or hip fractures, blood sampling
      for alkaline phosphatase, calcium and 25(OH)vitamin D levels and a DEXA scan (bone scan) at
      0, 6, and 12 months with bone mineral density (BMD) measurements of lumbar spine, left hip,
      and femoral neck (T and Z-scores) will be obtained. These parameters are of specific interest
      as they relate to the patients bone health and risk factors for bone loss. DEXA scans of
      individual patients at 6 and 12 months will be compared to their starting/baseline DEXA, and
      the differences in measurements then compared between patients in the treatment vs. placebo
      arms. Careful monitoring of patients subjective complaints/comments, complete physical
      examinations, and monthly laboratory work will be closely monitored throughout the study
      period.

      NOTE: THERE IS NO INTERVENTION IN THIS INVESTIGATION THAT ALTERS THE POSTOPERATIVE CARE,
      CLINIC VISITS, CHEMOTHERAPY REGIMEN OR DURATION OF TREATMENT IN THESE PATIENTS AS COMPARED TO
      OUR STANDARD OF CARE. Patients are free to remove themselves from the study at any time with
      no compromise to their management.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        1. Postmenopausal (surgical extirpation of ovaries)

        2. Primary ovarian or endometrial cancer

        3. Planned to receive multiagent chemotherapeutic regimen for 6 cycles

        4. Signed informed consent

        5. BMD T-score between -2.5 and 0 at any site

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. Renal insufficiency with CrCl < 35mL/min

        2. BMD T-score < -2.5 at any site

        3. Medication, excessive alcohol intake, or GI disease inhibiting GI absorption

        4. Metabolic bone disease, bony metastases, poorly controlled thyroid or parathyroid
           conditions, Paget's disease, or on hormonal therapy/other treatments for OP

        5. Abnormalities of the esophagus which delay esophageal emptying i.e., achalasia

        6. Inability to stand or sit upright for at least 30 minutes

        7. Hypersensitivity to any component of the drug product

        8. Requiring/planned external beam radiation during study period

        9. Baseline serum 25(OH) vitamin D levels of < 9ng/mL

      Recruitment:

      All patients recruited for this study come from the Gynecologic Oncology clinic via
      referrals/consultations and are patients of the primary and co-investigators in this study.
      Prior to enrollment, the investigators will have pathology results and will have made a
      decision as to whether or not patients require further chemotherapy for their disease
      process. If the basic inclusion and exclusion criteria are met by
      demographic/medical/pathology parameters and the patient is interested and has consented for
      the study, the additional blood work and bone scan will be obtained to ensure that all
      criteria have been met. All investigators and support staff will be available to review the
      protocol in detail with patients and phone numbers given to call us with any additional
      questions.

      There is no research nurse or BCCA resources used for this protocol. All discussion of the
      consent will be done by the PI or one of the Co-investigators. Labs outside of routine BCCA
      orders (i.e., vitamin D levels) will be done at an outside facility as will DEXA scans and
      data analysis. Drug/placebo will be delivered by the principal investigator and no pharmacy
      services are required.

      Statistical Analysis:

      This is a project looking to detect a 2-3% difference in BMD on DEXA scans as compared to the
      individuals' baseline DEXA. Based on previous data 11 and our own power analysis this will be
      achievable with a sample size of 30 patients in each arm (treatment vs. placebo) to ensure
      sufficient power (Kalloger Consulting, Inc). Our initial analysis will be performed after 30
      patients have been randomized (15 FOSAVANCE, 15 placebo). Iif a clear advantage is
      demonstrated in the treatment group, the trial will be completed and treatment will be
      offered to all patients undergoing chemotherapy for gynecologic malignancies. If the
      difference is not yet statistically significant but a favorable trend is suggested we will
      enroll further patients in order to sufficiently power this series, again with the above
      specified goal of detecting a 2-3% difference in BMD, considered of clinical signficiance in
      the literature.

      Multiple parameters will be collected (outlined page 2) for descriptive statistics and
      bivariate analysis, testing for an association of osteoporosis and clinicopathologic and
      laboratory risk factors. These will be compared between the treatment and control arms to
      ensure both groups are representative and without potential confounding variables. Paired
      t-tests will be performed using statistical software (SAS) for the comparison of baseline, 6
      and 12-month BMD values, with a significance level of 0.05 and a power of 0.80.
    
  