
    
      Physical inactivity is a prevalent problem, with few Canadians active enough to accrue the
      health-related benefits associated with exercise. In response to ineffective means of
      physical activity promotion efforts, recent work suggests focusing on well-being as an
      outcome of exercise to better promote such behaviour.

      Well-being is often conceptualized from two separate fields of study: hedonia and eudaimonia.
      Hedonia is concerned with the experience of pleasure and the avoidance of pain and is often
      equated to happiness. Conversely, eudaimonia is associated with more existential concerns and
      is sometimes equated with 'personal meaning'.

      While hedonic well-being has been reliably linked to increased physical activity behaviour,
      less is understood about the possible effects of eudaimonic well-being on exercise
      engagement. As such, research should work towards developing a greater understanding of the
      relationship between well-being and physical activity. In doing so, research may be able to
      ascertain whether the experience of both hedonic and eudaimonic well-being is effective in
      increasing exercise engagement.

      One particular behaviour that has been reliably linked to well-being is prosocial behaviour,
      or behaviour undertaken voluntarily with the aim of aiding or benefitting others. In
      particular, a wide variety of research has established a link between well-being and
      prosocial behaviours including volunteering and prosocial spending. Furthermore, engaging in
      prosocial behaviour has been identified as an effective means of motivating individuals and
      increasing performance.

      As prosocial behaviour has been linked to increased hedonic and eudaimonic well-being, and as
      prosocial motivation has been identified as a powerful means of behaviour change, prosocial
      exercise, or engaging in physical activity to benefit others, may produce increases in
      well-being and future physical activity behaviour. As prosocial exercise is a common and
      popular activity (e.g., engaging in charity runs such as Run for the Cure or Relay for Life),
      research should work to ascertain whether increased well-being is related to prosocial
      exercise, and whether this association results in increased exercise behaviour.

      In order to test this, students will be recruited to take part in a two-week experiment,
      whereby half of the students will be randomly assigned to a prosocial exercise condition (and
      use the prosocial exercise app, 'Charity Miles'), and half will be randomly assigned to a
      personal exercise condition (and utilize a standard exercise app, Nike+ Running).
      Participants' eudaimonic and hedonic well-being and exercise behaviour will be assessed at
      baseline and two weeks following, as well as before and after each use of the exercise app.
      It is hypothesized that the participants in the prosocial exercise condition will report
      greater exercise engagement compared to participants in the standard condition, and that this
      relationship will be mediated by hedonic and eudaimonic well-being.
    
  