
    
      Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) has become a major issue in global health. Despite progress in
      the reduction of under 5 mortality rates in recent decades, the proportion of neonatal deaths
      occurring within this age group has increased, with almost one quarter of all neonatal deaths
      occurring due to serious bacterial infection. Common bacteria causing neonatal sepsis are now
      exhibiting widespread resistance to several classes of antibiotics. There is an urgent need
      to discover new, effective treatments and re-evaluate existing therapeutic agents to treat
      infections potentially caused by multi-drug resistant (MDR) pathogens. Gram-negative bacteria
      (GNB) predominate as the cause of neonatal sepsis, and are increasingly associated with high
      rates of resistance to the currently recommended WHO empirical therapy regimen of
      ampicillin/penicillin and gentamicin. There is therefore a need to develop an updated empiric
      regimen with improved efficacy in the context of increasing MDR sepsis in neonates. New
      antimicrobials under development will be expensive once licensed, and there are currently
      virtually no planned trials to assess their efficacy in neonates in low- and middle-income
      countries (LMICs).

      One potential strategy is utilising an existing off-patent (and therefore affordable)
      antibiotic available in intravenous and oral formulations - fosfomycin. Fosfomycin has a wide
      spectrum of activity against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria causing neonatal
      sepsis. It is mainly used for resistant urinary tract infections in adults, but has licenced
      neonatal and paediatric doses in Europe (though dosing regimens vary between countries). Both
      oral and IV formulations are available. A large clinical trial to assess the efficacy of a
      fosfomycin plus an aminoglycoside combination (compared to the current WHO recommended
      ampicillin and gentamicin) is anticipated, including sites in Kenya. The ultimate aim is for
      fosfomycin to be included in the WHO Essential Medicines List for children (EMLc) and be
      available for use in developing countries, where rates of resistance to ampicillin and
      gentamicin have been estimated at over 40%. The first steps before this trial are to clarify
      the pharmacokinetics (PK) and safety profile of fosfomycin in neonates, as well as generating
      further information regarding local patterns of bacterial susceptibility to fosfomycin. The
      aim of this study is to fulfil both these steps. Fosfomycin (IV and oral) PK will be
      investigated among 60 babies admitted to hospital and being treated for presumed sepsis;
      administered alongside the standard antibiotics. Another 60 babies receiving standard
      treatment only (without PK sampling) will be monitored in the same way to compare adverse
      events. In the laboratory at CGMR-C, previously archived bacterial isolates will be tested
      for their sensitivity to fosfomycin.
    
  