
    
      The primary and secondary objectives of the study:

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the proportion of patients with multiple myeloma (MM) or chronic lymphocytic
      leukemia (CLL) who report experiencing financial difficulty in the past 12 months.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the association of patient report of financial difficulty with insurance
      status.

      II. To describe the association of patient report of financial difficulty with receiving
      treatment at sites of care that report offering patients financial guidance through
      navigators or social workers, and controlling for patient socioeconomic status.

      III. To describe the types of psychosocial, transportation and financial navigation
      interventions sites are developing.

      IV. To identify distinct patterns of financial burden among patients undergoing treatment for
      MM or CLL.

      V. To examine the relationship between distinct patterns of financial burden with patient
      report of financial difficulty, patient socio-demographics, and patient disease
      characteristics.

      VI. To estimate the proportion of patients with MM or CLL undergoing treatment who report
      receiving financial support in the past 12 months.

      VII. To describe the association of patient report of receiving financial support with
      receiving treatment at sites of care offering patients financial guidance through navigators
      or social workers, and with socioeconomic status.

      VIII. To describe the magnitude of patient concerns regarding treatment and costs of care.

      IX. To describe the association of patient concerns regarding treatment and costs of care
      with patient socio-demographics, disease and site of care characteristics.

      X. To describe the association of financial difficulty with patient self-reported health and
      well-being.

      Trial Design:

      OUTLINE:

      Participants undergo medical chart abstraction within 1 week and complete telephone interview
      over 30-45 minutes within 8 weeks after registration.
    
  