
    
      A prospective randomized, double blinded clinical trial of ketamine use in adult colorectal
      surgery patients will be conducted. The experimental arm of the trial will receive ketamine
      infusion therapy while the control arm of the trial receives saline placebo infusions at an
      equivalent rate. All patients enrolled into the trial will be enrolled in a standardized
      Enhanced Recovery after Surgery (ERAS) pathway which includes intravenous opioid medications
      for breakthrough pain, scheduled acetaminophen, and NSAIDs as indicated. All patients will be
      managed in accordance with the appropriate Division of Trauma and Acute Care Surgery and
      Division of Colorectal Surgery policies.

      Potential participants will be screened at the time of outpatient clinic visits. Patients who
      require operative intervention for management of their colonic disease, both malignant and
      non-malignant, are eligible for enrollment. Individuals who present to the emergency
      department and are evaluated by the previously mentioned divisions will be screened for
      eligibility. If a potential participant qualifies for enrollment, he or she will be
      approached by one of the IRB approved study staff for consent. Prior to randomization and
      formal enrollment, an investigational drug services pharmacist will screen for any
      contraindication to potential ketamine therapy. Following investigator and pharmacy approval,
      patients will be randomized by the Investigational Drug Services (IDS). The two trial arms
      will be randomized in a 1:1 control to experimental fashion with randomization blocks
      conducted in sets of 4 patients.

      Participants who are enrolled into the trial will undergo randomization into either the
      experimental or control arm by the IDS department at time of presentation to the hospital.
      The infusate will be prepared by the IDS department at a ketamine concentration of
      500mg/250ml with all IV bags labeled "Investigational Ketamine / Placebo - PRO27024" prior to
      dispersal to the pre-operative nurse. All elective surgery patients will receive alvimopan
      beginning in the pre-operative area and administered by the RN at least 30 minutes prior to
      administration of narcotic medications. A total of 60 patients will be enrolled (see sample
      size calculation in c.2.3), 30 into each arm. All infusion rates will be calculated based on
      ideal body weight (IBW), unless actual body weight (ABW) is less than ideal. IBW is
      calculated for males as 50kg + 2.3*(number of inches over 5 feet) and for females as 45.5kg +
      2.3*(number of inches over 5 feet). All investigational infusions will be started by the
      anesthesia resident or Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetists (CRNA) at the time of
      anesthesia induction. Patients will receive a bolus of the investigational solution at a
      calculated dose of 0.25 mg/kg over 5 minutes following anesthetic induction. A continuous
      infusion of the investigational solution will immediately follow at a rate of 2 mcg/kg/min.
      Timing of bolus administration along with time of initiation of continuous infusion will be
      documented with the continuous infusion to run for a duration of 48-hours.

      All subjects will be assessed daily or more frequently for delirium. The institutional CAM
      and CAM-ICU Delirium screens, which have been validated in the literature, will be utilized
      (see appendices IV and V). Subjects may remove oneself from the trial or be un-blinded should
      he/she, pharmacy, and/or clinical staff deem it medically necessary. Medical necessity is
      determined by inability to treat without knowledge of trial assignment; otherwise treating
      staff will assume all patients have received ketamine. All adverse events will be recorded
      and if necessary subjects will be un-blinded in the event of a serious adverse event.

      All adverse events will be recorded and if necessary subjects will be un-blinded in the event
      of a serious adverse event. The research team will monitor all study patients for any adverse
      event trends. Patients will be followed through the time of discharge.
    
  