
    
      Consenting patients who take either angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs),
      angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or calcium channel blockers will be asked not to take
      the medications on the morning of surgery, and instead bring them with them to the hospital.
      Qualifying patients will be randomized 1:1, with random-sized blocks.

      Randomization will be implemented by clinicians in collaboration with research personnel.
      Arterial catheter transducers will be positioned at the level of the right atrium, and
      adjusted as necessary if patient position is changed.

      The treatments will be: 1) norepinephrine or phenylephrine infusion to maintain
      intraoperative MAP ≥85 mmHg, delayed resumption of chronic antihypertensive medications, and
      a target ward MAP ≥80 mmHg (tight pressure management); or, 2) routine intraoperative blood
      pressure management and prompt resumption of chronic antihypertensive medications (routine
      pressure management).

      Tight pressure management: In patients assigned to tight pressure management, angiotensin
      converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers will not be given the morning
      of surgery. Other chronic antihypertensives will only be given as necessary to treat
      hypertension. Clinicians will be encouraged to insert the required arterial catheter before
      anesthetic induction because much hypotension occurs shortly after anesthetic induction.

      A norepinephrine or phenylephrine infusion (in the preferred local concentration) will be
      prepared, connected to an intravenous catheter, and activated at a low rate. Norepinephrine
      can be safely given through a central catheter or peripherally.

      General anesthesia will be induced with propofol or etomidate which will be given in repeated
      small boluses or target-controlled infusion in an effort to keep mean arterial pressure ≥85
      mmHg. Clinicians will be encouraged to use etomidate when rapid-sequence inductions are
      required. Simultaneously, the vasopressor infusion will be adjusted with the same goal.
      Anesthetic dose, fluid administration, and vasopressor administration will be adjusted with
      the goal of maintaining the individual designated baseline mean arterial pressure. Invasive
      or non-invasive advanced hemodynamic monitoring is not required, but should be used when
      practical. Clinicians should use available information to optimize vascular volume,
      afterload, and inotropy.

      Resumption of chronic anti-hypertensive medications will be delayed until the third
      postoperative day unless deemed necessary to treat hypertension or for some other clear
      indication (e.g., preventing atrial fibrillation in a chronic beta-blocker user) because >90%
      of MINS occurs within 48 hours after surgery. When necessary to treat hypertension, chronic
      antihypertensive or new medications can be used per clinician preference. Clinicians will
      make what efforts they can to maintain postoperative mean arterial pressures ≥80 mmHg during
      the initial three postoperative days by maintaining adequate hydration, using inotropic and
      chronotropic drugs, and vasopressor as necessary. This protocol specifies the blood pressure
      target but leaves implementation to clinical judgement.

      Routine pressure management: In patients assigned to routine pressure management, ACEIs,
      ARBs, and/or calcium channel blockers can be given the morning of surgery if deemed
      appropriate by the attending anesthesiologist. The arterial catheter will be inserted before
      or after induction of anesthesia per clinician preference. General anesthesia will be induced
      and maintained per routine. Blood pressure will not be deliberately reduced, but per routine
      clinicians will presumably not intervene until MAP is <65 mmHg. As usual, chronic
      anti-hypertensive medications will be restarted shortly after surgery unless contraindicated
      by hypotension.

      In both groups, other aspects of anesthetic management will be at the discretion of the
      responsible anesthesiologist, including the types and volumes of various fluids. Volatile or
      intravenous anesthesia is permitted.

      There will be no limitation on ancillary vasoactive, chronotropic, and inotropic drugs.
      Clinicians will be free to use advanced hemodynamic monitoring (e.g., pulse-wave analysis,
      esophageal Doppler, etc.). Blood products will be given per routine. Similarly, postoperative
      analgesic management will be per routine and clinician preference. Neuraxial and peripheral
      nerve blocks are permitted, but epidural catheters should not be activated until surgery is
      nearly finished.

      Because patients must be fairly sick to qualify for GUARDIAN, some will go to directly from
      surgery to critical care units, or much less often, become unstable and require transfer from
      a routine ward to an ICU. In either case, every effort will be to maintain randomized
      treatments and blood pressure targets.

      In all cases, good judgement will predominate. Clinicians should always act in their
      patients' best interests, irrespective of the GUARDIAN protocol
    
  