
    
      Alcohol use disorders (AUDs) are prevalent among Veterans and result in significant physical
      and psychological burden. Among those who receive treatment for AUDs, 1 in 3 relapses to
      problematic drinking within one year of treatment. Thus, additional strategies are needed to
      enhance alcohol treatment outcomes. One promising approach involves providing concurrent
      treatment for a common complaint - difficulty falling or staying asleep. Up to 74% of
      Veterans seeking treatment for AUD report co-occurring symptoms of insomnia. Given the
      negative impact of insomnia on attention and emotion regulation, insomnia symptoms may
      decrease patients' abilities to attend to alcohol treatment and manage negative emotions that
      lead to craving and relapse. Moreover, approximately 50% of individuals with AUDs report
      using alcohol to help them sleep, making relapse more likely for those with no other tools or
      skills to help them sleep. Indeed, sleep disturbance has been identified as a risk factor for
      relapse among individuals in alcohol treatment. Thus, effective treatment of sleep problems
      may enhance alcohol treatment. Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia (CBT-I) has been
      effective in reducing insomnia severity in individuals with AUDs; however, no investigations
      have examined the efficacy of CBT-I delivered concurrently with AUD treatment to determine
      its impact on treatment outcomes. This R21 aims to examine the feasibility, acceptability,
      and initial efficacy of a CBT-I supplement to ongoing alcohol treatment. A randomized pilot
      trial with 80 Veterans who meet diagnostic criteria for AUD and Insomnia Disorder will be
      conducted. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for
      Insomnia (CBT-I) or minimal treatment (educational handout only; EDU) in addition to alcohol
      treatment as usual. Outcomes will be assessed at the end of the active intervention period (6
      weeks) and 6 weeks post-intervention. Preliminary process outcomes include
      recruitment/retention rates and treatment satisfaction (feasibility and acceptability,
      respectively). Primary outcomes are insomnia severity, percentage of heavy drinking days, and
      alcohol-related problems; and we plan to examine post-treatment changes in insomnia severity
      as a mediator of treatment effects on alcohol use outcomes. We will also assess treatment
      effects on a variety of secondary clinical and mechanistic outcomes (e.g., PTSD symptoms,
      attention, working memory, treatment-related learning). Multiple imputation will be used for
      missing data, and analyses will be intent-to-treat.
    
  