
    
      The study will explore the research questions using qualitative semi-structured interviews
      with women diagnosed with gynaecological cancer. A study information sheet, reply slip and a
      reply-paid envelope will be sent to eligible patients by their secondary care clinician, with
      reminders sent after two weeks. Recruitment and interviewing will take place until data
      saturation occurs (three interviews with no new shared beliefs) on the main themes.
      Interviews will take place at a mutually convenient time and place, ideally face to face but
      could be conducted over the telephone if preferred by the interviewee or if social distancing
      measures are still in place due to Covid-19. Further verbal and written information regarding
      the study will be provided prior to interview commencement and participants will be given the
      opportunity to ask questions. Those agreeing to take part in a face to face interview will
      sign a consent form in duplicate (one for the participant and one copy for the research
      team). Those participating in a telephone interview will be read each point of the consent
      form and asked to agree to each one. This will be recorded, transcribed and used as evidence
      of consent. Interviews will be conducted flexibly allowing for shorter interviews where
      necessary and participants will be reminded that the interviews can be terminated at any
      time. The participant can withdraw from the study at any time: data already collected with
      consent will be retained and used in the study. No further data will be collected, or any
      other research procedures carried out on or in relation to the participant. All interviews
      will be digitally audio recorded and transcribed verbatim by the CI or NHSG approved
      transcription service. The data will be stored and managed using NVivo software. Interviews
      will follow a semi-structured topic guide based on the COM-B behaviour change model concepts
      of capability, opportunity and motivation. Changes can be made to the topic guide as
      interviews are conducted. Data familiarisation will be by reading and rereading transcripts
      and by listening to the recorded interviews. Data will be analysed using iterative deductive
      and inductive methods combining Framework analysis and thematic analysis.

      A contact will be provided for patients should they become distressed because of contact by
      or participation in the study. Although all data collected will stored and analysed with the
      strictest of confidence in line with the General Data Protection Regulations (2018), if
      details of any improper conduct or poor practice are disclosed the research team may be
      obliged to report this. The participant's GP will not be informed. Study participants will
      have any travel costs reimbursed.
    
  