
    
      Postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) is a common adverse event after general anesthesia.
      The incidence of PONV within 2 hours after surgery was approximately 14% in patients
      undergoing laparoscopic gynecological procedure and it could be about 22%-33% within 24 hours
      and as high as 80% in high-risk patients. Even with prophylaxis and treatment, such as
      5-hydroxytryptamine 3 (5-HT3) receptor antagonists, the incidence of PONV is still about
      7%-10%.

      PONV is an important clinical problem that impact the recovery of patients. Firstly, it can
      be a highly distress experience to patients and reduce their satisfaction with medical
      services. Secondly, PONV is associated with prolonged stay in the postanesthesia care unit
      and hospital, and increase medical expenditures. Thirdly, PONV increases the risk of reflux
      aspiration and lung infection.

      Risk factors for PONV in adults include anxiety, opioid use, and inflammation. A cohort study
      showed that patients with anxiety before surgery have a 5-fold increase in the risk of PONV.
      Opioids are one of the main causes of PONV, and the incidence of PONV increases with the
      increasing dose of opioids. Inflammation is also considered to be a potential molecular
      mechanism leading to PONV. Animal studies have shown that surgery can cause inflammation
      throughout the body and central nervous system, and stimulate the "vomiting center" , which
      leads to PONV.

      Several clinical studies reported that midazolam decreased PONV. In a meta-analysis included
      12 randomized trials (841 patients), the use of midazolam during the perioperative period
      reduced the risk of PONV by about 55%. Another Meta-analysis involving 16 randomized
      controlled studies also reported similar results. The use of midazolam during the
      perioperative period reduced the risk of PONV by approximately 45%.

      The mechanism by which benzodiazepines reduce PONV is not fully understood, but may include
      the following. Benzodiazepines can reduce the incidence of anxiety and reduce the severity of
      anxiety. On the other hand, studies have shown that the use of remimazolam enhances the
      analgesic effect of remifentanil and may reduce the dose of opioids. Another aspect is
      benzodiazepines may suppress the inflammatory response.

      Remimazolam is an ultra-short-acting benzodiazepine sedative. It has a more predictable fast
      onset, short duration of sedative action, and rapid recovery profile, but there is no
      clinical study on whether remimazolam has an effect on the incidence of PONV. The
      investigators speculate that remimazolam as a supplement anesthetic during general anesthesia
      can reduce the incidence of PONV.
    
  