
    
      Public hospitals and private practices specialized in ophthalmology Approximately 10 sites
      France Approximately 80 patients globally: 40 per arm with a 1:1 ratio including an expected
      dropout rate of 15%.

      Dry eye has been defined as a multifactorial disease of the ocular surface characterized by a
      loss of homeostasis of the tear film and accompanied by ocular symptoms, in which the tear
      film instability and hyperosmolarity, ocular surface inflammation and damage, and
      neurosensory abnormalities play etiological roles.

      However, prevalence estimates for dry eye vary dramatically from 5% to 50% due to the various
      operational definitions of dry eye used and the characteristics of the population studied.

      The available evidence suggests also that dry eye has a negative impact on overall quality of
      life. It causes pain and irritation and affects ocular and general health and well-being, the
      perception of visual function and visual performance. Reduced quality of life in everyday
      activities and leisure pursuits is reported by 60% of patients, while 38% of patients
      complain of reduced efficiency at work.

      Therefore, the economic burden and impact of dry eye on vision and quality of life, work
      productivity, psychological and physical impact of pain are considerable. As a consequence,
      dry eye represents a public health burden. However, only a handful of therapies are available
      for dry eye patient and are used according to the disease severity.

      In such context, SIFI SpA. has developed Eyestil Protection® (or SF-104 XNT Single dose). It
      is a sterile preservative-free device (eye drops) for ophthalmic use containing 0.2% xanthan
      gum, presented in 0.3 ml unidose containers. The main action of Eyestil Protection is to
      lubricate and moisturize the ocular surface as well as to protect it from oxidative stress
      thanks to the anti-oxidative properties of the xanthan gum (as demonstrated by in-vitro
      studies (Amico, Tornetta et al. 2015). It is indicated in all cases of dry-eye related ocular
      discomfort and to relief ocular discomfort due to the use of contact lenses.

      Eyestil Protection® unidose is CE marked but is not available yet in all European countries,
      notably in France.

      Confronted to a European regulatory change on medical devices - from a Directive (Directive
      1993/42/EEC) to a Regulation (MDR 2017/745) that now requires clinical evidence of device
      performance and safety; SIFI SpA decided to implement the present clinical comparative
      performance study. The choice of Vismed® (unidose) as the comparator has been done since it
      is the current French standard of care treatment for patients with moderate to severe dry
      eyes.

      Primary objective

      • To demonstrate the non-inferiority of Eyestil Protection® compared to Vismed® in terms of
      clinical performance as detected by a reduction of keratitis lesions objectified by staining
      tests after 1 month of treatment, in patients with moderate to severe dry eye syndrome with
      keratoconjunctivitis.

      Secondary objectives Clinical performance

        -  To evaluate the tear film stability per group as objectified by the tear break up time
           (TBUT) test at month 1 and 3;

        -  To evaluate the long term clinical performance of Eyestil Protection® compared to
           Vismed® as detected by a reduction of keratitis lesions objectified by staining tests
           after 3 months of treatment;

        -  To evaluate the tear production per group as objectified by the Schirmer test at month
           3.

      Patient reported outcomes

        -  To compare patients reported outcomes (PRO) measures per group at month 1 and 3,
           including:

             -  Patient's reported symptoms and

             -  Patient's quality of life (QoL). Investigator overall satisfaction

        -  To assess investigator's overall satisfaction of the treatment's clinical performance at
           month 1 and 3.

      Safety • To describe the safety profile of Eyestil Protection® compared to Vismed® after 3
      months of treatment.

      Exploratory objectives

      • To compare patient's QoL subscale scores per group at each time point.
    
  