
    
      Study Design:

      The diabetes teams will select participants who meet inclusion criterion and the team will
      provide them with information leaflets. The information sheets will include contact details
      of the research team should any queries arise and contact details of somebody independent
      from the study. Parents/guardians of volunteers between 13-16 years old will also be able to
      access the information leaflet so they are aware of the study that their child has
      volunteered to participate in. The information leaflets will provide information surrounding
      consent. The information sheets will include a uniform resource locator (URL) where patients
      who have been selected by their diabetes teams will volunteer to download the app (SweetSpot)
      from.

      Once the individual downloads the application or provided with an Android device by the
      University, they will be required to provide contact details for themselves, their GP and
      diabetes teams. This is so GP's can be made aware of the patients participation and so
      diabetes teams can be informed if the research team have concerns regarding an individual.
      Additionally, participants can be informed of any relevant developments throughout the study
      and this can be the forum to disseminate findings from the study.

      All identifiable data will be stored electronically on a secure local server and password
      protected database. Any data removed from this database will be partially identifiable
      through a unique identifier (UID) which will link the two data sets. Analysis will be
      conducted on fully anonymised data.

      Participants who have volunteered to take part in the study will have approximately four
      weeks to use the app and will be requested to attended an interview to provide feedback on
      the feasibility and user-friendliness of the app. As well as obtaining consent through the
      app, patients participating in this phase will provide consent to participate in the focus
      group.

      Additionally, clinicians in the field will be aware of workshops for clinicians to interact
      with the app. This will be due to the chief investigator attending meetings explaining the
      study. A follow-up email will be disseminated to the teams with an information sheet and
      clinicians can volunteer to attend a workshop where they can use the app and provide feedback
      on the acceptability and feasibility of SweetSpot. Consent will be obtained at the workshop
      from clinicians.

      The general format which each individual will follow contains 6 chapters with individual
      sessions which have been adapted from "ACT for diabetes self-management" manual. These
      include:

      Chapter 1- Identifying problems.

        -  Information, consent demographics & baseline questionnaires.

        -  Barriers to self-management, where barriers direct us.

        -  Responding to barriers.

      Chapter 2 - A choice to be willing.

        -  Trying something different.

        -  Letting go of struggles.

      Chapter 3-What's important to us.

        -  Noticing the direction we're moving.

        -  Choosing our direction.

      Chapter 4- How to move towards what we care about.

        -  Moving towards our values.

        -  Barriers in moving towards our desired direction.

        -  Recognising our struggles.

      Chapter 5 - How to work flexibly with obstacles.

        -  School.

        -  University.

        -  Work.

        -  Socialising.

        -  Family.

        -  Relationships.

      Chapter 6-keeping going.

        -  How to keep on track.

        -  Choose what works.

      Study Population:

      Participants:

      The study aims to recruit 12 participants from NHS Lothian, NHS Glasgow & Clyde, NHS Fourth
      Valley, NHS Dumfries & Galloway, NHS Borders, and NHS Lanarkshire.

      Identifying Participants:

      Clinician's from diabetes teams in the NHS boards involved will identify patients who meet
      inclusion criteria and competent to provide consent. These participants will be provided with
      information leaflets when they attend their regular NHS clinic appointment. A volunteer
      sample from those selected will pilot SweetSpot. Information leaflets will be available to
      parents/guardians of patients who are younger than 16 years old. An email address for the
      chief investigator and a person independent from the research team will also be included in
      the information leaflet.

      Consent Process:

      The information sheet containing the URL will state that if they download SweetSpot they are
      consenting to being involved in an interview to feedback their experience of using SweetSpot
      which will be recorded and used for research purposes. Participants will be asked to provide
      their email or phone number so the interview can be arranged, and for future contact should
      any additional information relevant to the research become available, they will be informed
      of this and so results can be disseminated via email. The chief investigator will introduce
      the study to Psychologists in the diabetes network and will visit diabetes teams who have
      shown an interest in the study to explain it in more detail to the whole team. Further to
      this an email will be disseminated to NHS diabetes clinicians regarding an educational
      workshop which introduces SweetSpot, allows clinicians to use SweetSpot and generates
      feedback from Clinicians regarding acceptability, feasibility and user-friendliness of the
      app. The workshop will have an information leaflet which will explain that by attending the
      workshop clinicians are consenting to being involved in a focus group to feedback their
      experience of using SweetSpot which will be recorded and used for research purposes and a
      subsequent consent form will be required to be completed at the workshops. It was deemed
      vital that formative work was conducted in collaboration with targeted users and service
      providers. Participants will be required to fill in a consent form before the workshops and
      focus groups. They are required to provide consent for two issues once they volunteer to
      download the app: 1. to consent to providing contact information of themselves, GP and
      diabetes team, 2. to consent to their data being used for research purposes. If they do not
      consent to both these issues they will not be able to access the app content.

      There will be direct questions within the app which address consent:

        1. Do you consent to your diabetes team being informed of your participation in this study,
           and that further contact will be made if any concerns about your well-being arise?

        2. Do you consent to your data being used for research purposes in this study? If the
           participant responds no to question 1 or 2, then they will not be able to access the
           app. The GP and diabetes team will still be informed of their participation in the
           study. An information leaflet given to potential participants by their health care team
           will also cover consent issues.

      A statement in the information sheets will also state:

      By downloading the app you are consent that "I understand that relevant sections of my
      medical notes and data collected during the study may be looked at by individuals from the
      Sponsor (University of Edinburgh), from the NHS organisation or other authorities, where it
      is relevant to my taking part in this research. I give permission for these individuals to
      have access to my records."

      Data Collection:

      A unique identifier (UID) is assigned to each participant's data. All data will be stored
      electronically on an encrypted firewall protected secure local server and password protected
      database. The measures used to assess effectiveness of the application for self-monitoring
      behaviours are self-report of blood glucose measurements, insulin injecting, diet and
      physical exercise imputed daily. The outcome measures will be well-being, diabetes related
      distress and self-care behaviours.

      Data Analysis for Qualitative Data:

      The interviews and the workshop will be transcribed and the audio recording will be deleted.
      Framework analysis will be utilised for the workshop. Interpretive phenomenological analysis
      will be used for the interviews. This is because these types of analysis lies within the
      phenomenological school of thought, attempting to understand beliefs and attitudes about a
      topic. Therefore adopting a realist approach which assumes participants are reporting the
      truth in their experience. Within the realist framework an inductive approach is adopted to
      ensure interpretations were grounded in the data. It allows for themes to be generated
      through the research questions but also from the narratives provided by the participants.
      Framework analysis aims to report patterns within the data by using a systematic way to
      interpret information. The method uses a matrix which blends empirical investigation in
      creative study. Framework analysis has been found useful in analysing focus groups. Themes
      produced will identify amendments which need to be made for the intervention stage of the
      study. Interpretive phenomenological analysis is a useful analysis for individual interviews
      as it generates an in-depth analysis of a person's experience.

      Data Analysis for Quantitative Data:

      A simple t-test analysis will be conducted if the data is normally distributed, or
      Wilcoxon-sign if the data is non-normally distributed.
    
  