
    
      Visit 1：Enrollment & Screening & Run-in period Patients who meet the inclusion criteria will
      be asked to complete IBS Baseline Assessment Questionnaires according to Rome III.Subjects
      that meet the criteria will receive verbal and written information about the study and
      provide written informed consent. After meeting with the dietitian and physician who will
      provide instructions, they will be asked to complete Combined Nutrient and Lactulose Breath
      Test.[16] Additionally, a baseline food and symptom diary will be completed in a (minimum) 14
      day run-in period after breath test (the first 48hr after the breath test will not be
      included in this analysis). This diary record prior to the intervention will document
      baseline symptom severity and capture the habitual diet of IBS patients.

      Visit 2: Randomization & Intervention. After the run-in period, patients will come back to
      the clinic to receive dietary instruction ahead of starting the intervention. At the same
      visit subjects will provide fresh stool for fermentation analysis (including short chain
      fatty acids and pressure detection) and blood for cytokines analysis. Subjects will then be
      randomly assigned to either low FODMAP diet (LFD) group or traditional dietary advice for IBS
      (TDA) group by computer-generated random number table. Participants will receive food
      instructions by a dietitian, according to their assignment. Throughout the study, only the
      dietitian will be aware of the assignment of the intervention given. Both diet therapy will
      last for 3 weeks, and all the subjects are instructed to complete daily food and symptom
      diary through a provided booklet. IBS Symptoms Severity Scores (IBS-SSS) is evaluated every
      week and the dietitian who is not aware of the allocation will make a telephone follow-up to
      assess patient adherence.

      Visit 3: End of treatment & Follow-up. After 3 weeks of intervention, the participants will
      attend a follow-up appointment and complete the IBS Post-Intervention Assessment
      Questionnaires. Fresh stools and blood are recollected at this visit to evaluate for possible
      change in gut microbiota and cytokines after diet intervention.
    
  