
    
      This study is a multi-center, prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, participant and
      laboratory-blinded clinical trial to evaluate a single pre-travel vaccination with
      investigational freeze-dried glutamate BCG (Japan) to prevent Mycobacterium tuberculosis
      complex (Mtb) infection in healthy adult travelers, 18-65 years of age, exposed to persons
      with TB in high burden countries.

      The goals of this study are both public health and scientific. The public health goal of this
      study is to offer possible protection against TB to US workers traveling abroad to work in
      countries with a high burden of TB where there is a risk for multidrug resistant/extensively
      drug resistant TB exposure and where effective TB infection control interventions are
      infrequently fully implemented. A long-term scientific goal is to test the hypothesis that TB
      vaccination prevents primary TB infection as measured by peripheral blood TB interferon gamma
      release assay (IGRA) conversion at return from travel visit, as well as sustained conversion
      at approximately 4-6 months post-return from travel. Rates of IGRA conversion in
      BCG-vaccinated recipients as compared to placebo recipients will be evaluated. Additionally,
      this study will collect information regarding exposure to and infection with TB, assessing
      risk factors for TB infection during the participant's travel.

      This study will recruit two types of travelers: Type 1 travelers (Short-term travelers) that
      will be limited to health care workers traveling for 4 weeks, but less than 6 months and Type
      2 travelers (Long-term travelers) that will include those planning to reside in the country
      for 6 months or more (but ≤ 2.5 years duration), regardless of occupational group.

      High TB burden countries for this study are defined as countries identified in the World
      Health Organization (WHO) Global Tuberculosis Report 2014 to have a TB incidence of
      ≥70/100,000. Targeted participant population of travelers at-risk for high TB exposure will
      work specifically in one or more of the 89 highest ranked TB burden countries as recognized
      by the WHO 2014 report.

      Participants enrolled will be required to complete typically 4, but up to 6 study visits
      composed of: screening and eligibility assessments, vaccination with study vaccine (BCG or
      placebo), a subsequent post-vaccination follow-up assessment visit to identify potential
      adverse event occurrences, a post-travel follow-up visit to assess the risk factors for Mtb
      infection and assess the primary endpoint (IGRA conversion from negative to positive), and if
      applicable, an additional visit for those participants who are found to have a borderline
      IGRA result. For participants found to have post-travel IGRA conversion results, an
      additional visit will be requested for assessment of sustained TB IGRA conversion and
      reversion.

      Different evaluations, tests and/or procedures to be performed during study visits include:
      interviews relevant to their medical history and general well-being between study visits;
      physical examinations and vital signs; completion of a pre-travel and post-travel
      questionnaire to collect information regarding exposure to TB and risk factors for infection,
      as well as any information regarding development of active TB disease, both pulmonary and/or
      extrapulmonary; keeping a record to assess for occurrence of local reactions at the injection
      site and incidence of selected symptoms for the first 14 days post-vaccination; and blood
      draws (2 up to 4 depending on what previous blood test results reveal).

      The study design is endpoint driven; designed to observe 56 total IGRA conversions.
      Therefore, enrollment into this study will be stopped if the target endpoint (56 IGRA
      conversions) are met earlier than expected.
    
  