
    
      Chronic low back pain is highly prevalent in Veterans, and is often resistant to
      pharmacological management so that non-pharmacological management is required. For many
      patients, the most effective approach is comprehensive pain management incorporating multiple
      therapies addressing: physical, mental, mind-body, sleep, safety, and environmental needs.
      The ultimate outcome is the development of a coordinated multidimensional evidence-based plan
      for pain self-management (C-MEPPS) tailored to each patient. This approach, while effective,
      is highly resource intensive and severely constrained by cost and health system factors.

      The investigators' goal is a mobile web-based application (App) that provides immediate
      feedback to Veterans seeking to develop their own pain self-management plan. This will
      represent a novel, scalable, Veteran-driven solution to chronic low back pain aligned with VA
      strategic objectives 'online navigator tools.empowers Veterans to make decisions.' The
      investigators are focused on transferring knowledge about evidence-base practices into the
      primary care context to help Veterans and their healthcare providers manage pain effectively-
      before it gets worse. The investigators have already developed the App prototype utilizing
      User-Centered Design principles to optimize the user experience. Our first aim is to develop
      and pilot test a web-based App for Veterans, including older Veterans and women Veterans,
      designed to empower each in pain self-management planning: providing access and data-driven
      guidance about evidence-based multidimensional behavior change. The investigators' second aim
      is to gather pilot data targeting patient-centered and rehabilitative outcomes such as:
      increased activity, more sleep time, decreased pain interference and better quality of life;
      through use of the App and engagement in pain self-management planning.

      This project brings together the expertise of skilled exercise physiologists, experienced
      pain and sleep clinical psychologists, pain specialists, clinical educators, geriatricians,
      women's health providers, and technology design experts to create a powerful new pipeline for
      knowledge transfer to patients and providers. Grounded in whole health and integrative
      approaches, nursing principles, pharmacy practices, physical therapy, and nutrition are also
      included in the App. The investigators are working as an interprofessional pain-focused team
      to put the best-available information about non-pharmacological treatments for pain into the
      hands of Veterans and their primary care providers. The investigators' vision is to improve
      the lives of Veterans with chronic low back pain, improving access to knowledge and resources
      and giving Veterans the power to plan their own path to better, more fulfilling living
      despite chronic low back pain.
    
  