
    
      Hip fracture is an established and recognized health problem associated with the age of the
      population. In the elderly, it is essential that surgery for hip fractures would be performed
      within 48 hours from admission. Whenever delayed beyond 48 hours, the probability of 30-day
      mortality increases by 41% and the odds of one-year mortality by 32%.

      Neuraxial anesthesia and/or peripheral nerve block are generally preferred in elderlies.
      However, cardiovascular and/or cerebral comorbidities require antiplatelets therapies at
      home. This treatment precludes the possibility of an optimal anesthesiologic strategy (i.e.,
      loco-regional anesthesia) within the recommended surgical timing. Therefore, an individual
      approach is required to balance the risk of drugs continuation/cessation on major
      cardiovascular events and on peri-operative bleeding.

      Clopidogrel is a second-generation thienopyridine antiplatelet drug, that exerts its effect
      by the inhibition of the platelet's purinergic receptor P2Y12, preventing adenosine
      diphosphate (ADP) from stimulating it. In patients needing surgery, guidelines recommend
      withholding clopidogrel 5 days before. However, around 30% of patients are resistant to
      clopidogrel for several reasons. Patients resistant to clopidogrel may be identify through
      the thromboelastography (TEG). TEG is a resonance-frequency viscoelastic point-of-care
      diagnostic system that assesses hemostasis and response to antiplatelet therapy, in
      combination with the ADP Platelet Mapping assay kit.

      It has been hypothesized that the assessment of platelet aggregation with TEG and ADP
      Platelet Mapping may identify patients resistant to clopidogrel, not requiring to wait for 5
      days for hip replacement surgery. We have therefore designed this protocol to guide
      anesthesiologists in the management of elderlies receiving clopidogrel and requiring surgery
      for hip fracture. The aim of this pilot study is to evaluate if in a small population of
      patients, our protocol based on platelet function monitoring would anticipate surgery within
      48 hours at least in 70% of elderly patients receiving clopidogrel.
    
  