
    
      Caesarean delivery (CD) is one of the most commonly performed surgical procedures with an
      estimated annual frequency of 27% in Alberta between 2007-2011. Poorly controlled
      postsurgical pain is associated with an increase in morbidity. Untreated or undertreated pain
      can lead to respiratory infections secondary to splinting and shallow breathing. Excessive
      pain also reduces and delays ambulation, which can lead to both an increase in the incidence
      of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and delay recovery and readiness for discharge. Poorly
      controlled pain may also lead to the development of chronic postsurgical pain. The optimal
      form of postoperative analgesia following CD is not known. Most postoperative analgesic
      protocols for CD, despite being multimodal in nature, rely heavily on opioid medications both
      orally and intrathecally for analgesia. These medications, however, are not without serious
      side effects such as nausea, vomiting, sedation, addiction or dependence, and respiratory
      depression as well as expression in breast milk which may put infants at risk of side effects
      as well. Thus, an effective alternative analgesic modality analgesia in these patients which
      produces both improved pain control and reduced side effects is desired. The TFP block
      represents a promising alternative, which may fulfill this role in complementing multimodal
      analgesia for patients undergoing CD and reducing opioid administration.

      This project aims to elucidate information regarding alternative interventions for
      postoperative analgesia following CD. While the most common analgesic regimen of intrathecal
      and oral opioids, acetaminophen, and NSAIDS for postoperative analgesia is effective, it is
      not appropriate for all patients. For those who cannot receive intrathecal opioids (e.g.
      those with allergies to opioid medications, or those who are undergoing CD under general
      anesthetic), alternative analgesic modalities are important to provide adequate multimodal
      analgesia and minimize side effects of each of the analgesic medications. Additionally, this
      aforementioned common analgesic pathway may itself be further optimized through the addition
      of new analgesic techniques. The Transversalis Fascia Plane (TFP) block is a nerve block,
      which could potentially target nerves responsible for transmitting pain following CD, and
      represents a promising novel analgesic modality.
    
  