
    
      Prospective single-blinded placebo-controlled cross-over study, among adult patients
      suffering from moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis (AD), insufficiently responsive to
      topical and systemic treatment. All patients receive 2 placebo transplantations each 2 weeks
      apart followed by 4 fecal microbial transplantations (FMTs) from healthy donors each 2 weeks
      apart. Patients were allowed to continue with their baseline medical topical treatment,
      including moisturizers and glucocorticoids, during the study period, but no new therapy was
      commenced. The severity of AD and the fecal microbiome profile were evaluated by the Scoring
      Atopic Dermatitis Score (SCORAD score), and the weekly use of topical corticosteroids, at the
      beginning of the study, before every FMT, and 1-6 months after the last FMT.

      During the study period, patients were allowed to use only topical therapy including
      emollients and glucocorticoids or calcineurin inhibitors.

      FMT preparation and delivery:

      Volunteer donors were healthy, non-pregnant adults aged 18 to 50 years, with a normal body
      mass index. Volunteer donors were excluded for any significant medical history or for any use
      of antibiotics in the preceding 3 months. Candidates were eligible according to the Israeli
      Ministry of Health guidelines which include a physical examination and laboratory screening
      tests including fecal enteric pathogens, serum antibodies to hepatitis A, B, and C; human
      immunodeficiency virus; HTLV, and Treponema pallidum as well as celiac, CBC (and additional
      tests that comply with the guidelines of the Israeli Ministry of Health). Stool was delivered
      within minutes post defecation in a clean closed plastic container and was processed at the
      Tel Aviv Medical Center stool bank facility to prepare capsulized FMT. Briefly, fecal
      material was diluted with normal saline (600ml/100g of fecal material), filtered and
      concentrated the preparation in a centrifuge. The pellet was suspended in sterile saline and
      glycerol (20%) that was added as a bacterial cryoprotectant. This material was then pipetted
      into acid-resistant capsules, which was closed and then secondarily sealed with additional
      set of capsules. Capsules were stored frozen at -80°C. Placebo capsules had identical
      visually and contained diluted glycerol only.

      Capsulized FMT procedure:

      FMT was administered in two doses of 15 FMT capsules on two consecutive days (a total of 30
      capsules), at the Bacteriotherapy clinic of the Tel Aviv medical center (TLVMC). On the day
      of administration, capsules frozen at -80°C were taken out of the freezer and transported to
      the clinic on ice. Fifteen capsules were handed individually to the patient and the patient
      ingested the capsules immediately with some water. Patients were asked to fast overnight
      prior to capsule intake.

      Fecal microbial analysis:

      In order to examine whether the clinical effect may be mediated by colonization of new
      bacterial strains, the investigators developed a robust and sensitive method to calculate
      pairwise DNA sequence dissimilarity between bacterial strains of the same species across
      distinct metagenomics samples. Donor stool samples that were used for FMT capsules and stool
      samples that were collected from the patients during the study period were sequenced into
      metagenomics reads. Reads that were mapped were piled up to obtain per-position variant
      information for every detected species. Difference in the variant of a particular species at
      a given position between two samples was defined as having no intersection between the set of
      detected alleles in the two samples being compared. The estimated species DNA sequence
      dissimilarity for a pair of samples is then the number of different positions divided by the
      total number of positions being compared.
    
  