
    
      Nanoparticles (NPs) are quite safe for an organism but entire kinetics is mostly unknown. The
      most dangerous approach with lowest level of efficacy and safety is a delivery of NPs with
      microbubbles. SP+ and mesenchymal SPCs have the similar efficacy as a local delivery system
      with a lot of beneficial properties such as anti-inflammative, anti-apoptotic, and
      multi-metabolic effects leading to the plaque degradation and artery rejuvenation. Thus,
      nanoburning is very challenging technique to demolish and reverse the plaque especially in
      combination with stem cell technologies promising functional restoration of the vessel wall
      and can be an alternative to stenting.

      Altering general strategy the investigators generally offer:

        1. The investigators don't need a therapy only with harvested stem cells (not so effective,
           but more provocative); the investigators have to manage host resident stem cells on site
           [local in-artery infusion] with growth factors, cytokines [or systemic potentiation, but
           risk of side effects and adverse events is high].

        2. Regular intravenous systemic therapy with modified BM (bone marrow), circulating
           progenitor, and iPS (induced pluripotent) stem cells might be beneficial for prevention
           of diseases, and rejuvenation of tissues and organs - but the system as whole will be
           compromised [the investigators can store stem cells of each individual to use for cell
           therapy or bioengineering].

        3. The best way - development of bioengineered constructions through life to transplant a
           bioartificial organ on request.

        4. Multi-step invasive treatment of atherosclerosis - (1) biodegradable stenting in ACU
           (acute care unit), or preventively, with no restenosis and no acute atherothrombosis
           risk profile, (2) regular systemic or local stem cell therapy, or with cytokines, (3)
           on-artery MSCs (mesenchymal stem cells)-related bioengineered patch with silica-gold
           iron-bearing NPs [SCs (stem cells) as carriers for NPs with transduction in hands of
           magnetic fields for local elimination of plaque, and subsequent rejuvenation of artery
           wall.

      Our new approach, challenging modern therapy of atherosclerosis include:

        1. BIODEGRADABLE STENTS - for 6-24 months period under the soft short-term antithrombotic
           therapy (resolving concerns with stenosis/ lumen + steered remodeling); no hemorrhages,
           no alien metal body, no concerns with further CABG, minimal inflammation

        2. INTRAVENOUS NON-SPECIFIC SYSTEMIC STEM CELL THERAPY - before and after stenting - launch
           repair effects in vessel + beneficial effects for ischemic or injured tissues

        3. ON-ARTERY BIOENGINEERED PATCH transplantation with NPs or MICRO-INFUSION of stem cells
           bearing NP - grown with MSCs and NPs (bovine pericardium scaffold); 3-6 weeks to grow a
           thin structure (recover cells before or during stenting), multi-effects due to migration
           of SCs + bioactive products of lysis

        4. PLASMONIC PHOTOTHERMAL THERAPY - 'melting' and 'burning' effects - direct degradation +
           bioactive products of stem cells' lysis + further migration of SCs from patch

      Potential expected disadvantages of our approach: Necessity of the special precise delivery
      technique. Lost function of artery - irreparable pro-fibrotic and pro-inflammative damage -
      necessity of another clinical approach for restoration of tissue (may be with stem cells).
      Threat of acute fatal atherothrombosis due to rupture of (vulnerable) plaque - verification
      of the optimal antithrombotic therapy. Cannot treat non-organic part of plaque - necessity of
      the special therapy for mineral deposits, calcified necrotic core, fibrotic sites - solution
      using stem cells. Harm of potent detrimental adverse effects - vapor bubbling (boiling of
      cytoplasm and ECM with subsequent lysis of cells, and provocation of pro-apoptotic cascades),
      acoustic and shock waves due to plasma-generated laser-related detonation of nanoshells in
      tissue - need regenerative therapy (type of SCs, conditions and way of transplantation;
      Culturing? Sorting?). Erratic (unsteered) heating - surrounding tissue of the site of
      interest can achieve a temperature until 38-39°. But at the site of burning final temperature
      can be at about 50-180 C (cauterization/ searing/ melting effect) with consequent
      pro-fibrotic effect - need regenerative therapy and clarification of energy options.
    
  