
    
      Aim 1: Assess baseline adjustment, coping, pretend play, parenting stress, and family
      interactions.

        -  Hypothesis 1a: Children with siblings diagnosed with cancer will have lower levels of
           adjustment, coping skills, and pretend play compared to previous sample norms.

        -  Hypothesis 1b: The child's adjustment will be mediated by factors related to their
           involvement in the sibling's medical care, such as parent's level of communication
           regarding their sibling's illness, frequent isolation from the family and other social
           support, time since their sibling's diagnosis, and parenting stress. -Hypothesis 1c:
           Parents of children diagnosed with cancer will report higher levels of parenting stress
           compared to previous sample norms.

      Aim 2: Assess outcome of three play intervention sessions focusing on increasing coping and
      adjustment.

        -  Hypothesis 2a: Compared to the active control, children in the play intervention group
           will have increased coping skills after intervention.

        -  Hypothesis 2b: Compared to the active control, children in the play intervention group
           will have better psychological adjustment following intervention.

        -  Hypothesis 2c: Parents of children in the play intervention group will report decreased
           parenting stress following the intervention.

      Once parents consent to participate and their child provides assent, they and their child
      will complete the baseline questionnaires and measures. Immediately following completion of
      the baseline measures, the child will be randomly assigned to either the play intervention or
      active control group.Children will also be asked to rate their mood at the beginning of each
      play session. The outcome parent and child questionnaires will be administered again at a
      session approximately one week after the third play session, for a total of four play
      sessions each spaced approximately one week apart. Children will also be asked to rate their
      satisfaction with the treatment at the outcome session (e.g., "How much did you like being a
      part of this study?").
    
  