
    
      The Center for Disease Control reports that epilepsy afflicts 2.7 million Americans with
      annual costs of $15.5 billion. They estimate that 3% of Americans will have a diagnosis of
      epilepsy by age 80, and decided in 1997 to focus on treatment, with a motto of "no seizures,
      no side effects".

      Antiepileptic drugs (AED) can fail, despite being structurally unrelated and acting on
      different parts of the nervous system. This refractory state constitutes up to 35% of the
      epilepsy population, and may be due to pharmacoresistance. Efflux transporters, such as
      P-glycoprotein (Pgp), are present at the bloodbrain barrier and serve to pump out
      structurally unrelated compounds, likely serving as a method for the removal of toxins (and
      drugs). Upregulation of efflux transporters such as Pgp by tumor cells are thought to
      contribute to chemotherapy resistant cancer tumors, but Pgp has also been found focally at
      seizure foci. Its overexpression was also noted in blood vessel endothelial cells following
      temporal lobe resection for intractable epilepsy. Case series have shown mRNA for MDR1, the
      gene encoding Pgp, to be 10x greater in the medial temporal lobes of patients with temporal
      lobe epilepsy, as compared to those without epilepsy. Pathological examination following
      surgical resections have found that epilepsy causing lesions such as cortical dysplasias,
      encephalitis, tuberculous leptomeningitis, tuberous sclerosis and astrocytomas express Pgp in
      neurons and/or glia, whereas normal brain parenchyma does not. In animal and cell research,
      upregulation has been seen following seizure induction and status epilepticus. Many AEDs are
      validated substrates to Pgp in animal studies. Delivery of these medications to the brain is
      likely associated with Pgp and in some cases, presence of the substrate may upregulate Pgp.

      When Pgp inhibitors were added to animal models of drug resistant epilepsy, there were
      significant improvements in seizure frequency, duration and severity, providing
      proof-of-concept at the animal level. Carvedilol and verapamil, among other medications, have
      been found to be potent Pgp inhibitors. Verapamil and dexverapamil, either oral or
      intravenous, has been used as Pgp-inhibitors in clinical trials, with success as an adjuvant
      in malignant lymphoma and a phase III study as an adjunct in chemorefractory, metastatic
      breast carcinoma. There have been no clinical trials published using Pgp-inhibition in
      epilepsy.
    
  