
    
      Suicide is a devastating event that occurs at a very low base rate, rendering detection of
      acute suicide risk one of the signal challenges in behavioral science. Advancement in the
      detection of imminent risk requires new modalities of intensive, longitudinal data collection
      that are both acceptable and scalable. Recent developments in commercial, actigraphic sleep
      recording systems have opened a new avenue of approach to this challenge, enabling the
      automated collection and daily review of sleep scheduling and sleep heart rate (HR), both of
      which have demonstrated associations with suicidality in prior studies. Our team, comprising
      Drs. Steven Woodward (Director of the Sleep and Psychophysiology Laboratory of the National
      Center for PTSD), Rebecca Bernert (Director of the Suicide Prevention Center, Stanford
      University School of Medicine), Christina Khan (Director of the Thrive Clinic, Stanford
      University School of Medicine), and Wilfred Pigeon (Director of the Center of Excellence in
      Suicide Prevention, Department of Veterans Affairs) will pursue the following Aims.

      AIM 1: To assess, in U.S. military veterans diagnosed with posttraumatic stress disorder
      (PTSD), whether sleep schedule variability and sleep heart rate, recorded in the home for one
      month using a low-cost, zero-burden, actigraphic sleep measurement system, can distinguish
      those who are at elevated actuarial risk for suicide from those who are not.

      AIM 2: To assess, in U.S. military veterans diagnosed with PTSD, whether elevated sleep
      schedule variability and elevated sleep heart rates can predict increased suicidal ideation
      over a clinically-relevant surveillance period of two months.

      The proposal is founded on observational and epidemiological studies supporting associations
      between sleep disturbance, basal heart rate and suicidality, including important
      contributions from Co-Is Bernert and Pigeon (1-12). Also supportive of the proposal are new
      observations from a sample of 71 U.S. Military veterans with deployment-related PTSD studied
      by the PI during inpatient PTSD treatment. In this sample, after adjusting for depressed mood
      and body mass index (BMI), sleep heart rate was 3.8 BPM higher in those endorsing current
      ideation and a history of attempts than in those denying both. The investigators also
      describe in detail below a supportive case observed in Dr. Woodward's laboratory which, to
      our knowledge, represents the first extended acquisition of sleep behavior prior to a serious
      suicide attempt.

      The proposal leverages the PI's expertise in zero-burden, mattress-actigraphic sleep
      recording originally motivated by the observation that PTSD patients rarely manifest sleep
      disturbances in the laboratory. The aforementioned data were obtained employing a
      high-accuracy, non-commercial, mattress actigraphic system developed by the PI (13-15), which
      was found acceptable to > 95% of the 900+ veteran PTSD inpatients with whom it has been used
      at the Trauma Recovery Program (TRP) at the VA Palo Alto Health Care System (~40,000 nights
      of recording). The proposed study will employ a low-cost, commercially-available alternative,
      the Sleepace RestOn, that can be mailed and user-installed. This system is also zero-burden
      as there is nothing to put on, take off, charge, or upload. In our pilot work, it has proven
      acceptable to veteran outpatients at high risk for suicide. Moreover, though its connection
      to a tablet computer, this system provides daily, web-based access to the raw actigraphic
      data enabling the direct verification of data quality and the application of custom
      algorithms to extract movement, heart rate, and respiratory amplitude.

      Aim 1 will attempt to replicate and extend the aforementioned observations made in PTSD
      inpatients with and without suicidal ideation and histories of attempts in PTSD outpatients
      studied in the home. Aim 2 will attempt to replicate and extend Co-I Bernert's study
      demonstrating, in high-risk young adults, that weekly changes in sleep schedule variability
      predict weekly changes in suicidal ideation (1). Bernert's study period will be extended from
      three weeks to two months, and sleep heart rate will be included as a predictor. Suicide
      symptoms will be assessed weekly by telephone using the Depression Symptom Index - Suicide
      Severity (DSI-SS; 16), a brief, psychometrically-sound measure of suicide ideation intensity
      yielding a score from 0 to 12 (17). Mixed effects modeling (18) will be employed, and with
      respect to Aim 2, the temporal precedence of changes in sleep to changes in suicidal ideation
      intensity will be tested in order confirm that sleep changes meet criteria for true
      risk-factors (19). An established partnership with VA Suicide Prevention Coordinators (SPCs)
      will facilitate recruitment from the actuarial REACH VET list (20) and local hospital
      high-risk list while maximizing participant safety. An exploratory aim will estimate the
      contribution of certain participant factors likely to impact sleep scheduling or its
      measurement, in-bed media consumption, hypnotic medication, CPAP use, and alcohol/substance
      use. In the case of a positive study outcome, a multi-site R01 will be proposed including
      centralized data collection and review at the VA Center of Excellence for Suicide Prevention
      in Canandaigua, NY, under the direction of Co-I Pigeon, implementation science and health
      economic aims developed in collaboration with Co-I Marshall, and exploratory integration into
      the REACH VET algorithm.
    
  