
    
      Background:

      Housing insecurity is a known risk factor for negative child health and developmental
      outcomes. The goal of this intervention is to reduce housing insecurity among families with
      young children as a mechanism for improving child health and improving other predictors on
      the pathway toward child health, including food security and maternal mental health status.

      Rationale:

      Children's HealthWatch data collected from 2010-2014 at Boston Medical Center, where the
      sample for this project will be recruited, found 32% of families were behind on rent in the
      past year and 7% of families moved more than twice in the past year. Previous research by
      Children's HealthWatch links multiple moves with increased risks of fair or poor child health
      and developmental delay. Families who are behind on rent are also at risk of fair or poor
      health, developmental delays, and are below average in length/height, a marker for
      under-nutrition. Given the significant associations between housing insecurity and child
      health outcomes, this project is tailored to address challenges faced by families who are
      severely housing insecure and who are classified as high health care utilizers by industry
      standards (defined as ≥ 3 emergency department visits in one year).

      This research study design for this pilot is a randomized control trial whereby eligible
      families are randomly assigned to the intervention group or the control group. Those in the
      intervention group will be referred to a case manager and receive at least one of the six
      services offered through the program. Families in the control group will receive the current
      standard of care, which is a packet of outreach resources with information on housing and
      housing supports.

      Purpose:

      This study will investigate if this intervention is effective in improving housing stability
      and child health outcomes compared to current standard of care.

      Study hypotheses:

      Using data collected at baseline, six months, and 12 months after enrollment, the
      investigators will examine whether children ages 0-4, their siblings ages 0-11, and
      caregivers in the intervention group, vs. those in the control group, are more likely to
      have:

        -  Reduced score on housing insecurity assessment

        -  Reduced emergency department (ED) usage and hospitalizations for caregivers and children

        -  Improved adherence to well-child visits and immunization schedule

        -  Improved caregiver mental health, as defined by reduced depressive symptoms reported

        -  Increased family income and reduced reports of material hardships, including decreased
           food insecurity, defined by the gold-standard USDA 18-item scale; decreased energy
           insecurity, using the validated Children's HealthWatch screener; and decreased health
           care hardships, using the Children's HealthWatch screener.

      The investigators will also examine ultimate net cost vs. savings per consumer to implement
      this Housing Prescription as Health Care program. Elements we will consider in economic
      models include:

        -  Costs of delivery of the intervention

        -  Savings from avoided health care costs

        -  Savings from avoided homelessness

        -  Increased family income as a result of this intervention
    
  