
    
      This is an exploratory natural history protocol that enrolls patients with known or as yet
      undiagnosed disorders of inflammation. Blood, saliva, or buccal samples will be collected for
      genetic analysis, blood samples will be obtained for immunologic and other functional
      studies, a small number of subjects may undergo skin biopsy, leukapheresis, or bone marrow
      aspiration and biopsy, and some subjects will be provided standard medical care follow up,
      with retrospective analysis of the clinical data gathered during follow up. The primary
      objective is to discover the genetic basis of human disorders of inflammation. The secondary
      objective is to enumerate immunologic features and genotype-phenotype associations in
      specific autoinflammatory diseases. The tertiary objective is to describe the clinical
      features of poorly characterized or newly defined disorders of inflammation. This protocol
      provided clinical support for the identification of the gene mutated in familial
      Mediterranean fever (FMF), the discovery of the TNF receptor-associated periodic syndrome
      (TRAPS), the identification of NLRP3 mutations in the neonatal-onset multisystem inflammatory
      disease (NOMID), the discovery of the deficiency of the IL-1 receptor antagonist (DIRA), and
      the proposal of the now widely accepted concept of autoinflammatory disease. During the last
      decade the protocol has provided the clinical foundation for the discovery of ten more
      monogenic autoinflammatory diseases, seven of which were previously unrecognized as distinct
      diseases. The protocol has also permitted numerous studies delineating the mechanisms of
      autoinflammation and its connections with the human innate immune system. The work catalyzed
      by this protocol has provided the conceptual basis for a number of targeted therapies. During
      the next decade the objective will be to utilize cutting edge genomic technologies to further
      advance discovery.
    
  