
    
      Lipopolysaccharide-responsive beige-like anchor (LRBA) and cytotoxic T lymphocyte protein-4
      (CTLA-4) deficiencies are primary immunodeficiency characterized by recurrent sinopulmonary
      infections with hypogammaglobulinemia, lymphoproliferation and immunodysregulation, which
      presents by enteropathy, cytopenias and autoimmune endocrinopathy. LRBA plays a pivotal role
      in the intracellular trafficking of by CTLA4 re-routing it away from lysosomal degradation
      and back to the cell surface. CTLA-4 is an key immune checkpoint protein that is
      constitutively expressed on fork-head box P3 (FOXP3)+ regulatory T (Treg) cells and is also
      induced upon activation of conventional T cells. LRBA deficiency results in very low CTLA4
      expression, which explains the phenotypic overlap between LRBA and CTLA4 deficient subjects.
      Furthermore, reduced Treg cells number and function have been demonstrated in LRBA-deficient
      patients. Consequent upon this, LRBA deficiency may manifest as an IPEX like disease with
      early onset autoimmunity.

      LRBA was originally described as a common variable immune deficiency (CVID)-like disease with
      autoimmunity. To date, different agents have been applied in the treatment of LRBA and CTLA4
      deficiencies, including corticosteroids, intravenous immunoglobulin therapy (IVIG),
      sirolimus, infliximab, rituximab and azathioprine. Some patients also benefit from
      hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), which can be curative. More recently, studies
      have suggested the effectiveness of abatacept, a CTLA4-Ig fusion protein, in controlling
      disease-related immune dysregulatory phenotypes. In addition, some biomarkers like soluble
      CD25 and circulating T Follicular helper (cTFH) cells were described as useful to monitor
      patients' disease activity. Nevertheless, the long-term effectiveness of abatacept is not
      well documented. Also, there is no established consensus as to the dose and frequency of
      abatacept therapy for the treatment of those diseases and which biomarker is most reliable
      for follow up of patients.

      Aims of this current study include:

        1. Provide better and early diagnosis for LRBA, CTLA4 deficiencies by using basic and
           advanced immunological, genetic and molecular assays and rendering an early targeting
           therapy for patients.

        2. Discover disease related new pathways and biomarkers that can be helpful during
           diagnosis and monitoring abatacept targeted therapy responses.
    
  