
    
      Subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) consists of blood extravasation into the space between
      arachnoid and pia mater. Bleeding is a consequence of cerebral aneurysm rupture in most
      cases. It particularly affects females with an average age of 55 years. Despite incidence
      being only 9 cases out of 1000 people per year, young age and high mortality and morbidity
      lead to loosing several years of healthy life. As a matter of fact, patients that survived
      cerebral aneurysm rupture suffer from cognitive deficits, behavior disorders and are unable
      to come back to their former productivity level and jobs. Therapy priorities are: preventing
      rebleeding, with endovascular treatment (when possible) or neurosurgical aneurism clipping;
      preventing complications associated with blood extravasation into subarachnoid pace, such as
      acute hydrocephalus treatment (that occurs in 20% of patients), by ventricular external
      drainage positioning, and delayed cerebral ischemia, mainly due to vasospasm, by endovenous
      administration of nimodipine; optimal perfusion pressure maintenance. Under a
      pathophysiological point of view, after early mechanical damage, caused by aneurysm rupture
      (due to tissue destruction consequent to hemorrhage mass effect, acute hydrocephalus,
      herniation or a possible intraparenchymal hematoma) a subacute damage could be developed from
      three to fourteen days post haemorrhage, because of delayed cerebral ischemia. Mainly
      responsible for this event are vasospasm, that complicates 20-30% of SAH, microcirculation
      dysfunction and microthromboembolism. Secondary damage pathogenesis is not clear, but
      inflammation and endothelial apoptosis are shown to be involved in vasospasm development.
      Moreover, some studies demonstrate that patients with acute neurological dysfunction have a
      grater risk of organ failure, especially for lungs and kidneys.

      Osteopontin (OPN) is a secreted extracellular matrix glycoprotein that plays several roles in
      physiological and pathological processes, such as tissue remodelling, fibrosis, cellular
      migration, apoptosis inhibition and inflammation. Endogenous OPN is thought to fulfil a
      protective activity over ischemic damage both in brain and other organs, including kidney.
      Besides, recombinant OPN administration markedly decreases ischemic area in a focal cerebral
      ischemia model, by an antiapoptotic action. Recent in vivo studies on animal models of SAH
      demonstrated that OPN plays a major role; its administration attenuates cerebral damage
      decreasing metalloproteinase 9 and inhibiting inducible nitric oxide synthase. Treatment with
      OPN seems to prevent vasospasm as well, inducing an endogenous mitogen-activated protein
      (MAP) inhibitor, i.e. MAP kinase phosphatase 1, and reducing smooth muscle cells and
      endothelial cells apoptosis. A further research field in this area concerns microparticles,
      that is mediators released by platelets, leucocytes, erythrocyte and endothelial cells.
      Contrary to what it used to be thought, they do not represent a form of waste material from
      apoptotic coagulation cells and recent studies show their paracrine ad regulatory activity.
      In ischemic stroke endothelial microparticles levels directly relate to clinical severity and
      ischemic area extension. In typical parenchymal haemorrhage microparticles levels are higher
      both in blood and in liquor and associated with worse clinical outcome. In SAH increased
      microparticles levels has been demonstrated, especially in the day of the bleeding, and
      microparticles levels change based on type. On the other hand, data disagree among papers
      about types involved in fluctuations and their time course: Lackner et al. evaluated 20 SAH
      patients (Fisher II, III and IV) in their first fifteen days from bleeding and found higher
      blood levels of platelet, endothelial, erythrocyte and leukocyte microparticles in comparison
      to healthy controls [28]. Moreover, endothelial type positive for cluster of differentiation
      (CD) 105 and CD 62 markers were particularly increased in patient affected by vasospasm,
      documented with doppler. Vasospasm associated ischemia, also present especially high levels
      of platelet CD 41 positive microparticles. Notwithstanding disability grade at the time of
      discharge, microparticles levels are higher in comparison to full recovered patients (n=11).
      More recently, Sanborn et al. study on 22 SAH patients with massive blood spreading (Fisher
      III and IV) confirms microparticles elevation levels in these patients. Elevation of
      endothelial and platelet microparticles levels is verified as well, while no correlation is
      found with evidence of vasospasm, in both ultrasound (mean velocity higher than 125 cm/s in
      anterior circulation or higher than100 cm/s in posterior circulation, in addition to a
      Lindegaard ratio higher than 3) and angiography.

      Published data are not unanimous on neither the correlation between vasospasm and CT scan
      evidence of ischemia nor with disability.

      The primary endpoint of the study is to evaluate:

      1) the correlation between OPN and microparticles levels and vasospasm development/ischemic
      lesion at the CT-scan, and subsequently with medium and long-term patients outcome.

      Secondary endpoints were:

        1. Changings of OPN amount in liquor and blood of patients with SAH on the day of bleeding
           and post-hemorrhage i.e., days 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11.

        2. Microparticles levels in liquor and blood patients with SAH on the day of bleeding and
           post hemorrhage i.e., days 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, in order to evaluate both their
           predictive value for vasospasm and the correlation with renal or pulmonary function
           worsening and 3-6 months outcome.

        3. Isolated microparticles will be used to activate in vitro renal and pulmonary
           endothelial cells for the purpose of highlighting a possible cross talk, analyzing
           endothelial damage markers.

      Recruitment duration will be one year. At hospital entry, a CT scan will be performed as well
      as Fischer score, Hunt and Hess score and World Federation of Neurological Surgeons (WFNS)
      score. We will register demographic variables i.e., age, sex, symptoms at onset and
      co-morbidity.

      Angiography or angio-CT scan will be performed according to the best clinical practice to
      document presence, dimension and characteristics of patent aneurysm. SAH patients' treatment
      will be carried out as routine clinical best practice. Patients will be monitored with
      transcranial doppler beginning from day I and clinically every day. If no clinical changing
      will occur, patients will be submitted to a CT perfusion angiography or angiography on day 7
      (+/- 1 day). If clinical condition worsen or doppler velocity increase (considering vasospasm
      as mild when mean velocity inside cerebral artery 120-150 cm/s, moderate 150-200 cm/s and
      severe &gt;200 cm/s) angiography and endovascular nimodipine will be considered, according to
      the standard protocol therapy. Angiographic vasospasm consists in cerebral arteries narrowing
      confirmed by neuroradiologist. Clinical vasospasm is defined as consciousness deterioration
      (Glasgow coma scale (GCS) 2 points reduction) and/or a new focal deficit emergence, after
      other causes has been excluded, such as seizure, rebleeding, fever. Every new CT evidence of
      ischemia will be registered from day 3.

      At 3-6 months outcome will be evaluated by GOS-E (Extended Glasgow Coma Scale; 8 points
      scale, from death to upper good recovery, without any disability left related to SAH). To
      obtain this information, trained staff will interview either patients himself or a close
      relative.

      Biological samples will be taken at admission, i.e., within 24 hours from the bleeding, and
      in days 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11. Sterile liquor will be sampled from the bag distal to
      collection chamber, in an amount of 10 ml/die, at the same time frame each day. Blood in
      amount of 3 ml/die and urine will be collected at the same time (about 7:00 am). Liquor,
      plasma and urine will be centrifuge (2500 rpm for 30 minutes) and supernatants will be
      aliquoted and frozen at the temperature of -80°C until analysis. OPN analysis will be
      performed with commercial enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kit, following
      manufacturer suggestion (AssayDesigns Inc., Michigan; Pierce Biotechnology Inc., Rockford,
      IL). In order to better describe inflammatory response, main T helper 1 (Th)1 and Th2
      cytokines will be measured as well as cerebral damage markers (enolase neuron specific (NSE),
      asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) etc.). On urine, markers of early preclinical impairment
      will be quantified. Isolation and characterization of microparticles will be performed with
      Nanosight based on dimension and concentration, while major surface antigens will be
      identified in cytofluorimetry, specifying provenience: leukocyte, erythrocyte, platelet,
      endothelial cells. In vitro analysis will be carried out on renal and pulmonary endothelial
      cells monolayer. Water balance, creatinine, leukocytes number, infection/colonization,
      nephrotoxic drugs will be monitored daily.

      Microparticles effect will be evaluated in vitro on umbilical cord endothelial cells (HUVEC),
      on smooth muscle cells (SMC), on pulmonary and renal endothelial cells, incubated with and
      without patients' plasma derived purified microparticles. In addition, analysis will be
      performed to evaluate: apoptosis (Tunel staining), angiogenesis (evidence of capillary-like
      structures on Matrigen plate), leukocyte adhesion and adhesion molecule expression.

      As no data are present in literature on OPN levels during SAH and data on microparticles are
      not unanimous, a real sample size was not calculated. Considering that 20%-30% of the
      patients were expected to be complicated with vasospasm, the enrollment was planned with 60
      patients in one year to get 12-18 patients with vasospasm. Participants matching inclusion
      and exclusion criteria will be enrolled both in ICU and Neurosurgery Ward of Novara Ospedale
      Maggiore della Carità in one year period (i.e. January 31 st 2018, January 30 th 2019). Based
      on last year admissions, 20 patients in ICU and 40 patients in Neurosurgery ward are
      expected. At T0, microparticles levels will be analyzed in patients with and without
      vasospasm with Wilcoxon rank test. With generalized steam equations microparticles levels
      will be compared between patients with and without vasospasm or new ischemic events. 3 and 6
      months GOS-E will be compared using Kruskal-Wallis test. The relation between microparticles
      number and vasospasm and ischemia incidence will be defined with Spearman correlation. A
      value of p less than 0.05 will be the threshold for statistical significance. Analysis will
      be carried out with STATA. As far as concerns in vitro experiments, non-parametric tests will
      be performed.
    
  