
    
      In 2013 WHO piloted the yaws eradication MDA strategy in several countries, including PNG. A
      study carried out on Lihir Island has shown that 1-round MDA with single-dose oral AZI
      reduced the prevalence of yaws by 90% at 12-months. However, this did not suffice to stop
      transmission of infection. At baseline, the estimated prevalence of PCR-confirmed active
      infection was 1.8% and greatly reduced to 0.4% at 6-months, and 0.1% at 24 months; but
      prevalence increased again to 0.4% at 42 months after MDA. The relapse of untreated latent
      infections appeared to hinder elimination efforts in this community. Almost half of subjects
      with newly identified active yaws cases during follow up targeted treatment programs reported
      having not been present for MDA. T. p. pertenue may become resistant to macrolide
      antibiotics, as has occurred with T. p. pallidum (the causative agent of syphilis) in some
      developed countries, which necessitates close monitoring for the emergence of resistance. The
      investigators recently reported the first documented genotypic macrolide resistance in T. p.
      pertenue infections in PNG. A total of five clinical specimens, out of 208 samples tested
      during the post-MDA period of 3·5 years, demonstrated a T. p. pertenue strain carrying the
      A2059G point mutation. There was only local spread of the resistant clone among relatives and
      friends and further spread was immediately stopped through the use of alternative (benzathine
      penicillin) antibiotic to treat the newly identified cases and contacts.

      The eligible population will be people targeted for MDA treatment living in the three LLG
      study areas at time of implementation. A new enumeration of all eligible population will be
      carried out before implementation, collecting also GPS coordinates of the village. A unique
      identification (ID) number will be given to each person. The 43 wards will be randomly
      assigned (1:1) to receive 1 vs 3 rounds of MDA using AZI. All villages within a ward will
      receive the same intervention in an effort to minimize contamination between villages. The
      intervention arm will receive 3 rounds (0, 6, 12 months) of MDA with AZI, each round known as
      total community treatment (TCT); control arm will receive 1 round (0 months) of MDA with AZI
      followed by total targeted treatment (TTT) (6 and 12 months). During each MDA round all study
      participants will receive 30 mg/Kg (maximum 2 g) of AZI orally under direct observation. As a
      primary outcome, examination of suspected yaws lesions during TCT and TTT is important for
      determining the prevalence of active yaws for research purposes, but also for ascertaining
      who needs a follow up visit 4 weeks later to ensure that treatment was effective and, in TTT
      rounds, to trigger the process of treating contacts or community. The investigators will
      estimate the evolution of latent yaws prevalence measured as the proportion of children who
      are dually positive on the DPP test at two time-points (0, 24 months).Treatment of latent
      yaws is a crucial component of the WHO yaws eradication strategy to prevent relapse and the
      resulting transmission. Single-dose AZI has been shown effective in participants with latent
      yaws in PNG on the basis of the decline in serological titres. In this line, as the second
      primary outcome, the investigators plan to carry out 2 cross sectional surveys of
      asymptomatic children 1-9 years at baseline and for the outcome at 24 months to be able to
      more precisely estimate the impact of the two strategies of MDA.
    
  