
    
      Patients treated with standard of care chemotherapy for unresectable, biopsy-proven
      intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, and who demonstrate stability/regression of disease for a
      minimum of 6 months, may be eligible for study. Following informed consent and screening,
      eligible patients with a potential live liver donor (an interested, ABO-compatible
      individual, without obvious contraindications for donation) will be evaluated for
      transplantation. During this period, patients will continue to receive chemotherapy and
      imaging at the usual intervals. Once a patient completes the pre-transplant assessments and
      is deemed "suitable for transplantation" , the living donor's assessments may begin. If the
      donor is found suitable, a tentative date will be set for the surgeries. Systemic
      chemotherapy will be stopped approximately 4 weeks before the surgery date.

      At that point, the potential recipient will be reimaged (CT scan). Test results, and
      inclusion and exclusion criteria will be reviewed to ensure the participant remains eligible
      to proceed to transplant. If these scans reveal any suspicion of tumor infiltration to
      surrounding tissues, an exploratory laparotomy or endoscopic ultrasound procedure will be
      scheduled to allow for visual examination and sampling of those tissues. Tissue samples, such
      as perihilar fat and/or lymph nodes, will be sent to the pathology department for urgent
      review. If extrahepatic disease is identified, the participant will be excluded from the
      study and the transplant will not be performed. Any excluded participants will continue to be
      followed for the study as "drop outs".

      Otherwise, the donor and recipient surgeries will be performed in the standard fashion and
      with the preferred technique of the surgeon. The patient and donor will receive standard of
      care post-operative care.

      Participants (recipients) will be monitored closely for evidence of tumor recurrence with
      imaging and blood tests. Results of these tests will be collected until completion of the
      study follow-up period (5-years after LT). In addition to tumor surveillance, liver
      transplant status will be assessed at each study timepoint (including graft loss, rejection,
      liver function tests, and details of immunosuppression). The study will also collect details
      of any biopsies performed, re-hospitalizations and surgical complications
    
  