
    
      Aim: To assess the clinical and economic effectiveness of an approach based on the meanings
      of vocal behaviours (VB) in older people living with Alzheimer's disease or related disorders
      (ADRD) in long-term care facilities (LTCF) using a pragmatic randomized trial complemented by
      a qualitative component. Background: Vocal behaviours are common in LTCF; 13 to 60% of
      residents exhibit them. They may indicate ill-being, are associated with overmedication, are
      disruptive for others, and induce powerlessness in family and formal caregivers. Studies on
      interventions to reduce VB have shown limited clinical impacts. In previous projects, the
      investigators developed and pilot tested a novel approach based on the underlying meanings of
      VB. The systematic approach comprises family-formal caregivers' partnerships which include
      regular meetings (at least monthly) to identify the meanings behind VB (e.g. pain, anxiety)
      and to apply personalized interventions (e.g. gardening, humor). A pilot study conducted in
      five LTCF demonstrated the feasibility and acceptability of the recruitment and data
      collection methods, as well as the approach implementation using 14 triads, each made up of
      an older person with ADRD, a family caregiver and a formal caregiver. The approach decreased
      the frequency of VB, and increased the well-being of the older people with ADRD. The formal
      and family caregivers perceived the VB as less disruptive, and felt more empowered relative
      to them. However, the lack of control group precluded measuring effectiveness versus usual
      practices and costs. Methods: A pragmatic cluster randomized trial will be conducted to
      assess the effectiveness of the approach based on the results from the pilot study. A
      concomitant qualitative component will describe process elements that contribute to the
      measured effects. The investigators will randomize 20 LTCF to either an experimental
      (approach) or control group (usual practices), and recruit 6 triads in each LTCF for a total
      of 108 triads (power of 80%, significance 5%, medium effect size and 40% attrition). They
      will enroll 10 to 20 triads in the qualitative component. They will collect data, before, two
      (post-implementation) and four months (follow-up) after starting the implementation of the
      approach, on VB frequency (primary outcome), medication use, well-being of the older people,
      perceived disruptiveness of the VB, the partnership-based decision-making and the level of
      empowerment felt by family and formal caregivers. Additionally, they will collect data on the
      setting (e.g. number of beds, turnover rate), and cost (e.g. trainer, medication).
      Qualitative data will also be collected with individual semi-structured interviews. The
      investigators will analyze the effects of the approach using a mixed-model of covariance with
      baseline measures, and characteristics of participants and settings as covariates. They will
      also calculate a cost-effectiveness ratio, and do a content analysis of qualitative data.
      Expected outcomes: This project will provide evidence on the effectiveness of a novel and
      generalizable approach to increase the well-being of vulnerable older people, as well as
      family and formal caregivers. If effective, it may be implemented on a larger scale and
      adapted to other behaviours (e.g. aggressive behaviours), all of which is aligned with
      recommendations for research in dementia care.
    
  