
    
      This is a prospective cohort study to evaluate the efficacy and accuracy of ultrasound guided
      automated spinal landmark identification with real-time neuraxial needle insertion system
      (uSINE).

      The subjects assume a seated position and the lower back is exposed. Ultrasound gel will be
      applied to the lower back lumbar spine and the investigator will place an ultrasound curved
      array probe around the sacral region. The graphical interface of the software, integrated
      with the wireless ultrasound probe and ultrasound machine, will inform the investigator when
      the software has positively identified the sacrum. The investigator will then move the probe
      in a steady vertical upward longitudinal direction until the L3/4 interspinous space is
      identified by the program. The ultrasound algorithm will identify the skin surface marking.
      The longitudinal section of the scan will be completed and the investigator will turn the
      probe 90 degrees clockwise around the probe center to the transverse view.

      The transverse scan consists of minimal vertical movements by the investigator who will
      obtain images using the ultrasound probe. The software will signal when the correct
      identification of the ligamentum flavum is visualized. The scan sequence will be completed.

      The first phase will involve 20 non-obese patients who are undergoing neuraxial anaesthesia
      or analgesia. The system is used prior and during needle insertion to provide real-time
      guidance for the anaesthetists. The neuraxial needle insertion is conducted manually by the
      anaesthetist as per routine practice.

      In the second phase, 50 obese patients (body mass index more than 30) will be recruited to
      investigate and develop an "obesity" mode visualisation of the ultrasound guided automated
      spinal landmark identification. This will be to advance the technology to evaluate more
      difficult anatomy and more complex neuraxial needle insertion in future work plan. The
      patients' back will be scanned to obtain the images. The neuraxial needle insertion is
      conducted manually (i.e. independent of the ultrasound results) by the anaesthetist as per
      hospital routine practice.

      The third phase involve data collection and annotation of spinal ultrasonography in 65 obese
      patients, followed by a fourth phase to measure the uSINE identification accuracy and
      first-attempt puncture success rate in 65 obese patients.
    
  