
    
      The prematurity of the newborn is now a major theme in medical research. Indeed,
      technological progress makes it possible to revive increasingly premature children. But being
      born premature also brings many complications, some of which are already well known
      (pulmonary, cardiac, digestive complications, etc....). At the ophthalmological level, the
      retinopathy of the premature child is an entity already well described, this retinal
      vascularization anomaly leads to many complications on the child's visual future. The optic
      nerves of premature infants are described as larger than those of normal children.

      Recently, a new ophthalmological condition has been described. This is the damage to the
      optic nerve of the premature baby, characterized by a loss of optical fibres, of major
      importance in the transmission of the visual signal to the brain.

      The aim of this study is to characterize the particularities of the optic nerve of the
      premature child, as there is currently very little data available on it in this context. Some
      studies have reported this, but with results that are not always homogeneous. For example,
      some studies report a lack of optic fiber in the temporal area of the optic nerve, while
      others find more pronounced atrophy on the nasal side, which has practical consequences in
      the examination and monitoring of these children.

      A better understanding of these disorders would make it possible to establish monitoring
      protocols for these children born with nerve fibre deficiency, especially to prevent
      subsequent fibre loss due to any pathology of ocular tone, the best known of which is
      glaucoma.

      The purpose of this prospective study is to compare the aspects of optic nerves in premature
      infants compared to those of optic nerves in non-premature infants. This aspect changes with
      age, with a progressive physiological decrease in the thickness of optic fiber within the
      optic nerve over time. It is therefore essential to match the two age groups to exploit this
      data.
    
  