
    
      Currently, there is wide variation in the provision of venous thromboembolism (VTE)
      prophylaxis for patients who suffer lower limb trauma and require lower limb immobilisation.
      Current United Kingdom guidelines recommend assessing competing risks of VTE and bleeding
      followed by shared decision-making with the patient on prescription of pharmacological
      thromboprophylaxis (VTE thromboprophylaxis). However, current American College of Chest
      Physicians (ACCP) guidelines do not recommend VTE thromboprophylaxis for this group. The
      largest study carried out to date, the Prevention of Thrombosis after Lower Leg Plaster Cast
      (POT-CAST) randomised controlled trial 1 identified a very low rate of VTE (1.8%) in the
      non-intervention arm. This study concluded that thromboprophylaxis was not justified for
      patients with lower limb trauma who required lower limb immobilisation. However, it
      recommended that further studies are required to see if it is possible to identify a high
      risk cohort of patients who may benefit from VTE thromboprophylaxis. No large prospective
      study has been published to date to assess if it is possible to identify this high risk
      group.

      The Multiple Environmental and Genetic Assessment of risk factors for venous thrombosis
      (MEGA) study was a case-control study designed to identify risk factors for a first VTE. A
      sub-analysis of this study reviewed 230 patients who had lower limb trauma with cast
      immobilisation who developed VTE. Based on this data a risk assessment score was derived
      (termed "L-TRiP" [Leiden-Thrombosis Risk Prediction for patients with cast immobilization]
      score) in order to identify high risk patients who may benefit from VTE prophylaxis. However,
      this risk assessment tool has not been prospectively validated in a study.

      We have carried out a pilot study to assess the feasibility of a large scale, adequately
      powered multi-centre study aimed at prospective identification of a high VTE-risk group of
      patients. This study was presented at the International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis
      meeting in Berlin in 2017.5 Utilizing data from this pilot study, we now aim to perform a
      multi-centre study with sufficient power to determine whether it is feasible to identify a
      high risk group of patients with lower limb trauma requiring immobilisation who will benefit
      from thromboprophylaxis The POT-CAST study determined that the rate of venous
      thrombo-embolism (VTE) in patients with lower limb trauma requiring a cast was 1.8%. This low
      rate does not justify VTE prophylaxis for all patients who require a cast. However there may
      be a high risk group with a rate of VTE high enough to suggest that consideration of VTE
      prophylaxis may be appropriate. This study will prospectively gather risk factor data on
      patients at the time of initial presentation post trauma with follow up at 12 weeks to
      identify those patients who have experienced a symptomatic VTE episode. This data will then
      be used to identify a group with a high VTE risk which future studies can utilise to target
      this high risk group to assess if VTE prophylaxis is of benefit.
    
  