
    
      The investigators are conducting a randomised, controlled, double-blinded, clinical vaccine
      trial in pregnant women combined with an open-label controlled Phase IV clinical vaccine
      trial in their infants.

      The trial will examine the differences in immunity generated by aP compared with wP in
      infants at 5 and 9 months of age, and examine the impact of maternal antibodies on the immune
      response of infants receiving aP or wP vaccines at two, three and four months.

      The investigators aim to address two key question: 1. If measures of immunity in infants
      given aP or wP differ by 5 and 9 months of age; and 2: If and- if so- how maternal pertussis
      antibodies affect the development and maintenance of immunity to Bordetella pertussis in
      infants.

      Rationale for the trial:

      Pertussis (whooping cough) is an infectious disease that can be very serious- particularly in
      young infants- but preventable through vaccination. There are two types of vaccines:
      acellular (aP) and whole cell (wP) vaccines, both extensively used worldwide. A clearer
      understanding of how these two different types of vaccines work is fundamental when
      considering adjustments or rethinking vaccination strategies and such knowledge will help the
      future development of new vaccines, given that some LMIC have already introduced aP but the
      current WHO recommendation still continues to recommend wP vaccine for those who have not yet
      switched.

      Increases in the incidence of pertussis infection, including fatal cases in young infants,
      have been recently observed in many regions in the world, more likely associated with the use
      of aP vaccines. As a consequence, it is now recommended in several countries that women
      should receive aP vaccination in pregnancy so that their high levels of pertussis antibody
      which will be passed on via the placenta can protect their babies in early life, before the
      infants have received sufficient doses of pertussis vaccine themselves. However, it is
      currently unclear if and how maternal antibodies affect long-term immunity to pertussis in
      infants.

      Unlike in the UK, where many women of childbearing age would have received aP vaccine in
      childhood, in The Gambia, all women would have been primed with wP vaccine as part of the
      NIP. Hence a study in this group of women is uniquely placed to assess if different priming
      regimens could have different quantitative and qualitative effects on transplacental antibody
      transfer for pertussis antibody, providing additional insights in comparison to parallel
      studies in Europe under the PERISCOPE consortium (PERtussIS COrrelates of Protection Europe).

      A better understanding of human biomarkers of protective immune responses to B. pertussis,
      and its waning immunity is needed to accelerate the design and testing of new pertussis
      vaccines with a longer duration of protection.

      Trial design:

      The investigators will recruit 600 mother/infant pairs. Following informed consent,
      sensitisation and eligibility checks including antenatal ultrasound to date the pregnancy,
      pregnant women will be randomised to receive either Boostrix IPV (contains antigens against
      pertussis, tetanus, diphteria and polio)- a vaccine recommended for pregnant women in the UK
      and other countries where recent pertussis outbreaks have been observed, or the tetanus
      vaccine routinely recommended for women in LMIC.

      Pre vaccination antibody titres will be measured in the women prior to vaccination between
      28-34 week gestation and vaccine responses measured subsequently at the time of giving birth.
      Cord blood will be collected to measure transfer of maternal antibody. Infants will be
      grouped to receive either aP or wP at 2,3 and 4 months of age, in line with routine EPI
      programs. Blood samples will be collected from infants prior to vaccination and following
      doses of vaccines at specific intervals to measure innate and acquired immune responses and
      followed up until 9 months of age. Infants will be allocated to subgroups for blood tests so
      that no infant will have between 4 and max 5 episodes of blood sampling up to the age of 9
      months.

      Samples will be processed for quantitative and qualitative antibody, innate and acquired
      cellular immune responses. Where available, samples will be stored for further investigations
      using transcriptomic and epigenetic methodologies. Samples, results and data will be shared
      with the PERISCOPE consortium members.
    
  