
    
      It is clear that Mg involves in both type 2 diabetes (T2D) prevention and management, and
      following LCHF diets, avoidance of wholegrains, fruits and starchy vegetables, could have a
      negative impact on Mg and B1 intakes and status. A systematic review of LCHF diets and
      micronutrients confirmed that Mg and B1 intakes were reduced by 50% and 70% following LCHF
      diets compared to baseline normal carbohydrate diets, and could be as low as 40% and 75% of
      recommended intakes for Mg and B1 respectively. Although supplementation can be recommended
      alongside LCHF diets, not all LCHF dieters take supplements, and their benefits during LCHF
      diets have never been studied before.

      Rationale We hypothesise that people who have been following LCHF diets without taking
      supplement are potentially at risk of Mg/B1 insufficiency, with negative impact on glucose
      metabolism.

      Objective

        1. To investigate potential efficacy of Mg/B1 supplementation on glucose metabolism
           (mechanistic efficacy/proof of concept) in adults already voluntarily following LCHF

        2. To investigate effect of Mg/B1 supplementation on Mg/B1 status in adults already
           voluntarily following LCHF, who are at risk of Mg/B1 inadequacy

        3. To test capabilities of measures, procedures, recruitment criteria, and operational
           strategies that are under consideration for use in a subsequent, larger, study.

        4. To identify barriers to successful study completion

        5. To evaluate acceptability of methods and instruments to participants

      Study design: This is a mechanistic efficacy/proof of concept, intervention study with a use
      of a randomised-start design. All participants will be assigned to the same intervention but
      at different times.

      There are 3 groups of the study - 2 interventions and 1 control group:

        1. 400 mg of Mg per day for 4 weeks then add on 100 mg of B1 per day for another 4 weeks, a
           total duration of 8 weeks (MB).

        2. 100 mg of B1 per day for 4 weeks then add on 400 mg of Mg per day for another 4 weeks, a
           total duration of 8 weeks (BM).

        3. Untreated: Participants with delayed entry (untreated) for 8 weeks (Con)

      Assessment: Baseline, 4 weeks, and 8 weeks after intervention/untreated period
    
  