
    
      The current project builds on preliminary work in which the investigators have observed a
      relationship between efficacy of the corticospinal tract serving the plantarflexors and
      walking function, specifically ankle plantarflexor power, in individuals with chronic
      post-stroke hemiparesis. The investigators have observed robust associations between: i) PF
      corticospinal efficacy, and ii) modulation of corticospinal drive, and PF power, particularly
      in individuals poststroke. Importantly, clinical and demographic factors including: age,
      stroke chronicity, and lesion location, neither explain, nor modify, these associations. In
      combination, these findings lead to the investigators' central premise, that improved
      efficacy of the corticospinal tract serving the plantarflexors will enable augmentation of
      ankle PF power and contribute to improved walking function in individuals post-stroke. Here
      the team will investigate use of paired associative stimulation (PAS) to enhance
      corticospinal efficacy and to the plantarflexors through targeted neuroplasticity.
      Specifically the team will investigate three approaches to PAS to determine its efficacy for
      enhancing: i) neural responses, ii) biomechanical effects (A2), and iii) retention of neural
      and biomechanical effects.

      Objectives. This SPiRE project focuses on methodological variables required to optimize
      efficacy of PAS on:

      a) corticospinal efficacy to the plantarflexors, and b) walking function (quantified as A2)
      in Veterans and adults with poststroke walking dysfunction. By achieving the aims, data
      generated from this SPiRE will contribute to development of more focused and relevant
      hypotheses to be tested in future studies supported through competitive Merit Review.
      However, before motivating a larger study, the investigators first seek to determine the
      salience and magnitude of effects of PAS. In addition to exploring methodological issues
      related to PAS, data generated from the proposed SPiRE will enable us to determine the
      appropriate scope of a future project including sample size and dosing. The investigators
      seek to develop the methodology, determine feasibility, and generate preliminary/exploratory
      data for sake of determining effect sizes and computing statistical power for future large
      scale studies in human subjects. The investigators will compare effects of PAS targeting
      ankle plantarflexion when delivered: at rest, during submaximal activity, and during walking.
    
  