
    
      Total knee replacements are a leading orthopedic procedure in the United States totaling
      600,000 in 2010, and are anticipated to grow to 3.48 million procedures by 2030. Three
      primary reasons prolong hospital stays following unilateral knee arthroplasty. Pain is the
      primary reason followed by opioid drowsiness and nausea/vomiting side effects. Reducing
      opioid usage and decreasing hospital length of stays are paramount in improving patient care
      during recovery and rehabilitation, subsequently reducing overall costs associated with total
      knee replacement. Standard genicular radiofrequency ablation (t-RFA) has been effective pain
      management for non-operative knee pain associated with osteoarthritis. Additionally, cooled
      radiofrequency ablation (C-RFA), which was previously used for spinal pain, is now available
      for knee pain management. C-RFA, compared to t-RFA, causes large volume spherical lesions and
      potentially reduces time and fluoroscopic exposure with direct placement techniques. However,
      both t-RFA and C-RFA offer a minimally invasive, non-surgical, non-opioid pain relief options
      following surgery. Preliminary reports involving 40 patients who underwent either C-RFA or
      t-RFA prior to unilateral knee arthroplasty by the investigator indicate both procedures
      improved postoperative pain assessments and decreased opioid/narcotic utilization. The study
      will perform a double-blinded, parallel grouped, placebo-controlled randomized study to
      compare three pain management paradigms involving preoperative C-RFA, t-RFA, and sham. The
      aim of this study is to establish if C-RFA and t-RFA, offered preoperatively to patients
      undergoing unilateral knee arthroplasty, provide postoperative pain relief, reduce hospital
      length of stays and decrease opioid utilization thereby improving patient outcomes and
      decreasing overall costs.
    
  