
    
      Systemic sclerosis (SSc also known as scleroderma) is a devastating chronic immune-mediated
      inflammatory syndrome that is characterized by progressive organ dysfunction. The most common
      affected systems are the skin, the gastrointestinal tract, the lungs and the heart. Capillary
      endothelium is involved leading to ischemia and digital necrosis. Patients develop an
      interstitial lung disease (ILD) prototype dominated by pulmonary hypertension (PHA) and
      failed gad exchange. Almost all patients are also presenting with signs of intestinal
      dysmotility leading to gastrointestinal reflux and bloating1. Hallmarks of SSc are fibrosis
      of the skin and internal organs, production of autoantibodies and vasculopathy. SSc is the
      only rheumatic disorder accompanied by substantial lethality; so far no specific treatment
      targeting the mechanism of pathogenesis is available.

      The major denominator in the pathogenesis of SSc is the activation of fibroblast
      proliferation for the production of pre-collagen and the deposition of collagen in tissues;
      this leads to organ fibrosis and organ dysfunction. Activation of fibroblasts may come from
      transforming growth factor-β (TGFβ) and from interleukin (IL)-1α3. Circulating IL- 1α was
      measured in 66 Japanese patients with SSc and compared to 19 well-matched for age and gender
      healthy comparators. IL-1α was significantly greater than comparators; levels were similar
      between patients with limited cutaneous SSc and diffuse cutaneous SSc4. Contrary to IL-1β,
      IL-1α localizes on cell membranes and it is transported to the nucleus where it acts as a
      transcription factor. Whereas fibroblasts of healthy subjects produce IL-1α only after
      activation, fibroblasts from patients with SSc produce IL-1α extensively through a vicious
      autocrine pathway. More precisely, the IL-1R1 receptor is over-activated on fibroblasts from
      patients with SSc; this receptor binds to constitutively over-produced IL-1α by the same
      fibroblasts and this leads to a vicious cycle of fibroblast activation and production of
      pre-collagen4. Moreover, excess release of preformed IL-1α from the cytosol of damaged or
      stressed- cells leads to the recruitment of hematopoietic cells to the site of the
      inflammation through endothelial activation and disruption of the vascular wall5 explaining,
      at least in part, the vasculopathy of SSc. It has recently been shown that platelet
      microparticles and danger-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) like high mobility group
      box-1 (HMGB1) are increased in the circulation of patients with SSc5. DAMPs can also prime
      platelet activation through an IL-1 dependent mechanism in patients with SSc The above
      evidence suggests that targeting IL-1α may be a novel target for the management of SSc.

      Bermekimab (MABp1) is a first-in-class true human monoclonal antibody cloned directly from
      human B lymphocytes that specifically targets and neutralizes IL-1α. The drug has been tested
      so far in three randomized clinical trials (RCTs) in disease areas; metastatic colon
      carcinoma and hidradenitis suppurativa (HS). HS is a chronic devastating skin disorder that
      affects skin areas rich in apocrine glands. Bermekimab was administered intravenously every
      other week at a dose of 7.5mg/kg for 12 weeks; efficacy was compared to placebo. A total of
      20 patients with severe HS who have failed or who were not eligible for adalimumab treatment
      were enrolled in this RCT; 60% responded to bermekimab compared to 10% of placebo comparators
      (p: 0.035). The salient feature of this trial was the provision of a proof-of-concept for the
      mechanism of action of bermekimab involving the down-regulation of the production of human
      β-defensin-2 (hBD-2). More precisely, whole blood was stimulated at the end of the 12-week
      treatment period with heat-killed Staphylococcus aureus. The total blood capacity of
      placebo-treated comparators was negatively associated with the decrease of the involved skin
      depth as measured by ultrasound; this negative association ceased to exist among
      bermekimab-treated patients. In another large- scale RCT , bermekimab was intravenously
      administered in 207 patients with metastatic or unresectable colorectal cancer and compared
      with 102 patients treated with placebo. The study primary endpoint was composite involving
      stable or increased lean body mass and stability or improvement in at least two or three
      symptoms of pain, fatigue and anorexia. This was achieved in 33% of bermekimab-treated and
      19% of placebo-treated patients respectively (p: 0.0045).
    
  