
    
      Project presentation:

      Primary Objective:

      To evaluate the influence of oral hygiene of newborns before dental eruption on colonization
      by Candida spp. and about the baby's behavior during oral hygiene performed by parents after
      tooth eruption.

      Secondary Objective:

      To evaluate the influence of oral hygiene of newborns before tooth eruption on Candida spp
      colonization and occurrence of candidiasis during the follow-up period. To evaluate the
      influence of oral hygiene of newborns before tooth eruption on the its behavior during oral
      hygiene performed by parents after tooth eruption.

      Proposed Methodology:

      Study design: Randomized blinded clinical trial in edentulous newborns who will be screened
      in their first two days of life at the Maternity Hospital of Our Lady of Health in
      Diamantina, Minas Gerais. If mothers agree to participate with their child in the study,
      contact and address will be requested for further data collection that will be performed at
      the participants' homes.

      Intervention Groups:

        -  1. Mothers will be instructed to sanitize the newborn's oral cavity prior to tooth
           eruption by massaging the gingival rods with gauze and filtered water once a day at
           night. Following the eruption of the child's first tooth, mothers will be instructed to
           brush twice daily with fluoride toothpaste (1100 ppm fluoride) in a minimum amount,
           equivalent to one grain of raw rice, using the Fones technique .

        -  2. Mothers will be advised not to perform any type of oral cavity cleaning of the
           newborn before tooth eruption. Following the eruption of the child's first tooth,
           mothers will be instructed to brush twice daily with fluoride toothpaste (1100 ppm
           fluoride) in a minimum amount, equivalent to one grain of raw rice, using the Fones
           technique .

      The calculation of the sample size was obtained from Lee, Laboratory of Epidemiology and
      Statistics, using the calculation of estimation of two proportions and adopting the
      parameters proportion of cases (positive behavior during hygiene according to the Frankl
      Scale) among the exposed (children receiving oral hygiene before tooth eruption): 65%
      (unpublished data from a previous study by the research group); Confidence level (1 -) = 95%;
      (= 0.05 or 5%); Test power (1-) = 80%; Relative risk: 1.5; Newborns by group: 42; 9 newborns
      (20%) will be added to each group to compensate for possible losses. Thus, the sample
      required for the development of the study will be 51 newborns and their mothers in each of
      the groups.

      The work team will be composed by the Researcher 1, Examiner 1 and Assistants. Prior to the
      start of the study, these researchers will undergo a training and calibration process
      according to the role of each team. A pilot study will be performed on 10% of the sample, and
      if no methodological changes are required, these children will be included in the main study.
      Randomization will be performed by allocating participants in both intervention groups
      through a computer-generated random number. Examiner 1 will be blind to the group in which
      the examined children were allocated and the mothers will be advised not to disclose the
      group in which they were allocated.

      Data Collection and Follow-up Instruments:

      Social, Environmental, Behavioral and Health Data Form general of children.

      Registration form for colonization evaluation of Candida spp.

      Through the identification and quantification of Candida spp. using CHROMagar Candida culture
      medium. This evaluation will be performed in the first month and at 4 months after the birth
      of the child. Form for registration of the child's oral clinical examination to record the
      presence and / or absence of Oral Candidiasis, and if present, its location. After the
      eruption of the first tooth the examiner will classify the child's behavior according to the
      Frankl Scale and HBCD Scale using the child's behavior record form that will be used for the
      period. follow-up at 1 month, 4 months, 7 months, 10 months and 13 months. The child's diet
      will be assessed through eating habits at all follow-up times through 24-hour dietary
      reminders using the multi-pass method.

      Risks:

      The risks inherent to the study are related to the awkwardness of the guardian during the
      clinical evaluations and / or examinations in the babies, as well as the possible discomfort
      of the child during the oral clinical examination. However, examiners will be prepared to
      identify any possible discomfort and minimize or disrupt the assessment if necessary. The
      application of questionnaires to those responsible will be performed in the presence of the
      same, in order to reduce their embarrassment. The information collected will be accessible
      only by members of research.

      Benefits:

      The benefits to patients will be oral health guidelines, follow-up of children by the
      examiner and, if necessary, referral for dental treatment. For health professionals, the
      research will provide scientific evidence and support for guidance to the population that
      will benefit from such recommendations with better care for children's oral health and
      consequent improved oral health-related quality of life.
    
  