
    
      Method of Harvesting Stem Cells

      Based on the experience of the pilot studies, the current protocol will mobilize stem cells
      with granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) and collect stem cells by apheresis, with
      subsequent bone marrow harvest performed only if needed to supplement the peripheral blood
      stem cells (PBSC). Based on experience of autoimmune flares in patients receiving G-CSF alone
      for mobilization, patients will be mobilized with cyclophosphamide 2.0 g/m2 and G-CSF 10
      mcg/kg.

      Cyclophosphamide

      Cyclophosphamide (CY) is an active agent in patients with a wide variety of malignancies. It
      is used frequently in the therapy of lymphoid malignancies and has potent immunosuppressive
      activity. It is frequently used as a cytotoxic and immunosuppressive agent in patients
      undergoing marrow transplants and as a treatment for patients with autoimmune diseases. It is
      an alkylating agent that requires hepatic metabolism to the active metabolites, phosphoramide
      mustard and acrolein. These active metabolites react with nucleophilic groups. It is
      available as an oral or intravenous preparation. Bioavailability is 90% when given orally.
      The half-life of the parent compound is 5.3 hours in adults, and the half-life of the major
      metabolite phosphoramide mustard is 8.5 hours. Liver or renal dysfunction will lead to
      prolonged serum half-life. CY is administered intravenously at a dosage of 60 mg/kg on each
      of 2 successive days (use adjusted ideal body weight if patient's actual body weight is
      greater than 100% ideal body weight). The major dose limiting side effect at high doses is
      cardiac necrosis. Hemorrhagic cystitis can occur and is mediated by the acrolein metabolite.
      This can be prevented by co-administration of MESNA or bladder irrigation. Other notable side
      effects include nausea, vomiting, alopecia, myelosuppression and SIADH. Refer to
      institutional manuals for more information about administration, toxicity and complications.

      Rabbit-Derived Anti-Thymocyte Globulin (ATG)

      Rabbit-derived anti-human thymocyte globulin (ATG) is a gamma globulin preparation obtained
      from hyperimmune serum of rabbits immunized with human thymocytes. ATG has been used
      predominately in solid organ transplant immunosuppressive regimens. ATG is a predominantly
      lymphocyte-specific immunosuppressive agent. It contains antibodies specific to the antigens
      commonly found on the surface of T cells. After binding to these surface molecules, ATG
      promotes the depletion of T cells from the circulation through mechanisms, which include
      opsonization and complement-assisted, antibody-dependent, cell-mediated cytotoxicity. The
      plasma half-life ranges from 1.5 12 days. ATG is administered intravenously at a dose of
      0.5-mg/kg recipient body weight on day -6 and at a dose of 1.0 mg/kg recipient body weight on
      days -5 to -1. Unlike equine ATG, rabbit ATG does not require a pre-infusion skin test to
      check for hypersensitivity. Methylprednisolone 250mg (dose adjusted based on patient's
      condition) will be given before every dose of ATG. Additional medications such as
      diphenhydramine may be given at the discretion of the attending physician. Although rare, the
      major toxicity is anaphylaxis; chills, fever, pruritus or serum sickness may occur.

      Fludarabine

      Fludarabine phosphate is rapidly dephosphorylated to 2-fluoro-ara-A and then phosphorylated
      intracellularly by deoxycytidine kinase to the active triphosphate, 2-fluoro-ara-ATP. This
      metabolite appears to act by inhibiting DNA polymerase alpha, ribonucleotide reductase and
      DNA primase, thus inhibiting DNA synthesis. The mechanism of action of this antimetabolite is
      not completely characterized and may be multi-faceted.

      Phase I studies in humans have demonstrated that fludarabine phosphate is rapidly converted
      to the active metabolite, 2-fluoro-ara-A, within minutes after intravenous infusion.
      Consequently, clinical pharmacology studies have focused on 2-fluoro-ara-A pharmacokinetics.
      After the five daily doses of 25 mg 2-fluoro-ara-AMP/m2 to cancer patients infused over 30
      minutes, 2-fluoro-ara-A concentrations show a moderate accumulation. During a 5-day treatment
      schedule, 2-fluoro-ara-A plasma trough levels increased by a factor of about 2. The terminal
      half-life of 2-fluoro-ara-A was estimated as approximately 20 hours. In vitro, plasma protein
      binding of fludarabine ranged between 19% and 29%.

      CAMPATH

      Campath-1H is a humanized fusion protein that is directed to CD52 antigen that is expressed
      on all lymphocytes, monocytes and macrophages. It has very potent immunosuppressive property
      and is effective for prevention of graft-versus-host disease. 30 mg/day of CAMPATH will be
      given intravenously over 2 hours on days -4, -3 and -2. The most commonly reported adverse
      reactions are infusion reactions fever, chills, hypotension, urticaria, nausea, rash,
      tachycardia, dyspnea), cytopenias (neutropenia, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, anemia), and
      infections (CMV viremia, CMV infection, other infections). In clinical trials, the frequency
      of infusion reactions was highest in the first week of treatment. Other commonly reported
      adverse reactions include vomiting, abdominal pain, insomnia and anxiety. The most commonly
      reported serious adverse reactions are cytopenias, infusion reactions, and
      immunosuppression/infections. About 30 minutes before the patient gets Campath, he/she will
      be given other medications (such as acetaminophen or diphenhydramine, given orally, not IV)
      to help reduce side effects.
    
  