
    
      The study is an open-label, randomised, 2-period crossover study comparing the closed-loop
      insulin therapy with the conventional insulin pump therapy in 12 adolescents with type 1
      diabetes.

      Subjects who consented to take part in the study will attend the Clinical Research Facility
      on two occasions, each lasting 36 hours. Approximately 1-3 days prior to each Study Visit, a
      subcutaneous continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) device will be inserted.

      On each Study Visit subjects will arrive between 17:30 and 18:00 and will stay in the
      clinical research facility for two nights.

      Shortly after arrival the subjects will have Actiheart monitor fitted and a cannula inserted
      into a vein of one arm for blood sampling purposes. Blood sampling for plasma glucose and
      plasma insulin will start at 18:30 and will be carried out at 30 minutes intervals during the
      day and at 60min intervals during the night throughout the study period. Plasma glucose
      measurements will be done in real time every 30min during the day and every 60min during the
      night except when when plasma glucose < 3.5mmol/L or following treatment for hypoglycaemia,
      when the measurements will be carried out every 15 minutes.

      On Study Visit 1 the subjects will be randomised on arrival to receive either the
      conventional insulin pump therapy or the closed-loop intervention. At 18:30 subjects will
      perform 5 to 10 minutes exercise on a bicycle to determine the settings needed to achieve a
      heart rate of 140 bpm corresponding to an exercise level at 55%60% of peak VO2. In the
      closed-loop intervention arm the insulin pump therapy will be driven by the computer-based
      algorithm from 19:30 until the end of the study. The basal insulin infusion rate on the
      insulin pump will be adjusted manually at 15min intervals following the computer-based
      algorithm advice. During the control arm, the subject will carry on with their usual insulin
      pump regimen. In both groups CGM will be continued throughout the whole of the study period.
      Subjects who completed Study Visit 1 will cross over to the alternative Study Visit schedule
      after an interval of 1 to 6 weeks.
    
  