
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the feasibility and toxic effects of high-dose melphalan, busulfan, and
           cyclophosphamide followed by autologous peripheral blood stem cell rescue, interferon
           alfa, and pamidronate in patients with responsive or stable, low-bulk multiple myeloma.

        -  Determine the response rate and progression-free and overall survival of patients
           treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the feasibility of adding thalidomide to interferon alfa and pamidronate in
           patients who are not in complete remission (CR) 6 months after the second course of
           high-dose chemotherapy.

        -  Determine whether administration of thalidomide can increase the CR rate in patients who
           are not in CR 6 months after the second course of high-dose chemotherapy and determine
           its effect on progression-free and overall survival of these patients.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of busulfan and cyclophosphamide and correlate the
           pharmacokinetics with the toxic effects of these drugs and outcome in these patients.

        -  Determine the effect of thalidomide on microvascular density of bone marrow and
           correlate these possible effects with outcome in these patients.

        -  Determine the cytogenetics, gene rearrangement, and fluorescence in situ hybridization
           in baseline and post treatment bone marrow and blood specimens and correlate the
           presence/persistence of these features with treatment outcome in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on day 1 and filgrastim (G-CSF)
      subcutaneously (SC) or IV twice a day beginning on day 2 and continuing until peripheral
      blood stem cells (PBSCs) are collected. PBSCs are collected beginning on day 10.

      Patients receive high-dose melphalan IV on day -1. PBSCs are reinfused on day 0. G-CSF is
      administered IV or SC daily beginning on day 1 and continuing until blood counts recover.
      Between 8 and 14 weeks later, patients receive high-dose busulfan IV every 6 hours on days -7
      to -4 and cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on days -3 and -2. PBSCs are reinfused on day 0
      and G-CSF is administered IV or SC daily until blood counts recover.

      Patients with responding or stable disease after chemotherapy receive maintenance therapy
      with interferon alfa beginning 14-20 weeks after day 0 of the second course of chemotherapy.
      Interferon alfa is administered SC 3 times a week for 3 years. Patients also receive
      pamidronate IV every 4 weeks until disease progression. Patients who are not in complete
      remission (CR) 6 months after completing the second course of chemotherapy receive oral
      thalidomide daily for a maximum of 1 year or for 3 months after achieving CR.

      Patients are followed monthly for 1 year, every 3 months for 1 year, and then periodically
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 70 patients will be accrued for this study within approximately
      2.5 years.
    
  