
    
      Primary Objectives

        1. Phase I: To determine the MTD within the planned dose range for this patient population
           and assess the toxicity of oral clofarabine

        2. Phase II: To estimate the overall response rate (complete, partial and hematologic
           improvement by modified IWG criteria) in response to low dose daily oral clofarabine in
           patients with high risk myelodysplastic syndrome or chronic myelomonocytic leukemia
           (dysplastic type).

      Secondary Objectives

        1. To evaluate the toxicity of low dose daily oral clofarabine in this patient population.

        2. To determine the time to progression to acute myeloid leukemia (AML) of MDS patients
           treated with low dose daily oral clofarabine.

        3. To determine the duration of response, overall survival (OS) and progression free
           survival (PFS) of MDS patients treated with low dose daily oral clofarabine.

        4. To determine the effect of low dose daily oral clofarabine on global methylation in
           patients with MDS.

        5. To determine the effect of low dose daily oral clofarabine on miRNA and mRNA expression
           patterns in patients with MDS.

      Treatment Patients will take Clofarabine by mouth once daily for 10 days followed by 18 days
      of no Clofarabine. This 28 day period of time is called one treatment cycle. After they
      complete three cycles of treatment they will have bone marrow and blood tests done to find
      out if their MDS or CMML is responding to the treatment. If these tests show the MDS or CMML
      is responding to treatment they will continue taking the same dose of Clofarabine for 3 more
      cycles. If the tests show that the MDS or CMML is not responding to treatment the dose of
      Clofarabine will be increased and they will continue on the same schedule (10 days on, 18
      days off) for 3 more cycles.

      After 6 cycles patients will again have bone marrow and blood tests done to find out if the
      MDS or CMML is responding to the treatment. If the tests show that the MDS or CMML is not
      responding to treatment the dose of Clofarabine will be increased again and they will
      continue on the same schedule (10 days on, 18 days off) for 6 more cycles.

      5-3-11 Update: The phase I portion of the study has now been closed to accrual. The Phase II
      portion of the trial will enroll up to 20 patients. Patients will be evaluated on a weekly
      basis for toxicity. At the completion of cycle 3 and within 1 week of starting cycle 4,
      patients will receive a bone marrow aspirate and biopsy in addition to a complete blood count
      in order to evaluate for response according to IWG criteria. Patients who have evidence of a
      response to therapy or stable disease will be continued on the same dose and schedule of oral
      clofarabine. Bone marrow evaluation for response will be obtained at the completion of 6 and
      then 12 cycles. If the patient continues treatment after cycle 12 a bone marrow evaluation
      will be done at the discretion of the investigator. Treatment will continue at the same dose
      and schedule indefinitely until either disease progression, the development of unacceptable
      toxicity or the patient decides to go off study.

      Follow-up For this protocol, all patients, including those who discontinue protocol therapy
      early, will be followed for response until progression and for survival for 5 years from the
      date of registration. All patients must also be followed through completion of all protocol
      therapy.
    
  