
    
      Postoperative bed rest increases the risk of complications such as thromboembolism and
      intestinal adhesion, but actual clinical effects of early mobilization still need randomized
      control trails to prove. The aim of this randomized controlled trial is to investigate the
      effect of walking out from the operating room (very early mobilization after surgery) on the
      postoperative recovery of patients undergoing laparoscopic radical gastrectomy.

      A sample size of 96 patients in each group is calculated by a prior power analysis on the
      basis of the following assumptions: (1) an absolute reduction in the length of the hospital
      stay by 1 day, (2) standard deviations are 2 days in the experimental group and the control
      group, (3)α=0.05, (4) power 90% and (5) missed follow-up rate 10%. Considering that this
      study is not for rare diseases, in order to ensure adequate sample size, we adjust the sample
      size of each group to an integer of 100.

      Patients will receive written and verbal information about the trial before written consent
      is obtained. The randomization will take place when the surgeons confirm preliminarily there
      is no need to place drainage tube for coelom hyperthermia perfusion after laparoscopy. Then
      patients will be assigned to either intervention (return to ward by walking) or control group
      (return to ward by lying on the transporting bed). A stratified randomization with three
      factors including sex, age and total or distal gastrectomy will be performed to ensure an
      even spread. The randomization is performed using concealed allocation where envelopes are
      prepared externally using a randomization list prepared by a statistician.

      The patients will receive general anesthesia combined with epidural analgesia. After surgery,
      the patients will be evaluated whether fulfilling the criteria for mobilization including
      stable physiological parameters, consciousness, normal level of orientation and muscle
      strength, and painlessness every ten minutes. If patients fulfill the criteria, they will
      receive different methods of returning to the ward based on the grouping. In the control
      group, the patient will return to the ward by lying on the transporting bed. In the
      intervention group, the patients will be raised to a sitting position for five minutes. If
      the patients do not complain any discomfort and have stable physiological parameters, they
      will be encouraged to stand. If standing do not cause any discomfort, they will be encouraged
      to walk within the range of 5-meter long and 60-centimeter wide. If patients can walk within
      the range, they will return to the surgical ward by walking under the protection of medical
      staffs.

      Then, all study patients will be subject to the same management such as the guidance of drink
      and diet recovery, the guidance of mobilization in the ward, nutrition supplement after
      surgery, and the criteria of drainage removal and hospital discharge. The outcomes such as
      the length of hospital stay after surgery will be recorded and analyzed to evaluate the
      effects of walking out from the operating room. The analysis of Intention-to-treat and
      Per-protocol-sets will be both performed by statisticians.
    
  