
    
      This study will evaluate a peer service program for caregivers of youth struggling with
      mental illness using a program developed by the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI)
      called NAMI Basics. This peer service program for caregivers was adapted from their
      successful and empirically supported model for caregivers of adult children with mental
      illness (Family-to-Family). The child-focused intervention, NAMI Basics, is a six-class
      curriculum focused on increasing caregiver knowledge about mental illness, empowering parents
      to advocate for their children across service systems, and introducing skills that assist in
      family problem-solving and communication. It is available widely throughout the U.S. through
      certified trainers who volunteer with local NAMI affiliates and is provided free of charge to
      caregivers in a non-stigmatizing community setting (e.g., local school, church, community
      center). It is open to all caregivers, regardless of mental health diagnosis or time within a
      treatment system. Families may be just beginning to recognize their child has a mental health
      challenge or may have been involved in service systems for many years. The program has been
      fully translated into Spanish, as well, and can be provided by Spanish-speaking trainers in
      many communities (known as Bases y Fundamentos de NAMI). NAMI Basics offers an inexpensive,
      non-stigmatizing strategy to increase families' access to information, training, and support
      in caring for their child with behavioral health challenges. The program can serve as an
      adjunct to traditional services or as a stand-alone program.

      An initial pilot trial of NAMI Basics demonstrated pre-post increases in knowledge about
      youth mental illness and advocacy among a sample of 85 caregivers. A second study of 36
      caregivers participating in NAMI Basics replicated and extended these results, demonstrating
      an increase in family empowerment and caregiver self-care, and reductions in inflammatory
      communication. However, more rigorous testing of the impact of the intervention, similar to
      that conducted with its "sister" program, needs to be conducted.

      In order to more rigorously test the promising NAMI Basics program, we propose a randomized
      effectiveness trial. Caregivers who are parenting youth with a mental illness (N = 175)
      referred to the NAMI Basics program through natural referral routes will be given the option
      to participate in the study, and if interested, randomly assigned to either an immediate NAMI
      Basics classes (Wave A) or an 8-week delay condition (Wave B), followed by initiation of the
      NAMI Basics class. The NAMI Basics classes will be studied within five local NAMI affiliates
      in Texas. As the NAMI Basics program is translated and provided in Spanish, both Spanish and
      English classes will be run and evaluated as part of this research study.
    
  