
    
      INTRODUCTION: Heart Failure (HF) is one of the leading causes of hospitalization in Canada.
      While great advances have been made in the treatment of this disease, factors limiting the
      effectiveness of treatment include: poor compliance to dietary guidelines and medications,
      patients' lack of understanding about the impact of their disease, a lack of understanding of
      the impact of their lifestyle habits on their disease and the lack of systematic monitoring
      of patients following hospitalization. The objective of this trial of education and
      compliance in heart failure patients (TEACH) is to measure in patients with heart failure who
      are hospitalized and then discharged into the community, the impact of a comprehensive
      outpatient educational intervention on:

        1. a composite endpoint of mortality, readmissions and visits to the emergency room for all
           causes,

        2. the impact of the intervention on health-related quality of life,

        3. the impact of the intervention on compliance to medication and

        4. the economic impact of providing such an intervention to patients. A unique component of
           this study is the participation of community pharmacists as part of a seamless care
           model and the economic and qualitative evaluation of the educational interventions.

      RESEARCH DESIGN: This is a prospective, randomized controlled clinical trial in patients who
      are admitted to the hospital with a diagnosis of heart failure. Patients are stratified by
      reason for admission to the hospital. Stratum 1 includes patients whose primary reason for
      admission is HF and stratum 2 includes patients whose primary reason for hospital admission
      is not HF. The randomization will follow a cluster randomization design such that the
      community pharmacies will be randomized to deliver either an intervention (INTERVENTION) or
      usual care (CONTROL). Patients will be assigned to one of the two arms contingent upon which
      pharmacy they obtain most of their medications from. All patients receive standardized
      in-hospital education that has been previously validated (Eur J of HF, in press 2003). This
      education consists of educational booklets and videos on HF, health promotion and dietary
      information as well as relevant intervention from their community pharmacist that is aimed at
      helping the patients become more compliant with their medication and provide a framework of
      understanding that helps persistence.

      HYPOTHESIS: HF patients who receive an enhanced educational intervention from their community
      pharmacist will:

        1. have an absolute risk reduction in the number of events of 20%,

        2. be more compliant,

        3. demonstrate less health-related quality of life (HRQoL) impairment as measured by
           disease-specific and generic HRQoL instruments and

        4. lower costs/quality adjusted life years (QALY) due to fewer total events per patient.

      OUTCOMES: Outcomes are collected every 3 months from baseline to end of one year. Events are
      tracked using a comprehensive database that we have developed and validated. Further
      utilization data will be provided by ICES data linkage facilities and patient interviews at
      the time of outcome assessment. In order to measure compliance we will continue to use
      electronic measures known as Track Caps (MEMS). The other indirect measure is pharmacy refill
      data that is provided to us from all community pharmacies the patient uses. This data will be
      interpreted using a validated formula developed by Steiner et al. (1996). Resource use and
      clinical outcomes are also collected.

      IMPORTANCE: Medication used to treat HF and other chronic diseases can only work, if used. We
      are providing a validated education intervention to patients through an existing community
      infrastructure with an aim to reduce morbidity and mortality and have a positive impact on
      HRQoL within a cost-effective framework.
    
  