
    
      Heart transplantation is considered the gold-standard therapy for end-stage systolic heart
      failure but the shortage of donor hearts in Germany and other countries has led to widespread
      use of left ventricular assist devices (LVAD). Even on the transplant list, patients'
      condition often deteriorate due to worsening heart failure so that they need an LVAD as a
      bridge until transplantation. The high mortality (one in five patients on the waiting list
      dies within 1 year) reflects the severity of the disease. In comparison, technical progress
      has reduced the complication rate seen with assist devices and, according to recent data,
      mortality during LVAD support is low. Patient status prior to LVAD implantation is a strong
      indicator for postoperative outcome, i.e. patients in worse condition are more likely to
      develop complications. Thus, the comparison between the standard indication and early LVAD
      implantation (T-status) appears timely and clinically necessary.

      The paucity of donor hearts necessitates the prospective evaluation of alternative treatment
      regimens. The aim of the study is to assess whether, in patients with end-stage heart failure
      awaiting cardiac transplantation, a strategy involving early LVAD implantation is superior to
      a strategy of conservative medical heart failure therapy and assist device implantation only
      after severe deterioration of heart failure.

      The investigators expect to gain insights that will be trail-blazing for the future treatment
      of patients with heart failure on the transplantation waiting list, including aspects of
      their medical care. If the study hypotheses are confirmed, the treatment of these seriously
      ill patients could be, on the one hand, further optimized. On the other hand, positive
      economic effects are highly probable.

      The results will form the basis of future guidelines for the treatment of this group of
      patients.

      Thus the study will also make a contribution to solving the problem of the ever increasing
      number of patients on the waiting list as opposed to the decreasing willingness to donate
      organs for transplantation.

      As a mean of quality control of the conducted study and to retrieve more data in this
      population all patients who fulfill the eligibility criteria of the study but do not consent
      to randomization are included in a standard treatment registry.
    
  