
    
      The prevalence of chronic low back pain in the population is estimated to range between at
      12% and 28% (1-4). Within this group an estimated 12-15% of adults suffer from chronic
      neuropathic lower back pain (CNLBP), have relatively greater pain severity, and account for
      more of the costs of this condition (5,6). This subgroup of people with CNLBP are the focus
      of the proposed trial.

      The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) recommends SCS for refractory
      neuropathic pain (TA159) (7). It is routinely used for people with predominant, neuropathic,
      radicular pain typically resulting from, or persisting after, spinal surgery (so-called
      failed back surgery syndrome (FBSS) (8-10). SCS has been shown to be cost effective for this
      indication (11).

      Conventional SCS consists of the insertion of a medical wire (lead) introduced into the
      epidural space through a needle puncture. The lead is then positioned to target the pain by
      passing current into the lead from an external power source to generate a pins and needles
      sensation (paraesthesias) over the painful area. Analgesia occurs when the paraesthesia
      overlaps and therefore masks the painful area. Once pain reduction is demonstrated, the
      battery is implanted under the skin of the abdomen, flank or buttock. SCS is most commonly
      used in the treatment of leg pain of FBSS. However, due to lack of existing evidence and the
      difficulty of obtaining paraesthesia over the low back, SCS has traditionally not been
      recommended for treating patients with back pain without previous back surgery (10, 12).

      High frequency 10kHz-SCS is a recent major advance in SCS technology. The current is
      delivered at 10kHz frequency as opposed to the 40 to 60Hz generated by the conventional SCS
      (13). The key advantages of a higher frequency current are:

      10kHz-SCS has been shown to be superior (14) to conventional SCS in targeting residual low
      back pain following back surgery. Moreover, it does not generate any stimulation related
      sensations or paraesthesia so is preferred by patients as they are saved from needing to
      experience these distracting and occasional shocking sensations of conventional SCS.
      Therefore, 10kHz-SCS allows to smoothly conduct sham controlled or double blind studies in
      the field of SCS without the need for device modifications.

      The lead applicant conducted an uncontrolled, multicentre, single arm study with 83 people
      with significant low back pain with or without leg pain, implanted with a 10kHz-SCS. At 24
      months, the mean reported VAS score for back pain was 3.3 (SD 0.3), compared with 8.4 (SD
      0.1) at baseline (pre-implant) and 2.7 (SD 0.3) at 6 months with 60% of subjects reporting
      >50% back pain relief. Similar improvements were observed in leg pain, disability, sleep and
      marked reductions in medication intake (15).

      In a more recent multicentre RCT, 10kHz-SCS therapy demonstrated superiority to conventional
      low-frequency SCS in the treatment of post-surgical neuropathic pain. A total of 198 subjects
      with both back and leg pain were randomised in a 1:1 ratio to a 10 KHz-SCS or conventional
      SCS. 10kHz-SCS decreased back pain intensity by 67% compared to 44% in the conventional SCS
      arm (16). This decrease was sustained at 24 months (17).

      The above mentioned studies focused on neuropathic back pain in the context of patients with
      previous spinal surgery. However, a small subset of patients without prior spine surgery that
      received 10kHz-SCS therapy in both these studies have shown good pain relief and functional
      improvements in both studies comparable to those with FBSS (14,16).

      The investigators hypothesised that patients with CNLBP with no prior spine surgery would
      benefit from 10kHz-SCS. To evaluate this hypothesis, the investigators initially designed and
      conducted an open label uncontrolled pilot study in 21 patients with CNLBP and no prior spine
      surgery. 10kHz-SCS therapy significantly reduced back pain intensity by an average of 5.59
      (SD 1.80) (-72.6% vs baseline) at 12 months in medically refractory low back pain patients
      with no past history of spine surgery. 90% of the implanted patients were classified as
      responders (i.e. VAS back pain reduction >50%) at 12 months. The investigators also observed
      a significant increase in physical function scores and health-related quality of life at one
      year post 10kHz-SCS implant. Mean pain intensity was reduced by 73% and disability measured
      by the Oswestry Disability Index was reduced by 48%. Opioid medication intake decreased by
      64% and mean EQ-5D quality of life scores improved from 0.16 to 0.47. More importantly 75% of
      patients were able to return to employment(18). This improvement was sustained at 3 years
      follow up (19).

      Following these promising results, the investigators now intend to undertake a fully powered
      RCT to confirm our hypothesis that 10kHz-SCS is beneficial for CNLBP patients with no prior
      back surgery.

      To date 10kHz-SCS has not been formally tested against a sham control condition in order to
      isolate the therapeutic effects from those induced by placebo. It is very possible that some
      of the benefit reported may be due to a placebo effect (enhanced by a surgical procedure) or
      reporting bias in either the patient or assessor. The investigators have therefore
      specifically designed this fully powered double blind randomised sham controlled trial of
      10kHz-SCS to address this major methodological limitation of previous studies.
    
  