
    
      Today, time dedicated to sleep is in competition with working time, transport time or time
      spent on new technologies, in a professional or recreational setting. Faced with the public
      health issue thus raised, studies have highlighted the interest of studying the relationships
      between sleep time and socio-demographic factors, beyond the mere implication of sleep
      pathologies. However, among these pathologies, the place of insomnia is not negligible: it is
      indeed the most frequent sleep disorder (16% of French people in 2010) and represents an
      important source of involuntary reduction in sleep time, likely to increase inappropriate
      sleepiness during periods of wakefulness, in the context of activities sometimes involving
      safety.

      Flight crews are exposed to specific operational constraints, both in civilian and military
      environments, likely to compromise the recovery function of sleep (operational fatigue,
      extended working ranges, repetitions of time differences, etc.). These constraints, conducive
      to compromising the levels of vigilance and cognitive performance required, are also at risk
      of cardio-metabolic complications. They therefore raise the issue of controlling risks and
      maintaining aviation safety.

      The issue of pilot fatigue remains an essential issue for the safety of flight operations. In
      the context of air transport, several determinants of operational fatigue have been
      identified, such as irregular sleep schedules, large, irregular and sometimes unpredictable
      activity ranges, sleep debts, night flights and circadian disturbances in connection with
      multiple and repeated changes of time zones. If these factors must deal within airlines with
      rules more often based on alternating "work / rest" than "sleep / wakefulness", the laws and
      regulations in force, within the aeronautical industry, are now oriented towards scientific
      approaches to the management of fatigue in commercial aviation, by emphasizing the importance
      of sleep and taking into account circadian rhythms.

      Currently, the vast majority of studies devoted to the sleep of aviation flight personnel are
      therefore limited to the cases of commercial aviation airline pilots. They have established
      that most flights, especially over long-haul sectors, involve disturbances of the circadian
      rhythm, fractionation and restriction of sleep that are harmful to cognitive performance and
      the risk of accidents. Most publications have looked for associations between sleep measures
      and performance in an operational context. Some have been able to demonstrate that the
      classic methods of evaluating sleep in flight (by actimetric readings, sleep diaries or
      subjective evaluation of self-questionnaires) were correlated with reference data obtained by
      polysomnography, strongly for the duration of sleep but moderately to weakly for its
      effectiveness. In the specific case of sleep duration, self-report questionnaires have proven
      to be a reliable alternative to in-flight actimetric measurements.

      The majority of studies have been designed considering pilot sleep as a determinant of
      in-flight performance, especially during long (12 to 16 hours) and very long (over 16 hours)
      flights. On the other hand, taking into account the consequences of aeronautical activity on
      the sleep of pilots is relatively rare in the scientific literature. Thus, most "ecological"
      studies, known as field studies, generally focus on specific flights with limited time slots
      and small sample sizes, limiting the scope of the results regarding the effects of flights on
      sleep. Currently, the main topic of interest is still the sleep of pilots immediately before,
      during and after duty periods, but without characterizing their baseline sleep, observed
      during periods of rest.

      From this perspective, a study looked at the basic sleep of airline pilots, making
      comparisons to samples of the general North American population. On a total number of 332
      long-haul pilots, the actimetric data revealed longer sleep times during rest periods,
      highlighting the influence of environmental stresses deemed to be risky to health. In
      addition, the influence of socio-demographic and professional parameters was reported in a
      study of 435 pilots. The high prevalence of sleep disorders, drowsiness and fatigue have been
      documented, as well as an increased risk of fatigue for flight crews on short and medium-haul
      flights, in connection with the working hours and repetition of rotations.

      This study project therefore fits into this global context, in the light of 3 innovative
      perspectives:

        -  Target a rich and varied professional panel of aeronautical specialties (not limited to
           airline pilots only), integrating civil and military status, engaged in distinct
           operational frameworks but where risk control and aviation safety prevail;

        -  Recruit a large sample, without current equivalent to our knowledge in the scientific
           literature;

        -  Benefit from equivalent and recent data from a study carried out on a very large
           representative sample of the general French population
    
  