
    
      The science underpinning both short (episodic) and long (tonic) term appetite regulation
      demonstrates that foods higher in macronutrients such as fibre can, under certain
      experimental conditions, produce great decreases in feelings of hunger and increases in
      fullness, post consumption, compared to equi-caloric loads of high carbohydrate or high fat.
      Given that fibre increases the release of GLP-1, slows down gastric emptying, prolongs
      nutrient absorption and, over long-term use increases the generation of short chain fatty
      acids (SCFAs) which have been linked to improved satiety responding, it is plausible that it
      will produce strong effects on within meal processes of satiation and satiety over the short-
      and long-term. Fibre has also been suggested to influence carbohydrate fermentation (via
      generation of these SCFAs) and improve the insulin response, additionally improving satiety.
      Ingredients may be added to boost fibre content such as the use of polydextrose, which is a
      non-digestible polysaccharide usually used as a dietary fibre in foods. Polydextrose has also
      been shown to increase levels of SCFAs due to its slow fermentation and has been related to
      reductions in subsequent intake and/or reduced hunger.

      The aim of the current study is to assess the impact of a high fibre, polydextrose enriched
      tomato soup (experimental) or a low fibre tomato soup (control) on food intake, the
      experience of appetite and biomarkers of satiation and satiety.

      Sample size: 86 males aged between 18 and 55 years with a body mass index (BMI) of between
      23.0 and 28.0 kg/m2. A subset of 28 participants will undergo additional finger prick blood
      glucose and hydrogen breath test measures to assess biomarkers of satiation and satiety.
      Power calculations to ensure sufficient participants are included were based on power
      expected for a medium effect (0.25) at 80% power for a 2 condition between-measures design
      using G*power.

      Methods: Participants will be invited to three full test day (baseline control, session 1;
      first dosing, session 2; one day prior to final dosing, session 3) sessions in which they
      will be provided with breakfast (tailored to individual resting metabolic rate (RMR) using
      the Schofield equation), the preload condition (receiving a high fibre polydextrose enriched
      or control tomato soup) one hour before an ad-libitum lunch and followed four hours later by
      an ad-libitum dinner and snack box. All test days will involve the use of standard operating
      proceedures. Pre-packaged portions of soup will be provided for a 4-week dosing period
      between study sessions 2 and 3 for all participants.

      A subset of participants (N=28) will additionally undergo 3 further testing sessions
      (baseline control, session 0; second dosing, session 3; final dosing, session 4) in which a
      breakfast will be provided followed by the test product with additional glucose and
      carbohydrate fermentation measures collected for 3 hours before a light fixed portion meal.

      Throughout test days participants will complete visual analogue scales (VAS) for appetite and
      palatability as well as questionnaires pertaining to eating behaviour and current sensations
      (including a gastrointestinal distress questionnaire).

      Statistical analysis: Primary analysis will be comparison of subsequent ad-libitum energy
      intake between high fibre polydextrose enriched tomato soup compared to control using ANOVA
      and post-hoc tests. Meal duration and various appetite ratings will also be analysed as will
      biomarkers of satiety. The specified participant numbers (n=86) give an 80% probability of
      detecting an effect on energy intake.
    
  