
    
      All potential candidates will be approached for the study and undergo written consent if
      willing to participate. Each candidate will be randomized to 30ml or 60 ml Foley balloon
      catheter volume. A random number generator will be used and within a sealed envelope will be
      placed the assignment. Nulliparous and multiparous patients will be randomized separately.
      The patient will be positioned for a standard cervical exam - either for digital or speculum
      exam, depending on the individual patient preference and provider choice. For digital exam, a
      sterile Foley balloon catheter will be digitally placed in the endocervical canal, into the
      extraamniotic space (between the fetal head, external to the unruptured amniotic sac, above
      the internal os of the cervix). For speculum exam, the cervix is wiped three times with a
      Betadine cleansing solution, and a sterile Foley balloon catheter bulb will be placed under
      direct visualization into the endocervical canal, into the extraamniotic space. Once the
      balloon is in place the provider inserts 30ml of sterile saline. The provider then leaves the
      room. The patient's nurse opens the envelope and if the patient is allocated to the 60ml
      volume group, the nurse adds an additional 30ml of sterile saline. If the patient is in the
      30ml group, the RN staff will simulate placement of additional saline into the foley balloon
      without actually placing any additional saline in order to also blind the patients to their
      assigned group. The MD/CNM providers will then return to the room, blinded to the inflation
      of the Foley balloon, and the balloon catheter will be placed under tension by taping the
      external end to the patient's inner thigh. Oxytocin will be started within 30 minutes of the
      Foley balloon catheter placement, using the standard intravenous oxytocin protocol.
      Additional manual traction on the Foley balloon catheter will be performed every 30 minutes
      until Foley balloon catheter expulsion. A sterile cervical exam will be performed after
      spontaneous Foley catheter expulsion to evaluate post-balloon cervical dilation. No further
      procedures or tests specific to this study will be required beyond this point; only data
      collection on the above study outcomes during the remaining course of the patient's labor
      will be recorded.
    
  