
    
      This study began as a randomized controlled trial, but due to difficulty enrolling and high
      screen-failure rates, was modified to a prospective study design allowing participants to
      choose the arm they wished to participate in at the time of providing informed consent. The
      intervention group (both designs) was comprised of low risk pregnant women who will have a
      Foley catheter placed followed by dismissal home with return in the morning for continuation
      of the labor induction process. The control group consists of women (both designs) who will
      remain inpatient during the entire cervical ripening phase followed by continuation of the
      labor induction process in the inpatient setting.

      Low risk pregnant women at term will be enrolled in clinic after their providers have
      recommended induction of labor for a specific indication. They will be educated about
      induction of labor, the Foley catheter, and the proposed research study. If they would like
      to participate, they will be consented in the clinic. For the RCT design, a
      computer-generated randomization would occur on the morning of the planned induction, and the
      patients will be contacted by phone to inform them of their assigned group. The randomization
      will be stratified by parity and BMI.

      Outpatient Foley catheter group:

      If the patient was randomized or chose the intervention group (outpatient Foley), she
      underwent the following. She will present to the Family Birth Center in the evening at 1900.
      She will undergo a nonstress test (NST), an ultrasound for fetal presentation and amniotic
      fluid index, and a cervical exam with calculation of a Bishop score. The patient will be
      asked if she is having regular, painful contractions, decreased fetal movement, vaginal
      bleeding, leakage of fluid from the vagina concerning for rupture of membranes, or fevers or
      chills. A Foley catheter will be placed if the following criteria have been met: the
      nonstress test is reactive and reassuring (without the presence of ≥ 3 variable decelerations
      in a 20 minute period, late-appearing decelerations, or any deceleration lasting ≥1 minute),
      the fetal presentation is cephalic, the amniotic fluid index is 5 centimeters or more, the
      Bishop score is <6, the cervical dilation is <3 cm, and she has no other clinical
      characteristics that exclude her from the trial as described in the inclusion/exclusion
      criteria. A 30 French Foley will be placed either digitally or with speculum assistance. It
      will be inflated with 60 cc of normal saline and taped to the patient's inner thigh. The
      fetal heart rate tracing will be monitored for 1 hour after Foley placement. The patient will
      be sent home if the following criteria are met: the fetal heart rate tracing is reactive and
      category I; there is no evidence of rupture of membranes, spontaneous labor, or vaginal
      bleeding more than spotting; and no other exclusion criteria are present. Before discharge,
      the patient may receive pharmacologic pain relief in the form of one dose of acetaminophen
      and/or fentanyl.

      The patient will be instructed to return to the Family Birth Center at 0700 the following
      day. She will be given detailed verbal and written instructions of when to contact and return
      to the Family Birth Center before the morning. She will be provided with the 24 hour direct
      access line for the Family Birth Center to call with any questions or concerns. If the Foley
      catheter is expulsed at home, she is to record the time of expulsion. She does not need to
      return to the Family Birth Center earlier than planned due to expulsion.

      When the patient returns in the morning, the induction will be continued at the discretion of
      the providing obstetric team. The remainder of her care during the first, second, and third
      stages of labor will be at the discretion of the providing team. The patient will have
      continuous fetal monitoring. All patients' labor progress will be monitored using a
      partogram. Cesarean delivery will not be performed for arrest of labor or failed induction
      unless all criteria have been met as outlined by the Family Birth Center Workgroup protocol
      made effective 6/2/14.

      Inpatient usual care group:

      If the patient was randomized or chose the control group (inpatient usual care), she will
      arrive to the Family Birth Center at 1900 to undergo induction of labor. She will undergo a
      nonstress test (NST), an ultrasound for fetal presentation and amniotic fluid index, and a
      cervical exam with calculation of a Bishop score. The patient will be asked if she is having
      regular, painful contractions, decreased fetal movement, vaginal bleeding, leakage of fluid
      from the vagina concerning for rupture of membranes, or fevers or chills. She will be
      included or excluded from the study based on the above information. Induction of labor may
      proceed at the discretion of the providing obstetric team. Cervical ripening should be
      performed with either 25 mcg vaginal misoprostol every 4 hours with a maximum of six doses or
      a 30 Fr Foley catheter filled with 60 cc normal saline. The patient may need both methods
      during her inpatient stay if her cervix is unfavorable. A Foley catheter will be favored
      during the cervical ripening phase if there is tachysystole and/or a nonreassuring fetal
      heart tracing precluding further misoprostol administration, provided the Bishop score is
      still <6. The remainder of her care during the first, second, and third stages of labor will
      be at the discretion of the providing team. All patients' labor progress will be monitored
      using a partogram. Cesarean delivery will not be performed for arrest of labor or failed
      induction unless all criteria have been met as outlined by the Family Birth Center Workgroup
      protocol made effective 6/2/14.

      Follow up

      Each mother was asked to complete a survey before leaving the hospital describing her
      experience and satisfaction with the cervical ripening process (both study designs. Primary
      and secondary endpoints will be collected from neonatal and maternal charts through 42 days
      after the patient's delivery or the date of the patient's final postpartum clinic visit,
      whichever comes last.
    
  