
    
      Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) are straight or branched-chain fatty acids produced by the
      intestinal microbiota mainly through fermentation of undigested carbohydrates, but also
      through degradation of dietary and endogenous proteins. With a share of 90 to 95 %, acetate
      (C2), propionate (C3), and butyrate (C4) are the most common SCFAs in the colon (3). The
      molar ratios of acetate to propionate to butyrate are on average approximately 60:20:20
      throughout the whole colon. Several human studies tried to determine the in situ production
      of SCFAs by measuring their content in feces (5-8). But fecal SCFA concentrations do not
      accurately represent the concentrations in more proximal regions of the colon, because
      colonocytes absorb more than 95 % of SCFAs to use them as an energy source. Further, the
      measurement of plasma SCFA concentrations is inaccurate because SCFA plasma levels are low
      due to high metabolism in colonocytes and liver. Thus, stable isotope studies are needed to
      examine the colonic production and metabolic fate of SCFAs in healthy and diseased subjects.

      SCFAs seem to have anti-inflammatory and immune modulating effects. In COPD an enhanced
      pulmonary inflammatory response causes a combination of small airways disease (e.g.,
      obstructive bronchiolitis) and/or a destruction of lung parenchyma (emphysema). This leads to
      a progressive and persistent airflow limitation. Smoking and the exposure to polluted air are
      main risk factors causing COPD. In a mouse model, a diet rich in whey proteins attenuated
      emphysema through the suppression of respiratory inflammation. This might have been related
      to a high colonic SCFA concentration due to the diet. Young et al. proposed that in smokers
      SCFAs might mitigate both the innate-mediated systemic inflammation controlled by the liver
      and the inflammatory responses in the lung.

      Moreover, Nielsen et al. found that gastrointestinal diseases are significantly more
      prevalent in COPD patients (15 %) than in patients with other diseases (9%). This might have
      an influence on the SCFA production in the colon. Gastrointestinal problems may also be
      assessed through the usage of validated questionnaires.
    
  