
    
      An accurate assessment of disease activity is crucial for the treatment of patients with
      ulcerative colitis (UC). Several indices have been used to assess disease activity in
      patients with UC. Mayo score is the most widely used index for UC activity measurement.
      Meanwhile, recent studies have reported that the Simple Clinical Colitis Activity Index
      (SCCAI) correlates well with Mayo score. SCCAI is consisted of only clinical items and
      includes items such as nocturnal diarrhea and urgent defecation which are more closely
      related to the quality of life of patients. In this regard, a recent report demonstrated that
      SCCAI has a significant correlation with the degree of health-related quality of life in UC
      patients.

      Since SCCAI is composed of only clinical parameters, it can be evaluated by the patients
      themselves. According to recent research, the self-administered SCCAI was reported to have a
      high correlation with the SCCAI assessed by physician (correlation coefficient = 0.79).
      Moreover, it is also reported that the self-administered SCCAI through the web-based input
      tool at home is highly correlated with the SCCAI assessed by physician (Spearman's
      correlation = 0.79). These results suggest that the patient's self-reported SCCAI can be
      applied to actual clinical practice, and it will enable remote monitoring and flexible
      follow-up depending on the patient's disease activity. If self-administered SCCAI is to be
      applied as a more valid disease activity assessment tools, it also properly reflects
      patient's quality of life status. However, it is not yet known whether the self-administered
      SCCAI using web-based tools reflects the quality of life of patients.

      The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between self-administered web-based
      SCCAI and the health-related quality of life of UC patients.
    
  