
    
      Study Design Research design: A Phase III randomized clinical trial (RCT) will be performed
      using a crossover design and employing an exoskeletal-assisted walking intervention. The
      experimental arm will be compared to a usual activities (UA) arm, as the control, in 64
      persons with chronic SCI (>6 month post injury) who are wheelchair-dependent for outdoor
      mobility in the community. Eligible participants will be randomized (within site) to one of
      two groups for 12 weeks (three months): Group 1 (n=32) will receive exoskeletal-assisted
      walking (WALK) first for 12 weeks then crossover UA for a second 12 weeks; Group 2 (n=32)
      will receive UA first for 12 weeks then cross-over to the WALK arm for 12 weeks of training.
      The WALK arm will consist of supervised exoskeletal-assisted walking training, three sessions
      per week (4-6 h/week) for 36 sessions for their second 12-week period. The UA arm will
      consist of identification of usual activities for each participant, encouragement to continue
      with these activities and attention by study team members throughout the 12-week UA arm.
      These activities will be recorded in a weekly log. A fixed answer format will be used to
      capture this information.

      Rationale for intervention to be studied: This research design has several advantages. Group
      1 will serve as the intervention follow-up to assess retention or non-retention of change due
      to the intervention on the outcome variables. Group 2 will serve as a lead-in to assess
      stability of the outcome variables prior to the intervention. Additionally, because of
      tremendous variability in the SCI population and difficulty with case-control matching, the
      cross-over design will help to control for variability between participants because each
      participant will serve as their own control. Veterans and nonveterans with SCI generally do
      not receive further structured rehabilitation once they have completed the acute and
      sub-acute phases of their rehabilitation. As such, the usual lifestyle activities have been
      chosen as the control for this study. Dr. Spungen has discussed the optimal control for an
      exoskeletal-assisted walking program. She has consulted with the Chiefs of several SCI
      Services in both the VA and non-VA rehabilitation hospitals. A case-controlled, matched RCT
      study would be strongest with two interventions: exoskeletal-assisted walking compared with
      any other form of physical activity such as robotically assisted body weight supported
      treadmill training (Lokomat), body weight supported treadmill training, arm ergometry etc.
      However, there are two considerations that make this type of study not feasible. One is that
      it would be extremely difficult to case-control match for independent variables within site,
      and the second is that most participants would likely not agree to participate if there was a
      50% chance they would not get the exoskeletal-assisted walking arm. In order to control for
      an attention effect, participants in the UA arm will keep weekly activity logs and be
      contacted by phone calls from the study team to receive attention and encouragement to
      continue participation in the UA of their choice. In order to control for attention aspects
      of this type of study, participants will also make in person twice monthly visits to their
      sites during the UA arm. During these visits, study team staff will review their UA logs and
      administers the 10Q BFS and BSS.

      Because the achievement of improved secondary medical outcomes is likely dependent on the
      ability to walk in the exoskeletons, the primary outcome will be achievement of mobility
      skills in the exoskeletal devices. It has not been demonstrated in a large sample that people
      with SCI can use the device as described by the pilot data. Secondary outcomes will be change
      in fat mass and bowel function. Exploratory outcomes will be change in cardiovascular and
      autonomic measures and quality of life surveys [using the newly validated SCI quality of life
      (SCI-QOL) tool for bowel, bladder and five emotional domains]21,50.

      Description of walking in the ReWalk: The ReWalk exoskeletal system requires the user to
      actively shift their body appropriately over their legs in order to maintain balance on the
      stance leg allowing the swing leg to clear the floor. This is accomplished with coordinated
      movements involving the upper extremity muscles in the trunk, arms, shoulder, back, neck, and
      head for the body to maintain balance dynamically as the system assists the legs to move in a
      normal walking pattern. Balance is maintained with the use of Loftstrand crutches. A mode
      selector, which is worn on the wrist, is used to select "walk mode" once the person is stable
      during standing. Following walk mode selection, the user shifts onto the left leg and
      slightly forward so that the right leg is offloaded. The tilting/leaning action triggers the
      device to swing the right leg forward and the user weight shifts so that their trunk is over
      the right leg as they step onto the right foot. This will then initiate the left leg to swing
      forward; the use weight shifts onto it and continuous walking is achieved if this coordinated
      weight shifting and stepping onto each leg is continued. The unit will stop walking in two
      ways. If the user does not shift their weight onto the front foot, then the ReWalk will time
      out after two seconds and return to the standing position. The second way is if the person
      does not shift their weight appropriately to have the swing leg clear the floor. This will
      cause the leg to have some additional external force that the ReWalk will sense and cause the
      system to return to standing mode. The stepping and walking gait pattern of the ReWalk is
      very similar to normal walking51. The gait pattern settings in the ReWalk can be preset in
      order to increase or decrease the step length, speed of the step and/or the amount of foot
      clearance the person will have during walking, permitting a velocity of 0.10 to 0.80 m/s.

      In order to successfully accomplish walking with the ReWalk, considerable coordination
      between the upper extremity muscles in the trunk, arms, shoulder, back, neck, and head is
      needed in conjunction with dynamic standing balance. A specific pattern of trunk positioning,
      crutch placement and weight shifting is needed. To prepare for walking, the user must attain
      a stable standing position with the crutches placed slightly in front of him/her. To begin
      walking, the user must shift their weight onto the left foot to unweight the right foot. The
      right foot steps forward first, and this is initiated when the user slightly leans forward,
      by bringing the crutches forward, away from the stepping leg to allow it to swing forward and
      clear the floor. As the stepping leg moves forward and extends toward the ground, the user
      shifts weight forward, stepping onto that leg and then sequentially brings the crutches
      forward for the next step. Immediately after the weight is shifted, the user must straighten
      his/her posture with their body perpendicular to the ground before leaning forward to
      initiate the next step. This is similar to a normal walking pattern. As the leg contralateral
      to the initial step leg swings forward, the participant must shift the crutches away from
      that leg to allow it to step forward. This process is repeated for continued walking.

      Description of walking in the Ekso: The users are progressed through a series of steps to
      participate in over ground ambulation. The first method, called FirstStep. This is when the
      trainer triggers the step by using a controller while verbally cueing the participant that
      the device is taking a step. The second method, called ActiveStep is when the user to
      initiates the stepping action by pressing a button on a pair of instrumented crutches for
      each step. The last method, called ProStep, is when the user shifts their weight lateral and
      forward onto the front foot, until sensors indicate when an appropriate shift has been
      performed. The stepping pattern can be adjusted to change the step time and step length. The
      trajectory of the foot allows for foot clearance similar to a marching pattern. The device
      has the ability for provide some abduction and plantar/dorsi flexion positioning. This device
      has the ability to alter the stepping, which would allow the user to take faster or slower
      steps with a longer or shorter stride length, thus permitting a walking velocity of 0.10 to
      0.45 m/s. Stopping is achieved by holding a stationary position and by not activating
      sensors. The Ekso allows for varying robot-assist levels that can be decrease or increased
      bilaterally. The robot assistance can operate will full or variable assist, dependent on the
      level of function of the individual.
    
  