
    
      This study is being conducted as a component of a NIH/NCI sponsored Small Business Technology
      Transfer (STTR) project entitled "Cervical Cancer Prevention Prebiotic Device."

      The prebiotic vaginal gel, PreBioGyn, has been developed to optimize vaginal health and
      reduce the risk of cervical cancer in women. Use of the gel targets a combination of
      biological risk factors for cervical cancer including restoring and maintaining healthy
      vaginal microbiota, pH, and mucosal function, thereby preventing disturbed immunity and
      inflammation caused by dysbiosis and mucosal microtrauma. The purpose of this study is to
      provide a quantitative perception evaluation of the acceptability of PreBioGyn and its
      applicator system.

      The objectives of this study are to:

        1. Perform a quantitative sensory evaluation to determine the topical acceptability of
           PreBioGyn, as well as receive qualitative feedback on the gel, as compared to
           competitive products.

        2. Obtain quantitative and qualitative feedback regarding acceptability of the PreBioGyn
           applicator compared to those for existing competitive products.

      These Study Objectives do not involve actual intravaginal use of the product. Rather, this
      activity will involve presentation of the products in a forearm and finger-touch sensory
      evaluation, and the answering of questions related to this perceptual evaluation.

      Study Design:

      This is a randomized, single-blind, cross-over study that will include 42 women.

      Study Procedures and Methods:

      Quantitative sensory evaluation and qualitative feedback to determine the acceptability of
      the prebiotic vaginal gel (PreBioGyn) as compared to competitive products

      Summary:

      Quantitative evaluation of PreBioGyn and two competitive vaginal pH buffer-gels will be
      performed. The four key qualitative parameters to be evaluated are slipperiness, tackiness,
      appearance, and smell. These parameters are key functional outcomes for the final PreBioGyn
      formula. Qualitative feedback and likelihood of use for each gel will also be collected and
      scored.

        1. Quantitative Assessment of Slipperiness and Tackiness ("lubricity").

           Quantitative perceptual lubricity (slipperiness and tackiness) will be determined using
           a standardized methodology wherein participants discriminate differences between the
           PreBioGyn and two competitive products, versus positive and negative anchor products.
           Products are evaluated on the skin (forearm area) ex vivo.

           Participants will each receive the positive and negative anchors, then the three gel
           products, on three different 4-cm circular forearm sites. The order of the gels, and the
           circle to which it was applied, will be determined randomly based on a
           computer-generated randomization table. Each treatment is replicated twice. Participants
           will be blinded to the specific products used.

           Fingers and circles will be wiped with a low-residue baby-wipe and paper towel. The
           investigator dispenses 0.2 ml of the sample into the center of the circle previously
           drawn on the forearm. The sample is rubbed in a circle using the index finger at a rate
           of 2 revolutions per second for 15 seconds and followed with another 45 seconds (60
           second time point). A metronome is set at 120 bpm and played to standardize the
           manipulation rate.

           At time points 15 and 60 seconds, slipperiness is evaluated using a visual analog scale
           (VAS). The two ends of the visual analog scale are anchored by the phrases "not
           slippery" and "very slippery." The participant is asked to make a mark on the VAS at the
           point of their slipperiness assessment between the two anchors. Prior to study gel
           measurements, participants will perform evaluations on two products representing the
           negative anchor "not slippery" (lanolin) and positive anchor "very slippery" (Gun Oil™
           lubricant).

           At the 60-second time point, and after the slipperiness score is recorded, subjects will
           assess tackiness by tapping their finger up and down for 5 seconds on the skin in the
           circle just used to assess slipperiness.

           Tackiness is evaluated using the visual analog scale. The two ends of the visual analog
           scale are anchored by the phrases "Not tacky or sticky" and "very tacky or sticky." The
           focus group participant is asked to make a mark on the VAS at the point of their
           tackiness assessment between the two anchors. Prior to study gel measurements,
           participants will perform evaluations on two products representing the anchors of "very
           tacky" (lanolin) and "not tacky" (Gun Oil® lubricant). The degree of slipperiness and
           tackiness is determined by measuring the distance of the participants mark on the visual
           analog scale from the left baseline.

        2. Qualitative Assessment of Appearance and Smell and Overall Perception.

           Study participants will be asked to rate the appearance and smell of the PreBioGyn and
           competitive products following the end of the quantitative assessment period. The
           traditional nine-point hedonic scale will be used to assess the degree of liking or
           disliking of each gel's smell and appearance. The reliability, validity and
           discriminative ability of the scale has been proven in food, cosmetic, and personal care
           product acceptance tests.

           Two milliliters (2 ml) of each lubricant will be dispensed from a prefilled syringe onto
           a small clear plastic petri dish. The order of the gel will be determined randomly based
           on a computer-generated randomization table. Each treatment is replicated twice.
           Participants will be blinded to the product identity. Subjects will be asked to observe
           the gels under good lighting, smell the gels from a distance of approximately 2-5 cm
           from the end of their nose, and then rate each gel on the Hedonic scale. Finally,
           open-ended feedback on the gels, including likelihood of use as a proposed product to
           decrease cervical cancer risk, will occur using the "I Like, I Wish, What If" method to
           gather participant contributions.

        3. Quantitative and Qualitative Feedback Regarding Acceptability of the PreBioGyn
           Applicator Compared to Competitive Products.

      Women will rank the PreBioGyn applicator versus that of competitive products in a 9-point
      Hedonic scale for acceptability of the applicator look and feel; the usability for preparing
      the applicator for dosing, and the usability to expel the gel (table-top). Finally, the
      overall reaction to the concept of inserting each applicator vaginally will be rated, as well
      as a 5-point Likert-scale rating of likelihood of future use of each product to reduce
      cervical cancer risk. Finally, open-ended feedback on the applicators will occur using the "I
      Like, I Wish, What If" method to gather participant contributions.
    
  