
    
      History and current related studies Intraarticular fractures and ruptures of ligaments around
      the joint often occur after ankle injury. Early correct treatment can effectively help joint
      repair, and reduce the incidence of serious complications. Ankle fractures are one of the
      common orthopedic fractures. X-ray is a common method for detecting ankle injury, can
      determine the fracture site, type and extent. However, X-ray is difficult to display ankle
      fracture, bone fragments, displacement, or ligament injury, so it cannot make accurate
      fracture classification or formulate treatment programs.

      Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can clearly show the ankle ligament, tendon, and cartilage
      injury, is advantageous in the diagnosis of ligament injury after ankle fracture, and can
      provide accurate imaging information. MRI can provide accurate preoperative assessment of
      clinical indicators for the rational formulation of treatment programs to reduce
      complications. The observation of ankle contusion observed by MRI is conducive to analyzing
      the mechanism of ankle joint injury.

      Therefore, X-ray combined with MRI would perfectly verify soft tissue injury after ankle
      fractures so as to make effective surgical program.

      Adverse events Adverse events including incision pain, incision nonunion, ankle pain,
      peripheral nerve injury of ankle joint, ankle joint inflammation, and soft tissue injury.
      Severe adverse events are events occurred during clinical trial, including requiring
      hospitalization, prolonged hospitalization, disability, inability to work, life-threatening,
      or fatalities. If severe adverse events occur, investigators would report details, including
      the date of occurrence and measures taken to treat the adverse events, to the principle
      investigator and the institutional review board within 24 hours.

      Data collection, management, analysis and open-access

        1. Case report forms with demographic data, disease diagnosis, accompanying diseases, drug
           allergy history, and adverse events were collected.

        2. Data were processed using Epidata software (Epidata Association, Odense, Denmark),
           collated, and then recorded electronically. All data regarding this trial were preserved
           by the First Hospital, Hebei Medical University, China.

        3. The electronic database was statistically analyzed by a professional statistician who
           created an outcome analysis report that was submitted to the lead researchers.
    
  