
    
      Background: Diabetic foot ulcers are frequently related to elevated pressure under a bony
      prominence. Conservative treatment includes offloading with orthopaedic shoes and custom made
      orthotics or plaster casts. While casting in plaster is usually effective in achieving
      primary closure of foot ulcers, recurrence rates are high. Minimally invasive surgical
      offloading that includes correction of foot deformities has good short and long term results.
      The surgery alleviates the pressure under the bony prominence, thus enabling prompt ulcer
      healing, negating the patient's dependence on expensive shoes and orthotics, with a lower
      chance of recurrence. The purpose of this protocol is to compare offloading surgery
      (percutaneous flexor tenotomy, mini-invasive floating metatarsal osteotomy or Keller
      arthroplasty) to non-surgical treatment for patients with diabetic foot ulcers in a crossover
      designed RCT.

      Methods: 100 patients with diabetic neuropathy related foot ulcers (tip of toe ulcers, ulcers
      under metatarsal heads and ulcers under the hallux interphalangeal joint) will be randomized
      (2:3) to a surgical offloading procedure or best available non-surgical treatment. Group 1
      (surgery) will have surgery within 1 week. Group 2 (controls) will be prescribed an
      offloading cast applied for up to 12 weeks (based on clinical considerations). Following
      successful offloading treatment (ulcer closure with complete epithelization) patients will be
      prescribed orthopaedic shoes and custom made orthotics. If offloading by cast for at least 6
      weeks fails, or the ulcer recurs, patients will be offered surgical offloading. Follow-up
      will take place till 2 years following randomization. Outcome criteria will be time to
      healing of the primary ulcer (complete epithelization), time to healing of surgical wound,
      recurrence of ulcer, time to recurrence and complications.

      Discussion: The high recurrence rate of foot ulcers and their dire consequences justify
      attempts to find better solutions that the non-surgical options available at present. To
      promote surgery, randomized controlled trial (RCT) level evidence of efficacy is necessary.
    
  