
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Assess the clinical outcomes, survival, and morbidity of transplantation in patients
           with Hodgkin's lymphoma or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma when treated with filgrastim (G-CSF)
           followed by high dose chemotherapy plus G-CSF followed by autologous peripheral blood
           stem cell (PBSC) transplantation.

        -  Determine whether sufficient PBSC can be collected for use in autologous transplantation
           in these patients when mobilized with hematopoietic growth factor alone compared to
           chemotherapy plus growth factor.

        -  Determine whether these primed PBSC support prompt lymphoid and myeloid hematopoietic
           recovery after transplantation in these patients.

        -  Compare the numbers of committed progenitor cells and/or primitive, pluripotential
           hematopoietic stem cells with these two priming techniques.

        -  Compare the numbers of tumor cells in cryopreserved PBSC following these priming
           techniques.

        -  Evaluate response and extended relapse free survival in conjunction with rapid
           hematopoietic reconstitution and limited transplant associated morbidity and mortality
           in these patients when treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: In the first priming phase, patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SQ)
      daily on days 1-7 and peripheral blood stem cells are collected on days 6-8.

      At least 48 hours after the last dose of G-CSF and after the third leukapheresis, patients
      receive the second priming, which consists of cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on day 1 and
      cytarabine IV over 1 hour every 12 hours for a total of 2 doses on day 1. Patients also
      receive mitoxantrone IV over 1 hour daily and dexamethasone IV every 12 hours for a total of
      4 doses on days 1-2. Patients receive G-CSF SQ daily beginning on day 4 and continuing until
      the completion of leukapheresis. PBSC are collected on 3 consecutive days after blood counts
      recover.

      In the transplant phase, patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who have not exceeded
      pretransplant radiotherapy limits receive cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on days -7 and -6
      and total body irradiation twice daily on days -4 through -1. Autologous PBSC are reinfused
      on day 0. Patients receive G-CSF IV daily beginning on day 0 and continuing until day 21 or
      until blood counts recover.

      Patients with Hodgkin's lymphoma or patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who have exceeded
      pretransplant radiotherapy limits receive cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours daily on days -6
      through -3, carmustine IV over 1 hour on day -6, and etoposide IV over 4 hours every 12 hours
      for a total of 6 doses on days -6 through -4. Autologous PBSC are reinfused on day 0.
      Patients also receive G-CSF IV daily beginning on day 0 and continuing until day 21 or until
      blood counts recover.

      All patients receive radiotherapy for any residual nodal masses measuring at least 2 cm 5
      days a week beginning on day 28.

      Patients are followed at day 100, then every 3 months for 1 year, then every 6 months for 2
      years, and then annually thereafter.

      This was changed to a treatment guideline study.
    
  