
    
      The neratinib dose-escalation using a 3+3 design will include 4 dose levels (120 mg, 160 mg,
      200 mg, and 240 mg) as a daily oral dose. Up to 12 patients will be treated at the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD).

      The neratinib dose-escalation for the study will proceed on the basis of dose-limiting
      toxicity (DLT) during cycle 1. DLT will be defined as the occurrence of 1 or more of the
      following events during cycle 1: any grade diarrhea that is associated with fever or
      dehydration requiring IV fluids; grade 3 diarrhea lasting more than 2 days on optimal medical
      therapy; grade 4 diarrhea of any duration; grade 3 or 4 neutropenia associated with fever;
      grade 4 neutropenia lasting more than 7 days; grade 4 thrombocytopenia; grade 3 or 4
      non-hematological toxicity (excluding grade 3 rash or allergic reaction/hypersensitivity); or
      any toxicity-related delay of more than 2 weeks to initiate cycle 2. Patients will be
      enrolled at the next dose level when all evaluable patients at the same dose level have
      completed the first treatment cycle. Enrolled patients will remain on the assigned dose level
      treatment until toxicity or disease progression.

      The Phase II part of this study will proceed with a two-stage design with a maximum of 46
      patients. Between 6 and 12 patients at the Phase I MTD level will be included in the Phase
      II, stage-one analysis.

      Toxicity will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0.

      Submission of tumor and blood samples for FC-7 correlative science studies will be a study
      requirement for all patients. A core biopsy procedure to procure fresh tumor samples from an
      accessible site of metastasis will be performed before study dose level assignment (after the
      patient has signed the consent form and has been screened for eligibility).

      Optional biopsy samples of metastatic disease will be procured from consenting patients after
      Cycle 1 of treatment and at the time of disease progression.
    
  