
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the time to death in patients with newly diagnosed diffuse pontine gliomas,
           when treated with the combination of concomitant low-dose oral temozolomide and
           radiotherapy, followed by up to 12 months of maintenance therapy with extended low-dose
           temozolomide.

        -  To assess the quality of life of patients with diffuse pontine gliomas during and after
           treatment.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the time to tumor progression in patients with newly diagnosed diffuse
           pontine gliomas, when treated with the combination of concomitant low-dose oral
           temozolomide and radiotherapy, followed by up to 12 months of maintenance therapy with
           extended low-dose temozolomide.

        -  To evaluate and document toxicities from the administration of temozolomide combined
           with radiotherapy and to further study any toxicities associated with the chronic
           administration of the extended low-dose temozolomide schedule in this population group.

        -  To document radiological response to the above treatment with MR imaging and, where
           available, functional imaging.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Chemoradiotherapy: Patients receive oral temozolomide once daily for 6 weeks (7 days per
           week) with concurrent radiotherapy (5 days per week).

      Patients without evidence of disease progression proceed to maintenance therapy beginning at
      least 4 weeks after completion of radiotherapy.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Patients receive oral temozolomide daily on days 1-21. Treatment
           repeats every 4 weeks for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed prior to chemoradiotherapy and prior to course 1 of adjuvant
      temozolomide and prior to every 3 subsequent courses of adjuvant temozolomide.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 8 weeks.
    
  