
    
      The purpose of this study will be to compare shock success during defibrillation synchronized
      with the upstroke of chest compression (peak upstroke), and precompression (control). This
      will be the world's first study to characterize the phase dependency of defibrillation during
      mechanical CPR in humans and to evaluate if optimal synchronized defibrillation can improve
      clinical outcomes.

      The null hypothesis would be that there is no difference in shock success during
      defibrillation synchronized with the upstroke of chest compression (peak upstroke), and
      precompression (control). We will conduct statistical comparisons for the primary and
      secondary outcomes between the arms of the study.

      The study population will be all cardiac arrest patients attended by the staff of the ED over
      the study period who fulfill the eligibility criteria. Patients will be managed according to
      currently approved cardiac arrest protocols. Patients confirmed in cardiac arrest with have
      manual chest compressions started while mechanical CPR is prepared. Mechanical CPR should be
      started as soon as possible (<1 minunte). If a shockable rhythm is present (VF/VT), patients
      will receive one of pre-randomized defibrillation protocols:

        1. Synchronised defibrillation at peak-upstroke

        2. Synchronised defibrillation at precompression

      Definition of outcomes

        -  Shock success is defined as the termination of Ventricular Fibrillation (VF) or
           pulseless Ventricular Tachycardia (VT) and the establishment of organized rhythm within
           60 seconds. An organized rhythm requires at least 2 QRS complexes separated by no more
           than 5 seconds.

        -  Survival to hospital discharge is defined as patient surviving the primary event and
           discharged from the hospital alive.

        -  Return of spontaneous circulation is defined as the presence of any palpable pulse,
           which is detected by manual palpation of a major artery.

        -  Survival to admission is defined as the admission to hospital without ongoing CPR or
           other artificial circulatory support.
    
  