
    
      The investigators hypothesize that participants with earlier stages (NYHA Class I and Class
      II) of ATTR wild type and ATTR mutant will demonstrate stabilization of ATTR following 1 year
      of Tafamidis.

      The investigators propose to pursue the following specific aims:

        1. Utilize cardiac magnetic resonance to assess stabilization of ATTR after Tafamidis
           therapy based on extracellular volume mapping.

        2. Investigate left ventricular myocardial mass, native T1, T2, and extracellular volume
           mapping after 12 month follow-up.

        3. Utilize cardiac magnetic resonance feature tracking at baseline and at 12 month
           follow-up.

      The investigators will enroll 131 participants with confirmed ATTR. Participants will be
      screened to exclude light chain amyloidosis by either measuring the proportion of kappa:
      lambda light chains with the serum free light chain assay, and tested for immunofixation
      electrophoresis of serum and urine. Once participants has confirmed diagnosis of ATTR
      (pyrophosphate scan positive scoring >1.5 ratio) and undergone baseline testing participants
      will be ask to enroll in the study. Genetic testing will performed to further distinguish
      between mutation and wild type. All participants will be required to sign informed consent
      agreeing to follow up testing at 1 year.

      Participants will undergo a baseline cardiac magnetic resonance imaging for the purpose of
      evaluating native T1, T2, first pass perfusion, and extracellular volumes for patients with
      glomerular filtration rate >30. Patients with glomerular filtration rate <30 will only have
      native T1 and T2 values evaluated. If participants undergo implanted cardiac device during
      Tafamidis therapy, follow up cardiac magnetic resonance imaging will only evaluate featuring
      tracking and left ventricular mass. Left ventricular mass and cardiac magnetic feature
      tracking values will be extracted from all cardiac magnetic resonance imaging studies. After
      one year of Tafamidis therapy, participants will return to initial facility where testing was
      preformed to undergo a follow up cardiac magnetic resonance imaging study.

      There is emerging evidence that there may be biomarkers yet identified for earlier detection
      of this disease. Henceforth, investigators propose to collect and store blood samples for all
      participants for future analyses.
    
  