
    
      BNP is a 32-amino acid peptide secreted almost exclusively by the ventricles under conditions
      of ventricular wall strain.Multiple studies have examined the utility of BNP as a marker of
      decompensated heart failure, both in the inpatient and outpatient settings. Several studies
      have examined the use of a single BNP measure to predict adverse outcomes in CHF patients.
      Typical study designs have utilized CHF specialty clinics or patients admitted for congestive
      heart failure (CHF) exacerbation as the study population. Very few studies have utilized BNP
      in the acute care setting; these studies have also used BNP as a single measure. As the serum
      half-life of BNP is approximately 22 minutes,BNP levels will respond to measures decreasing
      ventricular wall strain, such that a decreasing BNP level should be diagnostic of improved
      CHF. It is our hypothesis that Emergency Department patients with acute CHF exacerbation and
      a decreasing serum BNP level after 12 hours of therapy will demonstrate an improved outcome
      when compared to patients whose BNP does not decrease.

      Our goal is to establish the utility of serial BNP levels during the intensive initial
      management of acute CHF. One and six month follow-up patient outcomes will be collected and
      compared against the serial BNP measurements while the patient was in the acute phase of
      treatment. It is our hypothesis that serial brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels compared
      at 0 and 12 hours for research purposes will be predictive of a combined endpoint of death,
      readmission, or repeat Emergency Department visit for recurrent CHF in patients presenting to
      the Emergency Department with an acute exacerbation of CHF.

      To date, no data has been published regarding the utility of serial BNP measurements in the
      observation unit management of CHF. Our study proposes to compare outcomes in patients
      managed in the Clinical Decision Unit (CDU), a six bed observation unit in our Emergency
      Department, against patients admitted for CHF exacerbation. The primary outcome of the study
      will be the combined endpoint of death, readmission, or repeat Emergency Department visit for
      recurrent CHF at 30 days and 6 months. For inpatients, and those patients admitted from the
      CDU to the inpatient service, additional outcome measures will be adverse outcomes
      (intubation, balloon pump, death, etc) during the index hospitalization. As the clinicians
      managing the patient will not have access to the 12 hour BNP level, the measurement of BNP
      itself will not be a source of bias. Our secondary hypothesis is that the occurrence of the
      combined endpoint will be independent of treatment location (CDU vs inpatient) as opposed to
      responder vs. non-responder status.
    
  