
    
      In 2007 the Norwegian Government launched "The Norwegian Action Plan on Nutrition"
      (2007-2011) which emphasizes breast milk as optimal nutrition as well as being one of the
      most effective ways to promote health and prevent disease. It is well known that breast milk
      reduces the prevalence and severity of infectious diseases like diarrhoea, lower respiratory
      tract infections, ear infections, urinary tract infections as well as bacterial meningitis
      and necrotic enterocolitis. Current research suggests that breast milk can have long term
      health effects such as reduced risk of overweight, leukemia and diabetes type I and type II.
      Breastfeeding is associated with better cognitive development. Women who breastfeed also have
      significant added health benefits such as a reduced risk of breast cancer.

      Almost all women produce breast milk, but the act of breastfeeding is a complicated
      interaction between mother and child and is affected by a number of factors. A large number
      of mothers have breastfeeding difficulties, and a significant number stop before they had
      intended to. If women were given qualified help it is possible that many of these problems
      could have been prevented or treated. In the Norwegian subsidiary study to The WHO
      Multicentre Growth Reference Study, where mothers received qualified breastfeeding
      instruction, 86% of children were exclusively breastfed at the 4 month stage as compared with
      the norm of 44%.

      Today mothers are discharged earlier from hospital than ever before. Many of these women have
      not managed to properly establish breastfeeding. Due to this, many problems which were
      previously discovered in the maternity ward are now relegated to the primary health care
      services.

      The disparity in breastfeeding between different socioeconomic groups in Norway primarily
      follows the same pattern as that found in health generally.For example, the chance that a
      mother with higher education will be breastfeeding her child at the age of 6 months is twice
      as high compared to a mother with only primary school education. Improving health service
      access to the entire population would contribute to advancing the health and health promoting
      behavior in those groups with the poorest prospects.

      The National Resource Centre for Breastfeeding (NRCB) is cooperating with Norwegian Public
      Health Nurses Association and the Norwegian Directorate of Health in the initiative
      Baby-Friendly Community Health Services (BFCHS). The purpose of this initiative is to improve
      the quality of breastfeeding advice at Norwegian community health services.

      While WHO has developed an international standard for breastfeeding counseling for maternity
      wards, there is no similar standard for primary care services as yet.

      A newly updated Cochrane-overview about the effect of offering support to breastfeeding
      mothers identified 16 studies which assessed the effect of support from health workers. The
      studies showed a small effect on all breastfeeding at the four month stage, but could not
      show any difference at other stages. An American survey identified 38 randomized controlled
      studies on the effect of initiatives in primary care services to promote breastfeeding, all
      from industrialized countries.This review indicates that initiatives to increase the
      competency of health workers can have a positive effect on the prevalence of breastfeeding.
    
  