
    
      As defined by the European Hernia Society, eventration or incisional hernia is any defect in
      the abdominal wall with or without an associated bulge in the area of a surgical scar that is
      noticeable or palpable by physical examination or imaging tests. Incisional hernias after
      abdominal organ transplantation are of special interest since transplant recipients undergo
      immunosuppressive treatment that may increase the risk of developing incisional hernias due
      to their impact on the healing process. It is estimated that the incidence of incisional
      hernia after renal transplantation ranges from 1.6 to 18% and increases to 1.7-32.4% and
      13.0-34.8% after liver and pancreatic transplantation respectively. Incisional hernias are a
      major source of morbidity and most require surgical repair at some point in time. Regarding
      patient-related factors, female sex and obesity have been identified as potential risk
      factors. In the case of immunosuppressive medication, nucleotide synthesis inhibitors such as
      mycophenolate and m-TOR inhibitors such as sirolimus have been associated with a higher
      incidence of incisional hernia. With regard to factors specifically related to the surgical
      wound, surgical wound infection and type of incision have been identified as risk factors. In
      2018 Simson et al published a systematic review of the existing literature that highlights
      the limited scientific evidence that is primarily made up of case series review. We conducted
      a retrospective observational study that identified an incidence of 12.5% of incisional
      hernia on physical examination, which increase to 29.8% on radiological examination (CT) with
      a median time to diagnosis of 17.1 months (2.5 - 23.9). An additional 17.5% of muscle atrophy
      was observed.

      To determine the efficacy of mesh reinforcement in laparotomy closure in renal
      transplantation as measured by reduction in the incidence of incisional hernia at 2 years
      post-transplantation a randomized clinical trial is proposed.

      In accordance with the extensive experience and recommendations of the Abdominal Wall Section
      of the General and Digestive Surgery Department of our hospital, we intend to carry out a
      randomized clinical trial for the prophylactic use of Medtronic ProGrip® macropore (1.1-1.7
      mm) polypropylene self-fixing monofilament mesh reinforcement in supra-aponeurotic position.
      This mesh features polylactic acid (PLA) microgrips that act as Velcro, providing immediate,
      strong and uniform fixation, weighing 82 g/m2 before PLA resorption and 41 g/m2 after
      resorption (low density). The use of this mesh combines the effectiveness demonstrated by the
      macropore propylene meshes in the treatment of incisional hernias, a high simplicity of use
      provided by its capacity for self-fixation for which it is equipped with the so-called
      absorbable microgrips of polylactic acid that adhere quickly and easily to the underlying
      tissue and safety. This mesh has proven its usefulness and safety for the prophylaxis of
      eventration in patients with other types of lateral incisions.

      Patients in ProGrip group will be treated with self-gripping lightweight Polypropilene and
      Polylactic acid meshes providing a sutureless fixation.

      In the control group, closure will be performed according to standard clinical practice using
      the technique in 2 muscle-aponeurotic planes with very long-term (3 months) absorbable
      synthetic continuous suture of poly(4-hydroxybutyrate), monofilament, elastic (Monomax® USP
      0) according to the small-bites technique.

      Study participation will start at signature of informed consent and each patient will be
      assessed before surgery. A close follow-up will be performed at 3, 6, 12 months (clinical
      visit, physical examination, laboratory tests, adverse effects), and final evaluation at 24
      months (clinical visit, physical examination, laboratory tests, adverse effects and
      radiological examination -CT-) after surgery, which will end the participation to the study.

      160 adult (>18 years) recipients of a first kidney transplantation divided in 2 groups will
      be included in the study. Allocation by the obesity variable, which is a determinant risk
      factor in the response to the intervention, will be carried out using permuted blocks of
      variable size in each stratum.
    
  