
    
      Background Information Cancer is one of the leading causes of mortality and morbidity
      worldwide[1]. The resultant morbidities of cancer and its treatment are manifold; common
      physiologic symptoms include pain, muscle weakness and fatigue, whereas common psychological
      symptoms include depression, anxiety and poor sense of well-being. As methods of cancer
      detection and treatment improve, survival is prolonged and the lifetime burden of these
      adverse effects increases[2]. Addressing these issues is critical towards maximizing quality
      of life, a multidimensional construct encompassing all physical and psychosocial factors[3].

      Physical activity is one potential strategy for ameliorating quality of life in all phases of
      cancer and its treatment [4]. Increasing evidence indicates a role for physical activity in
      improving several aspects of physical and psychological well-being that may contribute to
      quality of life in cancer patients, including muscle strength, functional capacity, mood and
      self-esteem[5]. Not only does physical activity have proven benefits in terms of physical
      performance and fatigue in cancer survivors, it may improve the capacity for basic activities
      of daily living such that functional independence can be maintained as long as possible[6].
      Although this has been demonstrated for early stage cancer survivors, there is limited
      evidence for the use of physical activity in the palliation of patients with actively
      progressive, advanced incurable cancer[7]. A few studies of exercise in advanced metastatic
      cancer patients have demonstrated benefits in quality of life outcomes, however small sample
      sizes have limited their generalizability to the larger end-stage cancer population[8-12].
      There exists a critical need to more specifically identify exercise programmes targeted to
      advanced cancer patients' needs, interests and preferences[13].

      Purpose The purpose of this pilot study is to explore the physical activity preferences and
      interests of actively progressive, advanced incurable cancer patients and to determine if
      there is any association between physical activity and quality of life in this population.
      The ultimate aim of this study is to provide preliminary data on which a subsequent
      intervention trial can be based if encouraging results are obtained.

      Objectives

        1. To describe advanced cancer patient's attitudes towards physical activity, self-efficacy
           for physical activity and programming preferences.

        2. To examine the relationship between quality of life, medical and demographic variables,
           and physical activity in advanced cancer patients.

        3. To identify which advanced cancer populations would be willing and able to participate
           in a physical activity intervention.

      Study Design This pilot study will be cross-sectional in design, using a survey questionnaire
      combining both closed and open-ended questions. After written consent is obtained, the
      investigator will administer the survey questionnaire via face-to-face interview with the
      patient at a time and location that is mutually convenient for both parties. The survey
      questionnaire will be a one-time assessment, with anticipated duration of 45 minutes for
      completion. The survey questionnaire will be developed based on combination of validated
      physical activity and quality of life questionnaires, including the McGill Quality of Life
      Questionnaire[14], the Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale[15], and the Late-Life Function and
      Disability Instrument[16]. Exercise program preferences and Theory of Planned Behavior
      constructs will be assessed using items taken from previous research assessing physical
      activity in cancer survivors[17-19]. Medical and demographic information will be collected
      using self-report measures and via medical chart review. Date of death will be determined
      from the cancer registry.

      Inclusion Criteria

        1. 18 years of age or older

        2. Be able to understand, provide written informed consent in, and speak English

        3. Cognitive ability to participate (defined as a normal Folstein's Mini Mental Status
           Score for patient's age and education level[20])

        4. Diagnosis of advanced cancer (defined as progressive, incurable, locally recurrent or
           metastatic disease)

        5. Approval of treating physician Exclusion Criteria

      1. Any absolute contraindications to exercise (including acute MI within 2 days,
      symptomatic/severe aortic stenosis, decompensated heart failure, symptomatic/hemodynamically
      significant cardiac arrhythmias, unstable angina not previously stabilized by medical
      therapy, acute aortic dissection, acute myocarditis/pericarditis, acute pulmonary
      embolus/infarction) 2. Palliative Performance Status level of 30% or less[21] 3. Any patient
      who, in the opinion of the treating physician, is within the last days to hours of life
      Recruitment Patients diagnosed with advanced cancer (defined as progressive, incurable,
      locally recurrent or metastatic disease) will be recruited from the Cross Cancer Institute
      and the Capital Health Regional Palliative Home Care Program. Eligible patients will be
      identified by case managers in the Capital Health Regional Palliative Home Care Program, and
      study information will be included in the ethics-approved Pain and Symptom & Palliative Care
      Research Group studies brochure distributed to outpatients at the Cross Cancer Institute by
      the research nurse or study coordinator. Patient contact will be made by telephone outside of
      the Cross Cancer Institute thereafter. Patients who accept the invitation to participate will
      provide written consent prior to commencing the study.

      Statistical Analysis To detect a change of 0.5 standard deviations (a medium effect size) in
      the various outcomes (quality of life, physical activity) with a power of 80% and a
      two-tailed alpha value of <0.05, we need 29 participants. Based on previous study sampling of
      the Cross Cancer Institute and Capital Health Regional Palliative Home Care by the Pain &
      Symptom and Palliative Care Research Group, 30 patients could be expected to be recruited
      over a nine month period given frailty and end-of-life symptom limitations. The study will
      commence with the enrollment of the first subject, subsequent subjects will be recruited on
      an ongoing basis. Initial analysis will provide complete descriptive information on the
      demographic and medical profile of the study participants. Primary analysis will use multiple
      regression to explore the relationship between demographic/medical characteristics, physical
      function and quality of life variables.

      Data Safety Monitoring Committee Ethical and scientific approval will be obtained from the
      local Institutional Review Boards affiliated with the Cross Cancer Institute and Capital
      Health Regional Palliative Home Care prior to study commencement. All serious adverse events
      will be reported to the local IRBs as well as each participant's treating physician. The
      project coordinator, under the supervision of the principal investigator, will be responsible
      for reporting any serious adverse events. The local IRBs will oversee the validity and
      integrity of data by conducting periodic audits of study records.
    
  