
    
      1. Scientific Rationale & Hypothesis:

           Chronic airway changes, such as smooth muscle hypertrophy/hyperplasia, reticular
           basement membrane thickening, goblet cells hyperplasia characterize severe asthma.
           Chronic inflammation, and especially eosinophilia and T2 cytokines are involved in these
           structural changes. Increased ASM layer has been associated with eosinophilia for
           example, but not RBM thickening, suggesting that differential patterns of remodeling can
           be observed according to inflammatory patterns. Omalizumab, an anti IgE therapy, can
           reduce some features of airway remodeling, especially RBM and some parameters related to
           ASM. No data are available on potential changes in airway remodeling induced by
           mepolizumab.

           The aim of the study is to assess airway changes, assessed by bronchial biopsies,
           induced by mepolizumab in severe asthma patients who will receive the treatment as part
           of their standard care.

           All asthma patients refered to the asthma clinic are proposed to participate to the
           COBRA cohort (French national asthma cohort). Serum and DNA are collected at inclusion
           and every 6 months. Fiberoptic bronchoscopy (FOB) is routinely performed as part of the
           standard care for difficult-to-severe asthma in our centre for many years, to assess
           differential diagnosis and inflammatory pattern since Fractional exhaled nitric oxide
           (FeNO) is not routinely performed in France. BAL and 4 to 6 bronchial biopsies are
           performed.

        2. Study Population:

           Severe asthma patients, refered to Severe Asthma Centre in Bichat and Bicetre Hospitals,
           receiving mepolizumab according to French recommendations (eos >300mm3 in the previous
           year, >2 exacerbations, despite optimal step 4-5 therapy, including daily use of
           steroids).

        3. Study Design & Methods:

             -  General study design Prospective, observational study in two Severe Asthma Centres
                : Bichat Hospital (Prof C.Taillé) and Bicetre Hospital (Prof G.Garcia).

                40 patients will be prospectively included during a 2 years period.

      This study aims to assess :

        -  Changes in RBM thickening, in ASM area after 6 months and 12 months of mepolizumab
           treatment

        -  Changes in BAL levels of inflammatory and remodeling mediators and of ECM components
           after 6 months and 12 months of mepolizumab treatment

        -  Changes in the number of PGP9 sections in the bronchial wall after 6 months and 12
           months of mepolizumab treatment

        -  Relationship between clinical response to mepolizumab and remodeling changes after 6
           months and 12 months of mepolizumab treatment

        -  Demographic and clinical characteristics of asthma (atopy, level of asthma control,
           FEV1…) will be available at inclusion and follow up, to assess clinical effect of
           mepolizumab treatment.

      The following will perform at inclusion, 6 months and 12 months after initiating mepolizumab:

        -  clinical evaluation (age, BMI, atopic status, chronic rhinosinusitis, daily doses of
           steroids, exacerbations…)

        -  benefit of mepolizumab will be evaluated according to the physician's Global Evaluation
           of Treatment Effectiveness (GETE)

        -  asthma control test

        -  lung function test (FEV1, FEV1/VC, TLC, RV, pre/post salbutamol)

        -  FOB with BAL and 6 biopsies at inclusion, 6 months and 12 months

        -  Blood test for eosinophil count and serum conservation.

             -  Study groups/arms Group 1 (prospective) : patients initiating a mepolizumab
                treatment. Group 2 (retrospective): to assess airway changes that can
                "spontaneously" occur during a 12 month-period, a retrospective "historical group"
                of patients included in the previous ASMATHERM study who had 2 sets of biopsies and
                BAL within a 6 to 12 month-interval, without exposure to mepolizumab and without
                change in their treatment during this interval, will be studied as a control group
                . Clinical data are available at inclusion and after 12 months.

             -  Main tests or procedures All biopsies, BAL and serum analysis will be performed in
                the UMR1152 lab unit (Head: Dr Marina Pretolani).

      Biopsies are fixed in formaldehyde and processed to paraffin wax for immunohistochemical
      (IHC) and morphometric studies. One biopsy will be stored at -80°C for further RNAseq
      analyses.

      RBM thickening (morphometry), ASM area and the rate of ASM-proliferating cells (PCNA
      immuno-staining) will be measured. PGP9 staining can assess the number of nerves in the
      bronchial wall.

      The number of inflammatory cells (eosinophils, neutrophils, mast cells, T-lymphocytes
      evaluated respectively by MBP, elastase, tryptase, CD4 expression) and vascular sections will
      also be enumerated after IHC. Eosinophils localization in the airway will be described.

      Cytospin preparations from BAL cell pellets will be used to assess the proportion of
      eosinophils and neutrophils.

      In parallel, the levels of different pro-inflammatory and remodeling mediators will be
      measured in BAL aliquots concentrated x 10, by specific Elisa and Luminex assays.

      • Trial plan

      V0: screening visit

      V1: inclusion visit

        -  clinical evaluation

        -  Asthma control test

        -  Lung function test

        -  Fiber optic fibroscopy with BAL and bronchial biopsies (note that if a fiber optic
           fibroscopy with BAL and bronchial biopsies has already been performed in the month prior
           to inclusion, it will not be repeated at inclusion and the tissue and BAL samples will
           be retrieved for analysis)

        -  Blood sampling

        -  first treatment by Mepolizumab is administrated in the hospital.

        -  Prescription for Mepolizumab, given at home for the next 6 months

      V2: 6-month visit

        -  Clinical response assessment by GETE and ACT, clinical evaluation

        -  Lung function test

        -  Fiber optic fibroscopy with BAL and bronchial biopsies

        -  Blood sampling

        -  If responders, continuation of Mepolizumab treatment

        -  Compliance evaluation (file signed by the nurse after each injection)

      V3: 12-month visit

        -  clinical response assessment by GETE and ACT, clinical evaluation

        -  Lung function test

        -  Fiber optic fibroscopy with BAL and bronchial biopsies

        -  Blood sampling

        -  Compliance evaluation (file signed by the nurse after each injection)
    
  