
    
      The goal of this study is to develop an approach to hematopoietic stem cell transplantation
      for children with Severe Combined Immunodeficiency Disease (SCID) that eliminates the use of
      toxic chemotherapy conditioning and maximizes the likelihood of T and B cell immune
      reconstitution. SCID is a rare primary immunodeficiency disease in which there are multiple
      genotypes and phenotypes, and depending on various factors including the presence of B cell
      and NK cells, and the presence of maternal cells in the patient's circulation, there are
      numerous ways to approach a transplant. The major issues that must be addressed in any
      approach to transplantation for SCID are graft rejection and T and B cell immune
      reconstitution. Depending on the specific SCID diagnosis, the phenotype, and the presence of
      maternal engraftment at diagnosis, we will evaluate two transplant approaches that will
      attempt to optimize the engraftment of donor HSC and the likelihood of T and B cell
      reconstitution while eliminating the use of toxic chemotherapy conditioning.

        1. Primary Objective: To determine if the administration of plerixafor & filgrastim (G-CSF)
           prior to stem cell infusion results in increased donor stem cell occupancy of available
           bone marrow niches and B-cell engraftment in patients with SCID.

        2. Secondary Objectives:

      i. To determine if NK cell depletion with Alemtuzumab will overcome NK-mediated graft
      resistance in haplocompatible transplants for NK+ SCID.

      ii. To determine the optimal dosing of Alemtuzumab in very young children. iii. To determine
      the immunophenotypic characteristics of CD34+ cells mobilized and engrafted in patients
      receiving plerixafor & filgrastim prior to HCT.

      iv. To determine the thymic output, as measured by T-cell receptor excision circles, in
      patients receiving haplocompatible transplants & boosts.
    
  