
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess safety and toxicity of the addition of busulfan added to an established
           fludarabine and low-dose total-body irradiation (TBI) conditioning regimen for
           non-myeloablative allogeneic transplantation in patients with hematologic malignancies.
           (Phase I)

        -  To assess the non-relapse mortality 1-year after conditioning with busulfan and
           fludarabine/TBI in patients with hematologic malignancies at moderate to high risk for
           graft rejection and/or relapse of underlying disease. (Phase II)

      Secondary

        -  To assess overall survival 1-year survival. (Phase II)

        -  To assess the incidence of graft rejection. (Phase II)

        -  To assess the incidence of grade II-IV acute graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) and chronic
           extensive GVHD. (Phase II)

        -  To assess rates of disease progression and/or relapse-related mortality. (Phase II)

        -  To determine non-hematologic grade III-IV organ specific toxicity. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE:

        -  Nonmyeloablative-conditioning regimen: Patients receive busulfan IV on day -5 and
           fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on days -4 to -2. Patients undergo total body irradiation
           on day 0.

        -  Allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSC): Patients undergo donor
           PBSC infusion on day 0.

        -  Graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis: Patients receive oral cyclosporine twice daily on
           days -3 to 56 followed by a taper to day 180. Patients with a related stem cell donor
           receive oral mycophenolate mofetil twice daily on days 0-28. Patients with an unrelated
           stem cell donor receive oral mycophenolate mofetil 3 times daily on days 0-28 followed
           by a taper twice daily to day 56. Patients with evidence of relapse or persistent
           disease may also receive up to 3 donor lymphocyte infusions.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 225 patients will be accrued for this study; 25 patients
      accrued into the Phase I and 200 patients into Phase II.
    
  