
    
      In this study, there will be 2 procedure performed. The first procedure will be named P1 and
      consists of subcutaneous injection of either placebo or Botulinum Toxin A. The second
      procedure will be the cross-over procedure named P2. For the cross-over procedure, the
      subjects who had initially received Botulinum Toxin A will receive placebo and the subjects
      who had initially received placebo will receive Botulinum Toxin A. This is a Randomized
      Double-Blinded Placebo Controlled Trial. Recruited subjects will be consented, enrolled and
      evaluated immediately prior to P1 (or during a visit prior to the visit for P1). After the
      initial pre-treatment evaluation, subjects will randomly receive either placebo or Botulinum
      Toxin A subcutaneously (P1). A telephone follow-up (or e-mail follow up) will be performed at
      2 weeks and 8 weeks post- P1. An onsite follow up will be performed 4 weeks post P1 and 12
      weeks post P1.

      Cross-over Study: After the 3rd month on-site evaluation (12 weeks post P1), during the same
      visit, the subject will proceed to the cross-over study. At this time, the patient will have
      the option to receive a repeat subcutaneous injection of the cross-over agent. If they desire
      one, a subcutaneous injection of the cross-over agent will be performed at that same visit.
      If they wish to defer the repeat injection, they will be contacted and asked every 4 weeks -
      between 12 weeks and 24 weeks post P1 (no subject will receive P2 after week 24) if they
      would like to have the subcutaneous injection of the cross-over agent. If they desire one, a
      repeat injection will be scheduled for the following week.

      The rationale for a variable length of time after the initial Botulinum Toxin A/Placebo
      injection (P1) is to document the variability of individuals' pain response after Botulinum
      Toxin A. It has been reported in literature, of the subjects that respond to subcutaneous
      Botulinum Toxin A injections for pain, most will return to their base-line pain score in
      12--24 weeks.
    
  