
    
      Background:

      The World Health Organization defines "health" as a state of physical, mental and social
      well-being of an individual, and not just the absence of disease or illness. Health
      self-assessment is almost never present in medical and clinical models, which define "health"
      as the absence of physical disease. On the one hand, some say that there is a correlation
      between these definitions, and others argue that self-assessment of health is not always
      consistent with the clinical health status evaluation. Few studies have examined the
      relationship between self-assessment and health status among residents of the State of Israel
      in general and among the population residing in the Galilee and Western Galilee area in
      particular. The studies presented contradictory findings about the health perception among
      Jewish and Arab population. There are about 600,000 residents in Western Galilee from various
      population sectors, including Jews, Arabs, Druze and others. This composition of population
      pretty much reflects the general composition of population in the Galilee area.

      Study objective:

      This study aims to examine the relation between health status and self-assessment of health
      condition, their relation to healthcare services utilization, and also to identify the
      profile of those who assess their health condition as mediocre to poor in general population
      and according to nationality.

      Methods:

      A cross-sectional study was conducted among 250 visitors aged 18 and above of outpatient
      clinics in the Galilee Medical Center (former Western Galilee Hospital): opthalmology,
      dental, otolaryngology (ENT) and orthopedic. The target population group for this study is
      adult residents of the Western Galilee area. The sampling is random. For the aims of the
      survey five sampling days were selected in each of the four outpatient clinics. On each of
      the sampling days all visitors of different outpatient clinics were offered to complete a
      self-administered structured questionnaire adapted specifically for the study.
    
  