
    
      Primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PPCI) is the preferred reperfusion strategy for
      treating acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). The main goals are to
      restore epicardial infarct-related artery patency and to achieve microvascular reperfusion as
      early as possible. No-reflow is the term used to describe inadequate myocardial perfusion of
      a given coronary segment without angiographic evidence of persistent mechanical obstruction
      of epicardial vessels and it refers to the high resistance of microvascular blood flow
      encountered during opening of the infarct-related coronary artery. Despite optimal
      evidence-based PPCI, myocardial no-reflow can still occur, negating many of the benefits of
      restoring culprit vessel patency, and is associated with a worse in-hospital and long-term
      prognosis.

      According to clinical guidelines, nitrates, adenosine, platelet IIb / IIIa receptor
      inhibitors and thrombus extraction can be used to prevent and treat this complication.These
      methods have demonstrated the ability to improve coronary blood flow in experiment and small
      clinical trials, however, limiting the zone of myocardial necrosis and improving disease
      outcomes have not been achieved.

      The search for new methods of influencing the pathogenetic links of this complication is
      urgent. One of the main potentially reversible factors in the pathogenesis of the no-reflow
      phenomenon, along with microvascular obstruction, is microvascular arteriolar spasm. Thus,
      this problem of emergency cardiology remains relevant and requires further research, new
      methods of prevention and treatment.

      Aside from exerting beta-1 agonist properties at higher doses and increasing the inotropic
      and chronotropic stimulation of the myocardium, epinephrine may, at lower doses, exert potent
      beta receptor agonist properties that mediate coronary vasodilatation. Another drug with a
      pronounced coronary vasodilation effect is verapamil.

      Based on the pharmacodynamic effects of epinephrine and verapamil, it is expected to increase
      the vasodilating effect when they are used together, due to the additive type of synergistic
      interaction, which will improve coronary microcirculation after PCI in patients with acute
      myocardial infarction and refractory no-reflow phenomenon.

      Currently, in clinical practice, there is a possibility of very sensitive diagnosis of
      microvascular obstruction (MVO) using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), as well as the area
      of the coronary reserve according to dynamic perfusion scintigraphy of the myocardium. It is
      advisable to evaluate the effectiveness of treatment of the no-reflow phenomenon using these
      methods.

      The trial aims to estimate the efficacy and safety of the administration of intracoronary
      epinephrine, verapamil, as well as their combination versus to standard treatment in patients
      with STEMI and refractory coronary no-reflow despite conventional treatments during PPCI.
    
  