
    
      This will be a randomized controlled trial.

      Women with twin pregnancies, at 16-22 weeks of gestation, will be invited to participate into
      the study.

      Subjects meeting the study criteria will be randomized into two groups: (1) treated with
      cervical pessary (Arabin) or (2) treated with 400mg vaginal progesterone, once daily.
      Randomization will be done by third party via telephone, using a computer generated random
      list, with a variable block size of 2, 4 or 8. Apart from randomization, patients will be
      examined and treated according to local protocol.

      Patients in pessary group will have an Arabin pessary placed within a week after
      randomization. A pessary certified by European Conformity (CE0482, MED/CERT ISO 9003/ EN
      46003; Dr. Arabin, Witten, Germany) will be inserted through the vagina of the woman in the
      recumbent position and will be placed upward around the cervix. The research-team members who
      inserted the Arabin pessary have experience with Arabin pessary for singleton pregnancy
      before.

      Patients in progesterone group will use vaginal progesterone (Cyclogest 400mg) once daily
      before bedtime, starting from the day of randomization onwards. They will be given a
      monitoring sheet and instructed to note everyday the date of using. If they forget one dose
      of any night, and remember it in the next morning or afternoon, they will use immediately the
      forgotten dose and continue with the dose of that day at night. If one dose is missed until
      the next evening, there will be no compensation use, they will only use the dose of the next
      day. Any change in using medication should be noted in the monitoring sheet.

      In both groups, intervention will be stopped at 36 weeks of gestation or at delivery. All the
      participants will have follow-up visits every 4 weeks. If patients develop (threatened)
      preterm labor, they will receive treatment as routine practice.

      Statistical analyses will be by intention to treat. For dichotomous endpoints, we will
      calculate rates. These will be compared by calculating a relative risk and a 95% confidence
      interval. Between-group differences in non-continuous variables will be assessed using the
      χ2-test. Results of continuous variables were given in mean ± SD or in percentage.
      Between-group differences of continuous variables were assessed with the Student's t-test. We
      will consider correlation between neonatal endpoints when we analyse at the level of the
      child. We assessed time to delivery by Cox proportional hazard analysis and Kaplan-Meier
      estimates, and compared results with a log-rank test. We plan an exploratory subgroup
      analysis in women with a cervical length of less than the 25th percentile (according to the
      distribution in all twins), as well as 25th - 50th percentile, 50th - 75th percentile and >
      75th percentile. We also plan an exploratory subgroups analyses for chorionicity. A p-value <
      0.05 will be considered to indicate a statistically significant difference. The analysis will
      be done with statistical Package for Social Sciences version 19 (SPSS, USA).

      Sample size has been set at 290. This was incorporated in an amendment of the protocol, and
      was approved by the IRB on 22 Sept 2016.
    
  