
    
      Six healthy, malaria-naïve Thai adults, aged between 18 and 55 years will be recruited at the
      Clinical Therapeutics Unit (CTU) in the Hospital for Tropical Medicine, Faculty of Tropical
      Medicine, Mahidol University, Bangkok. The overall period of participation will be 15 months:
      a 3-month screening process prior to the Day 0 challenge, followed by 1 year after challenge.
      All inclusion and exclusion criteria will be checked to ensure eligibility criteria have been
      met prior to Day 0.

      Volunteers will be admitted as inpatients to the CTU on Day -1 ( a day prior to the challenge
      day). Challenge (bites from 5 infected mosquitoes) will be administered at the Insectarium
      unit, Department of Entomology, Faculty of Tropical Medicine, Mahidol University. The
      infected mosquitoes will be prepared by the Malaria Vivax Research unit (MVRU, Faculty of
      Tropical Medicine, Mahidol University). Following successful feeding by the infectious
      mosquitoes, volunteers will be monitored daily as inpatients for parasitemia and clinical
      presentation of malaria infection (Days 1-5).

      Beginning on Day 6, volunteers will be assessed twice a day and, at a timepoint that will
      depend upon the level of parasitaemia and/or degree of the volunteer's symptoms, up to 250 mL
      of blood will be drawn and then antimalarial treatment will be prescribed. The standard
      malaria radical cure according to Thai national guideline will be chloroquine, followed by a
      2-week course of direct observed oral primaquine (PQ). Upon confirmation of clinical
      recovery, completion of chloroquine treatment and laboratory absence of infection, volunteers
      will be discharged and followed daily as outpatients through completion of oral primoquine
      therapy.

      After completion of antimalarial therapy, all volunteers will continue to be followed for 1
      year after Day 0:

        -  Outpatient CTU visits on Days 45, 90, and 365 post-challenge. Procedures to be performed
           during these visits will include review of symptom diary cards, medical history,
           physical examination and assessment of adverse events. Blood samples will also be
           obtained to detect malaria antigens and assess immune response.

        -  Volunteers will be contacted by study staff every 2 weeks between visits until Day 365,
           to inquire for malaria symptoms or other adverse events.
    
  