
    
      Heparin is a blood thinning medication that is often prescribed to treat or prevent blood
      clots. HIT is a life-threatening immune disorder that occurs in 1 to 3% of people who receive
      heparin. In this disorder, heparin does the opposite of what it is supposed to do: it
      promotes new blood clot formation, rather than preventing it. In people with HIT, the immune
      system triggers a response against heparin, leading to the destruction of platelets and a low
      platelet count, which is known as thrombocytopenia. Symptoms usually occur between 5 to 14
      days after starting heparin therapy. Isolated HIT is a form of the condition that occurs when
      people have a low platelet count, but there is no sign of a blood clot, or thrombosis.
      Several small research studies have shown that at the time of isolated HIT diagnosis, between
      15 to 50% of people actually have asymptomatic thrombosis, which means that they are not
      showing any signs of a blood clot, but in fact have one. In the month following HIT
      diagnosis, up to 50% of people experience symptomatic thrombosis, which means that they are
      showing signs of a blood clot. It is not currently known how to best treat isolated HIT and
      how to test for unrecognized blood clots. This study will use ultrasound imaging to evaluate
      the number of people who have asymptomatic thrombosis at the time of isolated HIT diagnosis
      and to determine the rate of symptomatic and asymptomatic thrombosis in the following month.
      The results of this study will assist researchers in assessing current approaches to treating
      isolated HIT and in designing new clinical trials. By exploring the use of non-invasive
      evaluation techniques in people with HIT, thrombosis research in HIT will move forward,
      similar to thrombosis research in other medical conditions.

      This 29-day study will enroll hospital patients who have a diagnosis of HIT but show no signs
      of a blood clot at the time of HIT diagnosis. On Day 1, participants will undergo blood
      collection and an ultrasound. While participants are in the hospital, study researchers will
      review participants' medical records on a daily basis to collect data on current medications,
      medication compliance, symptoms, bleeding, thrombosis complications, and laboratory test
      results. Once participants leave the hospital, this data will be collected at least once a
      week through phone calls with the participant and/or the treating physician. On Day 29,
      participants will undergo a repeat ultrasound and blood collection.
    
  