
    
      Anxiety is among the most common concerns in children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) who
      seek mental health services, causing suffering and family stress and exacerbating social
      disability. Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy (CBT) is a promising treatment for anxiety in
      children with high-functioning ASD, but the neural mechanisms supporting response to this
      treatment have not been studied. The neural-systems-level targets of CBT for anxiety in
      children with ASD will be investigated by evaluating brain indices of socio-emotional
      functioning with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) before and after treatment. CBT
      teaches emotion regulation skills, such as cognitive reappraisal, followed by behavioral
      exposure to anxiety-provoking situations. It is hypothesized that CBT aimed at the reduction
      of anxiety will enhance the neural circuitry that subserves the experience and regulation of
      emotions. This is a randomized controlled trial of CBT vs. Psychoeducation and Supportive
      Therapy (PST) in 100 school-age children with high-functioning ASD and moderate to severe
      anxiety. In addition, 50 matched typically-developing (TD) children will be scanned twice
      with a 16-week interval to enable interpretation of change in brain function in children with
      ASD after CBT vs. PST relative to TD children. CBT for anxiety will be provided using a
      structured manual that has been modified for children with ASD by increasing parental
      participation and addressing the role of core ASD symptoms in the experience and expression
      of anxiety. Subjects will be comprehensively characterized with regard to ASD diagnosis, IQ,
      adaptive behavior, and comorbid psychopathology. Functional MRI will be collected as the
      subjects perform tasks involving emotion regulation, emotional face perception, biological
      motion perception, and resting state.
    
  