
    
      While HDC/AHSCT is active most patients eventually relapse; obviously, those with lesser
      responses progress as well. Many investigators regard HDC/AHSCT as a "mature" modality a
      useful if fixed element in an evolving treatment paradigm that focuses on the introduction of
      new (non-HDC/AHSCT) agents with unique mechanisms of action. However, data from several
      related sources (including both the syngeneic and second ["tandem" or salvage] AHSCT
      experience), suggests that the efficacy of HDC/AHSCT could be improved by obtaining better
      cytoreduction of the HDC component, thus prolonging survival and possibly even producing an
      increase in cures. However, to do so will require additional attention to the sources of
      relapse following HDC/AHSCT, mainly the residual myeloma in the patient, but perhaps also the
      inadvertent reinfusion of clonogenic myeloma cells in the AHSCT. For reasons discussed
      herein, this study will focus on the former.

      We believe that the agents with more potent activity vs. the (multiple) myeloma cancer stem
      cell (MM-CSC) and/or their microenvironment are ultimately needed to increase the cure rate
      in myeloma. Unfortunately, preliminary data suggest current modalities used in myeloma
      therapy are only variably effective vs. these targets, and that newer agents with such
      activity are only now becoming available for clinical trials.

      The use of these newer agents are most likely to augment, not supplant, current modalities,
      lending even more urgency to optimizing existing elements to try to improve the efficacy of
      HDC/AHSCT and especially to determine if activity vs. MM-CSC and/or the microenvironment of
      these current modalities can be augmented. Radiation seems especially attractive to
      re-evaluate, given new, "targeted" methods of administration such as those described herein.
      Impetus for this effort comes from the known radiosensitivity of clonogenic myeloma cells (a
      population that at least may contain MM-CSC), and especially given the ability of local
      radiotherapy to provide local disease control in myeloma, and especially given the ability of
      local radiotherapy to cure some patients with solitary plasmacytoma "proving" activity of
      radiotherapy vs. MM-CSC in this closely-related diagnosis.

      It is important to note that improvement in current modalities may offer better clinical
      outcomes even if major effects vs. the MM-CSC and microenvironment interaction are not
      produced. We do not currently have the ability to measure such effects; this will not be part
      of this trial.
    
  