
    
      Urethral stricture disease (USD) is a medical condition in which a narrowing of the urethral
      lumen occurs due to pathological fibrosis and cicatrix formation of the urethral mucosa and
      surrounding spongious tissue (spongiofibrosis). Urethral strictures may occur at any location
      from the bladder neck to the external urethral meatus and are categorized based on their
      localisation in anterior strictures (including the urethral meatus, penile urethra and bulbar
      urethra) and posterior strictures (including the prostatic urethra and membranous urethra).
      USD is a disease of all ages but the prevalence increases with increasing age since the
      cumulative risk of having had urethral instrumentation equally increases. All processes that
      cause urethral trauma may provoke USD. The majority of strictures nowadays is idiopathic or
      caused by iatrogenic trauma of the urethra.

      The pathological narrowing of the urethral lumen can lead to a wide variety of symptoms which
      ask for specific diagnostic investigations, in which imaging of the urethra plays a central
      role. Retrograde urethrography (RUG) and voiding cystourethrography (VCUG) are considered to
      be the gold standard diagnostic investigation techniques for diagnosis of USD.

      In both techniques, contrast is instilled in the urethra through the urethral meatus and
      radiographic imaging is used to visualize the urethra. RUG and VCUG offer the possibility to
      visualize the urethra completely and to evaluate the number, length and location of urethral
      strictures. On the other hand, these techniques have some crucial disadvantages. First and
      foremost, the radiation load of the genitopelvic region in often young patients is inevitable
      in RUG and VCUG. Secondly, it is impossible to evaluate the degree of spongiofibrosis with
      radiographic imaging.

      In 1988, McAnnich, et al. were the first to describe sonourethrography (SUG) for the
      diagnosis of anterior urethral strictures in males. In this technique, a Foley catheter is
      inserted in the urethral meatus and a physiological solution is instilled in the urethra
      while a linear 7,5 MHz ultrasound probe is placed sagitally over the course of the urethra.
      SUG is not only able to evaluate the length and localization of a US, but it also enables the
      investigator to evaluate the grade of spongiofibrosis.

      Different strudies have shown that SUG has a higher sensitivity for the measurement of
      urethral stricture length compared to classical radiographic imaging such as RUG or VCUG.
      Since the choice of the most adequate surgical technique depends on the length of the
      urethral stricture, correct estimation of the urethral stricture length is of the utmost
      importance.

      The goal of this study is to evaluate the feasibility of the use of sonourethrography as
      single diagnostic tool in the pre-operative diagnostic work-up of males with suspicion of
      anterior urethral strictures. In this way, classic radiographic imaging such as RUG and VCUG
      could be omitted in these patients, saving them from a significant radiation load.
    
  