
    
      In the investigators clinic, as a neuroprotective measure, all neurosurgical patients
      operated for carotid endarterectomy (CEA) are routinely operated in deep anaesthesia with
      suppression of the electrical activity of the electroence-phalogram (EEG). To achieve this
      suppression of the EEG activity (burst suppression, BS) high effector concentrations (Cet) of
      Propofol doses are needed. However, a protracted infusion of large amounts of Propofol to
      reach a BS during the operation can lead to accumulation and a protracted wake-up phase with
      poorer neurological assessability.

      Somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEP), and trans-cranial Doppler (TCD) flow velocity in the
      middle cerebral artery are measured to detect ischemia. A significant decrease in TCD
      velocity and/or SSEPs amplitudes during cross-clamping of the internal carotid artery (ICA)
      gets treated with an adapted increase of arterial blood pressure or placement of a shunt.
      Intraoperative monitoring and recording of data in every patient undergoing CEA median nerve
      SEPs and MCA flow velocity have been constantly monitored by an additional intraoperative
      monitoring (IOM) technician who has been trained and certified in the assessment of
      intraoperative monitoring. The median nerve SEP amplitudes are recorded at least at these
      events: baseline value before skin incision, EEG burst suppression before cross clamping of
      the internal carotid artery, at time of ICA cross clamping, 10 minutes after cross clamping
      or immediately after placement of shunt (ICA clamping), reperfusion of ICA and haemostasis /
      end of surgery. The predefined criterion for temporary shunting was the reduction of more
      than 50% of the SEP amplitude.

      Median nerve somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) were performed by stimulation at the
      wrist with a pair of needle electrodes (Inomed Germany®). This is a single pulse stimulation
      with 0.5 ms pulse duration and a low repetition rate ranging from 0.7 - 2.3 Hz. Recording is
      performed via corkscrew electrodes placed accordingly to the 10-20-EEG system on the patient
      scalp. For the right median nerve SEP C3´/Fz and for the left median nerve SEP C4´/Fz is
      chosen as standard derivation. Alternatively, Cz' or the contralateral Cp' served as
      reference to improve quality of recording. To improve the signal to noise ratio the responses
      are averaged 150-200 times.

      The investigator use the somatosensive evoked potentials (SSEPs) to verify the functional
      integrity of the nervous system. Standardized surgical and anaesthesiological measures at the
      CEA with defined EEG endpoints and depending on the anaesthetic effect can - in normal EEG
      and SSEPs - effectively exclude severe global ischemia. The effects of burst suppression and
      the volatile anaesthetics on SSEPs were also investigated and showed no significant
      difference. Since 2016, motor-induced evoked potentials (MEPs) have also been used, which
      are, however, suppressed by volatile anaesthetics in a dose-dependent manner. On the other
      hand, Dexmedetomidine in combination with Propofol seems to suppress only insignificantly.

      The indication spectrum for the centrally acting α2-agonist Dexmedetomidine has been
      increasingly extended since its approval in Switzerland. In addition to the use of
      Dexmedetomidine in the intensive care units, Dexmedetomidine is also increasingly being used
      perioperatively up to premedication in children. In some studies, an anaesthetic reduction of
      40-60% could be achieved or the opioid consumption after the addition of a α2-agonist could
      be reduced by 50-75%. The blood pressure response to a Dexmedetomidine dose depends on the
      rate of infusion). In addition, administration of Dexmedetomidine does not result in
      respiratory depression or compromising of the respiratory tract. It has been shown that
      Dexmedetomidine can cause a "sleep-like" sedation state and this state can be interrupted by
      verbal stimuli), examined the EEG activity in sedations on voluntary subjects compared to a
      control group with physiological sleep pattern. In this study, it was shown that the EEG
      spindle activity in subjects with Dexmedetomidine infusion was comparable to that of a
      physiological non-rapid eye-movement (nonREM) sleep stage II in the control tests. The
      authors concluded from their investigations that a "sleep-like state" (stage II non-REM) can
      be achieved by the Dexmed-etomidine infusion. However, no data are currently known for
      practical use in carotid endarterectomy with Propofol and Dexmedetomidine in conjunction with
      electrophysiological studies (somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEP) and motor evoked
      potentials (MEP)).

      In addition, there is a high risk of postoperative delirium (POD) in many of these patients.
      This was examined in a recently published Lancet study by Xian Su and colleagues in 700
      patients with non-cardiac interventions in elderly patients). A reduction of the delirium
      incidence from 23% to 9% was found after a low-dose Dexmedetomidine dose of 0.1 μg/kg body
      weight/h. In addition, Dexmedetomidine is attributed a neuroprotective effect against
      ischemic and hypoxic influences). Other animals-experimental studies indicate neuroprotection
      in ischemic insult and subsequent reperfusion).
    
  