
    
      The enjoyment of a fine wine, the odor of a ripe cheese, the memory of a long-lost
      grandmother brought back by the scent of her perfume, or the alarm we feel when we smell
      smoke are all produced by a functioning olfactory system. Interestingly, there are enormous
      individual differences in how we interpret these smells. Given almost any odor, some people
      will find it pleasant, others unpleasant. Ripe cheese or garlic may smell delicious to some,
      but repulsive to others. The scientific basis of this variation has not been well-studied.
      Despite the clear evidence for culture-based preferences for food and aromas, the
      nature-versus-nurture debate for smell remains unresolved. We believe there may be a genetic
      basis for our unique senses of smell. For example, some of us can smell methanethiol, the
      metabolite that is excreted in our urine after eating asparagus, whereas other people cannot.
      The Rockefeller University Smell Study seeks to recruit 400 normal subjects to track down the
      genetic basis of how we perceive smells. The study consists of up to two visits, each lasting
      up to 4 hours, in which we will test your perception of a variety of smells. On your first
      visit there will be a small blood sample taken (8.5 millileters) and your height and weight
      will be measured. If you are a woman of child-bearing age, we will ask you to provide a urine
      sample to test for pregnancy. If you are pregnant, you will not be permitted to participate
      in our study. You will fill out a short survey that asks some questions about yourself, your
      household, your personal habits, and your sense of smell. You will perform three different
      types of smell tests. In the first, you will be given two vials at a time and asked to tell
      us which contains an odor. In the second type of test, you will be asked to describe
      carefully your impression of three different odors. In the third type of test, you will be
      asked to rate odors according to their strength and pleasantness. All odorants will be
      presented to you in glass jars. You will be asked to smell odors in several hundred jars.
    
  