
    
      This is a Phase 2 trial to evaluate the efficacy of different doses of oxfendazole versus a
      single dose of albendazole in curing or reducing the egg burden in subjects with T. trichiura
      infections. 249 subjects will be randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to one of three dose-groups to
      receive a single dose of oxfendazole 400 mg or 800 mg, or a single dose of albendazole 400
      mg. Water and a snack will be provided to aid in ingestion of the study product and a study
      team member will observe the ingestion of study product. The study team members and study
      subjects will not be blinded to the dose group. However, the laboratory assessors evaluating
      the stool samples will be blinded. Subjects will be recruited in Iquitos, Peru, and
      surrounding villages where there is a high prevalence of T. trichiura infection. Subjects
      will be solicited through town hall meetings and local clinics and through recommendations
      from local care providers. A two-stage screening process will be utilized. If subjects are
      found on the screening stool exam to have only a stool parasite other than T. trichuria or if
      the subject chooses not to participate in the study, the subject will be referred to a local
      health provider. If stool analysis performed at the end of the study period demonstrates
      stool parasites, the subjects will be contacted and referred to their local health provider
      where they will receive standard of care treatment. The primary objective is to assess the
      cure rate of different dose regimens of oxfendazole vs. albendazole in the treatment of T.
      trichiura infections using the Kato-Katz stool examination method. The secondary objectives
      are to: 1) assess the cure rate of different dose regimens of oxfendazole vs albendazole in
      the treatment of T. trichiura infections using the stool concentration examination method, 2)
      assess the clinical response compared to baseline, as shown by reduction in T. trichiura egg
      counts using the Kato-Katz stool examination method, 3) assess the clinical response compared
      to baseline, as shown by reduction in T. trichiura egg counts using the stool concentration
      method, 4) assess the proportion of subjects with moderate or heavy infection before
      treatment who had no infection or only light infection after treatment using the Kato-Katz
      stool examination method, 5) assess the proportion of subjects with moderate or heavy
      infection before treatment who had no infection or only light infection after treatment using
      the stool concentration examination method, 6) establish the spectrum of activity of
      oxfendazole against other intestinal helminths using the Kato-Katz stool examination method,
      7) establish the spectrum of activity of oxfendazole against other intestinal helminths using
      the stool concentration examination method, 8) assess the tolerability of each oxfendazole
      dose group compared to the albendazole dose group, and 9) assess the safety in subjects
      treated with oxfendazole.
    
  