
    
      Heart attacks are conditions where blood flow to the heart muscle is dangerously low -
      eventually causing heart muscle to die. Drugs improving the blood flow, and procedures such
      angioplasty, are the mainstay of therapies. They will only work if there is enough oxygen
      transported in blood. In fact, the heart may be deprived of oxygen not only because of the
      heart attack itself but also because of low blood counts (or anemia). Anemia, or low blood
      counts, may be caused by bleeding or by conditions such as cancer, kidney failure, chronic
      infections or conditions such as severe arthritis. A transfusion increases the delivery of
      oxygen to the heart muscle. However, we do not know at what level of anemia to initiate blood
      transfusion to prevent permanent heart damage. Indeed, having low blood counts may be harmful
      but blood transfusions also carries important risks including extra fluid in the lungs and
      heart inability to pump effectively.

      In previous studies, we demonstrated that giving less blood is safer in most patients. But,
      there is little evidence in patients with heart attack. This first pilot trial aims to make
      sure that a large study that will answer the question is doable. The large trial aims to
      determine when and how much blood to give to minimize damage. In both studies, we will divide
      patients who have a heart attack into two groups in the hopes of preventing patients from
      dying. One group will receive more blood and the other group less blood. In the pilot trial,
      we will evaluate if we can recruit patients with heart attack in a timely fashion. This trial
      will span over 12 months. If patient recruitment goes well, we will move ahead with the
      second phase of the project involving over 3500 patients. We plan to record the numbers of
      patients who die or have another heart attack as well as if doctors follow treatment plans.
      The 5-year large scale project will provide a definitive answer to the amount and optimal
      timing of blood transfusion.
    
  