
    
      A stroke (or cerebrovascular accident) is a neurological deficit that lasts beyond 24 hours.
      It is a disruption in the blood supply to a region of the brain that causes neurological
      impairment. According to 2003 statistical data of National Health Administration of executive
      organ in Taiwan, a stroke is considered the second most common cause of death after cancer.
      According to the research of the stroke incidence in Taiwan, the incidence is 0.3% in the
      population over 35 years-old, and the incidence increases sharply to 3% in the population
      over 65 years-old which is nearly 294 to 1806 people. From above, we know that a stroke is
      one of the most common neural diseases in the old population.

      Strokes are classified as ischemic and hemorrhagic. Approximately 70-80% of all strokes are
      ischemic strokes, including cerebrovascular thrombosis and embolism. The other 10-15% are
      either intracerebral hemorrhage or subarachnoid hemorrhage strokes. Distinctive neurological
      signs reflect the region of the brain involved. The type and severity of neurological
      deficits cover a wide range and gradation of symptoms. Cerebrovascular accidents frequently
      cause upper motor neuron syndrome (Change of muscle tension, unilateral hemiplegia, movement
      un-coordination, un-reciprocal movement, poor movement control, etc.), sensory deficits,
      aphasia, cognitive and behavior problems, etc. These deficits often left with dependence of
      movement function in daily life. Previous studies showed that 10% of all strokes resume
      working, 40% is slight disability, 40% is server disability and 10% have to live in the
      medical organization forever. Moderate to server disability are evaluated easily using
      different kinds of outcome measures to determinate the status of neurological injury and
      resulting disabilities, which provide guideline of aggressive treatment of rehabilitation.
      However, good outcome and function independently in daily life may be showed in some strokes
      with mild disability by outcome measures. It is not clear that the nearly normal strokes are
      really the same with normal group without stroke, even the normal status was showed in the
      strokes by outcome measures. It is unknown that the motor control strategies of strokes with
      function independently in daily life are similar to normal group indeed. A recent study found
      that 73% of subjects with stroke fell at least once in the 6 months after being discharged
      from the hospital; of these, 10% reported falling over an obstacle. Falling may be caused by
      the impairment after stroke or the different motor control strategy in the strokes with mild
      disability.

      In addition, tripping over obstacles is one of the common movements in daily life and is the
      most frequently mentioned cause of falls in the elderly (Lu,2005). Crossing obstacles
      successfully and safely depend on the stability of the stance leg and maintaining a good
      clearance with the obstacles. Indeed, crossing obstacles is a more complex motor skill than
      walking, and ensuring sufficient clearance of an obstacle during locomotion requires accurate
      movement and appropriate modifications of the swing limb. Therefore, obstacle crossing is one
      exercise program in diminishing disability in the rehabilitation. Studies about obstacle
      crossing in young or old adults have been much attention. However, little is known about the
      obstacle crossing deficits that following stroke, especially in good outcome and function
      independently strokes. It is still a mystery about motor control and motor plastic of central
      nerve system. Otherwise, knowledge of the motor control strategy after stroke during
      obstacle-crossing is helpful for the design of fall-prevention devices and for the planning
      of programs for the prevention of associated injuries.

      The purpose of the study was to observe and quantify certain characteristics of the
      performance of subjects following stroke with good outcome to understand the damage of
      central nerve system how to affect motor control. The present study investigated selected
      spatial-temporal characteristics, kinematic variables and kinetic variables of the gait
      pattern to define further the problems in obstacle crossing following strokes. To quantify
      the deficits, we compared results from a group of subjects with stroke with a group of
      healthy subjects matched for age, gender, and height.
    
  