
    
      On January 9, 2020, a new emerging virus was identified by WHO as being responsible for
      grouped cases of pneumonia in China. It is a coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2, responsible for the
      disease COVID-19 (Coronavirus disease). The disease is mild in 85% of cases but the
      proportion of serious cases requiring hospitalization or intensive care (15%) puts stress on
      health structures and systems around the world.

      To limit the influx of patients and avoid overstretching Health systems, containment and
      social distancing strategies are widely adopted.

      It appears crucial to propose the easiest possible therapeutic strategy taking into account
      the ambulatory nature of the patients. Treatment must be as safe as possible allowing a wide
      distribution to the symptomatic population while keeping a favorable risk/benefice balance
      for a patient with little symptoms.

      Several studies show that azithromycin (AZM) has an anti-inflammatory effect. In patients
      with cystic fibrosis, AZM is known to have an anti-fibrotic effect by targeting myofibroblast
      cells, which considerably prolongs their lifespan. AZM acts functionally as an
      anti-inflammatory drug and reduces senescence associated secretory phenotype (SASP)
      mediators, such as IL-1beta and IL-632. AZM has also been shown to inhibit the replication of
      certain viruses, such as Zika and Ebola.

      Therefore AZM is an antibiotic known to have an antiviral effect but also which has
      anti-inflammatory activity in addition to its antimicrobial effect. Azithromycin targets
      preferentially pulmonary cells (and particularly of the lines apparently affected in COVID-19
      positive cases) Therefore, the prescription of AZM in COVID-19 + patients aims to increase
      the antiviral response locally at pulmonary level, while promoting a decrease in the immune
      response at systemic level.

      Its specific effect and excellent clinical tolerance justifies its use as monotherapy in
      non-severe covid-19 + cases for the present study.

      The aim of this study is to demonstrate that AZM decreases symptom duration in COVID19
      patients and diminishes the viral carriage.
    
  