
    
      Mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI), also known as concussion, occurs commonly in sport and
      Motor Vehicle accidents. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimate that as many
      as 3.8 million sport-related concussions occur annually in the United States. Despite ongoing
      research, there is no highly sensitive clinical test for cognitive function that can be
      rapidly applied in a sporting environment. This makes the clinical diagnosis of concussion
      particularly difficult, as the clinical presentation of concussion is highly variable with
      symptoms often evolving over time. Furthermore, with less than 10% of concussions resulting
      in loss of consciousness, self-reported symptom presence may be the only initial evidence of
      a concussion. These factors make concussion a challenging injury to diagnose. Given the
      variability in concussion presentations, there is no single test that can diagnose a
      concussion.

      ElMindA, the sponsor of this study, has developed a novel method to automatically reveal
      functional networks of brain activity based on analysis of EEG Event Related Potential (ERP)
      data. This technological platform is capable of providing new metrics of brain function that
      can assist in patient evaluation and management. The analysis is done in two separate
      processes that are entirely separate and are performed independently of one another.
      Reference Brain Network Models of EEG data were recorded and analyzed from several groups of
      subjects to establish a set of group patterns that characterized the brain network activity
      of the group. EEG data from a single subject are processed to enable subject evaluation, as
      compared to the established group patterns. This individual analysis is the basis of the BNA
      scores computed for an individual subject.

      Therefore, this investigation is designed to evaluate the clinical utility of ElMindA's BNA
      scores in detecting and managing concussive injuries.
    
  