
    
      The current planned study is a prospective randomized double-blind, sham-controlled, two
      parallel-groups, polycentric, phase-I superiority type of trial.

      Right-handed native Arabic-speaking patients with chronic aphasia post-stroke will be
      recruited from multiple in and outpatient rehabilitation centers in Saudi Arabia. All
      participants with aphasia that exceeds at least six months post onset with deficits in naming
      skills due to ischemic lesion or haemorrhage in the left cerebral hemisphere will be
      included. Aphasia type and severity will be determined using GACAT. The study protocol has
      been approved by the Institutional Review Board (IRB) of Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal
      University, Saudi Arabia (IAU-IRB -2020-03-112). Written consent forms will be obtained from
      all participants or from their family members. All study procedures will be conducted in
      accordance with the current version of Declaration of Helsinki.

      All participants will complete three consecutive phases: (i) baseline assessment, (ii)
      interventions (Speech and Language Therapy (SLT) with real tDCS or sham tDCS, and (iii)
      outcome testing (GACAT test). During the first week, each participant will complete GACAT as
      the first round of the outcome measures as pre-testing before starting SLT. The participant
      then will complete six consecutive weeks of SLT accompanied with either real tDCS or sham
      tDCS. Each session starts with 20 minutes of tDCS followed by the SLT program. Once the
      combined therapeutic intervention is completed, the participant will complete round 2 of
      outcome testing GACAT. Aphasia assessments will include full implementation of eight subtests
      of GACAT, whenever possible. For illiterate individuals with aphasia, four to sex subtests
      will be implemented. SLT will be customized and tailored to the patients' needs based on
      baseline assessment. Naming ability will be evaluated during two baseline assessments using
      GACAT that includes a naming of objects, naming of actions, and word fluency (n = 58). The
      pictures will be presented in random order on a laptop computer split into six sets with
      short breaks in between. Patients will be asked to name each picture as accurately as
      possible. Responses will be recorded and subsequently analyzed based on the ﬁrst valid
      response. The first up to thirty pictures that will not be named correctly during both
      assessments will be selected for each patient and trained during therapy (trained items).
      Those items only comprised non responses, unrelated semantic errors, phonologically unrelated
      errors and neologisms. Minor articulatory errors due to mild apraxia of speech will not be
      scored as errors during any of the assessments. The purpose of speech therapy sessions will
      be to have the participant generate nouns and verbs in written and verbal forms. The
      remaining pictures, except correct responses, will be used to choose another 30 items
      (untrained items) and serve to assess transfer effects, these may include: omissions,
      semantic and phonemic paraphasias and other utterances. All stimuli that will be chosen for
      trained and untrained items are controlled for factors impacting processing: "response
      latency; name agreement; familiarity; age of acquisition; imageability, concreteness, image
      and name agreement, visual complexity, frequency, number of phonemes and syllables" .

      The focus of SLT sessions will be on word retrieval and word-finding therapy whether nouns or
      verbs. SLT will be combined either with real tDCS in interventional group or sham tDCS in the
      control group. The SLT is provided by qualified clinicians with more than five years of
      experience in assessing and treating speech and language disorders post-stroke. The SLT will
      include word retrieval therapies that focus on phonological and semantic cueing treatments
      (PCT and SCT respectively) of nouns and verbs (action naming). The action-naming treatment is
      a typical hierarchical cueing approach, in which initially minimal cues are increased in a
      gradual basis until object action picture is named correctly. The verb-action therapy will
      combine production of verbs with gestural facilitation as verb deficits may stem from a
      deficit in semantic knowledge of actions caused by motor cortex damage. Therefore, gestures
      can provide some semantic redundancy, which has been lost in the training that focuses on
      verb production only. This treatment approach is in line with neuropsychological literature
      that shows the fact that verbs may demand more processing control than nouns because verbs
      require more executive resources and have lower imageability scores. Therefore, gestural
      facilitation may add more value for verb retrieval as it provides a form of additional
      constraint on activating the correct verb meaning. Patients may attend physical and
      occupational therapy sessions during the six-week treatment period but no other forms of
      speech therapy will be received during treatment period.

      The frequency and intensity of treatment will be 90 minutes daily sessions for six
      consecutive weeks, results in 7.5 hours per week and total dosage of 45 hours throughout the
      course, which previously reported to be effective.

      Stimulation duration and intensity are in accordance to current safety recommendations. Due
      to the weak electrical current of tDCS (0.5-2 mA), many studies have failed to observe
      long-lasting adverse effects or major physical side effects. However, some minor effects
      include redness, tingling and itching sensation of the skin under the electrode were reported
      in some studies. Most importantly, in tDCS studies, no cases of seizure induction have been
      reported. Several measurements related to the safety of applying electrical stimulation will
      be taken into consideration include the current density (A/cm2) and total surface charge
      (C/cm2). Safety will be measured by given open-ended questions, according to the tDCS adverse
      effects questionnaire.

      During the therapy procedure, patients may experience discomfort and fatigue because of the
      length of the speech and language therapy sessions. Thus, to minimize such discomforts, the
      participants will be given breaks between the tested tasks or the test might be conducted in
      number of sessions instead of a single session. The participants will be encouraged to notify
      the speech language pathologist if they feel tired. Speech and language recordings will be
      obtained from all participants, and the recorded samples will be analysed and interpreted to
      diagnose any specific type of aphasia and follow up their prognosis. Significant new findings
      will be communicated immediately. Patients' study-related data and records will saved in a
      secure database and only the investigators at recruitment sites will have the access.

      For blinding purposes, a masked set of randomization procedures designed to keep both
      participants and experimenters unaware of the administered intervention (real or sham; mode
      of stimulation) in addition to group allocation concealment. The randomization sequence will
      be encrypted and stored on a secure server to confirm blinding process. Independent Endpoint
      committee blinded to group assignment and time of assessment will evaluate the collected data
      to further enhance blinding integrity. Aphasia assessments will be completed at the following
      time points; first, at baseline (t0). Second, at the end of the stimulation sessions with
      behavioral treatment (t1), third, six months later at the follow-up session (t2), and finally
      12 months follow up sessions (t3). The allocation of participants in the two models (combined
      real tDCS with speech therapy versus combined sham tDCS with speech therapy) will adopt
      crossover assignment. Triple masking will be followed including participants, care providers,
      and outcome assessors. In all time points of the study, outcome assessors will be unaware of
      group assignments and of the participant's intervention group assignment.

      All protocol and related data and Safety issues will be monitored by the clinical trial
      center at Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University.

      The primary hypothesis predicts improvement in naming ability (object naming and action verb
      naming) and word fluency by combining SLT with anodal-tDCS (intervention group) compared to
      SLT combined with sham-tDCS (control group). Primary endpoint will be a 6-month follow-up, at
      which will be expected to show the effects of improvement in the language impairments. The
      secondary hypothesis predicts that anodal-tDCS will yield beneficial results in secondary
      outcomes measures compared to sham-tDCS. Secondary endpoint will be immediately
      post-treatment and a 12-month follow-up, and it will examine the consistency effect of
      long-term outcomes.

      The power calculation is based on the results of previous randomized controlled trials, that
      include patients with stroke at chronic phase. In both studies the group of patients with
      aphasia trained with tDCS improved 2.1 points more than a sham control group which is similar
      to picture-naming test in GACAT (naming section). Cohen's d effect size was 0.22, which is
      equal to a Cohen's f of 0.11. In this protocol, using a study design with two groups
      (intervention group and control group) and four repeated measurements (t0-t3), a
      within-patient correlation of 0.75, an alpha of 0.05, with a power of 0.80 and a Cohen's f
      effect size of 0.11, the calculated total number for both groups is 87 patients (29 patients
      in each treatment arm; intervention group and control group). With taking into account 10%
      drop out, the total number of patients that should be recruited is 64 (32 patients in each
      treatment arm).

      This study protocol is based on the intention-to-treat principle. Therefore, ANOVA test will
      be used for continuous variables to test the potential baseline differences between two
      groups, the Kruskal-Wallis test will be used to analyse ordinal variables, and chi-square
      tests for categorical variables. Repeated measurements analysis will be the test of choice to
      assess outcomes of the measures over time between interventional groups and control group.
      Repeated measurement analysis will be utilized to handle the correlation of repeated
      measurements and the missing data. The outcome measure is the dependent variable and time,
      group assignment and the interaction between these variables are the independent variables.
      Any potential confounding variable that could be unequally distributed between groups will be
      treated and adjusted.
    
  