
    
      Acute stress disorder (ASD) and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) are common consequences
      of exposure to traumatic events. Despite growing evidence of neurobiological dysfunction in
      ASD and PTSD, the pathogenesis of these disorders is still unknown. Drs. Osuch and Ursano
      (Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences) have received support to conduct a
      14-week study that will investigate the efficacy of the serotonergic medication sertraline
      (Zoloft) in the treatment and prevention of posttraumatic psychiatric sequelae in ASD
      victims. The present project is an amendment to Drs. Osuch and Ursano's study. It will
      attempt to identify early psychological and neurobiological abnormalities in ASD. More
      specifically, the present project will examine to what extent sensitization and conditioning
      processes, as well as emotional dysregulation, contribute to ASD. We also propose to
      investigate the potential association between cerebellum dysfunction and peritraumatic
      dissociations. To accomplish this goal, a series of three experiments will be implemented to
      investigate: 1) the symptom of exaggerated startle; 2) emotional reactivity to trauma-related
      and trauma-unrelated cues; and 3) cerebellum functioning using eyeblink conditioning. This
      study will inform on the short-term consequences of trauma, will help identify potential
      psychophysiological markers of ASD that emerge following trauma, and will examine the effects
      of an SSRI on preventing trauma-related neurobiological deficits.

      We specifically propose to:

        1. Characterize psychophysiological responses in ASD victims shortly after trauma;

        2. Assess the effect of sertraline treatment on these psychophysiological responses.

      To accomplish aim 1, non-treated ASD victims will be compared to two control groups, a
      non-ASD trauma group and a non-trauma healthy group. The two control groups will be used to
      disentangle the effect of trauma from the effect of acute stress disorder. To accomplish aim
      2, the ASD sertraline group will be compared to the ASD placebo group following treatment.

      Forty victims of serious motor vehicle collision (MVC) with ASD will be recruited from a
      community hospital emergency room and evaluated with clinical assessments, and standardized
      questionnaires within 2 weeks after the MVC. The subjects will then be randomized to either
      sertraline or placebo for 8 weeks duration. Psychometric testing and psychological
      evaluations will be conducted at 4, 10 weeks post-MVC, and after a 2-week taper of the
      medication and 2 more weeks (14 weeks post-MVC).

      We hypothesize that ASD patients will show:

      An enhancement or sensitization of baseline startle;

      An increase in autonomic arousal and in startle amplitude to trauma-related cues;

      A delayed eyeblink conditioning;

      Normalization of these deficits after sertraline treatment.

      This preliminary study is expected to lay the groundwork for a larger study of the early
      impact of traumatic events on psychophysiological and psychological processes. In the
      long-term, we expect to 1) better characterize the onset of symptoms and their evolution over
      time following trauma, 2) identify psychophysiological markers for PTSD, 3) identify ASD
      victims at-risk for PTSD, and 4) improve our ability to prevent the development of chronic
      psychopathology following trauma.
    
  