
    
      Obesity, and especially its comorbidities, has unarguably become the number one threat to
      human health in the modern world. Western lifestyle leads to an increased prevalence and thus
      to a higher mortality (i.e. due to cardiovascular diseases).

      The positive effects of gastric bypass surgery on excess weight loss and comorbidity
      resolution are well-known. In contrast to the standard laparoscopic Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass
      (RYGB), a newer method, the laparoscopic Omega Loop Gastric Bypass (OLGB), has emerged over
      the past years. It is believed to be the simpler method involving only one anastomosis
      (instead of two) and therefore potentially reducing morbidity and mortality whilst
      maintaining comparable excess weight loss. However, since this new type of gastric bypass is
      similar to the former Billroth II resection (BII), the carcinoma risk is a concern. The OLGB
      is different from the BII resection in many ways. For instance, it involves creating an
      approximately 10 cm long narrow gastric pouch which could prevent the suspected underlying
      pathogenetic mechanism: biliary reflux to the gastric tube and subsequently to the esophagus.
      Biliary reflux is suspected to stimulate squamous esophageal cells and Barrett's epithelial
      cells to produce inflammatory mediators and therefore cause oxidative stress, DNA damage and
      apoptosis which might lead to adenocarcinoma.

      Worldwide, there are currently two different ways to perform an OLGB: with or without
      anti-reflux sutures, which involve sewing the biliopancreatic limb to the staple line of the
      pouch using V-Loc (non-absorbable) moving upwards as far as easily possible without creating
      any tension.

      This proposed trial is designed to answer the following questions: First, is biliary reflux
      to the distal esophagus present before OLGB and does it increase after the procedure? Second,
      does performing an OLGB with or without anti-reflux sutures make a difference in (biliary)
      reflux exposures of the distal esophagus?
    
  