
    
      This study is part of an ongoing projet to create, derive and validate a clinical decision
      rule with regards to the stratification of the biphasic reaction risk following an
      anaphylaxis event that has mandated an emergency room visit.

      Phase 0: Systematic literature review (completed)

      Phase 1: Statistical derivation of two clinical decision rules (retrospective observational
      study) - (completed)

      Phase 2: Validation of clinical decision rules (prospective observational study -
      theoretical) - (underway)

      Objective: The objective of phase 2 will then be to test the applicability and performance of
      our clinical decision rules in a prospective observational manner.

      Methods: Based on the three clinical decision rules (2 derived from phase 1and one based on
      the literature review), a prospective observational study will be carried out in the
      emergency rooms of Chicoutimi, Jonquière and Alma. Data collection for this theoretical
      validation phase has been underway since December 2019, having received the approval of the
      various local research committees (ethics, science and convenience).

      A questionnaire was developed from the three rules derived in the previous phases. All the
      elements present in these rules have been grouped by categories (history, allergen, symptoms
      and treatment). In this way, the criteria for each rule were not placed one after the other
      so that no rule could be recognized or inferred. This questionnaire was presented during
      department meetings. It is placed on the charts of patients with suspected anaphylaxis at
      triage and also is available at strategic locations in all three emergency rooms (for
      example, in the reanimation room).

      Doctors are therefore invited to complete the questionnaire anonymously following their
      initial management of an anaphylactic reaction. Thereafter, they treat the patient as they
      would have done according to their usual practice. No rules is applied to the patients and
      the answers provided have no impact on their future care. The questionnaires are then
      deposited in a secured location determined for this purpose, in each of the emergencies.

      The collection of files began in December 2019 and is still ongoing. The inclusion and
      exclusion criteria were the same as in phase 1. However, a patient who did not yet meet the
      criteria for anaphylaxis, but who, according to the clinician's assessment, would inevitably
      progress to an anaphylactic reaction could also be included if treated in this way. This is
      then clearly indicated on the questionnaire.

      At the end of the preliminary recruitment period, all completed questionnaire files will be
      reviewed to determine if a biphasic reaction has occurred. The three clinical decision rules
      will then be applied to the population to test their performance, validity and safety.

      It will also be of interest to assess the number of patients who could have been safely
      discharged without an observation period if each of the rules had hypothetically been
      applied. This analysis will also be carried out.

      Lastly, the investigators propose to run a phase 3 trial, if the phase 2 trial identifies
      valid and clinically usable clinical decision rule(s). That phase 3 trial will aim to
      prospectively validate in real clinical setting and in a different patient population subset
      the selected rule(s).
    
  