
    
      The Firm-ACT trial is the first ever conducted randomized controlled phase III trial in
      adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC), a rare malignancy with poor prognosis. It will provide
      results leading to the establishment of an urgently needed gold standard chemotherapy regimen
      for patients with locally advanced or metastatic ACC. To this end the trial compares the two
      most promising drug combinations investigated in phase II trials, considered by the
      "International Consensus Conference on Adrenal Cancer" (Ann Arbor/USA, 2003) as valuable
      first line treatments for advanced ACC. The first regimen consists of etoposide, doxorubicin,
      cisplatin plus mitotane (EDP-M), the second regiment employs streptozotocin plus mitotane
      (Sz-M). Over a period of five years this international trial will include 300 patients with
      advanced ACC from different European countries. Blood mitotane concentrations will be
      monitored, aiming at drug levels between 14 - 20 mg/L. Patients not responding to the first
      line treatment will be switched to the alternative regimen. The primary objective of this
      trial is to investigate whether EDP-M given as first line treatment will prolong survival as
      compared to Sz-M. Secondary endpoints are quality of life, time to progression, best overall
      response rate and duration of response. In addition, the trial evaluates the role of reaching
      therapeutic mitotane serum concentrations for survival and tumour response and assesses the
      value of the two alternative treatment regimens as second line therapy in advanced ACC.
      Moreover, the FIRM-ACT trial will generate a lasting structural basis for successful future
      trials in ACC.

      In a substudy of 40 patients a detailed analysis of the pharmacokinetics of oral mitotane
      will be analysed. Two different mitotane treatment regimens ("low dose" vs. "high dose") will
      be compared.
    
  