
    
      The overall goal of this project was to implement the use of a gluteal stimulation system
      incorporating BION microstimulators for pressure ulcer prevention in patients at high risk of
      tissue breakdown as a standard clinical practice.The specific goal of this study is to
      establish the feasibility of a system incorporating BION microstimulators for long term use.
      This will be achieved by a two phase study. The initial phase of the study will employ
      biomechanical testing and in-vitro evaluations to address issues of safety and system design.
      The specific tasks to be achieved in the initial phase are:

      Biomechanical testing to characterize the device response to traumatic loading conditions.

      In-vitro testing to determine the optimal configuration of the system, specifically the
      effects of BION orientation and placement relative to the coil.

      A series of cadaveric studies to determine guidelines for the BION implantation procedure
      required to achieve optimal function of the gluteal stimulation system.

      The second phase of the study will be a pilot clinical trail of veterans with reduced
      mobility in order to establish clinical utility. A two-arm crossover study of wheelchair
      users will be carried out. A total of 10 subjects will be recruited to the study.
      Participants will be randomly assigned to Group A or Group B. All subjects will receive BION
      microstimulators implanted bilaterally adjacent to the motor point of the gluteus maximus.
      Two stimulation regimes will be employed; conditioning stimulation will be applied at night
      to increase muscle strength and fatigue resistance of the stimulated muscles while dynamic
      stimulation will be employed during the day in order to facilitate regular weight shifting,
      thus varying seated posture and pressure distributions at the seating interface. Subjects in
      Group A will start using dynamic and conditioning stimulation concurrently for 6 months
      following implantation. They will then cease using all stimulation for a further 6 months of
      participation in the study. Group B will not activate their stimulation systems for 6 months
      following implantation. They will then commence using dynamic and conditioning stimulation
      for 6 months.

      All subjects will be followed for a 12 month period following implantation. Tissue health
      assessments will be carried out at three month intervals throughout their participation in
      the study. Progressive changes in gluteal tissue health will assessed by:

        1. Transcutaneous oxygen measurement to measure tissue blood flow.

        2. Interface pressure measurement to determine pressure distribution changes over the
           long-term (due to muscle changes) and over the short-term (due to muscle contractions).

        3. Computerized tomography (CT) to measure muscle thickness. The results of this study will
           provide the pilot data for the development of a full-scale clinical trial of the gluteal
           BION system.
    
  