
    
      The primary objective of this study is the assessment of the safety of intramuscular
      administration to alpha-sarcoglycan deficient subjects of recombinant adeno-associated virus
      serotype 1 (rAAV1)-human alpha-sarcoglycan gene (hαSG) vector under control of a skeletal
      muscle creatine kinase promoter. The secondary objective is to determine the dose of
      rAAV1.tMCK.hαSG vector required to achieve a detectable level of alpha-sarcoglycan in muscle
      of subjects with this disorder.

      A recombinant virus vector constructed from AAV1 has been altered to carry the human
      alpha-sarcoglycan gene expressed from a tMCK promoter. The construct has been shown to
      initiate the production of a functional alpha-sarcoglycan protein in laboratory animals. This
      construct can reverse the dystrophic phenotype in the alpha-sarcoglycan knock out mouse, a
      laboratory animal model for the clinical disorder. Intramuscular injection of rAAV1 restores
      muscle histology to normal and increases muscle strength to levels exceeding control knock
      out mice but not to the same degree as wild-type mice.

      The proposed human clinical trial is a phase I, double-blind randomized protocol with
      injection of rAAV1.tMCK.hαSG gene vector into muscle. Two cohorts of subjects with
      LGMD2D(alpha-sarcoglycan deficiency), each with proven mutations will undergo gene transfer.
      A minimum of three subjects will be enrolled into each cohort. The first cohort will receive
      a total of 1.5 ml volume of study agent in two to six separate injections into the selected
      muscle (extensor digitorum brevis) or other muscle if more appropriate considering the
      individual patient) with a dose of 3.25 X 10 to the 11 vg in 1.5 ml. The anatomical midline
      point of the muscle will be identified on the skin and 2 to 6 vector injections will be
      distributed in the direction of an X. The second cohort will receive the same dose delivered
      to muscle according to the same paradigm. In each cohort, only one extremity will receive
      vector with transgene while the opposite extremity will be injected with placebo. On the day
      of the vector infusion, 4 hours before gene transfer, patients will receive intravenous
      methylprednisolone 2.0 mg/kg (not to exceed 1 gm total), with repeat doses on two consecutive
      mornings. The methylprednisolone is specifically given to diminish the immediate inflammation
      from the needle injection, which is known to arouse an inflammatory reaction and could
      contribute to bringing antigen presenting cells to the site of vector delivery. We have
      previously demonstrated that this treatment enhances gene expression by at least 2-fold
      (Included as part of BB-IND-12936 for minidystrophin gene transfer).

      Safety endpoints to be assessed include inflammatory reaction to the vector, as evaluated by
      muscle biopsy, and changes in hematology, serum chemistry, urinalysis, immunologic responses
      to rAAV1 and alpha-sarcoglycan, and reported history and observations of symptoms. The
      patient will have 10 to 12 follow-up visits for the next 2 years after the initial infusion.
    
  