
    
      Oral lichen planus is an idiopathic chronic mucocutaneous disease with a ride range of
      clinical manifestations, including white reticular patches, erosive/ulcerative and atrophic
      lesions, both associated with intense symptomatology. CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocytes cells play
      an important role in the pathogenesis of OLP and are responsible for the production of
      different cytokines, including IL-6, IL-10, IL-1β, INF-γ and TNF-α. Treatment is symptomatic
      and topical corticosteroids are commonly used as standard therapy. However, patients
      frequently present relapses after treatment's discontinuation, develop resistance to
      corticosteroids therapy as well as secondary candidiasis. Photobiomodulation (PBM) has shown
      to be a potential therapeutic tool to treat inflammatory disorders, including OLP. Some
      studies have demonstrated that PBM improves the clinical presentation of OLP
      (erosive/ulcerative or atrophic lesions to reticular lesions), reduces pain and recurrence.
      However, it remains controversy if PBM is more effective than corticosteroid in the treatment
      of OLP. The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of PBM in the treatment of OLP in
      relation to the standard therapy with corticosteroids. This is a protocol for a randomized,
      controlled, doubled blind clinical trial, with two months of follow up.

      Patients with symptomatic OLP and with histopathological diagnosis of OLP based on WHO
      criteria will be included in this study. Fourty-four patients will be randomized in two
      experimental groups. Control group will be treated with clobetasol propionate 0.05% gel for
      30 consecutive days and the laser device will be positioned over the lesion but will be
      switched off to mask the treatment. The experimental group will be treated with placebo gel
      for 30 consecutive days to mask the treatment and patients will receive laser treatment twice
      a week during 1 month for PBM (laser λ = 660±10 nm; power 100mW; radiant energy; 177J/cm2;
      5-s exposure time per point and 0.5J of energy per point). The primary variable (pain by VAS
      scale) and the secondary variables (clinical scores, functional scores and Patient anxiety
      and depression) will be evaluated at the baseline, once a week during treatment and after 30
      and 60 days of follow up. Evaluation of clinical resolution will be performed at the end of
      the treatment (30 days). Evaluation of recurrence will be performed after 30 and 60 days of
      follow up. Serum and salivary levels of IL-6, IL-10, IL-1β, INF-γ and TNF-α will be evaluated
      at baseline and at the end of treatment (30 days). Quality of life will be evaluated by
      OHIP-14 questionnaire at baseline, at the end of treatment and after 30 and 60 days of follow
      up. The findings will be computed and submitted to statistical analysis. Interval estimates
      will be used for the variables of interest to determine the prevision of the estimates and
      perform comparisons. If necessary, transformation methods or non-parametric tests will be
      applied. The chi-square test, Student's t-test and ANOVA will be used and the level of
      significance of 5% will be considered (p < 0.05).
    
  