
    
      Parental smoking increases children's risk of asthma, infectious illness, sudden infant death
      syndrome (SIDS), and other conditions. Accumulating evidence regarding the adverse effects of
      total smoke exposure (TSE) led the US Surgeon General to conclude that there is no safe level
      of TSE. Parents who smoke endanger themselves, put their children and spouses at risk for
      adverse health outcomes, and increase the chance of their children becoming smokers. However,
      many parents who smoke are undertreated for their tobacco addiction. Many parents who smoke
      are of the age where they have few contacts with primary care physicians and are often
      unexposed to counseling and pharmacotherapy offered to older patients. Strategically
      identifying sites where trained para-professionals routinely interact with parents who smoke
      is vital to making inroads in this high-risk population.

      Involuntary secondhand smoke exposure (SHSe) in domestic environments is an entirely
      preventable public health threat that disproportionately burdens young children in
      communities of low socioeconomic position. Research has indicated that interventions to
      reduce SHSe for children delivered through child care settings have been effective. In
      addition, client-centered approaches, such as motivational interviewing, have been effective
      in helping parents to reduce levels of SHS in the home environment. Following guidelines from
      established agencies and organizations, we will also evaluate changes in smoking cessation
      rates among parents and staff comparing use prior to and after the training programs and
      subsequent family service worker to parent encounters.

      Aim 1: Building on Action for Boston Community Development's (ABCD) current system efforts,
      support the development and implementation of system changes to accurately and efficiently
      document parental smoking and household tobacco use and exposure, using: i) intake form, ii)
      Individual Family Plan, and iii) electronic data system.

      Aim 2: Collaborate with Legacy and University of Massachusetts (UMass) to train Head Start
      staff in skills for encouraging smoking cessation and on a smoke-free home intervention, to
      increase staff knowledge of second-hand smoke (SHS) effects and provide skills in
      Motivational Interviewing. This will enhance staff confidence in engaging with parents to
      assist in efforts to make a sustained quit attempt, reduce children's SHS exposure, and will
      provide structure to help staff determine how best to support families on issues of tobacco
      use, including referral to cessation services.

      Aim 3: Evaluate the effectiveness of sites receiving the a) Motivational Interviewing
      intervention for family service workers, b) supervisor education, and c) boosters in
      decreasing parent smoking, reducing household tobacco use and children's SHS exposure,
      compared with sites receiving only basic tobacco information.

      Aim 4: Evaluate the effectiveness of the smoking cessation intervention on the staff most
      intimately involved in parent counseling-namely, the family service workers who will attend
      the training program (s). We will evaluate their knowledge, attitudes, beliefs, and smoking
      practices as well as their confidence and skills in tobacco-related counseling.
    
  