
    
      Protein substitutes are typically presented in powder format and reconstituted in water to a
      set volume, but may also be offered in ready-to-drink formats or as a gel. Notwithstanding
      recent advancements related to the taste, scent and texture (organoleptic properties) of
      commercially available protein substitutes, a small proportion of PKU patients choose to
      consume tablet-based protein substitutes. In this sense, anecdotal evidence suggests that in
      the UK approximately 80-100 PKU patients consume tablet protein substitutes. Despite the need
      to consume large quantities, protein substitutes in tablet format may help overcome some of
      the aforementioned limitations compared to powdered or ready-to-drink preparations, but also
      offer additional benefits including convenience and reduced preparation.

      Although usage of tablet-based protein substitutes is low in comparison to powdered
      preparations, early evidence from MacDonald and colleagues suggests tablet protein
      substitutes are an equally effective strategy to manage PKU in older children, teenagers and
      adults. Tablet-based protein substitutes, however, only offer a balanced mixture of essential
      and non-essential amino acids. Considering the daily burden and discipline required to follow
      the restrictive low-protein diet, reports suggest achieving full compliance with tablet-based
      protein substitutes is difficult, and this becomes especially challenging when given
      alongside multi vitamin supplements. To elaborate, patients solely consuming protein
      substitutes in tablet format may be required to consume 70-140 tablets per day (average = 75
      tablets per day) alongside an additional 5 prescribable vitamin and mineral tablets. In this
      instance, it may be beneficial if tablet-based protein substitutes combined amino acids with
      vitamins, minerals and trace elements.

      At present, tablets combining amino acids with vitamins, minerals and trace elements are
      currently unavailable. As such, the sponsor has produced a tablet-based protein substitute
      designed for individuals aged 8 years and older. Developed specifically for the dietary
      management of proven PKU, the phenylalanine-free protein substitute tablets comprise an
      adapted mixture of essential and non-essential amino acids (excluding phenylalanine) and are
      combined with carbohydrates, DHA, vitamins and selected minerals and trace elements. As such,
      the aim of this intervention trial is therefore to evaluate the acceptability (compliance,
      gastrointestinal tolerance and palatability) of the tablets, while also capturing information
      related to blood amino acid profiles, dietary intake, anthropometry and safety as part of a
      low phenylalanine dietary regimen in PKU patients. Thirty eligible PKU patients (≥ 8 years),
      identified as current tablet users, will be recruited. Patients will firstly observe a 7-day
      baseline period. During baseline, patients will continue with their existing diet and protein
      substitute prescription before receiving the tablets daily for 28 days in addition to
      appropriate nutritional management.
    
  