
    
      REMIT-DM is a feasibility pilot study that aims to show that previously published diabetes
      remission through early use and titration of short-term insulin therapy is possible and safe
      in the ambulatory diverse American population of patients with T2D, with continuous glucose
      level and trend information provided by CGM. We developed the algorithm based on published
      diabetes remission studies and include within the algorithm the CGM trend arrows to further
      refine insulin doses for both safety and efficacy purposes. Data captured by the CGM
      transmits automatically to the cloud and is accessible at any time of day by the
      multidisciplinary diabetes team, which includes the certified diabetes educator (CDE) and
      Endocrinologist. The CGM-guided insulin titration algorithm is designed to achieve euglycemia
      (defined as fasting CBG < 100 mg/dL, and 2 hour post-prandial CBG < 120 mg/dL) within 2 weeks
      of initiating insulin therapy, then to help maintain euglycemia for 2 weeks before
      discontinuing insulin entirely. Ten participants will undergo a maximum of 4 weeks of insulin
      therapy and will be assessed for remission afterwards to confirm enough recovery of beta cell
      function. (Complete remission is defined as fasting glycemia <100 mg/dL without use of
      pharmacological therapy.) Afterwards, we will implement American Diabetes Association (ADA)
      guidelines for standard glycemic management, as necessary. We will use the data collected
      during this feasibility study to sharpen the CGM-guided insulin titration algorithm for
      creation of a T2DM remission mobile application that could then be tested and studied in a
      larger sample size.

      The feasibility study will also take into account clinically meaningful data points e.g. the
      number of phone calls between the patient and the diabetes team, the patient experience, and
      patient satisfaction.
    
  