
    
      The purpose of the study:

      Does reflexology treatment increase the chance of pregnancy in women treated with IVF?

      Research design:

      To the Study will recruited women who come for IVF treatments.

      Women who are fit to participate and give their consent, will be randomized to one of three
      treatment groups:

      Group 1 - placebo reflexology

      Group 2 - control group that receives no alternative treatment. Data will be taken from
      questionnaires

      Group 3 - will be receiving a built-in protocol reflexology treatment

      Reflexology treatment can begin at any stage up to the stage of the eggs implantation. If the
      patient is not pregnant, she will start another reflexology treatment cycle. Reflexology
      treatment will be minimum 4 treatments and up to six treatments for every cycle. Rate
      treatment will be two or three times a week. The patient can receive reflexology treatment
      for three cycles of IVF.

      Research tools and methods

        -  Photo of feet before the first treatment and before final treatment

        -  Permanent set by 4 parameters

        -  Questionnaire: to be transferred at baseline and after treatment and will be in a state
           of double blinded. There will be no connection between the treatment protocol and
           questionnaires. At the end of the study, the analysis and cross checking data will form
           their own measurements.

             1. Quality of Life Questionnaire

             2. Questionnaire "dhak"

             3. Mind-body questionnaire

             4. Family support questionnaire

      Medical tests (measurements taken any way and will be used for the study): blood tests,
      medical record indicating that there is no pathological findings, ultrasound, endometrial
      thickness, number of follicles, number of oocytes and embryo quality.

      Evaluation of Participants:

      80 - experimental group 80 - a control group that receives no alternative treatment 80 - a
      group that receives a placebo treatments

      Duration of participation in the study: Six months

      Treatment protocol:

      The treatment strengthens the natural healing of the body, in that it strengthens the blood
      flow and the release of endorphins, which can reduce pain, stress relaxation and a general
      feeling better (wellbeing). Recently a promising theory was added, a theory called Nerve
      Impulse the suggests that pressure points in the foot improve neural connection to other
      parts of the body through the autonomic nervous system. The autonomic nervous system,
      regulates body systems that are under unaware control such as respiratory, heart rate and
      blood pressure systems which are sensitive to pressure and vibration in accordance with
      Physical and psychological changes, and able to control the sympathetic system and moderate
      the fight or flight response. Recent meta-analysis that scanned many articles pointed out
      that there is no unity in studies about reflexology, that there are a wide range of
      parameters, methods and measurements of efficacy .Therapeutic Touch are complex and it is
      difficult to maintain such double-blind trials.

      Therefore, there is a great need for maintaining the uniformity of treatment. In the
      investigators' study, will be responsible coordinator of reflexology, Rachel Hoddov, to teach
      and train coaches participating in the study protocol the standard treatment in a way that
      will allow a free hand. In addition, Placebo treatment will be in superficial areas in
      particular, and will be directed to organs and organ systems which are not relevant to the
      research topic.
    
  