
    
      A lobectomy (removal of a full lobe of the lung or removal of ¼ - 1/5 of the entire lungs) is
      a part of the primary curative treatment for people with lung cancer. There are, however,
      some patients who are unable to have a lobectomy. There are several reasons why a patient
      should not have a lobectomy including prior operations in the same area of the lung or poor
      lung functions. Sub-lobe operations (less than a full lobectomy), are alternatives for these
      patients. Types of sub-lobe operations include wedge resection or segmentectomy.

      However, a randomized trial in early stage lung cancer patients that compared lobectomy
      versus wedge resection showed that cancer was not controlled as well in individuals who had
      the wedge resection. Localized disease wedge resection alone is therefore considered an
      inadequate operation. This inadequacy, however, can be compensated for if radiation seeds are
      implanted (added) to the site of wedge resection.

      Iodine-125 radiation seeds are currently the most common radioactive material implanted in
      the operative bed after wedge resection. However, I-125 has a half-life of 60 days. This
      causes the patient to be "radioactive" for 6 months to 1 year. When an individual is
      radioactive they must take necessary precautions that result in a significantly compromised
      quality of life. These precautions are 1) no continuous close contact (less than 3 feet) for
      a significant duration of time (more than 15 minutes), 2) no close contact with pregnant
      women and children, 3) adequate precautions especially during air travel and 4) risk of
      radioactive seed displacement several months.

      The local control of cancer with this treatment is >95%_ %. Cesium-131 is a novel radiation
      seed that has the same energy as I-125 but has a much shorter half life (9days). That means
      that Cs-131 seeds give off all their radiation at a faster rate. When a radioactive seeds
      gives off all of its radiation it is no longer radioactive and the dangers of radioactivity
      no longer exist. With a half life of 9 days, Cs-131 gives off all of its radiation in 1
      month. This significantly reduces the time when the patient is 'radioactive'. Therefore,
      Cs-131 has less of a negative affect on quality of life than I-125.

      In addition, because of Cs-131's significantly faster rate of radiation dissemination, faster
      growing cancers (especially lung cancer) cells should be killed more efficiently thereby
      increasing cancer control rates. In addition, the lesser total radiation time may result in
      reduced short term and long term side effects.

      Cs-131 is FDA approved and has been used mostly for prostate cancer. Our experience with
      Cs-131 in prostate cancer has shown it to be a very well tolerated treatment with excellent
      cure rates.

      The primary study endpoint is to assess local control of localized lung cancers after limited
      resection (wedge resection or segmentectomy) and Cs-131 seed placement in comparison to
      previously assessed local control of localized lung cancers after limited resection and I-125
      seed placement. The primary objective is to assess local control after a wedge resection and
      Cs-131 implant. The secondary objective is to assess quality of life (as related to side
      effects) of Cs-131 seed placement after limited surgical resection in lung cancers and
      compare it to already existing data on I-125 tolerability.

      Procedures that are part of regular cancer care and may be done whether a patient enrolls in
      the research study or not include:

        1. CT scans of patient chest

        2. Medistinoscopy (only if the surgeon is suspicious that there is cancer in the patient's
           lymph nodes),

             -  If the cancer has spread to the lymph nodes, patients will no longer be eligible
                for the study as the classification of their disease would no longer be NSCLC.
                Patients would alternately receive appropriate, and standard treatment

      Standard procedures being done only because the patient is part of the study;

      1) Quality of life questionnaires

      Follow-up Patients will be monitored for local recurrence, regional recurrence and distant
      recurrence and progression for three years.

      Local recurrence: recurrence within the same lobe or hilum (N1 nodes), or at the staple line
      after treatment effects such as scarring have subsided.

      Regional recurrence: recurrence within another lobe or pleura on the same side as the
      resection, or the ipsilateral mediastinal (N2) nodes.

      Distant recurrence: recurrence within contralateral lobe, contralateral mediastinal (N3)
      nodes or distant metastatic disease (other organs).

      Patients also will be monitored for additional primaries and regional recurrence, with
      histological confirmation whenever possible. Autopsy reports will be obtained whenever
      possible. A copy of the death certificate will also be obtained.

      Protocol follow-up will be performed at 3, 6, 12, 18, 24, and 36 months and yearly to 5
      years. The yearly follow-up visits for Years 4 and 5 will consist of either a phone call or
      clinical visit (at investigator's discretion) for vital status only. These follow-up visits
      will occur + 60 days from the yearly anniversary date of the resection.

      A CT scan will be performed pre-operatively and at 3, 6, 12, 18, 24, 30 and 36 months.

      QoL using the SF36 and UCSD Shortness of Breath Questionnaire will be obtained
      pre-operatively and at 3, 12 and 24 months.

      Post-operative adjuvant chemotherapy may be given at the discretion of the treating
      physician. Postoperative adjuvant radiation therapy will never be performed.

      Evaluation of Outcomes

      Local Recurrence (primary endpoint)

      Local recurrence is indicated when a follow-up examination shows growth of primary tumor or
      abnormality in the resected lobe on CT scan. Since scarring may occur adjacent to the
      brachytherapy site, a CT scan will be obtained at 3 months. This will form the baseline study
      that local recurrence will be judged against. Increased parenchymal opacification (by 25% or
      more) adjacent to the staple line/mesh line will be considered suspicious for local
      recurrence. The repeated CT scans should allow any significant changes to be observed even if
      there is a slight image artifact from the metal seeds which may interfere with interpretation
      of the CT scan.

      Any suspicious areas will be confirmed by a needle biopsy.

      Scans for Disease Relapse Unconfirmed by Biopsy If biopsy of suspicious areas is not
      feasible, then a PET scan is required. Copies of the PET scan, the 3- month (baseline) CT
      scan and the most current CT scan.

      Quality of Life As a secondary outcome, patient-centered quality of life (QoL) data will be
      measured using the SF36 and dyspnea will be measured using the UCSD Shortness of Breath
      Questionnaire. [Eakin, 1998] These are ill patients with significant pulmonary morbidity. It
      will be important to quantify any changes in overall health and pulmonary-specific symptoms
      in this population. Each patient will act as his or her own control. These validated
      instruments have been used in many trials of patients with severe lung disease. Measurements
      will be undertaken before and at 3, 12 and 24 months after surgery.
    
  