
    
      STUDY DESIGN

      This is a single center prospective, randomized, blinded clinical trial with a convenience
      sample that will be conducted in the Emergency Department of an urban level I trauma center.

      A. Identify and enroll all patients coming in to the ED patient with presumed or clinically
      apparent 2 or more unilateral rib fractures between T3 to T9, with a resting pain score of
      ≥5. All patients meeting exclusion criteria will be excluded.

      B. Randomization procedure:

        1. Pharmacy will dispense 30mL of injectate which will be randomized in block of 10 to
           either the SAPB group (30mL of 0.25% bupivacaine with epinephrine) or sham group (30mL
           of normal saline).

      C. Injection

        1. Patient consent will be obtained and time out will be performed on all patients.

        2. Patients will be placed on cardiac monitor and placed in lateral decubitus or if unable
           to turn, they will be supine.

        3. Under the usual sterile technique, the serratus anterior muscle overlying the 5th rib at
           the mid-axillary line will be identified with ultrasound.

        4. A spinal needle will be introduced in-plane under ultrasound guidance and advanced until
           the needle tip is located in the fascial plane just above the serratus anterior muscle.
           The needle tip will not be advanced unless completely visualized under ultrasound.

        5. Normal saline will be injected first to determine correct location of the needle tip.
           Spreading of fluid along the fascial plane will confirm the correct location of the
           needle tip.

        6. The normal saline will then be switched to the study drug of which 30mL of either normal
           saline or 0.25% bupivacaine with epinephrine which will then be injected into the
           fascial plane as described in Blanco et al, and Hetta et al.

        7. The study drug will be injected 5mL at a time and the patient will be asked if any
           symptoms of Local Anesthetic Systemic Toxicity (LAST toxicity) are present (perioral
           numbness, tinnitus, dizziness).

        8. After injection is completed the needle will be withdrawn and patient will remain on the
           cardiac monitor for another 30 minutes to monitor for symptoms of LAST toxicity (Di
           Gregorio).

        9. This procedure was based on the serratus anterior plane block protocol from Khalil et
           al.

      D. Slow Vital Capacity (SVC) Measurement

        1. SVC will be performed using spirometer that has been internally validated

        2. SVC will be performed by physicians trained by the respiratory therapy department and
           who have demonstrated validation compared to respiratory therapist obtained SVC values

        3. The patient will be sitting up when performing SVC and a script will be followed as to
           how to educate and coach the patient on performing appropriate incentive spirometry
           technique.

        4. At least 3 SVC measurements within 150mL of each other are required to qualify for an
           accurate measurement.

        5. The maximum of these 3 SVC values and a corresponding % predicted SVC will be obtained
           and considered the maximum % predicted SVC.

        6. % Predicted SVC will be obtained based on the National Health and Nutrition Examination
           Survey (NHANES III) calculator through the CDC.

      E. Pain scores

        1. Subjects will be asked to rate their maximum pain score from 0-10 with resting breathing
           and with deep breaths.

      Design:

      A. Potential study patients will be identified through review of the emergency department
      (ED) electronic board, and ED physicians will also screen for potential study patients. Pain
      scores are assessed in triage as is standard in the ED.

      B. If the patient has pain from presumed or clinically apparent 2 or more unilateral rib
      fractures between T3 to T9, and he/she has a resting pain score of ≥5 on the Numeric Pain
      Rating Scale, where 0 is no pain, 5 is moderate pain, and 10 is the worst possible pain upon
      initial assessment, then he/she will be eligible to participate in the study.

      The patient will then be asked to participate if he/she does not have any exclusion criteria.

      C. At time of enrollment, the patient will have recorded pain scores, vital signs, and slow
      vital capacity measured.

      D. All patients will then receive ketamine 0.15 mg/kg IV in 100 mL normal saline over 30
      minutes for pain.

      E. Each patient will then be randomized in either of two arms:

        1. Ultrasound guided serratus anterior plane block (SAPB) with 30mL 0.25% bupivacaine with
           epinephrine.

        2. Ultrasound guided serratus anterior plane injection with sham injection with 30mL of
           normal saline.

      6. Investigators will be blinded to the arm that the patient has been randomized to, as the
      randomization will occur through the pharmacy dispensing the medication.

      7. Using an online randomizer in blocks of 10, the pharmacy will dispense either 30mL of
      normal saline for the sham group, or 30mL of 0.25% bupivacaine with epinephrine for the nerve
      block group.

      8. All patients will receive either SAPB or sham injection within an hour of receiving
      ketamine analgesia.

      9. If the patient still has a pain score ≥5 thirty minutes after the injection, the treating
      physician will be informed and the patient will be medicated at the treating physician's
      discretion.

      10. The patient will be followed up with up to 24 hours throughout their hospital stay.

      Data Collection Procedures:

      A. Demographics 1. Age, sex, ethnicity, height B. Past medical history 1. Smoking status
      (current, prior, never smoker), diabetes, cirrhosis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
      (COPD), asthma, if patient uses home oxygen C. Injury Mechanism

        1. Occupant in motor vehicle collision, fall from an elevation, fall down stairs, fall from
           standing, pedestrian or bicyclist struck by moving vehicle, bike collision or fall from
           bike while riding, driver or passenger in motorcycle/ATV/motorized scooter collision,
           assault, unknown mechanism, or other

        2. Date and time of injury

        3. GCS score

        4. Injury Severity Scale D. Imaging

        1. Side of rib fractures

        2. Number of rib fractures on x-ray and on CT chest

        3. Rib fracture location: anterior, lateral, posterior, T1-12

        4. Type of imaging showing rib fractures

        5. Presence of following: atelectasis, hemothorax, infiltrate (right/left), interstitial
           edema, pneumothorax, pulmonary contusion E. Medication

      1. Any medications type and dose given prior to randomization

      F. At Time 0 (time of enrollment):

        1. Vital signs

        2. Resting pain score from 0-10

        3. Deep breath pain score from 0-10

        4. Slow Vital Capacity (SVC)

           a. Measured until 3 measurements are within 150mL of each other b. % predicted SVC is
           measured based on NHANES III Calculator using age, sex, ethnicity and height. If
           ethnicity not included in calculator will select Caucasian.

           c. Maximum SVC and maximum % predicted SVC

        5. Symptoms after injection: agitation, dizziness, dysarthria, nausea, new cardiac rhythm
           (significant tachycardia or bradycardia, SVT, etc), new significantly increased
           shortness of breath, perioral numbness, pruritis, seizure, syncope, tinnitus, vomiting
           G. At Time 30 minutes post injection

        1. Vital signs

        2. Resting pain score from 0-10

        3. Deep breath pain score from 0-10

        4. Slow Vital Capacity (SVC)

             1. Measured until 3 measurements are within 150mL of each other

             2. Percentage predicted SVC is measured based on NHANES III Calculator using age, sex,
                ethnicity and height. If ethnicity not included in calculator will select
                Caucasian.

             3. Maximum SVC and maximum % predicted SVC

        5. Symptoms after injection: agitation, dizziness, dysarthria, nausea, new cardiac rhythm
           (significant tachycardia or bradycardia, SVT, etc), new significantly increased
           shortness of breath, perioral numbness, pruritis, seizure, syncope, tinnitus, vomiting
           H. At Time 60 minutes post injection

        1. Vital signs

        2. Resting pain score from 0-10

        3. Deep breath pain score from 0-10

        4. Slow Vital Capacity (SVC)

        1. Measured until 3 measurements are within 150mL of each other

        2. % predicted SVC is measured based on NHANES III Calculator using age, sex, ethnicity and
           height. If ethnicity not included in calculator will select Caucasian.

        3. Maximum SVC and maximum % predicted SVC

      5. Symptoms after injection: agitation, dizziness, dysarthria, nausea, new cardiac rhythm
      (significant tachycardia or bradycardia, SVT, etc), new significantly increased shortness of
      breath, perioral numbness, pruritis, seizure, syncope, tinnitus, vomiting I. At Time 3-6
      hours post injection

      1. Vital signs 2. Resting pain score from 0-10 3. Deep breath pain score from 0-10 4. Slow
      Vital Capacity (SVC)

        1. Measured until 3 measurements are within 150mL of each other

        2. % predicted SVC is measured based on NHANES III Calculator using age, sex, ethnicity and
           height. If ethnicity not included in calculator will select Caucasian.

        3. Maximum SVC and maximum % predicted SVC 4. Symptoms after injection: agitation,
           dizziness, dysarthria, nausea, new cardiac rhythm (significant tachycardia or
           bradycardia, SVT, etc), new significantly increased shortness of breath, perioral
           numbness, pruritis, seizure, syncope, tinnitus, vomiting J. At Time 12 hours post
           injection 1. Vital signs 2. Resting pain score from 0-10 3. Deep breath pain score from
           0-10 5. Slow Vital Capacity (SVC)

             1. Measured until 3 measurements are within 150mL of each other

             2. % predicted SVC is measured based on NHANES III Calculator using age, sex,
                ethnicity and height. If ethnicity not included in calculator will select
                Caucasian.

             3. Maximum SVC and maximum % predicted SVC

           5. Symptoms after injection: agitation, dizziness, dysarthria, nausea, new cardiac
           rhythm (significant tachycardia or bradycardia, SVT, etc), new significantly increased
           shortness of breath, perioral numbness, pruritis, seizure, syncope, tinnitus, vomiting
           J. On 24 hours post injection

             1. Vital signs

             2. Resting pain score from 0-10

             3. Deep breath pain score from 0-10

             4. Slow Vital Capacity (SVC)

        1. Measured until 3 measurements are within 150mL of each other

        2. % predicted SVC is measured based on NHANES III Calculator using age, sex, ethnicity and
           height. If ethnicity not included in calculator will select Caucasian.

        3. Maximum SVC and maximum % predicted SVC 5. Symptoms after injection: agitation,
           dizziness, dysarthria, nausea, new cardiac rhythm (significant tachycardia or
           bradycardia, SVT, etc), new significantly increased shortness of breath, perioral
           numbness, pruritis, seizure, syncope, tinnitus, vomiting K. Slow vital capacity

           1. Researchers will be trained on appropriate incentive spirometry technique by the
           respiratory therapy team and their accuracy will be confirmed 2. Patients will then be
           instructed to perform SVC, we will get 3 SVC measurements within 150mL of each other and
           then record the maximum SVC.

           3. Percent predicted vital capacity will be calculating using NHANES III L. Time to
           first rescue analgesia post injection M. Medications during first 24 hours of hospital
           stay

           1. 24 hour total morphine milligram equivalent consumption

           1. Calculated based on CDC Morphine Milligram Equivalence (MME) Calculator:
           https://www.cdc.gov/drugoverdose/prescribing/app.html 2. Any antemetics used after
           injection within 24 hours after enrollment 3. Time to administration of first rescue
           analgesia post injection N. Nerve Block performed during inpatient stay

           1. List date/time/type of any additional nerve blocks performed for rib fracture pain
           after the study injection during the patient's hospital stay

           O. Pulmonary complications:

           1. New O2 requirement, BIPAP or intubation, transfer to ICU for respiratory issue,
           development of pneumonia, readmission for pulmonary issue, new need for home O2 P. Nerve
           Block Complications

           1. Development of cellulitis at site of block during hospital stay 2. Pneumothorax
           occurring within 12 hours of injection Q. Discharge Data

             1. If cellulitis developed at the site of injection during hospital stay

             2. If a pneumothorax on the same side of the injection occurred within 12 hours of
                block R. Imaging

           1. Videos of the nerve block performance will be recorded in each patient. These images
           will later be de-identified and reviewed by two independent reviewers not involved in
           the study to determine visually whether the planar spread of anesthetic was correctly
           placed or not correctly placed.
    
  