
    
      Autism is recognized to be a "complex disorder" as well as "a spectrum of disorders" that
      includes Asperger's syndrome and pervasive developmental disorder- not otherwise specified.
      Diagnostic criteria for autism focus on impairments affecting socialization, verbal and
      nonverbal communication, and restricted and repetitive patterns of behavior. The number of
      high school students diagnosed with autism, for example, has been increasing over time with
      almost 194,000 students ages 6 through 21 nationwide identified as having autism and receive
      special education services under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA).
      These young people create a significant need for vocational rehabilitation intervention in
      the decade ahead. Currently many persons with ASD continue to be. Howlin, et al. (2004)
      described the outcomes for 68 young adults with ASD (mean age 29), and found that a third
      worked and almost half were unemployed. RSA notes that in 2005 fewer than 2000 individuals
      with ASD received VR services. In Virginia the figure is only 255 total clients enrolled from
      between 2000 and 2007.

      In this project the investigators will conduct a randomized clinical trial which examines the
      impact of intensive community-based work experiences on the employment outcomes of youth with
      ASD. This study will test the efficacy of a nationally recognized model of an employer based
      employment training and placement program (Project SEARCH) for youth with ASD. Four dependent
      measures will be investigated: (1) employment status upon completion of the program, at 90
      days post completion and 12 months post completion (primary), (2) wage upon completion, at 90
      days post completion, and 12 months post completion (secondary), (3) number of hours worked
      per week (secondary) upon completion, at 90 days post completion and 12 months post
      completion. Three specific hypotheses are proposed, and (4) intensity of supports needed at
      work at completion, at 90 days post completion and 12 months post completion.

      Hypothesis I: Individuals who participate in an employer based employment training and
      placement program will demonstrate a higher rate of employment than those in the control
      condition.

      Hypothesis II: Individuals who participate in an employer based employment training and
      placement program will earn higher wages on average at project completion compared to those
      in the control condition.

      Hypothesis III: Individuals who participate in an employer based employment training and
      placement program will work more hours per week on average than those in the control
      condition.

      Hypothesis IV: Individuals who participate in an employer based employment training and
      placement program will require less intensive work support than those in the control
      condition.
    
  