
    
      Recruitment, consent, and randomization will occur at first postoperative visit with a
      radiation oncologist. A 1:1 randomization will occur between WWE program and usual care
      (scripted discussion on benefit of exercise during radiotherapy). Prior to initiation of
      radiation, women in both arms will complete 68 questions from questionnaires on pain,
      depression, sleep, and social support. In addition, peripheral blood will be drawn for
      analysis of pre-radiation measures of inflammatory biomarkers. Women randomized to the WWE
      program will also receive a daily walking log that they will be asked to fill out and return
      on the last week of radiation (6 weeks for standard fractionation and 4.5 weeks for
      hypofractionation), and at 4-6 weeks post radiotherapy. Also, on their last week of
      radiotherapy and 4-6 weeks after radiotherapy all patients will repeat the questionnaires and
      a blood draw for measures of inflammatory biomarkers.

      Contact with study participants will be at 3 points in time after enrollment and
      randomization:

      Baseline: At this meeting, requirements of the study will be reviewed, and study materials
      provided (for control arm: a one page explanation discussing the potential benefits of
      exercise on fatigue, for experimental arm: WWE workbook, and printed walking log).
      Participants will complete questionnaires and undergo other assessments including a blood
      draw. For those on the experimental arm, they will be asked to begin the walking program
      within a week, noting their walking experience in their daily log.

      Last week of radiation: All participants will repeat questionnaires and other assessments
      during any day of their last week of radiation. A repeat blood draw will be taken. In
      addition those on the WWE arm will have their walking log reviewed. For those receiving
      hypofractionated radiotherapy, this will occur at week 4. For those receiving standard
      fractionation this will occur at week 6.

      4-6 weeks following end of radiation: All participants will repeat questionnaires and other
      assessments. A repeat blood draw will be taken. In addition those on the WWE arm will have
      their walking log reviewed.

      Patients randomized to the usual care arm will receive a document with information on
      exercise to improve fatigue during radiotherapy. The sheet will summarize the findings of the
      3 randomized studies on exercise intervention during radiotherapy.

      The primary activity required of study subjects is a 4-6-week self-directed (non-group) WWE
      walking program that participants do at a place and time that is convenient for them.
      Participants are asked to walk at a safe and comfortable pace, increasing their minutes per
      day at a rate they can sustain, with the ultimate goal of 30 minutes/day for at least 5
      days/week. They are asked to maintain a daily walking log that is provided to them, entering
      total minutes per day.
    
  