
    
      Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) involves amyloid deposition in the vessel walls in the
      cerebral cortex and overlying leptomeninges, causing symptomatic intracerebral lobar
      intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) in the elderly. CAA is considered as a form of cerebral small
      vessel disease, which refers to a group of vascular pathologies that affect the small vessels
      of the brain. In addition to lobar ICH, patients may present with other parenchymal injuries
      that can be detected on blood-sensitive MRI, such as multiple strictly lobar cerebral
      microbleeds, cortical superficial siderosis and leukoariosis. Recently, CAA has been
      suggested in association with MRI-visible enlarged perivascular space (EPVS) in
      centrum-semiovale (CSO), contrary to more severe MRI-visible EPVS in basal ganglia that is
      frequently found in chronic hypertension. The dilated perivascular space in CAA is suggestive
      of chronic poor perivascular drainage of the leptomeningeal arteries, predisposing
      individuals to impaired or altered meningeal lymphatic drainage and causing defect in amyloid
      clearance and subsequent CAA development. Nevertheless, it is unknown whether lymphatic
      drainage are the main routes for vascular amyloid clearance, and its relationship to the
      long-term outcome has not been clearly investigated in clinical patients yet.

      In this three-year proposal, we will explore the MRI-visible EPVS in CAA and investigate its
      pathophysiology using animal models. Our specific aims include: (1) Establish the
      relationship of MRI-visible enlarged perivascular space and CAA, (2) Determine whether
      vascular amyloid clearance in CAA is associated with lymphatic drainage system, (3) Establish
      longitudinal data for MRI-visible enlarged perivascular space and cerebral amyloid angiopathy
      progression. In the first year, we will recruit spontaneous ICH patients for brain MRI, in
      vivo amyloid imaging and measuring their plasma Aβ40/42 levels. We aim to confirm EPVS in CSO
      as a specific marker for CAA, and to provide direct evidence that dilated perivascular space
      is worse with more advanced CAA; For the second year, we plan to use transgenic CAA mouse
      models to confirm that meningeal lymphatic drainage routes are crucial for clearance of
      vascular amyloid-β. We will manipulate the lymphatic drainage routes by either blockage or
      enhancement of the lymphatic vessels, to see if the vascular amyloid clearance is affected;
      For the third year, the main research focus will on be establishing the longitudinal data on
      amyloid and tau deposition in clinical ICH patients. We plan to repeat in vivo amyloid
      imaging in 2 years, for the purpose of validating our hypothesis in human that baseline worse
      lymphatic drainage function is associated with quicker cerebral vascular amyloid progression
      or prediction of future CAA development. We will also recruit patients for in vivo tau
      imaging to investigate long-term neuronal injury and neurodegeneration, namely tau-mediated
      neurofibrillary tangle, in relation to the impaired perivascular drainage in CAA.
    
  