
    
      There is a critical need for continued research to better understand trauma-related
      nightmares with the goal of developing personalized treatment plans. Limitations of current
      assessment procedures present a significant barrier to improved care. In-laboratory sleep
      studies rarely capture nightmares and cannot assess change over time, reducing the knowledge
      of phenotypic markers of nightmares to guide treatment. Therefore, there is a need to assess
      sleep over multiple nights in the home environment, where nightmares occur. This study aims
      to significantly enrich knowledge about trauma-related nightmares by using a zero-burden,
      multi-night, objective sleep measurement method within Veterans' usual sleeping environment
      prior to and during an evidence-based cognitive-behavioral intervention for nightmares. This
      study has two primary aims: 1) to identify, with greater precision than previously possible,
      objective features of sleep associated with trauma-related nightmare occurrences; and 2) to
      use the treatment for nightmares as interventional probes to determine whether and how
      changes in sleep physiological parameters identified in Aim 1 covary with changes in
      subjective nightmare frequency and severity.

      The study will include 80 trauma-exposed Veterans reporting with trauma-related nightmares.
      Eligible participants will monitor their sleep for a week using a multi-night mattress
      actigraphy implemented in their home. Mattress actigraphy, which measures movements using
      accelerometers embedded in a mattress topper, employs no body surface sensors. Therefore,
      this system represents a truly zero-burden method for obtaining intensive longitudinal sleep
      measurement. During the week of sleep monitoring, participants also will complete one-night
      of polysomnography (PSG) sleep assessment to calibrate the actigraphic sleep efficiency and
      to identify untreated sleep apnea. These methods will be used to investigate candidate
      physiological parameters associated with trauma-related nightmares. After establishing the
      levels of these candidate markers, this project will assess the impact of a
      cognitive-behavioral treatment, Exposure, Relaxation, and Rescripting Therapy (ERRT), on the
      subset of markers which can be measured continuously over the course of the treatment.
      Participants will be randomized to five weeks of active treatment (ERRT; n = 40) or to five
      weeks of the comparison treatment (sleep and nightmare management; n = 40). Throughout the
      course of treatment, participants will continue to sleep while monitored by the mattress
      actigraphy system. Upon completion of treatment, a post-treatment and follow-up assessment
      will assess subjective symptom change. Results from this study will provide important
      information to facilitate increased understanding of the phenomenology, pathophysiology, and
      treatment of nightmares in trauma-exposed Veterans.
    
  