
    
      Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a universally fatal neurodegenerative condition that
      causes weakness leading to paralysis and death. Life expectancy is less that 5 years. The
      cause is generally unknown and there is no effective treatment. Patients with ALS typically
      exhibit a progressive paralysis due to the continued loss of motoneurons. Intraspinal
      injections of bone marrow mononuclear cells have been able to ameliorate the course of ALS in
      murine models. The purpose of this prospective, nonrandomized, open label, pilot study is to
      conduct the investigation of the safety and efficacy of infusion of autologous bone
      marrow-isolated stem/progenitor cells with different selected phenotypes into the subjects
      with diagnosed ALS. Especially, this clinical trial is designated to test the therapeutic
      (pro-regenerative and neuro-protective) functions of different stem/progenitor cell
      populations able to secrete bioactive neurotrophic factors. All patients enrolled will have a
      documented history of ALS disease prior to study enrollment. Patients diagnosed as early
      stage of ALS with the duration of disease less than 6 months and patients diagnosed with
      advanced stage of ALS disease with duration of 6-12 months will be recruited and allocated
      based on their disease severity to two treatment groups: Group I - patients of early ALS
      disease stage and Group II - patients of advanced ALS disease. Next, autologous bone
      marrow-isolated stem/progenitor cells administration to the cerebrospinal fluid at the site
      of the spinal cord will be performed. Finally, treatment safety, adverse events and
      exploratory parameters, including electromyographic (EMG) studies, forced vital capacity
      (FVC), functional rating scale (FRS) and maximum voluntary isometric contraction-arm
      (MVIC-arm) evaluation, to establish ALS progression rate will be recorded throughout the
      duration of the post-treatment follow up period.
    
  