
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common type of cardiac arrhythmia and is associated with
      significant mortality and morbidity from stroke, thromboembolism, and related cardiovascular
      conditions. While the risk of stroke for AF patients as a whole tends to be greater than the
      general population; within the AF patient population, the risk of stroke is modified by the
      presence or absence of additional risk factors such as age, comorbid conditions, and prior
      stroke history.

      There is a wealth of evidence for the effectiveness of anticoagulation therapy to prevent
      stroke and thromboembolism, but while anticoagulants have been demonstrated to be highly
      effective at preventing stroke and embolic events among AF patients, they are also known to
      increase the risk of major bleeding events. Anticoagulation with warfarin and other VKA drugs
      can be complex to manage. These drugs have narrow therapeutic windows and require close
      monitoring to stay within the target international normalized ratio (INR). They also have
      many known food and drug interactions.

      In the last few years, several novel oral anticoagulants (NOAC) such as dabigatran,
      rivaroxaban, and apixaban have entered the market. While each of the NOACs demonstrated
      non-inferiority to warfarin in a large randomized clinical trial prior to FDA approval,
      experience with NOACs is limited in practice.

      Our intervention will combine the ability of health information technology to filter large
      volumes of data with human capacity to understand subtleties and barriers for complex
      clinical decision making. Our intervention will facilitate a connection between patients,
      treating clinicians, and an established Anticoagulant Management Service (AMS) for
      coordinated care. We will use information from the EHR to direct additional efforts and
      resources toward reaching potentially unrecognized or undertreated atrial fibrillation
      patients with the greatest need for preventive anticoagulation therapy and lowest risk of
      adverse effects. This electronic safety net will assist with efficient allocation of scarce
      resources beyond usual care. The proposed clinical decision support/care-coordination process
      will be designed to address many of these identified barriers to appropriate anticoagulation
      therapy among AF patients. Here we define "appropriate" anticoagulation as a guideline
      informed shared decision between individual patients and their care team.

      This intervention utilizes a stepped wedge design involving 14 primary care clinics
      affiliated with the Brigham and Women's Hospital. The timing of clinic entry to the
      intervention arm will be randomized.
    
  