
    
      During pregnancy, bacterial vaginosis (BV), abnormal vaginal flora (AVF) and vulvovaginal
      candidiasis (VVC) are associated with serious complications and discomfort. Yet, treatment
      options are limited. Lactobacilli administration was suggested to treat and prevent vaginal
      infections. However, this has not been examined in pregnant women, the information regarding
      oral treatment is scarce, and the mechanisms in which oral ingestion of probiotics induce
      vaginal lactobacilli proliferation are not well established.

      Working hypothesis: Oral probiotics will be effective in prevention of vaginal infections by
      migration of lactobacilli from the digestive system to the vagina in pregnant women.

      Type of research and methods of data collection: randomized placebo-controlled trial.

      Pregnant patients with symptoms consisted with vaginal infection will be examined and vaginal
      smear will be obtained, according to which the patients will be allocated to the following
      groups:

      Primary prevention - women with normal vaginal flora Secondary prevention - women positive
      for AVF/BV and/or VVC- those women will be treated with antibiotic and/or antimycotic
      treatment. Following treatment, another smear will be taken to confirm infection eradication.
      If infection is still present, additional antibiotic and/or antimycotic treatment will be
      administered after which additional smear will be taken. Women with normal vaginal flora
      (after one of two treatments) will be recruited for the secondary prevention group.

      In each group the patients will be divided into two subgroups, which will receive one capsule
      twice a day of either the Probiotic Femina ׀׀ capsules or placebo.

      At the initial examination and once a month all the study groups will be tested for the
      presence of AVF/BV and candida. Additional vaginal samples will be taken to evaluate the
      presence of lactobacilli from the capsule and semi-quantitative assessment of vaginal
      lactobacilli.
    
  