
    
      Each participant in the cohort will be inoculated on Day 0 with ~2,800 viable Plasmodium
      falciparum-infected human erythrocytes (BSPC) administered intravenously. On an outpatient
      basis, participants will be monitored daily via phone call and then will attend the clinic
      daily (AM) from day 4 (until PCR positive for presence of malaria parasites). Once PCR
      positive they will be monitored twice-daily, morning (AM) and evening (PM) until treatment,
      for adverse events and the unexpected early onset of symptoms, signs or parasitological
      evidence of malaria. Microscopic examination for evidence of parasitaemia may be conducted at
      the discretion of the Investigator. On the day designated for commencement of treatment, as
      determined by qPCR results, participants will be admitted to the study unit and monitored.
      The threshold for commencement of treatment will be when PCR quantification of all
      participants is ≥ 5,000 parasites/mL. If the PCR quantification of any participant is ≥ 5,000
      parasites/mL, and is accompanied by a clinical symptom score >6, before all participants have
      reached the treatment threshold (PCR quantification of ≥ 5,000), then treatment of that
      participant will begin within a 24 h period.

      Following treatment with SJ733, participants will be followed up as inpatients for at least
      72 hours to ensure tolerance of the treatment and clinical response, then on an outpatient
      basis if clinically well, for monitoring of safety and clearance of malaria parasites via
      PCR. The plasma concentration-time profiles of SJ733 will be assessed from blood samples
      collected pre-dose and then following administration of the treatment drug. Wherever
      possible, PK sampling will coincide with post-dose blood collection for PCR monitoring of
      parasitaemia.

      Participants may also be evaluated for the presence of gametocytes in the blood, as
      determined by qPCR (amplification of pfs25 gametocyte-specific transcript). Transmission
      blocking activity of SJ733 in P. falciparum IBSM infection may be assessed if there are >500
      parasites/ml (determined by 18S qPCR) verified as gametocytes by PCR for pfs25 and/or ring
      stage marker as appropriate. Transmission studies may be undertaken by direct skin feeding
      and/or indirect membrane feeding of mosquitoes. For indirect Membrane Feeding Assays (MFA),
      blood will be collected from each participant for membrane feeds using Anopheles vector
      mosquitoes. For direct skin feeding assays (DFA), participants will be escorted to the PC3
      quarantine insectary facility at QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute and asked to allow
      Anopheles vector mosquitoes to feed on the volar surface of their forearms, calves or thighs
      for a period of 15±5 minutes. Microscopic examination for confirmation of gametocytaemia may
      be conducted at the discretion of the Investigator.

      If gametocytaemia is detected, in Cohort 2 only, a second same strength dose of SJ733 may be
      administered on Day 23, to assess if SJ733 can reduce gametocytes and subsequent infectivity
      to mosquitoes. To receive the second SJ733 dose, participants will have >500 parasites/ml
      (determined by 18S qPCR) verified as gametocytes by PCR for pfs25 and/or ring stage marker as
      appropriate. Membrane feeding and direct skin feeding may occur before and/or after this
      second SJ733 dose. Participants receiving the second SJ733 dose will visit the study unit on
      the morning of Day 23 for dosing and will be allowed to leave after ~10 hours. Participants
      will have blood samples taken during this visit at time-points indicated in the protocol.

      Compulsory commencement of treatment with Riamet® (artemether-lumefantrine) will occur 16
      days (±3 days) post initial SJ733 treatment unless required earlier (Cohort 1 and Cohort 2 if
      not given second SJ733 dose). If a second dose of SJ733 is given in Cohort 2, Riamet®
      treatment will occur 11 days (± 3 days) post the second SJ733 treatment unless required
      earlier. Early intervention can occur if either poor responses or fast responses are seen
      following SJ733 treatment. This is to ensure participant safety and to avoid participant
      inconvenience if useful data cannot be obtained. A poor response is defined as a decrease in
      parasitaemia of less than 20% from baseline by 3 days post SJ733 treatment. A fast response
      occurs when, within the seven day period, two consecutive PCR assessments in 48 hours are
      negative. However, pre-emptive treatment with Riamet® can commence whenever deemed necessary
      by the Investigator. Participants can be administered the curative Riamet® on site for
      initial dosing followed by monitoring, either in clinic, or by telephone for three days to
      ensure adherence to Riamet® therapy.

      Participants will be treated with a single dose (45 mg) of primaquine (Primacin™) as
      described in Section 4.3 in this protocol at the time of their Riamet® treatment if
      gametocytes are identified, to ensure complete clearance of any gametocytes present.

      Adverse events will be monitored via telephone monitoring, during confinement within the
      clinical research unit, and on outpatient review following malaria challenge inoculation and
      administration of the antimalarial treatment. Blood samples for safety evaluation, including
      for LFT assessment, malaria monitoring, pharmacokinetic determination of drug levels in
      plasma and/or blood, and red blood cell antibodies will be drawn at screening and/or baseline
      and at nominated times after malaria challenge.

      This study includes evaluation of optional, exploratory markers, which require separate
      informed consent for participants agreeing to participate in any of these.
    
  