
    
      Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD) is prevalent, devastating, and difficult to treat. The majority of
      therapeutic approaches to date have relied on pharmaceutical modulation or and/or
      psychotherapy. With a growing knowledge of the neural circuits that contribute to relapse in
      AUD, there is an emerging interest in developing a novel, neural-circuit specific therapeutic
      tool to enhance AUD treatment outcomes. The long term goal of this multidisciplinary research
      team is to develop an evidence-based brain stimulation treatment protocol which will improve
      AUD treatment outcomes. The competing neurobehavioral decision systems (CNDS) theory posits
      that in addiction, choice results from a regulatory imbalance between two decision-making
      systems (impulsive and executive). These behavioral systems are functionally linked to two
      discrete frontal-striatal circuits which regulate limbic and executive control. Modulating
      these competing neural circuits (e.g. either dampening the limbic/impulsive system or
      amplifying the executive control system) may render alcohol users less vulnerable to relapse.
      These two frontal-striatal neural circuits - the limbic loop (ventromedial prefrontal cortex
      (VMPFC)-ventral striatum), and executive control loop (dorsolateral PFC (DLPFC)-dorsal
      striatum) can be differentially stimulated by theta burst stimulation (TBS), a patterned form
      of transcranial magnetic stimulation. Continuous TBS (cTBS) results in long term depression
      (LTD) of cortical excitability and intermittent TBS (iTBS) results in long term potentiation
      (LTP).

      Over the past 7 years, through the scaffolding of a National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and
      Alcoholism (NIAAA) P50 Center and a strong Brain Stimulation Research program, this
      multidisciplinary group of clinicians and neuroscientists has demonstrated) it is possible to
      differentially activate these circuits through TMS/Blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD)
      imaging LTD-like TMS (cTBS) to the VMPFC decreases orbitofrontal cortex and ventral
      striatal/accumbens BOLD signal in heavy alcohol users cTBS also decreases alcohol cue
      reactivity in this population and in AUD patients currently enrolled in intensive outpatient
      treatment, 10 days of cTBS to the VMPFC is feasible, well-tolerated, increases 1 and 2 month
      retention rates, and attenuates limbic brain reactivity to alcohol cues after 1 month. While
      these studies provide a strong foundation for pursuing a larger multisite trial of cTBS, the
      CNDS theory and other alcohol TMS studies suggests that the DLPLC may also be a fruitful
      treatment target. In a sham-controlled pilot study the study team recently compared the
      efficacy of VMPFC cTBS to DLPFC iTBS, and, to the study team's surprise demonstrated that a
      single session of DLPFC iTBS had a greater effect on the brain response to alcohol cues than
      VMPFC cTBS. To resolve this gap in understanding, the investigator proposes a randomized,
      double-blind, sham-controlled clinical trial to evaluate the relative efficacy of these 2
      strategies as novel tools to improve AUD treatment outcomes (e.g. percent days abstinent up
      to 4 months after TMS treatment initiation). These outcomes will be measured with urine ethyl
      glucuronide (ETG) and blood carbohydrate deficient transferrin (CDT) measurements. The study
      team will also evaluate the effect of these TBS treatments brain reactivity to alcohol cues.
      The investigator's long-term vision is that TBS would be used as an adjuvant to behavioral
      treatment, enabling individuals to maximize the likelihood of behavioral change.

      180 treatment-seeking men and women recruited from the community at large, will be randomized
      to receive 15 visits of TMS (2x/day; 3x/week, 20-30 min intersession interval) of either real
      or sham TBS to the VMPFC or left DLPFC while they are enrolled in the proposed study.
      Randomization will occur after the participant has been consented and screened for
      eligibility and prior to the first treatment visit. Real/Sham TBS will be delivered three
      times per week for a total of 15 TMS visits. Quantitative ETG will be collected daily.
      Quantitative CDT will be collected monthly throughout the course of the study. Additional
      assessments and/or brain reactivity to alcohol cues will be measured at the following
      timepoints: baseline screening visit, MRI visit #1 (before TMS treatment visit 1), TMS
      treatment visits 1, 6, 11, and 15, MRI visit #2, and at the 3 monthly Follow Up visits. A
      saliva sample taken for genetic analysis of a specific Brain-derived neurotrophic factor
      (BDNF) variant will be obtained on enrollment and used to also analyze across these measures
      and individual outcomes in response to TMS. Building on recent pilot data, the study team
      will test the hypotheses that for both Strategy 1 & 2, real TBS will improve AUD treatment
      outcomes significantly more than sham. Analysis will be performed using repeated measures
      analysis of variance (ANOVA) on change scores from baseline for each visit. The main
      independent variable in the ANOVA will be time (TMS visits 1, 6, 11, and 15), group (VMPFC
      vs. DLPFC TBS vs. sham) and their interaction.

      Aim 1 (Strategy 1): Modulating the limbic system: VMPFC cTBS. The study team will evaluate
      the effect of VMPFC cTBS, relative to sham, on number of days abstinent (primary outcome) and
      heavy drinking days in 30 day intervals for 4 months. Participants will receive stimulation
      over the left frontal pole electroencephalogram (EEG)10-20 system: Frontal Pole 1 (FP1). This
      location has been used in previous studies in alcohol users which demonstrate VMPFC target
      engagement.

      Aim 2 (Strategy 2): Modulating the executive system: DLPFC iTBS. The study team will evaluate
      the effect of DLPFC iTBS, relative to sham, on the parameters listed. iTBS will be delivered
      over the left DLPFC EEG 10-20 system: Frontal 3 (F3) as this location has also been validated
      to reliable result in target engagement by this group.

      Exploratory Aim- Baseline alcohol cue reactivity as a mediator of TBS clinical response. The
      study team will test the hypotheses that individuals with a higher ratio of
      (DLPFC-striatal)/(VMPFC-striatal) response to alcohol cues will be more likely to have a
      change in drinking after Strategy 2.
    
  