
    
      Periodontal disease is an infection that causes inflammation of the tooth supporting
      structures, which results in the destruction of the periodontal ligament and alveolar bone,
      and eventually, tooth loss. The aetiology of the disease is oral biofilm. Therefore, the
      regular mechanical removal of biofilm, among others, is necessary to prevent and stop the
      disease progression. Biofilm and biofilm retentive calculus are removed via periodontal
      debridement. Subgingival debridement is an important procedure that is initially performed in
      the non-surgical periodontal therapy phase. According to the first European Workshop on
      Periodontology, subgingival debridement involves gently instrumenting subgingivally to
      disrupt and/or remove the biofilm. Various techniques are involved in subgingival
      debridement, with hand instruments and ultrasonic or sonic instruments being the most common,
      while modalities like air polishing are gaining momentum.

      Mechanical periodontal debridement using hand instruments like curettes, sickles, hoes or
      files, and power driven instruments such as sonic or ultrasonic scalers, is generally known
      as root surface debridement (RSD). This modality is considered to be the gold standard of
      periodontal therapy. The usage of hand instruments has been advocated for their efficiency
      and the fact that it allows tactile sensation and operator control. However, various
      drawbacks from these instruments have been noted. Hand instruments and scalers are both
      technique sensitive, time consuming, and may cause irreversible hard tissue damage when used
      regularly. Besides, anatomical variations such as grooves, concavities and enamel pearls as
      well as deep pockets and furcation involvement, can influence debridement quality. Since
      periodontal therapy is performed regularly, being time efficient, acceptable to patient, and
      causing minimal tissue damage are important determinants. As such, treatment that causes
      minimal abrasion to root surface while being highly effective in biofilm removal would be a
      preferable choice.

      One such treatment is air polishing. Air polishing was introduced in 1945 for the purpose of
      cavity preparation. Over time, its use expanded to periodontal debridement. Stain and biofilm
      are removed by the abrasive "slurry" which is formed by mixing together pressurised air, a
      jet of water and a stream of small particles. Sodium bicarbonate was the only abrasive powder
      available from the late 1970s until 2004. It is non-toxic and water soluble, with a mean size
      of up to 250μm. It has been shown to be safe and efficient to be

      used on intact enamel surfaces. However, due to its abrasiveness, it could not be used on
      demineralised enamel surfaces. A study showed that regardless of parameters such as working
      time, powder and water setting, working distance, and angulation of the handpiece,
      substantial damage to the root occurs from sodium bicarbonate, concluding that it is
      contraindicated for use in exposed root surfaces. In order to overcome this problem, glycine
      based powders were then produced. In the in vitro study showed that glycine powder proved to
      have low abrasiveness towards cementum and dentine, while being efficient at plaque removal.
      The powder had a mean particle size of 45μm - 60μm, and was 80% less abrasive compared to
      sodium bicarbonate. More recently, erythritol powders have been used in air polishing.
      Erythritol is a sugar alcohol that is non-toxic, chemically neutral, and water soluble, and
      has been widely used as an artificial sweetener and food additive. Due to comparable physical
      properties to glycine and chemical characteristics allowing binding of antiseptic substances,
      it has been suggested for subgingival biofilm removal. Moreover, a recent study has shown
      erythritol to have an inhibitory effect on some periodontal bacteria, including P.
      gingivalis.

      Advancements in air polishing devices have also occurred, mainly involving a disposable
      nozzle design to access the periodontal pocket directly, thus allowing the abrasive slurry to
      be delivered into moderate-to-deep periodontal pockets. The nozzle has a thickness of 0.7mm,
      which is within the diameter range of most periodontal probes, thereby allowing it to be
      inserted to the base of the pocket with minimal force. Besides, the new design resulted in a
      drop of pressure of the jet spray by 1 bar, thus reducing the risk of emphysema and allowing
      the nozzle to be used subgingivally.

      The usage of air polishing in supportive periodontal therapy (SPT) has been extensively
      studied. However, minimal studies on the adjunctive use of air polishing in the management of
      active periodontitis have been conducted. One such study studied demonstrated that the effect
      of adjunctive subgingival glycerine powder air polishing (GPAP) in chronic periodontitis. It
      was a single blinded, 6 month study using the split mouth design with one of the outcomes
      being the reduction in the volume of gingival crevicular fluid (GCF). RSD followed by
      flushing of pockets with water was carried out in the control group, while RSD was followed
      by GPAP in the test group. Both groups showed significant reduction in periodontal
      parameters, and no significant differences between the two groups were seen. The test group
      showed significant reduction in GCF volume compared to control at 3 months, although at 6
      months, no difference between the two groups was noted. Since GCF volume is an objective
      measure of subclinical inflammation, this study suggested that GPAP as an adjunct to RSD may
      improve periodontal inflammation in the short term.

      Another study by Park et al. aimed to identify the clinical and microbiological effects of
      adjunctive subgingival erythritol powder air polishing (EPAP) in initial therapy. It was a 3
      month study using a split mouth design in which treatment for the test group involved RSD and
      subgingival EPAP, whereas only RSD was done in the control group. Both groups showed
      significant changes in clinical parameters, and no difference was seen between the groups.
      Total bacterial count between baseline and 1 month after treatment decreased in both groups,
      but the decrease was significant in the test group. Between 1 month and 3 months after
      treatment, total bacterial count increased in both groups, but the increase was more
      significant in the control group. It appears that supplementing RSD with EPAP may have an
      effect on the total bacterial count. EPAP was also noted to have an anti-microbial effect,
      since the P. gingivalis count after 1 month treatment was significantly lower in the test
      group. This study concluded that both modes of treatment were clinically and
      microbiologically effective for initial therapy.

      However, both studies were conducted using a split mouth design. Such a design has a risk of
      crossover effects, thus limiting intra-individual comparisons as local therapy can have
      systemic effects that are able to influence outcomes in different sites in the same
      individual. Therefore, there is a need to conduct a study using the parallel mouth design to
      identify the effects of adjunctive use of air polishing in periodontitis patient.
      Nevertheless, with new and more expensive technology, the question of cost effectiveness is
      not uncommon. Resources in health care such as time, money, and materials are often limited.
      This necessitates health economic evaluations to be carried out. One such evaluation is a
      cost effectiveness analysis that identifies the relationship between incremental resource
      consumption and outcome gain for various interventions. No such study has been conducted with
      regards to the cost effectiveness of air polishing. Therefore, the aim of this study is to
      investigate the adjunctive use of EPAP in NSPT and determine its cost effectiveness in the
      management of periodontitis.
    
  