
    
      This is a phase IIb, multicenter, double-blinded randomized trial that will determine the
      effects of two GA treatment paradigms to prevent re-occurrence of disease activity and
      immunological rebound after withdrawal from natalizumab therapy. Importantly, the results of
      this trial may apply to other immunoactive agents.

      A total of 200 patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS) will be recruited at
      20 study sites in the United States and Europe.

      Natalizumab at a dose of 300 mg intravenous (i.v.) infusion each month will be given as
      standard of care for at least 9 months prior to patient being enrolled in the study. One day
      after the last infusion of natalizumab the patient will start conversion paradigms to
      Glatiramer Acetate (GA). GA will be administered daily at a subcutaneous (s.c.) dose of 20
      mg. On day 1, 2 months after the patient has been on GA therapy, patient will be randomized
      to be treated with methylprednisolone or methylprednisolone placebo at an oral dose of 192
      mg/day po for 5 consecutive days per month for the duration of the study.

      Both Natalizumab and Glatiramer Acetate (GA) have been approved by the FDA to treat relapsing
      remitting multiple sclerosis.

      Natalizumab will not be given as a study medication. Part of the inclusion criteria is that
      patients are already receiving Natalizumab as standard of care.

      Natalizumab until randomization will be provided by the patients' medical insurance.
      Glatiramer acetate (GA) from randomization till the end of the study (for 12 months) will be
      provided by the patients' medical insurance. Teva Pharmaceuticals is the manufacturer of
      methylprednisolone and methylprednisolone placebo 24-mg tablets, which will look identical.

      Treatment Arms

      During a 1 month screening period (month -1), inclusion and exclusion criteria will be
      verified, and subjects will be enrolled in the GA only portion following registration with
      the web-based data entry system and at month 3, they will be randomly assigned to treatment
      that will be stratified according to study site in varying block sizes One day after the last
      natalizumab infusion (month 0), 200 Patients on natalizumab therapy will be started on GA. On
      day 1 of month 3, subjects will be randomized 1:1 to receive either:

        1. Methylprednisolone placebo ("GA & PL") or

        2. Methylprednisolone ("GA & MP") in addition to GA therapy. Randomization to the two
           treatment arms will occur via a random number generator by a centralized data entry
           system that checks eligibility prior to initiating randomization to prevent
           inappropriate inclusions.

      Study Endpoints:

        1. The primary endpoint will be the annualized relapse rate.

        2. A key secondary endpoint is the percentage of relapse-free patients at 12 months.

        3. Other secondary outcomes are the rate of early relapse rebound (assessed in all 200
           patients prior to randomization), number of new GD+ lesions on MRI over the 12 months
           treatment period, defined as the period following the first infusion (month 0) to 6
           months and 12 months after randomization, annualized relapse rate, and progression of
           neurological as assessed by changes in EDSS.

        4. Other MRI outcomes will include the cumulative combined unique activity (CUA) (new or
           enlarging T2 lesions or enhancing lesions).

        5. Another secondary endpoint is the percentage of patients who appear to be free of
           disease activity as measured by clinical relapses, disability progression measured by
           the Expanded Disability Status Scale EDSS), and the cumulative combined unique activity
           (CUA) (new or enlarging T2 lesions or enhancing lesions) on MRI at 12 months.
    
  