
    
      Primary research question:

      1)Do hypertensive participants who learn about hypertension medication with PALS
      (intervention) have higher immediate and 1 week knowledge assessment scores than participants
      randomized to learn the same information via WebMD (control)? The investigators hypothesize
      that participants in the PALS group will have higher immediate and one week assessment
      scores.

      Secondary research questions:

        1. Do participants in the PALS group feel more informed to make hypothetical decisions
           about taking medications compared to participants in the WebMD group?

           The investigators hypothesize that participants in the PALS group will be more likely to
           indicate that they have sufficient information to make hypothetical decisions about
           taking medications than participants in the WebMD group.

        2. Do participants in the PALS group rate it higher on user experience measures such as
           trust, usefulness, comprehensibility, and adequacy of the information, attractiveness of
           the site, and level of engagement, than those in the WebMD group? The investigators
           hypothesize ratings on these measures will be higher in the PALS group compared to the
           WebMD group.

        3. Which questions about antihypertensives do participants consider most important and are
           the 5 most highly rated questions more likely to be addressed on PALS vs. WebMD? The
           investigators hypothesize that PALS will address more questions that participants rate
           as important compared to WebMD.

      Participants with hypertension, who have been prescribed any antihypertensive medicine except
      chlorthalidone will be recruited from the Weill Cornell Internal Medicine Associates (WCIMA)
      practice. Potentially eligible participants who have an upcoming appointment at WCIMA will be
      identified via a review of the electronic medical record. In cases where the participant's
      eligibility is unclear, Research Assistants (RA's) will contact the participant's Primary
      Medical Doctor (PMD) to confirm eligibility. Potentially eligible participants will be
      contacted via the telephone to assess their interest in participating and to schedule a study
      visit for those interested. Verbal consent will be obtained either on the phone or at the
      study visit. Potentially eligible participants may also be recruited from the waiting room at
      WCIMA if the RA's were unable to contact them by phone prior to their WCIMA visit.

      Eligible participants who agree to participate will be randomized to view information about
      the antihypertensive, chlorthalidone, via the PALS or WebMD. The study procedures will be
      identical for both the PALS and WebMD groups.

      Chlorthalidone was chosen because, despite its efficacy, it is not prescribed as often as
      other antihypertensives. This will allow the investigators to select a sample of participants
      who are less likely to have baseline knowledge of the information we are testing.

      To assess knowledge acquisition and recall, participants will be shown up to 10 pre-specified
      webpages within their site of randomization that contain information that answers up to 10
      discrete questions about chlorthalidone. Participants will answer up to 10 corresponding
      assessment questions immediately after viewing the information. The knowledge score will be
      the percentage of correct responses. The RA's will evaluate knowledge retention by asking the
      same assessment questions over the phone one week later. User experience, trust, and
      participant decision-making will be assessed through a survey and through a short semi
      structured interview. The investigators will also collect information on health literacy via
      the REALM-SF health literacy questionnaire as well as demographic information including age,
      level of education, race/ethnicity, prior Internet use, and access to the Internet.

      To assess question prioritization/availability on PALS/WebMD, the investigators will show
      participants a list of up to 40 questions and ask them to chose those most important to them.
      The investigators will search for the answers to the highest prioritized questions to
      determine availability on PALS/WebMD.

      Surveys and knowledge scores will be administered via Qualtrics. Participants will be
      compensated with a $25 ClinCard after completing the study visit.
    
  