
    
      The study is a prospective, multi-center study. One (1) reference laboratory and
      approximately six (6) geographically diverse POC (Point of Care) locations (e.g. physician
      office laboratories, urgent cares, emergency departments, outpatient clinics, drive through
      testing sites or research centers) in the U.S. will participate in the study. Testing in the
      reference laboratory will be performed by trained laboratory personnel. Testing at the POC
      sites will be performed by non-laboratory health professionals who are representative of
      typical intended use operators (e.g. nurses, physician assistants, medical assistants, etc.).
      Each site will have a minimum of one (1) untrained intended use operator who will perform
      testing under this protocol.

      A subject's participation in this study will consist of a single visit. Following completion
      of the informed consent process and a review of Inclusion/Exclusion criteria to determine
      eligibility, each subject will receive a unique study identification number.

      Subjects will have nasopharyngeal or nasal or throat swabs collected. Capillary blood may be
      collected alongside nasal swabs. Saliva samples may also be collected. Specimens will be
      obtained from each subject enrolled using standard collection methods.

      The LumiraDx SARS-CoV-2 Ag Test will be performed at POC sites by intended use operators
      (e.g. nurses, physician assistants, medical assistants, etc.). Each site will have a minimum
      of one (1) untrained intended use operator who will perform testing under this protocol.

      The LumiraDx SARS-CoV-2 Ag Test will be performed at the site on the same day as the date of
      collection using one swab for each subject enrolled. A central laboratory will perform
      reference testing.

      Positive Percent Agreement (PPA) and Negative Percent Agreement (NPA) will be estimated for
      the LumiraDx SARS-CoV-2 Ag Test results as compared with the reference Test.

      A minimum of thirty (30) positive SARS-CoV-2 are required, but it is likely because of the
      prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 in the population, that a greater number of negatives will be
      obtained during the prospective collection of positive samples; therefore, approximately
      four-hundred (400) subjects will be enrolled. A minimum of thirty (30) negative samples are
      required.
    
  