
    
      Autoinflammatory multisystem diseases are a group of diseases that are characterized by
      recurrent episodes of systemic inflammation as well as organ specific inflammation that can
      involve the skin, eyes, joints, bones, serosal surfaces, inner ear, and brain. The prominent
      role of IL-1 in the pathogenesis of these disorders has first become evident through the
      discovery of mutations in CIAS1 causing the cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes (CAPS)
      including the most severe presentation Neonatal Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease
      (NOMID). Over the years we identified additional autoinflammatory diseases including DIRA
      (Deficiency of IL-1 Receptor Antagonist), a disease that is caused by mutations in IL1RN.
      Therapy with anakinra, the IL-1 receptor antagonist, can be life-saving. We also study
      additional rare diseases not IL-1 mediated including CANDLE (chronic atypical neutrophilic
      dermatosis with lipodystrophy and elevated temperatures) caused by mutations in proteasome
      components, and recently SAVI (STING associated vasculopathy with onset in infancy) caused by
      mutations in TMEM173, and juvenile dematomyositis (JDM) which shares some phenotypic features
      as well as an interferon (IFN) signature with SAVI and CANDLE. Many additional
      autoinflammatory phenotypes have no genetic causes, including autoinflammatory disorders that
      are not even clinically defined. Clinical conditions including the spectrum CRMO (Chronic
      Recurrent Multifocal Osteomyelitis), Still s disease, and Beh(SqrRoot)(Beta)et s disease (BD)
      with possible involvement of IL-1 dysregulation are also of interest.. In this research
      protocol we seek to comprehensively evaluate affected patients clinically, genetically,
      immunologically, and endocrinologically. In addition we intend to evaluate longterm outcomes
      and biomarkers over the time of observations. Eligibility for ongoing and planned treatment
      protocols will be determined by screening patients in this protocol. We plan to evaluate
      patients on a consultative basis for other autoinflammatory diseases for possible enrollment
      into this study.
    
  