
    
      We aim to recruit adult patients diagnosed with stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA)
      who were prescribed secondary preventative medication and are living in the community. They
      will be provided with a patient information sheet (PIS) with details on the study and will be
      contacted later to ask if they wish to take part. If so, an arrangement will be made for them
      to attend a clinic review where they will sign the consent form. Immediately then
      participants who consent will be randomized into control (will receive education and
      motivation interviews but not text messages to remind them) or intervention (will receive
      education and motivation interviews and will be sent a daily text message to remind them of
      taking their medication). Baseline assessment will include medical history and medications
      prescribed. They will be given detailed information on their specific prescribed medication
      and will be handed booklets with relevant information. They will be asked to answer a
      medication adherence questionnaire and will be given a medication diary to fill in at home.
      All participants will receive ambulatory blood pressure monitoring.

      Cholesterol measurement will be made using a finger prick monitor. Participants in the
      intervention group will be informed that they will receive a daily text message in the
      morning to remind them about their medications.

      Follow-up visits will take place after 1 and 3 months in which the same checks will be
      carried out as at the baseline visit. At 1 month, the cholesterol level and ambulatory blood
      pressure level will be repeated. Participants will be encouraged to ask if they have any
      concerns regarding their medications. At the end of the second visit, participants will be
      asked if they are satisfied with the care they received during the visits as a quality
      assessment.
    
  