
    
      The study will use a parallel randomized design with two arms; participants will either be
      randomized to a non-nutritive sweetener (NNS) beverage condition (active) or a water
      condition (control). A total of 432 overweight and obese participants (Body Mass Index; BMI
      range: 27-35 kg/m2) will be enrolled in the study. A 3-month weight loss diet phase will
      initially be completed, with participants receiving nutritional advice at weekly group
      sessions whilst additionally incorporating the active or control products into their diet
      (weeks 0-12). This programme is based on a model successfully used in an American sample
      (Peters et al., 2014) which will be adapted for a UK sample. This will be followed by a
      9-month weight maintenance phase (weeks 13-49) in which participants will be advised to
      follow a general healthy diet in accordance with dietary guidelines (continuing to
      incorporate the active or control beverages) but will only attend monthly group sessions.
      This will be followed by a one year post assisted weight maintenance period in which
      participants will continue to consume the active or control beverages every day and will be
      asked to complete questionnaire measures, cognitive tasks, biomarkers of health (blood
      samples, if willing) and body composition data (weight, sagittal diameter and hip and waist
      circumference measures; DXA (for Subset 2)) at the end of this period. A subset of
      participants (Subset 1) will additionally undergo appetite probe days (n = 116), attending
      the Study Centre at 15 points throughout the trial (3 sessions at baseline, 3 sessions at the
      start of the weight loss programme, 3 sessions at the end of the weight loss programme, 3
      sessions at the end of assisted weight maintenance and 3 sessions at the end of the one year
      post assisted weight maintenance period). A separate subset (Subset 2) will complete
      biological assessment measures (n =50) involving body composition (DXA) scans at 4 points
      throughout the trial (at baseline, end of weight loss, end of assisted weight maintenance,
      and at a year post assisted weight maintenance visit) and all participants will be asked to
      provide blood samples at these four points but will not be excluded from the trial should
      they not wish to.

      Both groups will be asked to ensure that they consume at least two servings (330 ml) of their
      elected beverages dependent on condition (NNS vs. water). All beverages will be picked by
      participants (from a permitted range) and then delivered to them in bi-weekly batches using
      an online delivery-style system. Primary study visits for body weight, waist circumference,
      hip circumference, sagittal diameter, and blood pressure assessments will be carried out at
      various stages throughout the trial. Initial assessments will be at baseline (week -2),
      monthly over the weight loss period (weeks 4, 8 and 12), monthly over the assisted weight
      maintenance period (weeks 16, 20, 24, 28, 32, 36, 40, 44 and 48) and at a 1 year post
      assisted weight maintenance visit with Subset 2 additionally providing body composition (DXA)
      scans at baseline, at the end of the weight loss period, at the end of the assisted weight
      maintenance period and at a 1 year post assisted weight maintenance visit. During the weight
      loss phase, participants will meet in groups (10-12 participants) with a dietician-trained
      researcher every week (12 visits) followed by monthly meetings during the assisted weight
      maintenance phase (9 visits). Participants will additionally be asked to complete a series of
      questionnaires throughout the intervention period and complete a series of diet diaries
      (3-day diet diaries and food frequency questionnaires; FFQs) to assess compliance throughout
      the trial. Furthermore, empty product packaging (labels or bottles) will be collected as an
      additional compliance measure. The probe days to be completed by Subset 1 will involve
      participants attending the Study Centre at various times over an 8-hour day period for 3
      meals (breakfast, lunch and dinner) and 1 drink (NNS, sugar sweetened beverage (SSB) or
      water) for a total of 15 sessions. Adverse events and concomitant medicine will be registered
      continuously throughout the study in relevant forms. For each participant, the total study
      duration is 100 weeks (not including recruitment and screening) and includes a total of 39
      visits (with additional visits for Subsets 1 and 2).

      12-week weight loss programme. The 12-week Weight Loss Programme (WLP) will be based on the
      current successful UK-based dietician-designed nutritional knowledge and group work programme
      used within the Kissileff Laboratory, the content of which will be enhanced by a social
      cognition based programme currently used in Colorado. This employs a group based approach
      (10-12 participants) with frequent meetings (one per week) for a one hour session with a
      dietician trained researcher who will supervise the sessions and who will provide materials
      and 'home work' for the participants to complete before their next session. This programme
      will be tailored for the UK and specific behavioural components such as advice on
      self-monitoring, stimulus control, stress management, slow eating rate and related behaviours
      will be covered. An exercise component will also be included in which exercise activities are
      noted in a log and an additional online daily drinking log will also be included. The
      exercise log will be completed weekly and brought to each session as a means of monitoring.
      Weight will be measured at the start and end of this phase and weekly during the WLP as part
      of group sessions (at the end of the group session) and will be conducted privately with each
      participant in a separate room. Participants will also be asked to complete food frequency
      questionnaires (FFQs) once per month and online 3-day diet diaries before beginning the WLP
      and at the end of the WLP and will be given instructions on how to do so. In week 12 a
      further visit (independent from group sessions) will be scheduled individually with each
      participant to complete additional questionnaire and cognitive measures (Visit 13).

      36-week assisted weight maintenance phase. Participants will be asked to attend one hour
      monthly group sessions with a dietician-trained researcher (10-12 participants per group)
      during the 36-week assisted weight maintenance phase running from week 13-48. These meetings
      will provide an opportunity for participants to discuss any concerns and to provide further
      reminders of nutritional advice. Body weight will be measured at the end of each group
      session and will be conducted privately with each participant in a separate room.
      Participants will also be asked to complete a series of questionnaires measuring appetite
      control and ease of dieting and measures of dietary compliance alongside providing the online
      daily beverage log and weekly paper exercise log. Participants will also be asked to complete
      FFQs monthly during this period. At the end of this phase further visits (independent from
      group sessions) will be scheduled to complete the final measures of appetite and food choice
      and to provide their final online 3-day diet diary.

      Fasting blood samples will be analysed for glucose, insulin, lipids, triglycerides, high
      density lipoprotein (HDL), low density lipoprotein (LDL), total cholesterol profiles and
      Hba1.

      One year post assisted weight maintenance and visit After the final study visit
      post-maintenance (week 48), participants will continue to be provided either NNS or water
      beverages for a 12-month duration. They will be asked to return their empty beverage
      packaging monthly during this phase (weeks 52, 56, 60, 64, 68, 72, 76, 80, 84, 88, 92, 96)
      and will complete retrospective appetite questionnaires alongside additional questionnaires
      upon returning their packaging. They will also complete daily online beverage logs online
      over the duration of the 12-month period and will complete a final online 3-day food diary
      which they present at Visit 39 (week 100). Participants in Subset 1 will additionally undergo
      a final set of probe days in weeks 98-99 (Visits 38a, 38b, and 38c). Subset 2 will also
      provide their final DXA scan at the one year post assisted weight maintenance period visit
      (Visit 39). At this final visit participants will be asked to provide a fasting blood sample
      as well as complete a range of computer tasks, questionnaires and food diaries. Their body
      weight will be measured and their waist, hip and sagittal diameter will be taken in a
      separate room along with their blood pressure

      Subsets Subset 1 - Appetite Probe Days A voluntary subset of randomly selected participants
      (n=116) will be invited to participate in the appetite probe day sessions to assess changes
      in appetite response to caloric and non-caloric beverages (water, NNS and caloric beverages;
      CB). These probe days will be measured at baseline (Visits 2a, 2b & 2c; weeks -2 to 0), at
      the start of the weight loss programme (Visits 3a, 3b and 3c; weeks 1 to 2), at the end of
      the weight loss period (Visits 13a, 13b and 13c; weeks 11 to 12) at the end of the assisted
      weight maintenance period (Visits 24a, 24b, 24c; weeks 47 to 48) and at the end of the 1 year
      post assisted weight maintenance period (Visits 38a, 38b, & 38c). These sessions will be
      scheduled a minimum of 3 days after one another (minimum completion of 2 weeks) and must all
      be completed within a maximum of 3 weeks. At each point one probe day will examine the
      response to a caloric beverage (ie a sugar sweetened beverage; SSB) and then the second and
      third the response to NNS and water (the order of all three drinks will be counterbalanced
      across participants and probe days). These will be provided after breakfast and 1 hour before
      lunch (approximately 12pm). Compensation will then be tracked at an ad libitum test lunch and
      an evening meal. Participants will be blinded to the study condition (no information will be
      provided about the drinks during the probe days) however the sensory characteristics of the
      beverages may be evident. Cognitive and sensory cues cannot be matched but are important
      determinants of real world appetite responses.

      The gold standard 8-hour design will be used. The appetite probe day will be conducted at the
      Kissileff Laboratory study centre and will involve participants attending the centre for a
      fixed breakfast (breakfast is calibrated based on weight bands which will be determined at
      the Screening session; prior to the end of WLP and prior to the end of the assisted weight
      maintenance phase to ensure accurate weight banding), the study beverage, ad libitum lunch
      and ad libitum dinner as well as a take-home snack pack for the remainder of the evening.
      Participants will complete appetite VAS pre- and post- each meal as well as completing these
      ratings at hourly intervals throughout the test day. They will be free to leave the Study
      Centre after consuming their meals and will be provided with water as well as a specified
      time to return for their next meal.

      Subset 2 - DXA Scans In addition to trial participation, Subset 2 (n = 50) be asked to
      provide fasting full body DXA scan at dedicated visits 1d, 14a, 25a, and 39 (weeks 0, 12, 48
      and the one year post assisted weight maintenance visit respectively). The DXA scan will be
      used to assess changes in body composition during the trial.

      Participants will be reminded during the Screening session that they do not have to take part
      in the additional testing (Subsets 1 or 2) or provide blood samples to be eligible for
      enrolment in the trial.
    
  