
    
      In this prospective, non-interventional, observational registry participants diagnosed with
      urosepsis will be registered to the study to capture the events and outcomes of interest.
      There will be no additional intervention and evaluation for the purpose of this study.

      -Primary objectives:

        1. Pathogens: Causative pathogens and their susceptibility profile

        2. Clinical outcomes: Development of organ failure and mortality.

        3. Costs: Hospital resources used and costs acquired

             -  Secondary objective:

        1. Risk factors: Influence of patient characteristics (medical & urological history,
           comorbidities) on severity of urosepsis (simple, severe & septic shock), causative
           pathogens profile and outcomes

        2. Appropriateness of antibiotic treatment: The influence of appropriate antibiotic
           treatment, identified through empirical treatment provided and the pre-treatment culture
           results, on the clinical outcomes.

        3. Economic evaluation: Identify the cost and health state changes according to
           appropriateness of treatment.

           -Rationale: Results of the GPIU registries 2003 to 2013 showed, that the rate of
           urosepsis in "health-care" associated infections of urological patients increased from
           15% in 2003 to 25% in 2013. This creates an extra burden of health systems that needs to
           be better understood in detail.

           Early management in urosepsis is imperative. An important step of the management is
           appropriate empirical antibiotic treatment that requires an understanding of local and
           global pathogen susceptibility profiles. Furthermore, our pilot analysis from GPIU has
           shown that individual patient characteristics can be helpful in guiding empirical
           treatment. Appropriate empirical antibiotic treatment has shown to be associated with
           better clinical outcomes and lower length of stay (LOS).

           -Objectives

           The aim of this registry is to investigate the epidemiology of urosepsis primarily in
           Europe, with specific examination of causative pathogens and their resistance, the
           associated risk factors, clinical data, costs associated and value of initial
           appropriate antimicrobial treatment.

           3.1. Primary objectives:

           - Describe the prevalence of organisms causing urosepsis

           - Describe the susceptibility profile of organisms causing urosepsis.

           - Describe the clinical and economic burden of urosepsis caused by resistant Gram
           negative pathogens of interest.

           3.2. Secondary objectives:

             -  Characterize risk factors for infection with resistant gram negative pathogens of
                interest.

             -  Examine the impact of initial inappropriate antibiotic therapy on clinical and
                economic outcomes.

             -  Design

           This is a prospective, longitudinal data collection as an ancillary registry to the 2013
           Global Prevalence of Infections in Urology (GPIU) point prevalence registry performed
           annually by the European Association of Urology (European Section of Infection in
           Urology). Participating hospitals will perform data collection with a goal of collecting
           complete hospital course data on 600 cases of urosepsis. The GPIU group will handle
           contracting, data collection, and data analysis for this part of the registry.

           - Participants

           The population to be observed will be adults patients with clinical diagnosis of
           urosepsis. Observations will be initiated when a patient is diagnosed with urosepsis
           based on the clinical symptoms and findings as part of routine clinic practice through
           emergency and accident, urology or internal medicine units.

           The data of the bacterial isolates and their susceptibility results used in this study
           will be obtained as part of routine clinical care. The necessity of informed patient
           consent is at the discretion of the participating institution. All patient data will be
           analyzed anonymously.

           -Patients to be observed

           Identification of observations:

           Patients to be observed will be identified through emergency and accident, urology,
           intensive care and internal medicine units at participating sites. Eligibility criteria
           checklist of all cases considered to be observed will be filled in by participating
           principal investigator (PI). Clinical information from the initial diagnosis should be
           used to asses eligibility.

           -Observations Diagnosis observations

           Routine clinical signs and symptoms assessed by the managing physician should be used to
           evaluate the patient. The following observations should be carried out at the time of
           diagnosis:

             -  Medical history

             -  Microbiology cultures

             -  Clinical signs, symptoms and findings

           Treatment observations

           The following observations should be registered after the diagnosis and initiation of
           treatment:

             -  Medical treatment

             -  Surgical treatment

             -  Treatment unit

           Post-treatment observations

           Subsequent to initiation of treatment the following observations will be registered:

           • End organ failure

             -  Shift in treatments

             -  Mortality

           Registration will be carried out on post diagnosis day 3,7,9 and 30 to capture the
           changes within the following time-gaps respectively:

             -  Diagnosis day to day 3

             -  Post diagnosis day 4 to 7

             -  Post diagnosis day 8 to 9

             -  Post diagnosis day 10 to 30

           For patients where treatment extends beyond 30 days additional registrations will be
           carried out only when there is a change in the listed post-treatment observations.

           Completion of treatment - observations

           When treatment of patients is finalized due to either complete resolution of sepsis or
           death the following observations will be carried out:

           • Costs (optional)

             -  End-organ failure

             -  Mortality

             -  LOS

             -  HRQoL (optional)

           Post diagnosis 1 year follow-up

           At the end of 1st year of diagnosis centers willing to register further observations
           will fill in the following:

           • Costs (optional)

           • End-organ failure

           • Mortality

           • LOS

           • HRQoL (optional)

           Schedule of observations

           - Baseline: Medical history, Microbiological proof, management of urosepsis,
           HRQoL(optional)

           -Follow-up-1 (3rd day post diagnosis): Microbiological proof(if additional carried out),
           Management of urosepsis, Clinical outcomes

           -Follow-up-2 (7th day post diagnosis): Microbiological proof(if additional carried out),
           Management of urosepsis, Clinical outcomes

             -  Follow-up-3 (9th day post diagnosis): Microbiological proof(if additional carried
                out), Management of urosepsis, Clinical outcomes

             -  Follow-up-4 (30th day post diagnosis): Microbiological proof(if additional carried
                out), Management of urosepsis, Clinical outcomes

             -  Completion of treatment related with urosepsis episode: Management of urosepsis,
                Clinical outcomes, HRQoL (optional), Economic evaluation (optional)

             -  Statistical considerations Data measured on a continuous scale will be expressed as
                mean, standard deviation, range, and median. Categorical data will be expressed as
                counts and percentages of patients in the categories. Chi-square or Fisher's tests
                will be used to test for statistical differences in categorical variables and T- or
                Mann-Whitney tests will be utilized for determination of statistical differences in
                continuous variables where appropriate.

             -  Management The GPIU study team will provide support for the participating centers.
                The secretarial staff at the EAU-Research foundation will provide clerical support
                to the study.

             -  Administration, logistics & quality assurance

           Sharing of observations

           Electronic (e) case report forms (CRF) will be used for collection of observational
           information. EAU-RF will and study coordinator will provide guidance to sites to aid the
           completion of the eCRFs. The study scientific group reserves the right to amend or add
           to the eCRF template as appropriate. Such changes to not constitute a protocol amendment
           and revised or additional forms should be used by sites.

           Central data monitoring:

           After eCRFs are completed by the study site, the study coordinator will review it for
           protocol compliance, and for inconsistencies and missing values.

           Should any missing data or data abnormalities be found, queries will be raised for
           resolution by the site.

           Any systematic inconsistencies identified through central data monitoring may be subject
           to queries.

           Definition of end of registry:

           The end of the study will be the date of the last observation captured.
    
  