
    
      BACKGROUND: Glucose transporter type 1 deficiency syndrome (Glut1-DS) is a metabolic
      epileptic encephalopathy caused by defects in the cerebral glucose transporter GLUT1. It is
      characterized by infantile seizures refractory to anticonvulsants, deceleration of head
      growth, and delays in mental and motor development. Low brain glucose and subsequent energy
      deficiency is considered the major pathogenic factor causing seizures. The ketogenic diet
      (KD) is the only causal treatment available for Glut1-DS, and its therapeutic effect resides
      in its ability to provide an alternate source of energy for the brain. However, seizure
      control with KD is not complete in many patients and the long-term cognitive outcome is not
      optimal. Biochemically, these observations can be explained by a lack of energy for metabolic
      functions provided by pathways derived exclusively from glucose, which the alternate energy
      from the KD fails to supplement.

      HYPOTHESIS: We hypothesize that an anaplerotic agent adjunct to KD may be effective for
      controlling seizures and improving cognitive outcomes in children with Glut1-DS. Triheptanoin
      (C7) is a triglyceride containing the odd chain C7 (heptanoic) fatty acid, which occurs only
      in limited amounts in the natural diet. It improves the oxidation of acetyl CoA by the
      tricarbonic acid (TCA) cycle, leading to subsequent oxidative phosporylation by the electron
      transport chain to produce sufficient ATP for energy utilization. It also provides the TCA
      intermediates alpha ketoglutarate and oxaloacetate, which are important precursors for the
      neurotransmitters glutamate, GABA, and aspartate. Therefore, we expect these metabolic
      effects will enhance seizure control and/or neurodevelopmental function.

      SPECIFIC AIMS: We aim to generate preliminary evidence on 1) the safety, 2) the clinical, and
      3) the biochemical effects of C7 as an add on therapy in GLUT1-DS patients with inadequate
      response to ketogenic diet.

      RESEARCH PLAN: To generate preliminary data and a better understanding of the precise
      biochemical mechanism of this novel treatment, we will conduct a pilot/proof of concept study
      using an open-label n-of-1 trial with 'an interrupted time-series before and after' design.
      We plan to enrol 3 Glut1-DS patients with incomplete seizure control, and the n-of-1 study
      design will help provide a distinct effectiveness estimate of C7 in each individual patient.
      As each participant acts as his/her own control, this design also supports an evidence-based,
      personalized medicine approach to treatment.

      SIGNIFICANCE: If successful, this personalized treatment approach may be extended to GLUT1-DS
      patients with other symptoms refractory to the KD, or those who cannot tolerate the diet, and
      ultimately will serve as a model for eliminating seizures and side effects in other medically
      refractory epilepsies. The data generated with this study will be essential to design future
      trials for a larger number of Glut1-DS patients to create high-grade evidence.
    
  