
    
      Background: Stroke is a cerebrovascular disease which leads to ischemic damage of brain
      tissue and subsequent neurologic impairment. Hence, the brain circulation is impaired after
      stroke which also play a possible cause for exercise intolerance not only neurogenic origin.
      The peak oxygen uptake in stroke patients was about half in healthy adults with the same age
      about 30 days after the disease occurrence. Aerobic capacity has become an effective
      prognosis for overall and cardiovascular mortality, but current protocols using in
      cardiopulmonary test (CPET) are not feasible for the hemiplegics due to balance or
      coordination deficit. The peak oxygen uptake should be underestimated for survival
      prediction. The calculation of the oxygen uptake efficiency slope (OUES) is independent of
      incremental exercise protocol, and patient effort, and is, therefore, suitable for patients
      who are not able or willing to attain maximal exercise values, just like stroke population.
      So it can be regarded as a single index of aerobic capacity that can be determined from
      submaximal exercise data. In healthy subjects, the OUES has a test-retest reliability similar
      to VO2peak (intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC) = 0.890 vs ICC = 0.910). The above
      properties make the OUES a possible alternative for VO2peak in patients with stroke who are
      unable to attain maximal exercise, and may provide clinicians with a better estimate of
      aerobic capacity in these patients.

      Study purpose: This project will enroll stroke patients under new onset stage, late stage,
      and exercise intervention, to evaluate their aerobic capacity by CPET. Compared
      retrospectively with previous data from heart failure patients and healthy subjects, the
      investigators may know the aerobic capacity of stroke patients is underestimated or not. By
      collecting other parameters from exercise test (cardiac output and local tissue perfusion and
      oxygen), the investigators could investigate the exercise intolerance of stroke patients is
      contributed from neurological origin mainly or several factors synergically.

      Methods: This is prospective (for stroke), randomized, parallel-group (for exercise) design
      with a 1:1 allocation ratio. 120 stroke patients will be randomly assigned to traditional
      rehabilitation training group(control) and traditional rehabilitation combined with aerobic
      training group (experiment). All enrolled subjects will perform a CPET before the training
      initiation. After CPET, the patients in the experimental group need to perform an additional
      bicycle training program with the intensity of 60 % maximal workload in the previous CPET
      (three days per week, for 12 weeks with a total of 36 times). When the training course
      completed, another CPET will be performed to evaluate the aerobic capacity again. In two
      CPET, a comprehensive cognitive and functional assessment will be also performed.

      Measurable parameters: maximal oxygen uptake, maximal cardiac output, cerebral blood flow,
      oxygen uptake efficiency slope, limb muscle strength and function, and cognitive function was
      assessed.
    
  