
    
      Primary endpoint :Incidence of neurological complications (Transient and Permanent
      complications; e.g. transient neurological symptoms, arachnoiditis, cauda equina
      syndrome).Two follow-up questionnaires are foreseen, at 24 h and 7 days after time of spinal
      injection (Tsp), to gather all possible neurological complications, with particular attention
      to Transient Neurological Symptoms (TNS) and Cauda Equina Syndrome (CES).Patients scheduled
      for elective surgery will be informed about the aims, procedures and possible risks of the
      study and will be asked to sign the informed consent form for the inclusion in the trial,
      from day -14 to day of surgery (visit 1, Day 0).This observational study is planned to
      collect data on patients undergoing surgery under intrathecal anesthesia with chloroprocaine
      hydrochloride, primarily to assess the occurrence of all possible neurological adverse events
      (with particular attention to TNS and CES). The mandatory follow-ups of the study are at 24 h
      and 7 days (-1/+2) after anaesthesia. In case of signs of neurological complications, the
      patient has to undergo to a medical visit at the hospital by the relevant specialists
      (anaesthetist, surgeon, neurologist). In order to characterise the occurred adverse event, a
      complete analysis evaluation has to be conducted, as CT, MRI, Electromyography, etc.
      following the indication of the specialists. In case of persistent neuropathy the patient
      needs to be accurately followed according to the internal hospital procedure. In the
      meantime, a full screening of the patient's clinical history together with a detailed
      analysis of the relevant variables, potentially related to the adverse event, have to be
      carried out.

      Therefore, the physician will take all appropriate measures to ensure the safety of the
      patients, notably he/she should follow up the outcome of any Adverse Events (clinical signs,
      laboratory values or other, etc.) until the return to normal or consolidation of the
      patient's condition. In case of any Serious Adverse Event, the patient has to be followed up
      until clinical recovery is complete and laboratory results have returned to normal, or until
      progression has been stabilized. The follow-up will continue after the patient has left the
      study.
    
  