
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the feasibility of treating pediatric and young adult solid organ transplant
      recipients who have newly diagnosed, relapsed or refractory Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-positive
      CD20-positive post-transplant lymphoproliferative disease (PTLD) with a novel T-cell
      therapeutic, allogeneic LMP1/LMP2-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (third party latent
      membrane protein [(LMP]-)]-specific T cells), in a cooperative group setting.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the percentage of eligible patients for whom a suitable LMP-specific T-cell
      product derived from a third party LMP-specific T-cell bank is available.

      II. To estimate the response rate (RR) to three doses of rituximab (RTX) as single agent in
      children and young adults with newly diagnosed or relapsed EBV-positive CD20-positive PTLD
      after solid organ transplantation (SOT).

      III. To estimate the 2-year event-free survival (EFS) of children and young adults with newly
      diagnosed, refractory or relapsed EBV-positive CD20-positive PTLD after SOT treated with RTX
      and/or LMP-specific T cells.

      IV. To estimate overall survival (OS) of children and young adults with newly diagnosed,
      refractory or relapsed EBV-positive CD20-positive PTLD after SOT treated with RTX and/or
      LMP-specific T cells.

      V. To estimate the RR to LMP-specific T cells of newly diagnosed (without complete response
      to course RTX1), refractory, and relapsed children and young adults with EBV-positive
      CD20-positive PTLD.

      VI. To estimate progression-free survival (PFS) of children and young adults with newly
      diagnosed, refractory or relapsed EBV-positive CD20-positive PTLD after SOT treated with RTX
      and/or LMP-specific T cells.

      VII. To describe the toxicity of third party LMP-specific T cells in children and young
      adults with newly diagnosed, refractory or relapsed EBV-positive CD20-positive PTLD after SOT
      treated with RTX and/or LMP-specific T cells.

      VIII. To validate that absence of EBV viremia correlates with RR, EFS and OS.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether third party LMP-specific T cells promote autologous immune
      reconstitution of EBV-specific T cells.

      II. To determine whether EBV viremia is inversely correlated with an increase in EBV-specific
      T cells in vivo.

      III. To determine whether plasma cytokine profile and changes in cytokines over time
      correlate with treatment response or toxicity (e.g. cytokine release syndrome).

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION (Cohorts A and B): Patients receive rituximab or biosimilar intravenously (IV) on
      days 1, 8, 15. Cycle continues for up to 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I (RTX, Cohorts A): Patients with newly diagnosed PTLD who achieve a complete response
      (CR) after induction receive additional rituximab or biosimilar as in induction.

      ARM II (LMP-TC, Cohorts A, B, C): Patients with newly diagnosed PTLD who do not achieve a CR
      to induction, all relapsed patients after induction, and all patients with refractory disease
      who received rituximab or biosimilar within 90 days according to institutional guidelines,
      receive allogeneic LMP1/LMP2-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocytes IV over 1- 2 minutes on days 0
      and 7. Cycle continues for up to 42 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients with PR or SD after first cycle of cycle allogeneic
      LMP1/LMP2-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocytes receive an additional course.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1, 2, 3, 6, 9, and 12
      months.
    
  