
    
      This will be a prospective intervention trial by intention to treat, controlled, blinded,
      with random distribution. Patients will be assigned according to the randomization to the
      clinical monitoring group or Bispectral index (BIS) group. Sedation will be applied as
      follows:

        -  Clinical monitoring group: The BIS monitor will be placed on the patient, but blind to
           the nursing team, with the objective to measure the BIS values and the time remaining
           under suppression. The Richmond Agitation Sedation Scale (RASS) of the patient will be
           evaluated twice per nursing shift (every 4 hours). According to the patient's RASS at
           the time of evaluation, the dose of sedative administered in a continuous infusion pump
           will be increased or reduced in order to reach the target RASS.

        -  BIS Group: The BIS value of the patient will be evaluated twice per nursing shift (every
           4 hours). The objective of BIS will be between 40 and 60. According to the BIS of the
           patient at the time of the evaluation, the dose of sedative administered in a continuous
           infusion pump will be increased or reduced in order to reach the target BIS.

      After weaning from deep sedation, the BIS sensor will be removed from the patient. The
      evaluation of delirium will begin when the patient is in RASS of> -3. This will be measured
      with the Confusion Assessment Method for the ICU (CAM-UCI) scale in both groups. The
      measurement will be made by personnel of the research team that did not participate in the
      randomization. It will also measure the time they remained under suppression, days of
      ventilation, days of hospitalization and the total dose of sedatives received. The safety
      outcomes will be the number of unwanted awakenings (recognized as RASS events> -3 during the
      indication of deep sedation).

      The data entry in charge of loading the data of the electronic clinical history will not know
      the group to which the patient is randomized.

      b. Statistical analyses Will be done with the program "STATA 14". The results that present a
      normal distribution will be evaluated as mean ± SD and analyzed statistically by means of an
      ANOVA followed by the post-hoc test of Dunnett and Tukey. The differences between proportions
      will be evaluated through χ2 tests. p <0.05 will be considered significant.

      c. Sample size: A study with a power of 80% is projected, a confidence level of 95%, the
      case: control ratio will be 1: 1 due to randomization. Is expect a delirium incidence of 55%
      vs 37% in the sedation group guided by BIS (an absolute reduction of 32% in the incidence of
      delirium). The incidence of delirium in the control group arises from the DECCA trial. In
      turn, the reduction in the incidence of delirium arises from reviewing the studies included
      in the meta-analysis by MacKenzie et al. 2018, which reports a reduction of between 20 and
      55% in the incidence of delirium due to the use of BIS-guided sedation during surgical
      procedures. The patients included in this study will have between 24 and 96 hours of deep
      sedation due to the pathologies that require patients to be deeply sedated (RASS of -4 or
      -5), which is why is expected to find a reduction in the incidence of delirium and in the
      dose of sedatives administered equal to or greater than that reported in the studies
      evaluated by MacKenzie et al.

      With this data, a sample size of 240 patients is calculated according to the Fleiss formula
      for sample size calculation. It is suspected that 10% of the patients will be lost, for which
      a total number of 264 patients is needed. A single-center study is planned, which will be
      carried out in the critical care unit of the Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires. It has 38
      beds and an average monthly flow of 140 patients. Of these, 10% have the objective of RASS -4
      or -5 (according to the measurement made in April 2018). It is calculated taking into account
      these data that a duration of 19 months will be required to achieve a necessary sample size.
    
  