
    
      Background:

      Pulmonary Sarcoidosis (PS) is defined as a multisystem granulomatous disorder of unknown
      cause affecting different vital organs, especially the lungs . The pathogenesis is complex
      and a single immunologic reaction and modulation of one cytokine is unlikely to resolve all
      aspects of the disease.

      PS affects people throughout the world. The prevalence in Denmark is 6.4 cases per 100,000,
      consistent with the range of 5 to 40 per 100,000 reported from other northern European
      countries.

      PS manifest in reduction of pulmonary function resulting in cough, dyspnea and fatigue and
      can be complicated by fibrosis and pulmonary hypertension. The overall symptoms lead to poor
      physical conditioning contributing to a vicious cycle of more physical inactivity

      Treatment of sarcoidosis is usually limited to patient symptoms. In case of progressive
      pulmonary involvement or involvement of other vital organs, corticosteroids are indicated to
      prevent or stabilize organ damage. However, progressive fibrosis sometimes can lead to
      respiratory failure and ultimately, pulmonary transplantation.

      Physical training shows promising evidence of a positive effect on PF, can improve
      psychological health and physical functioning and also decrease fatigue, increase muscle
      strength and increase exercise capacity. Until today there is no defined training program
      with regard to exercise frequency, duration or intensities in PS contrary to chronic
      obstructive pulmonary diseases (COPD) or idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF).

      PS is a relatively rare disease and that sarcoid patients are scattered in great
      geographically areas, it is difficult to organize targeted group training with supervised
      physical training, convenient for patients and affordable for the public health sector. New
      technologies in healthcare are being introduced to treat patients from a distance in these
      years. Tele-rehabilitation (TR) seems to be a good approach to reach patients in low
      inhabited areas, going from health care to self-care, empowering patient's awareness of their
      disease and increasing the flexibility patients need to acquire healthier behaviors. TR has
      previously been shown to be feasible in patients with lymphedema, COPD and orthopedic
      diseases for lower back, knee and shoulder.

      TR with COPD patients at home is feasible and well accepted by the patients, although
      technology has been perceived as difficult. TR seems to improve the functional level as
      assessed by walking capacity, dyspnea, quality of life and daily physical activity . The
      interaction between the COPD patients at home and the healthcare professionals at the clinic
      through TR has evolved as a dialogue channel forming a basis for mutual learning processes
      and new relationships. Preliminary evaluations from TR initiatives in Scotland showed
      tele-rehabilitation to be more cost effective with patients living in remote areas than with
      the outreach- or centralized model.

      There have so far been no studies on the feasibility effect of TR in PS.

      Hypothesis Tele-rehabilitation in patients with PS is feasible and improves exercise
      capacity, quality of life and activities of daily living.

      Aim To assess the feasibility and effect of tele-rehabilitation with a tele-rehabilitation
      platform (NITRP) compared to standard treatment with respect to exercise capacity, quality of
      life and activities of daily living in patients with PS.
    
  