
    
      Eligible patients will present chest pain and/or dysphagia related to the following
      hypercontractile esophageal motility disorders: distal esophageal spasm, jackhammer
      esophagus, nutcracker esophagus or type III achalasia with normalization of the integrated
      relaxation pressure after treatment, based on the Chicago classification of esophageal
      motility disorders for high resolution manometry (HRM). Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy and
      barium swallow will be performed before BTX injection to eliminate secondary disorders.

      This is a prospective, randomized, double blind, controlled trial comparing BTX injection to
      sham procedure (absence of injection, the clinical team performing the follow-up will not be
      aware of the result of the randomization).

      Drugs which could affect esophageal motility (nitrates and calcium channel blockers) will be
      stopped during the study.

      Included patients will undergo esophageal endoscopic ultrasound examination (EEUS) and upper
      gastrointestinal endoscopy under general anesthesia. In absence of contraindications,
      patients will be randomized in two arms: BTX injection or no injection. The active treatment
      group will receive 100 units of type A BTX (Botox®, Allergan) diluted in 10 mL of saline
      serum; BTX will be injected into the lower third of the esophageal wall in 10 sites between 2
      and 10 cm above the squamo-columnar junction. The control arm will receive no injection after
      the EEUS and upper GI endoscopy (sham procedure).

      Clinical response will be assessed based on the evolution of the Eckardt score, a quality of
      life score (Gastrointestinal Quality of Life Index (GIQLI), and weight gain. A significant
      clinical response will be defined as an Eckardt score < 3 (together with individual scores <
      2). Manometry patterns will be compared before and after the procedure. Safety will be
      monitored based on the occurrence of chest pain scored on a Likert scale and occurrence of
      adverse events.

      Follow-up clinical evaluation will be performed 1 and 2 months after the procedure. A second
      esophageal HRM will be realized 3 months after the procedure, followed by endoscopic BTX
      injection in case of non-response and two monthly visits.

      Follow-up visits will be done 6 and 12 months after the first procedure. An additional HRM
      will be performed at 12 months.
    
  