
    
      Inflammation is extremely important in atherosclerosis and atherothrombosis pathophysiology.
      It is similarly important after acute myocardial infarction (AMI), with a special
      participation on healing response and, consequently, on left ventricular remodeling (LVR).

      Early successful reperfusion is highly effective for limiting tissue necrosis and improving
      outcomes in AMI, but many of these patients show microcirculation dysfunction, phenomenon
      related to inflammation, leading to worse LVR. Additionally, inflammation may extend into the
      noninfarcted remote myocardium, which also contribute to adverse LVR.

      As pointed out by Westman et al in a recent review publication, although infarct size
      correlates with the development of adverse LVR, some patients with relatively small infarcts
      have adverse LVR, while others with larger infarcts do not. Individual differences in the
      inflammatory response, perhaps in part genetically, epigenetically, environmentally, or
      pathogenically modulated, may contribute to this phenomenon.

      The use of inflammatory biomarkers to predict risk, monitor treatments and guide therapy, has
      shown substantial potential for clinical applicability. Many studies in primary and secondary
      prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD) showed that individuals with lower high sensitive
      C-reactive protein (hsCRP) have better clinical outcomes than those with higher levels.

      So, anti-inflammatory therapies may be useful in preventing left ventricular dysfunction
      following AMI despite reperfusion and anti-remodeling treatments.

      Among those, methotrexate (MTX) is an anti-inflammatory drug widely used in rheumatology and
      oncology. It reduces several inflammatory biomarkers including hs-CRP, interleukin 6 (IL-6),
      and tumor necrosis factor α (TNF α), without affecting negatively lipid, homocysteine or
      glucose levels, or blood pressure. Besides that, there are reports showing that MTX directly
      or indirectly releases endogenous anti-inflammatory adenosine, which could be especially
      useful in AMI patients.

      In a systematic review with rheumatologic patients (including rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis
      or polyarthritis), methotrexate was associated with 21% lower risk for total cardiovascular
      disease (CVD) and 18% lower risk for AMI, suggesting that a direct treatment of inflammation
      with this drug may reduce the risk of CVD in general.

      To explore this option of treatment, the CIRT (Cardiovascular Inflammation Reduction Trial)
      was designed to evaluate the effect of methotrexate for secondary prevention on high risk
      patients with chronic stable coronary disease; this study is currently ongoing.

      Although a potent anti-inflammatory drug, special attention must be given to methotrexate
      contraindications and numerous potential adverse effects. To overcome this issue, Moura et al
      developed a new formulation using a lipophilic derivative of methotrexate, ie, didodecyl
      methotrexate (ddMTX), associated with a lipid nanoemulsion (ddMTX-LDE).

      Lipid nanoemulsions (LDE) that bind to low-density lipoprotein receptors was first developed
      and studied in the cancer scenario by Maranhão et al, who demonstrated that it concentrates
      the chemotherapeutic agents in tissues with low-density lipoprotein receptor overexpression,
      decreasing the toxicity of the treatment. The lipid nanoemulsion was already tested in
      patients with acute leukaemia, multiple myeloma and Hodgkin's and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma,
      suggesting that LDE is taken up by malignant cells with increased LDL receptors and that LDE,
      as drug-targeting vehicle, is suitable for patient use.

      The ddMTX-LDE formulation was shown to be stable and uptake of the formulation by neoplastic
      cells in vitro was remarkably greater than of commercial methotrexate preparation, with much
      lower haematological toxicity. A study with intravenous ddMTX-LDE in rabbits showed
      anti-inflammatory effects on the synovia of arthritic joints that were clearly superior to
      the effects of a commercial methotrexate preparation. These results are conceivably due to
      greater methotrexate uptake by the joints when the drug is associated with a nanoemulsion.
      Another study with rabbits fed with high cholesterol diet showed that ddMTX-LDE reduced
      vessel inflammation and atheromatous lesions.

      In Wistar rats with induced AMI treated with LDE without drug, commercial MTX and ddMTX-LDE,
      we demonstrated significant improvement in LVR along with infarct size reduction in the group
      ddMTX-LDE, in comparison with the groups commercial MTX and LDE without drug.

      The above rational is the basis for the present project, where by the first time the role of
      LDE methotrexate formulation in humans, regarding LV remodelling post ST-segment elevation
      myocardial infarction (STEMI), will be tested.
    
  