
    
      Physicians commonly instruct their patients to keep a wound dry for 2 to 3 days following
      surgery. The rationale may be that sources of water like a shower, bathtub, or swimming pool
      may increase the risk of infection. There may also be a concern that changing a dressing in
      the early post-operative period will increase the risk of bleeding complications. However,
      patient's routines and quality of life are disrupted when they are asked to avoid bathing,
      exercise, and swimming.

      These issues have never been formally studied. This study will test the hypothesis of whether
      early post-operative wetting will have any influence on infection rates, bleeding
      complications, or the appearance of a surgical wound. Patients presenting to the Penn State
      Hershey dermatology clinic for the surgical removal of cancerous or non-cancerous skin
      lesions will be invited to participate. There will be no change to the standard surgical
      treatment. The dressing will be the same for all study participants. After surgery, study
      subjects who consent to participate will be randomized to receive one of two sets of
      post-operative instructions. One group will be directed to keep their initial post-operative
      dressing intact and dry for 48 hours. The second group will remove the dressing at 6 hours
      and wet the wound for 10 minutes in whatever manner they choose (shower, bath, pool, hot tub,
      etc.). After the initial dressing is removed (at 48 hours or 6 hours), both groups will
      perform identical post-operative care, consisting of cleansing the wound with soap and water
      followed by the application of petrolatum ointment and a dry dressing.

      All participants will follow-up 7 to 14 days after surgery or earlier if they are
      experiencing any problems. At this time, the site will be assessed for clinical evidence of
      infection and bleeding. If the former is present, a bacterial culture will be obtained to
      confirm a wound infection and patients will be treated with an antibiotic. Physicians
      performing the assessment will be blinded to the patient's status (early wetting group or
      not). All subjects will also complete a questionnaire inquiring how and when they wet their
      wounds after surgery as well as two questionnaires asking how their quality-of-life and
      function were affected. Participants will again follow-up at 6 months when a blinded
      investigator will assess the cosmetic appearance of the scars using an established scar
      rating tool.

      The data from this study will provide valuable evidence based guidance to surgeons in
      drafting wound care instructions for their patients. If the hypothesis proves correct,
      patients may be spared the inconvenience of post-operative water avoidance, diminishing the
      disruption to their lives caused by skin surgery.
    
  