
    
      The investigators will include patients attending outpatient clinic in the area of
      Orthopedics and Traumatology of our hospital with a diagnosis of unilateral Patellofemoral
      Pain Syndrome. Inclusion criteria are: age between fifteen and thirty-five years, presenting
      unilateral Patellofemoral pain syndrome with six months of evolution, presenting anterior or
      retro knee pain that presents itself when undergoing two or more of the following activities:
      squatting, running, kneeling, jumping, or climbing stairs; physically active patients, with
      at least thirty minutes of physical activity at least three times per week. Exclusion
      criteria include patients with previous knee surgeries, chronic pain with more than one year
      of evolution, pregnancy or suspected pregnancy, application of intra-articular steroids in
      the three months prior to their evaluation, patients with meniscal injuries, ligament or
      intra-articular knee structures, degenerative diseases such as diabetes, rheumatoid
      arthritis, Osteoarthritis of the knee, hip or ankle, history of dislocation or subluxation of
      patella, Osgood Schlatter syndrome and patellar tendinitis or quadriceps.

      The investigators will divide patients into two groups. The control group will receive
      treatment with acetaminophen and physical therapy rehabilitation, closed chain exercises and
      stretches at home intended for the strengthening of quadriceps, abductors and internal
      rotators of the hip for the duration of six weeks. The experimental treatment group will
      receive the above plus the application of the technique NUCAP Medical Upper Knee Spider ®
      Kinesio taping on the affected knee. Both groups will be evaluated by an external
      consultation. They will be assessed by the Tegner Activity Scale, the Kujala score of the
      WOMAC and visual analog scale (VAS) for pain assessment; these scales will be applied at the
      beginning, third and sixth week. The patients in the experimental group will be quoted each
      week to change the tape. The control group will be quoted at the beginning, at three weeks
      and after six weeks. During the first appointment we will take patients anthropometric
      measurements (weight, height, BMI) as well as general information. Radiographic studies
      (anteroposterior and lateral knee, plus the projection Merchant) will be sought to rule out
      other diseases and see the degree of contact of the patella on the patellofemoral joint. All
      patients will receive an explanation about their illness, and a booklet with the required
      exercises as well as their frequency.

      For patients to be included in the group of Spider ® Taping, Kinesio Tape pre-cut strips that
      were placed inferior to the head with no pressure applied, then two bands are placed at the
      ends of the tape and crossed on the edges of the patella and ending at the thigh to finish
      applying moderate tension to place them, then two strips were placed at each end of the edges
      of the first and second tape without applying pressure. The tapes can last up to five days on
      the extremities while maintaining their purpose, patients included in this group will be
      summoned each week to remove the tapes and place new ones.
    
  