
    
      TLE-AE could concern 16 to 64 % of the TLE with "negative" MRI (Beh et al., 2016).

      TLE-AE patients may suffer from anxiety and depression (Lv et al, 2014). In clinical
      practice, it has been also identified an emotional vulnerability in these patients, as they
      report more frequently a high sensitivity to emotional distress than other epileptic
      patients. They also report a change in their affect intensity or a hyperemotivity, which
      appeared at the onset of their epilepsy. Lanteaume et al. have linked some TLE with an
      increased emotional vulnerability (Emo-TLE): these TLE patients reported stress factors
      precipitating their seizures. They found that the Emo-TLE group was characterized by an
      attentional bias toward threatening stimuli versus neutral stimuli, and that this bias was
      noticed neither in the TLE group without emotional vulnerability nor in healthy volunteers.
      But they did not study amygdala structure in each group.In the large database of the Toulouse
      University Hospital, screening was done to retrospectively collect TLE patients with AE
      identified on MRI. This large database has served to establish a reading grid in order to
      help the visual identification of an AE.The investigators propose to these patients them a
      series of validated scales to test:

        -  The impact of emotional stress factors for precipitating seizures

        -  The perception of stress (PSS-10).

        -  Psychiatric comorbidities (anxiety, depression, post-traumatic stress disorder,
           emotional lability…).

      The study also propose cognitive tasks to search for an attentional bias towards threatening
      stimuli (Emotional Stroop and modified probe test). After this, the study will assess their
      emotional subjective responses (valence, arousal, avoidance) through a task during which they
      are presented with short movies that elicit six different emotions. At the same time, the
      measure of the variations of their neurovegetative system in terms of blood pressure, heart
      rate variability and electrodermal skin conductance variability will be done.

      For each TLE-AE patient, additional healthy controls will be matched (2 for testing the
      primary outcome, 3 for the secondary outcomes).
    
  