
    
      The purpose of this three-year study is to determine the prevalence and incidence of the
      different types of cardiac disease and ECG abnormalities in SCI patients seen at the PAVA
      SCIC and their association. Study goals include: i) delineation of the specific types of
      heart disease that occur in the SCI population as manifested both pre-clinically and
      clinically and ii) demonstration of their association with ECG findings. This will enable
      validation of scores and algorithms using the inexpensive and widely available ECG for the
      prevention of heart disease as well as it's early treatment and rehabilitation in SCI
      patients. Our findings will be helpful in demonstrating what cardiological tests are
      appropriate for the mandated annual evaluation of SCI patients.

      There are two components to this study:

      An outcomes component to complete information previously gathered in clinical and
      computerized databases of 800 SCI patients and a convenience sample of age-matched
      able-bodied veterans and perform a follow up for cardiac events.

      A screening component to identify pre-clinical disease will include Holter ECG recordings and
      echocardiograms on patients without symptoms or evidence for heart disease seen in the SCI
      center during the course of the study and age-matched able-bodied veterans.

      Hypothesis (a): The prevalence and incidence of cardiac diseases including coronary artery
      disease and cardiomyopathy will be higher in the SCI population than age-matched samples of
      the able-bodied population while valvular disease and arrhythmia will be similar. (b): The
      prevalence and incidence of cardiac disease in SCI individuals will be associated with level
      and completeness of injury (ie, higher occurrence in those with higher lesion levels and more
      complete injuries.) (c) The ECG will be helpful in SCI patients in early identification and
      secondary prevention of both ischemic and cardiomyopathic heart disease. (d) Continuous
      Holter ECG recordings or echocardiograms will only be indicated for screening specific SCI
      patients identified by clinical and electrocardiographic features.
    
  