
    
      Initially implanted as a bridge to transplantation, LVADs are increasingly used for the
      purpose of destination therapy. About 250 patients/year will receive LVAD device therapy in
      12 implanting Canadian centres. Outcomes after LVAD implantation are critically dependent on
      right ventricular (RV) function. Development of right heart failure (RHF) in LVAD patients
      has a direct effect on mortality and is associated with a prolonged length of intensive care
      unit (ICU) and hospital admission. RHF in LVAD patients leads to increased morbidity and is
      associated with worse outcomes after cardiac transplantation. Despite improvements in
      surgical and medical management the incidence of RHF after LVAD implantation has plateaued at
      approximately 20-30%. A critical concept in the prevention of post-operative complications
      involves appropriate patient selection and prophylactic measures directed toward risk factors
      for development of RHF. To mitigate the risk of RHF after LVAD implantation, many implanting
      centres are increasingly utilizing pulmonary vasodilating agents in the post-operative
      period. Despite little evidence to support this approach, the phosphodiesterase-5A (PDE5)
      inhibitor Sildenafil is now empirically administered for reduction of PVR in some centres
      after LVAD implantation. Duration of therapy varies but may extend beyond 3 months and in
      some cases may continue indefinitely or until the time of heart transplant. A small,
      single-centre, open label study demonstrated that Sildenafil effectively reduced PVR in LVAD
      patients with persistent pulmonary hypertension post-operatively, however only hemodynamic
      endpoints were examined. Importantly, the investigation of this strategy was limited to those
      with elevated PAP, irrespective of their clinical condition or pre-implantation hemodynamic
      profile. There is a clear need for further research to establish the safety and efficacy of
      pulmonary vasodilators to either treat or prevent RHF in the LVAD patient population.

      The investigators hypothesize that the vasodilatory effects of sildenafil can prevent or
      reverse the effects of elevated RV afterload and consequent RHF following LVAD implantation,
      and that preoperative initiation of therapy in an at-risk population is feasible and will be
      well tolerated. As such, there is a large potential for sildenafil to meet an unmet
      therapeutic need for patients following LVAD implantation.

      The primary objective of this pilot study is to evaluate the tolerability and efficacy of
      sildenafil therapy initiated prior to and continued after LVAD implantation for the purpose
      of reducing PVR in patients at increased risk for development of RHF by INTERMACS criteria.
      The feasibility of introducing sildenafil in this clinical setting along with the ability to
      reduce PVR will be assessed.

      Secondary Objectives: a) To determine the efficacy of sildenafil to reduce the need for
      prolonged inotropic support and post-operative ICU admission duration b) To determine the
      tolerability and feasibility of the proposed dosing strategy c) To determine the impact of
      sildenafil therapy on renal function and systemic arterial blood pressure d) To assess the
      impact of sildenafil therapy on the likelihood of development of post-operative RHF by
      INTERMACS criteria

      STUDY METHODS:

        1. Single-arm, open-label, prospective, multi-centre, interventional, feasibility and
           efficacy, pilot study of sildenafil in patients undergoing LVAD implantation.

        2. This multi (6)-centre, Canadian trial is investigator initiated and industry sponsored.
           The study design, coordination and conduction and other study tasks including monitoring
           will be performed by the study investigators.

      Following enrolment into the study, subjects will have their data (i.e. weight, blood
      pressure, pulse, lab work, medications, RHC data, ECG, physical exam), collected as
      standard-of-care (SOC), included in their study chart. Participants will be started on
      sildenafil at V1. If tolerated, subjects will be maintained on sildenafil pre and post-LVAD
      implementation. On day 14 (+/- 2 days) subjects will have a RHC to evaluate right heart
      function post-LVAD implantation. Subjects will return to the VAD (Ventricular Assist Device)
      Clinic for regular visits following discharge until day 55 (EOS) for similar data collection.
      Subjects will keep a daily sildenafil dosage diary from hospital discharge until day 55.
      Subjects will receive a brief telephone call at day 85 post LVAD implantation to evaluate
      safety and outcome data.
    
  