
    
      Recruitment: Participants will be recruited during winter/spring 2020. Interested
      participants will be directed to a REDCap link to complete an online eligibility screener.
      The screener will take approximately 10 minutes to complete (See Eligibility Survey). The
      survey will be free, voluntary, and available online. Participants will be allowed to skip
      questions in the survey.

      Eligibility: Once eligibility is determined; participants will be sent an informed consent
      and baseline questionnaire via a REDCap link. This measure should take approximately 25
      minutes to complete (See Informed Consent and Baseline Questionnaires). Once Informed Consent
      is signed and the Baseline Questionnaires are complete, participants will be randomized via
      an online randomizer (i.e., randomizer.com) to either an attention control podcast group or
      the Calm meditation group. Ineligible participants will be sent an email notifying their
      status and why.

      Enrollment: The Research Team will email the intervention participants that will include
      instructions to download Calm (See Participant Scripts). The control participants will be
      emailed instructions to download the podcast app (See Participant Scripts).

      Intervention: The intervention will run for 4-weeks. Intervention participants will complete
      the 30 day, "How to Meditate" meditation series that provides daily 10-minute meditations and
      the control group will listen to daily 10-minute health education podcasts. Throughout the
      intervention, both groups will be sent reminder emails via REDCap to participate in their
      assigned practice sessions (see Participant Scripts) participants will complete online weekly
      participation logs via REDCap. Additionally, they will answer one, multiple choice EMA
      (ecological momentary assessment) question, randomly, 3x per day (between 8am and 8pm) via
      test message assessing how one currently feels (see Study Questionnaires).

      Tracking: Participation in the Calm meditations will be tracked (meditation name, time of
      day, and time spent in meditation) by weekly REDCap participation logs and the Calm team.

      Post-intervention: Post-intervention questionnaires and the satisfaction survey will be
      emailed to intervention and control participants via a link from REDCap (See
      Post-intervention questionnaires). The post-intervention survey will take about 25 minutes
      and the satisfaction survey will take about 10 minutes.

      Post-intervention interview: Post-intervention phone interviews will be conducted the week
      following the end of the intervention (week 5) to no more than 20 participants in each group
      and take about 15-20 minutes.
    
  