
    
      Background:

      The goal of this research was to determine if providing specialist input to primary care
      providers (PCPs) by means of informal consultation could improve the process and outcomes of
      care for diabetes. Several studies support the role for specialists and their specific
      knowledge and expertise in a variety of disorders including diabetes. A variety of methods
      have been designed to optimize the use of specialty expertise including practice guidelines
      and disease management approaches as well as the consultation/referral process. The
      referral-consultation process is an important mechanism for obtaining clinically useful
      information. At one end of the spectrum of this process, informal consultation involves
      discussion about a patient with a colleague without the consultant seeing the patient; at the
      other end of the spectrum, care of the patient is transferred to another physician and the
      process is formalized. Because much specialist expertise resides in the specialists
      themselves, the expansion of primary care sites to include community-based outpatient clinics
      has implications for access to the specialists located elsewhere. This study was designed to
      evaluate a computer-assisted voice mail system which is relatively inexpensive and more
      convenient than video-telemedicine systems, making it more practical and more easily
      exportable. Diabetes care delivery was chosen as the model in which to assess informal
      consultation based on its frequency among veterans, management challenges, and the emphasis
      on improvement in diabetes care in VA. A secondary goal of the project was to better
      characterize the consultation process.

      Objectives:

      Patients with diabetes mellitus are complex and may benefit from the input of multiple
      specialists and PCPs must determine the need for and coordinate the input from those multiple
      specialists. With that in mind, the three objectives of the study are: 1) To assess the
      impact of computer-assisted access to specialist expertise (CASE) on process of care for
      patients with diabetes mellitus; 2) To assess the impact of CASE on outcomes of care at the
      patient level (clinical outcomes and satisfaction), provider level (satisfaction) and the
      system level (health services utilization and costs); and 3) To characterize the
      consultation-referral process in community-based outpatient clinics (CBOCs).

      Methods:

      Randomized controlled trial with access to the CASE system constituting the intervention and
      a descriptive study of the consultation process. The major outcome variables will be the
      consultation type, adherence to diabetes practice guidelines, clinical outcome of diabetes
      care (glycemic control), patient and provider satisfaction.

      Status:

      Project work has been completed. The final report has been submitted.
    
  