
    
      Fourteen patients had bilateral lower limb ulcers, and 6 of them had single large ulcers as
      follows; Fourteen patients with chronic venous ulcers (12 of which had bilateral ulcers, 2
      had single large ulcers) Four patients, each with a single chronic post-traumatic ulcer Two
      patients with bilateral chronic lymphatic ulcers.

      After detailed history, physical examination and investigations (such as duplex),

        -  Each patient with bilateral ulcers included in the study (14 patients) received
           treatment A on one ulcer and treatment B on the other ulcer.

        -  In case of patients with single large ulcers (6 patients), treatment A was done on one
           half of the ulcer and treatment B on the other half of the ulcer (done in ulcers with an
           area greater than 10 x 10 cms).

        -  Treatment A included pre-operative intra-lesional PRP injections in 1-week intervals for
           3 times, followed by intra-operative intra-lesional injection of PRP prior to meshed
           graft placement. PRP was injected into the ulcer bed and ulcer edges using a sterile
           syringe.

      Treatment B included only placement of meshed graft, with no PRP treatment.

        -  Pre-operative preparation: Ulcers were prepared by proper dressings and followed up
           until acquiring a clean bed. Debridement was done as needed to obtain clean base ready
           for graft placement.

        -  PRP preparation:

             -  10 ml of blood was drawn from each patient intra operatively (autologous PRP).

             -  Blood was collected in sterile tubes, Anticoagulant Citrate Dextrose (ACD) was used
                for anticoagulation, which is the same substance used to preserve viable platelets
                in blood banks for platelet transfer.

             -  Tubes were centrifuged in Beckman Allerga X-12 centrifuge for 20 mins, 3000 rpm.

             -  Each 10 ml of blood yielded an average of 3-4 ml of PRP. Calcium gluconate was
                added in a ratio of 1:10 to PRP. Post-operative assessment was carried out by
                follow up clinical examination, photography and weekly biopsy samples.
    
  