
    
      This study is a three-arm randomized controlled trial among hazardous and heavy drinking
      HIV-infected ART clinic clients in Thai Nguyen province, Vietnam. It compares the effects of
      two evidence-based, culturally adapted, behavioral interventions [a Brief Intervention (BI)
      and a Motivational Enhancement Therapy+Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (MET+CBT) Intervention]
      both against each other and compared with an assessment-only standard of care arm, in order
      to understand the relative effectiveness of each intervention in reducing alcohol use and
      suppressing HIV viral load.

      The Brief Intervention (BI) consists of 2 individual sessions and 2 booster phone sessions
      delivered by a trained counselor and is based on Project Treat. Content of BI sessions
      includes review of drinking patterns, harmful effects of drinking, and alcohol use behavior
      change strategies. The MET+CBT Intervention consists of 6 sessions delivered by a trained
      counselor. The MET+CBT Intervention uses a client-centered, motivational interviewing
      approach and focuses on skills-building for alcohol use behavior change, including drinking
      refusal skills, skills to cope with and manage cravings and triggers, and developing positive
      thoughts and attitudes. It also includes review of drinking patterns and harmful effects of
      drinking.

      This study will also measure the incremental cost-effectiveness of each intervention as
      compared to current counseling services offered in ART clinics in Vietnam.

      Investigators hypothesize that: 1) Each intervention will be more effective than an
      assessment-only arm on percent days alcohol abstinent and percent virally suppressed at the
      12-month assessment; 2) The BI will be equivalently effective to the MET+CBT Intervention on
      percent days alcohol abstinent; 3) The effect of each intervention on alcohol abstinence and
      viral suppression will be mediated by alcohol use readiness to change and/or coping skills
      acquisition; 4) The MET+CBT Intervention will be more effective than the BI on alcohol
      abstinence and viral suppression separately among participants with more severe alcohol use,
      people who inject drugs, and participants with depressive symptoms; 5) The alcohol reduction
      interventions (BI and MET+CBT Intervention) will be highly cost-effective compared to
      assessment-only standard of care; and 6) The BI will be highly cost-effective relative to the
      MET+CBT Intervention.

      Understanding the relative effectiveness of each intervention in improving both alcohol- and
      HIV-related outcomes will provide insight into the optimal application of alcohol programs in
      resource-limited settings.
    
  