
    
      Positron emission tomography is now a clinically accepted imaging modality for the evaluation
      of pulmonary nodules as well as for the staging of patients with lung cancer. PET imaging
      with the radiotracer 18 Fluoro-deoxy-glucose (FDG) has a high accuracy for the
      differentiation between benign and malignant lung lesions and for the detection of nodal
      metastases. This is because malignant tumors are characterized by an increase in glucose
      metabolism as compared to most normal tissues. In clinical practice, PET images are
      interpreted visually or semiquantitatively, using a standardized uptake value (SUV). Previous
      studies have shown that SUV thresholds can be used with high accuracy to distinguish between
      benign and malignant lesions that exhibit increased uptake of FDG. In addition, the SUV is
      frequently used as a surrogate marker for the evaluation of a response to chemo- or radiation
      therapy. Unfortunately, the accuracy of SUV measurements may be affected by lesion motion
      during the image acquisition. This is a particular problem in PET imaging of the lung. Normal
      respiratory motion, and hence lesion motion, causes a smearing effect, whereby the
      concentration of radiotracer within a given lesion is spread out over a larger area. For the
      same reason small lesions and lesions with relatively low uptake of radiotracer may become
      undetectable during normal breathing (partial volume effect). PET images are acquired for
      several minutes, image acquisition during breath hold is therefore not an option for clinical
      scans. However recently published work from UCLA (Auerbach et al. J Nucl Med., February 2006)
      shows that 3 lesions per patient on average can be missed on shallow breathing scans compared
      to breath-hold CT scans. These lesions did not show any FDG uptake on clinical PET scans. The
      goal of this pilot study is to evaluate whether respiratory gating during PET image
      acquisition enables the detection of those lesions which are identified during the
      breath-hold CT scan.
    
  