
    
      The aim of this study is to assess the impact/effectiveness of the improved interventions on
      infant growth and micronutrient status so as to measure what would have happened in the
      absence of interventions. The study will be conducted in the same four regions in Ethiopia
      where the program intervention is taking place namely, Amhara, Tigray, Oromiya, and South
      Nations Nationalities and Peoples Region (SNNPR) regions.

        -  Sample size calculations assume an expected difference of 0.2 Standard Deviation (SD) in
           HAZ, and 5% difference in feeding practices, 80% power, and α-error of 5%; and a cluster
           effect of approximately 2.

        -  A total of 1800 children will be sampled in both intervention and non-intervention
           (control) villages. A total of 120 clusters are chosen for both groups. Each
           intervention cluster will be matched with a control cluster selected to be similar in
           geographical and ecological conditions, access to a health-care centre, status of food
           security and the existence of Community Based Nutrition (CBN) programme. Within each
           pair of clusters, households will be randomly selected after the complete listing of
           eligible households. A total of 15 households will be identified in each 120 clusters.

        -  Demographics and socio-economic status indicators will be collected using Demographic
           Health Surveys (DHS) methods.

        -  Infant and Young Child feeding indicators will be assessed in all children 6-23 months
           at baseline, mid- and endline

        -  Knowledge attitude and practices concerning the intervention exposure indicators
           including perceptions and utilization of complementary food, MNP, and the use and
           perceptions on the grain banks will be assessed at baseline, mid- and endline in
           caregivers.

      Data analysis include:

        -  For demographic and socio- economic characteristics of the study participants
           descriptive statistics will be used.

        -  To calculate the nutritional status of children 6-23 months, Epi-Info/Emergency
           Nutrition Action (ENA) for SMART software will be used.

        -  The median (min, max) of the weight or number of MNP consumed per day during the
           intervention period will be calculated as measure of compliance; however analyses will
           be done based on intention-to-treat.

        -  Qualitative data will be recorded in digital recorders which will be transcribed first
           to local language then to English. Then specific themes will be identified and matrices
           will be prepared and data will be analysed.

        -  The qualitative data will be analysed separately and triangulation will be made to
           compare the results.

        -  All analysis will be done on an intention-to-treat basis, taking into account the
           matched-controlled design. For continuous variables we will use linear mixed models that
           include cluster, household and child as random effects to account for clustered
           observations. Fixed effects to be included in the model are covariates such as child's
           sex, age, household socio-economic status and relevant baseline values. Normality will
           be examined by creating a Quantile-Quantile (QQ) plot and subsequent visual inspection.
           Equal variances will be assured with Levene's test.

        -  For categorical variables mixed-effects logistic regression models will be used with
           random effects for cluster and households.
    
  