
    
      Atherosclerosis is a protracted and in fact lifelong progressive disease. Over time, lipids
      accumulate in the artery wall forming fatty streaks, which eventually can develop into
      atherosclerotic plaques (1). The later stages of the process, from quiescent atherosclerotic
      plaque to an active plaque, have a high risk of triggering acute vascular events, such as
      myocardial infarction and stroke (1).

      Much effort has been put in the development of novel drugs aimed to prevent cardiovascular
      disease. Low Density Lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering drugs, in particularly statins,
      play a pivotal role. The hypothesis that serum lipid lowering results in decrease of lipid
      accumulation in the arterial wall and thus atherogenesis, has formed the basis for successful
      drug developing strategies (1;2).

      To draw valid conclusions on determinants of disease and effectiveness of lipid modifying
      therapeutic intervention, imaging of atherosclerosis can be used as a validated tool to
      assess efficacy of novel compounds (3;4).

      Although imaging arterial wall dimensions by B-mode ultrasound and intra-vascular ultrasound
      have proven their value, longitudinal data of the effects of cardiovascular drugs on arterial
      wall and plaque composition, in particular of vulnerable plaques with lipid rich necrotic
      cores (LRNC), are scarce.

      Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) are non-invasive
      imaging modalities that can potentially image plaque composition in-vivo in human carotid
      arteries. MRI image acquisition at various weightings enables visualisation of plaque
      composition. Calcification, haemorrhage, fibrous cap and lipid rich necrotic cores can
      readily be distinguished, providing information on plaque vulnerability. MRS gives a spectrum
      of resonances, affording detection of specific chemical components through their inherent
      frequency shift relative to water (5). In image guided MRS, an MR image can be utilized to
      image and localize a plaque. Proton spectra can then be collected from these plaques, such
      that the specific proton resonances of lipid components in a mobile state, including
      cholesterol ester (CE), can be identified (6).
    
  