
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and recommended phase II dose of sorafenib and
           erlotinib in patients with metastatic or unresectable solid tumors.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the optimal biologically effective dose of this regimen that will lead to
           hypophosphorylation of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), ERK, Akt, and vascular
           endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR), and inhibition of angiogenesis and apoptosis
           with tolerable toxicity in these patients.

        -  Correlate the pharmacokinetic profiles of this regimen with toxicity and biological
           activity in these patients.

        -  Determine, preliminarily, the antitumor activity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Correlate phosphorylation status of EGFR, ERK, Akt, and VEGFR with antitumor activity of
           this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, open label, non-randomized, dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive oral sorafenib alone once or twice daily on days -6 to 0*. Patients then
      receive oral sorafenib once or twice daily and oral erlotinib once daily on days 1-28.
      Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *Not considered part of course 1; considered a "run-in" period only.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of sorafenib and erlotinib until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2
      of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. An additional 10 patients are
      treated at the MTD.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4 weeks and then at least
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 16-28 patients will be accrued for this study within 5-14
      months.
    
  