
    
      Background: In this project we will address the issue of inappropriate antibiotic prescribing
      in a hospital setting using a systematic and cross-disciplinary approach. We believe that a
      substantial reduction in antibiotic use and a significant improvement in prescribing patterns
      can be achieved, which will benefit the patients by reducing the risks of side effects such
      as antibiotic-induced Clostridium difficile enteritis.

      Aim: The aim of this study is to implement and evaluate antibiotic interventions at targeted
      hospital wards.

      Method: Hospital wards will be randomised to one of two antimicrobial stewardship
      intervention arms stratified by specialty (medicine or surgery). Prospective audit and
      feedback is a core intervention strategy in both arms.

      Statistics: Interrupted time-series analysis (ITS) will be used for the primary endpoint;
      volume of antimicrobial prescribing. Monthly baseline data at least five years prior to start
      of the intervention and a during a follow-up period of at least 12 months after end of the
      intervention period will be used to assess immediate and sustained effects.

      Endpoints and outcomes:

        -  Primary endpoint is reduction in antibiotic use, days of antibiotic therapy (DOTs)/100
           patient days

        -  Secondary endpoints include outcome measures for quantity of antibiotic use,
           appropriateness of prescriptions, clinical and microbiological outcome and
           cost-effectiveness.

      Data on antibiotic use and trends in prescriptions of key antibiotics will be obtained from
      hospital pharmacies. Data on duration of hospitalization, patient mortality, re-admissions
      and side effects including antibiotic-associated Clostridium difficile enteritis will be
      extracted from the medical records to assess potential impact on patient outcome caused by
      the intervention. Data on emergence of resistance during therapy and general trends in
      resistance epidemiology will be recorded. The outcome assessment will include a survey to
      participating physicians on the value different aspects of the stewardship intervention in
      their daily care of patients with infections. A cost-effectiveness analysis of the
      intervention will be performed.
    
  