
    
      Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a major complication of diabetes mellitus that can lead to
      significant visual morbidity. Important features of DR are microaneurysms, vascular leakage,
      vascular occlusion, and retinal neovascularization. Diabetic macular edema (DME) occurs when
      there is leakage in the macula, the central region of the retina that is responsible for fine
      visual acuity. DME is the most prevalent cause of moderate visual loss in patients with
      diabetes.(1)

      Treatment options for DME include the use of focal/grid laser photocoagulation (2),
      intravitreal anti-VEGF therapy (3-5), intravitreal steroid therapy (6) and steroid implant
      insertion into the vitreous cavity (7-9).

      Corticosteroids are known to be beneficial in the treatment of DME by reducing the expression
      of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and other inflammatory cytokines e.g.
      Interleukin-6, which play a major role in pathogenesis of DME. (10).

      Iluvien® (Alimera Sciences, Inc., Alpharetta, GA) is a low dose, sustained release
      corticosteroid insert that has recently been FDA approved for use in patients with DME. (10,
      11) Structurally it is a nonbiodegradable, cylindrical polymer tube measuring 3.5x0.37 mm
      which releases 0.19 µg/day of Fluocinolone Acetonide. These inserts are injected into the
      vitreous cavity in an outpatient setting through a 25-gauge injector system which uses
      MedidurTM (Alimera Sciences, Inc.) technology and are found to be beneficial compared to sham
      treatment for up to 3 years. (10, 11) As a complication steroid implants can sometimes result
      in a dose dependent elevation in the intraocular pressure (IOP) which can increase the risk
      of glaucoma in susceptible patients. The purpose of this study is to look at post-approval
      safety data related to IOP after one or more injections of Iluvien as standard of care in
      subjects with DME.

      Objectives

      Primary Objective:

      • To collect post-approval safety data related to intraocular pressure (IOP) after one or
      more injections of Iluvien as standard of care in subjects with diabetic macular edema (DME).

      Secondary Objectives:

      • To collect visual and anatomic outcome data after one or more injections of Iluvien as
      standard of care in subjects with diabetic macular edema (DME).

      Study Procedures

      This study will assess the long term safety, visual, and anatomic outcomes in subjects
      receiving 1 or more injections of Iluvien as standard care for DME. Fifty patients from the
      clinic population of the Wilmer Eye Institute will be enrolled in the study for a duration of
      60 months. Subjects will have a measurement of best corrected visual acuity (BCVA), IOP and
      eye exam at baseline and months 12, 24, 36, 48, and 60. All other follow up and all treatment
      will be in the clinic by the patient's treating physician. Data from the clinic notes will be
      collected on case report forms and adverse events will be documented.
    
  