
    
      The ductus arteriosus is an essential blood vessel that connects the pulmonary artery and the
      aorta in the fetus. The patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) allows oxygenated blood that returns
      from the placenta to bypass the lungs and supply the fetal systemic circulation. In fetal
      life, ductus remains open due to low partial pressure of oxygen, circulating or locally
      produced prostaglandins and local nitric oxide production. Constriction of ductal vascular
      smooth muscle (functional closure) occurs within few hours of delivery due to decrease level
      of prostaglandin and rising oxygen concentrations. Closure of ductus can be affected by
      several perinatal and postnatal factors such as growth restriction, sepsis, and fluid
      overload. Spontaneous PDA closure occurs in > 34% extreme premature infants compared to > 95%
      in infants with birth weight more than 1500 grams. In a prospective study, 65 infants less
      than 1500 g birth weight were closely followed by serial echocardiograms. Sensitivity of
      ductal tissue to oxygen and prostaglandin differs in preterm compared to term infants.
      Without sufficient physiologic hypoxia, the ductus may fail to close or may reopen after
      initial constriction. Several co-morbidities have been associated with prolonged patency of
      the ductus in preterm infants (e.g., prolonged ventilator support, bronchopulmonary
      dysplasia, pulmonary hemorrhage, impaired renal function, intraventricular hemorrhage and
      cerebral palsy). Preterm infants with uncomplicated respiratory course, PDA is commonly
      managed conservatively. Currently hemodynamically significant PDA are managed medically
      (indomethacin and ibuprofen) and surgically. Recently, acetaminophen has gained attention as
      an alternative for PDA management due to its low cost, wide availability and the potential
      for fewer side effects. In two randomized controlled trials comparing acetaminophen with
      ibuprofen, authors have shown comparable closure rate of PDA with acetaminophen.

      To our knowledge, a combination of the drugs has not been used to treat PDA in preterm
      infants and prospective study has not been conducted or published to determine the
      effectiveness of a combination of ibuprofen and acetaminophen in the treatment of PDA. As
      both medications are metabolized through different organs (hepatic and renal), the
      investigator assume that incidence of adverse events should not be affected. The Investigator
      hypothesize that the combination of oral ibuprofen and oral acetaminophen will be more
      effective, because the mechanisms of action differ for the two medications and hence may
      produce therapeutic synergy.
    
  