
    
      The leadless electrocardiogram (LECG) is a new technology incorporated into the Consulta
      CRT-P to obtain an ECG signal from the Consulta CRT-P similar to a surface ECG obtained from
      the device programmer (PECG) or an external ECG machine. The LECG signals are measured from
      three electrodes mounted on the outside of the pacemaker housing and provides an electrical
      far field signal of the electrical activity of the heart. The LECG provides three ECG
      channels as different projections of the electrical activity of the heart, similar to the
      surface ECG. Clinical interest of LECG is threefold. First, ECG recordings are routinely used
      to perform pacemaker and cardiac resynchronization systems in-office follow-up mainly to
      determine pacing thresholds. Connection of ECG electrodes to the patient as well as the time
      needed to acquire an acceptable ECG signal during routine follow-up could be saved using LECG
      which would make follow-up easier and less time consuming. Secondly, connecting ECG
      electrodes requires the patient to be present at the clinic for the follow-up. Use of LECG in
      conjunction with a transmitting system will allow remote patient follow-up. In that case,
      correct ventricular capture confirmation by the LECG is of key importance. Finally, LECG
      stored in device memory at the time of an arrhythmia episode occurrence, can help better
      classify it.

      The following factors might influence the quality of the LECG and/or the axis of the LECG:

        -  temporal changes of the electrode tissue interface due to device pocket healing process

        -  changes in device position and orientation over time

        -  body motion

        -  poor LECG contact due to oversized device pocket with replacement procedure. The purpose
           of this study is to obtain more data on leadless ECG (LECG) to determine whether LECG
           during standard CRT follow-up can indeed adequately replace surface ECG and to evaluate
           if it can be used during remote follow-up evaluations.
    
  