
    
      Radiographic contrast media is being used at an increasing rate for various diagnostic and
      therapeutic procedures. Renal failure following contrast administration for enhanced imaging
      has become a serious complication. Patients with underlying renal disorders have an increased
      incidence of Contrast Induced Nephropathy (CIN). CIN has been reported as the third most
      common cause of in-hospital renal failure after hypovolemia and post surgical renal
      insufficiency. Several factors increase the risk of CIN: preexisting renal dysfunction,
      volume and type of contrast agent employed, and lack of renal prophylaxis. CIN pathogenesis
      may be due to an injury to the renal cortex and outer medulla resulting from a decrease in
      blood flow, an osmotic effect, and/or direct toxicity to tubular cells by oxygen free
      radicals. N-acetylcysteine (NAC) is a cysteine analog and sulfur-containing agent, with
      strong antioxidant activity, which induces de novo synthesis of glutathione. NAC protection
      during the evolution of renal failure may be related to the ability to scavenge oxygen free
      radicals and/or improve endothelium-dependant vasodilation. There is no animal model that
      directly correlates with CIN, but the investigators have investigated nephrotoxicity and
      chemoprotection against cisplatin induced nephropathy which has a mechanism of action
      mediated through the generation of reactive intermediates in an animal model. NAC is
      potentially protective against cisplatin induced nephrotoxicity when administered at high
      intravenous (IV) doses (400 mg/kg) and at low intra-arterial (IA) doses (50mg/kg) down the
      descending aorta. This implies a safe dose-dependent effect of IV NAC and that lower doses
      can be used IA safely.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective:

      The primary objective of this study is to establish a maximum tolerated dose of both IV and
      IA NAC. This maximum tolerated dose will be evaluated primarily for efficacy in a future
      study.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To obtain data on changes from baseline serum creatinine and calculated creatinine
           clearance to provide sample size estimates for future studies.

        2. To estimate the efficacy of NAC in reducing the incidence of CIN. While this study is
           not adequately powered to address this objective, analyses will be run to assess an
           increase in serum creatinine concentration of 25% or more from the baseline value within
           a 48-72 hour period after a procedure or imaging that requires the administration of
           contrast media as a surrogate for CIN incidence.

        3. To determine NAC pharmacology administered IV or IA.
    
  