
    
      This is a Stage 1 intervention development study. This study asks: "what behavioral
      strategies are needed to help socially disconnected caregivers with significant barriers to
      increasing connectedness?" Pilot 2 uses a mixed methods approach to adapt a brief behavioral
      intervention-Social Engage psychotherapy-for use with socially disconnected caregivers, which
      we call Engage Coaching for Caregivers. The ultimate goal is for Engage Coaching for
      Caregivers to be offered as a second step in a stepped care approach for caregivers who do
      not demonstrate an adequate response to a single-session psychoeducation plus resources
      intervention. Engage Coaching helps caregivers bolster motivation for increasing
      connectedness, teaches problem solving skills, and provides behavioral practice with social
      engagement. Up to 8 brief sessions (typically 30 minutes) are provided weekly over no more
      than three months. This is a single-arm clinical trial with up to 30 participants. The
      study's primary objective is to discover the most useful strategies to promote social
      connectedness in the context of caregiving. Participants will complete up to 8 weekly
      individual Engage Coaching sessions via phone or Zoom. Participants will be allotted up to 3
      months to complete all sessions, a time-frame that allows for two weeks without meeting to
      address life stressors such as illnesses that may pop up. The first and last session are
      longer - up to 60 minutes if needed. Middle sessions are shorter (20-45 minutes). Engage is a
      stepped care psychotherapy in that the simplest strategy is taught first-action planning (a
      derivative of problem solving therapy)-and "barrier strategies" are added only if needed.
      Coaches and the PI will work together to devise caregiver specific barrier strategies as
      needed, such as brief communication skills coaching or education on behavioral issues in
      dementia. The development and piloting of these new caregiver specific barrier strategies is
      a key objective of this pilot study. During the data analysis phase, we will conduct
      qualitative analyses from participants on which of these strategies were most useful and
      combined with experiences from therapists, we will adapt the therapy manual to include the
      most useful strategies, for testing in a subsequent Stage II efficacy trial.
    
  