
    
      Blocking antibodies targeting PD-1 have achieved remarkable results in the treatment of many
      types of tumors. However, it is also worth noting that this therapeutic strategy typically
      achieves a < 30% objective response rate (ORR) as a monotherapy in participants whose tumors
      exhibit low positive PD-L1 expression and/or are microsatellite stable. TIM-3 and PD-1
      function as immune checkpoint receptors in the overlapping regulation of immune tolerance and
      have been shown to be overexpressed on the tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) from
      participant samples of various solid tumors including, but not limited to non-small cell lung
      cancer, head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, hepatocellular carcinoma, and gastric
      carcinoma. Subsequently, the activation of TIM-3 and PD-1 represent TILs from both
      participants or animals across solid tumor types with the most exhausted immunophenotype (ie,
      cytokine expression, proliferation etc.), which can be reversed with combined blockade of
      TIM-3 and PD 1. The overlap in expression and function indicates that TIM-3 and PD-1
      cooperate to promote effector cell exhaustion which may impede an effective antitumor immune
      response. Based upon the overlapping expression profiles and immuno-regulatory functions, the
      improved in vivo antitumor effects, as well as the potential for TIM-3 mediated adaptive
      resistance, there is strong scientific rationale to evaluate the antitumor effects derived
      from the combined blockade of TIM-3 and PD-1 in advanced solid tumors. Accordingly, this
      study will evaluate the safety and preliminary efficacy of BGB-A425 (anti TIM-3) in
      combination with tislelizumab (anti PD-1) in participants with advanced solid tumors.

      This is an open-label, multicenter, nonrandomized Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trial. Phase 1
      will determine the Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) for the combination of BGB-A425 and
      tislelizumab. Phase 2 will continue to evaluate the safety but also focus on the efficacy of
      the combination in select tumor types.
    
  