
    
      This study will carried out on patients collected from the dental clinics in fixed
      prosthodontics clinic, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo University

      the visits will be designed as follows:

      .1st visit: (N.N) will call participants before tooth preparation procedure for X-ray
      reviewing and pre-operative photographing using a Professional digital camera also;
      Impression will be taken using the alginate impression material * for study cast analysis
      with suitable stock tray** size.

      Each participant will be asked to sign consent form written in patient native language.

      2nd visit: (Tooth preparation) After performing adequate disinfection and sterilization
      process for each instrument and tools will be used in this trial; the anesthetic solution
      (Anesthetic solution: Septanest SP, 4%, Septodont, France.) will be injected using
      infiltration technique. Then patients will be left from five to ten minutes then; the
      operator will check with the subjective for anasthesia.

      Full preparation will be carried out following the principles of Endocrown preparation with
      deep chamfer finish line while 2 observers will select visually the appropriate shade. Final
      vinylpolysiloxane impressions will be taken for each participant in each groupusing the
      suitable tray size.

      After final setting impressions will be checked for accuracy using magnifying loops
      (Magnifying loop: Univet optical technologies, Italy).

      Then protemp temporary endocrowns ) Temporary crown material: Structure, Voco, GMBH,
      Germany.( will be cemented using eugenol free (Temporary cement: RelyX Temp, USA).

      Impressions will be sent to the lab, poured with extra hard stone material. Then it will be
      removed from the impression after complete setting.

      Endorowns for each patient will be fabricated using either lithium di-silicate material
      (Emax) or Cerasmart blocks according to the random allocation of the patients

      3rd visit: Participants will be called again for final cementation. Temporary crown will be
      removed and abutments will be cleaned of any residues using pumice slurry ) Pumice slurry:
      DCL, Dental composite LTD, England.( applied with bristle brush and rubber cup under water
      irrigation.

      Proper isolation will be done before cementation then permanent dual cure resin cement
      (Permanent cement: Bifix-QM, Voco Gmbh, Germany ) will be used for luting of permanent crowns
      according to manufacturer instructions. Ask the patients to hold the crown under occlusal
      compression until luting cement polymerization. 5 minutes later, excess cement will be
      removed.

      Measuring of different outcomes will start in this visit for all patients.

      The following assessment surveys (clinical evaluations) will done for both groups:

      All patients will be recalled after 3, 6, 9, and 12 months. For each recall examination,
      evaluator will performed the direct clinical evaluation using modified USPHS criteria for
      margin integrity and gross fracture.

      Visual inspection will be used for gross fracture evaluation. Endorowns that intact and fully
      retained will be rated 'Alfa', Endocrowns with partially retained with some portion of the
      restoration still intact will be rated as 'Bravo'and endocrowns completely missing will be
      rated as 'Charlie'.

      Visual inspection and explorer will be using for marginal integrity evaluation. Endocrowns
      with no catch with The explorer and no visible crevice along the periphery of the restoration
      will be rated as Alpha (A), Endocrowns with explorer catches with visible evidence of a
      crevice, with and/or the base is not exposed, and the restoration is not mobile will be rated
      as Bravo (B) and endocrowms with explorer penetrates and extended to the dento-enamel
      junction will be rated as Charlie ©.

      In addition, questionnaires will be used to evaluate patients' satisfaction and potential
      postoperative discomfort as the following questions:

        1. Are you satisfied with your endocrown appearance?

        2. Are you satisfied with your endocrown shade?

        3. Do you feel your endocrown are poorly aligned?

        4. Do you feel your endocrown are protruding?

        5. Are you hiding your teeth while smiling?

      Adherence improvement session will be taking place in the initial visit. This session will
      include:

        -  Each patient will be informed about the study steps and maintain oral hygiene.
           Subsequent sessions will occur at the follow-up visits.

        -  The patients will be trained for tooth brushing, flossing and instructed all oral
           hygiene methods after each meal.

        -  Instruct the patients to record any abnormalities or mobility in endocrowns.

        -  Recall appointment will be performed every two months for aduration of one year to
           stress on oral hygiene.

        -  Data collection methods:

      Prosthodontic colleague will assess the outcome of each group. Data will be collected on
      excel sheets. All categorical data will be presented as risk ratios, while numerical data
      will be presented by mean and standard deviation. All data will be reported at a confidence
      interval of 95% and a p value of 5%.

      Each factor will be measured as explained in the outcome table. - Outcome results will be
      written down on the patients' folders by (NN), then will be given to (JG) for data
      management. All the information will be transferred on excel sheets and saved on a computer
      in safe place and locked with a password only known to JG. A copy of the data will be saved
      on a flash drive with JG to provide a back up for the data.

      Plans to increase participant retention & complete follow-up:

      Telephone numbers of each patients and address will be taken and included in study, then
      phone calls and messages will be sent to remind patients before each appointment.

      Data management:

      JG will enter all data electronically. Patient files are to stored in numerical order in a
      secured place. J.G and A.Z will have access to data

      Data Monitoring:

      AZ will be responsible of data monitoring if any lost or delete occurs, in that case: back up
      data will be taken from (J.G) to provide hard copy for the requested data and A.Z will make
      final decision.

      Harms:

      If 50% of the patients showed any unfavorable signs as sever pain, irreparable fracture or
      shade changes which might affect the results. Then the treatment will be considered as
      stopped guidelines which necessitate stopping the treatment and interim analysis will be
      performed.

      Auditing:

      Auditing of the study design will be done by (AZ).

      Ethics and dissemination Research ethics approval Protocol and informed consent form will be
      reviewed by the Ethics Committee of Scientific Research - faculty of Dentistry - Cairo
      University.

      Protocol amendments:

      Any changes in protocol affect the conduct of the study, benefit for patient or patient
      safety, including changes in study objectives, study design, sample size, study procedures,
      or significant administrative aspect will require formal amendment to the protocol. Such
      amendment will be agreed upon by the Council of Department of fixed prosthodontics, Faculty
      of Dentistry, Cairo University.

      Consent:

      Researcher will discuss the trial with all patients. Then patient can have an informed
      discussion with the researcher. Researcher will obtain written consent from patients willing
      to participate in the trial. All consent forms will write in Arabic language (Appendix 1.1).

      Confidentiality:

      All information related to study will store securely. All participants' information will
      store in locked cabinets in areas with limited access. To maintain participant
      confidentiality all data collection, process, and administrative forms will identify only by
      a coded ID number. All information related to patient names or other personal identifiers
      will store separately identified by code number. All local databases will be secured with
      password-protected access systems.

      Access to data:

      The investigator and supervisors will give access to the data sets. All data sets will be
      protected by password. To ensure confidentiality, Participant study information will become
      confidentially.

      Ancillary and post-trial care:

      All patients will be followed up 2 years even after the trial ends then might be used for
      further cohort study.

      Dissemination policy:

      o Study results will be published as partial fulfillment the Requirements for PHD degree in
      fixed prosthodontics.
    
  