
    
      The purpose of this study is to investigate the long term balance-enhancing effects of
      insoles that are hard and thin for older adults. Thirty older female adults between the ages
      of 65-84 years will be recruited for this study. Those who are defined as healthy older
      adults as per the initial screening questionnaire will be asked to complete additional
      screening tests during a scheduled testing session including sensory testing, balance
      testing, and cognitive testing using monofilaments, the Berg Balance Scale, and the Montreal
      Cognitive Assessment tool, respectively. Participants will also be examined for degree of
      hallux valgus using the Manchester Scale, since moderate to severe hallux valgus has
      displayed balance deficits for older adults. Those participants that complete all tests and
      display acceptable age range scores as define by the test guidelines will be randomly
      selected to either be in an intervention group (20 participants) or a control group (10
      participants). All participants will be fitted for custom insoles that are hard and thin.
      These insoles will not affect their habitual ankle position or habitual stance in any way.
      These insoles will be designed to mechanically support the foot within the shoe, but mostly
      to provide as much somatosensory feedback as possible detected through mechanoreceptors under
      the skin on the plantar sole of the foot. Participants in the intervention group will be
      required to wear these insoles in their shoes for the full 12 week intervention. One pair of
      each participant's shoes of both groups will be chosen by the primary investigator to be worn
      for the entire duration of the 12 week intervention for at least 8 hours per day. These shoes
      will be chosen if eligible within a footwear assessment form and previous footwear
      recommendations from previous literature for older adults. Each testing session will be held
      in a common room located within close vicinity of the participant's residence. A camcorder
      will be used to record participant movement during each trial located directly in front of
      the participant. Foam markers will then be fastened on to the participant's body using tape
      at 7 locations to allow for body movement analysis in correspondence with the video
      recording. Flat and thin pressure sensor insoles that will not cause any discomfort to the
      participant will be place into each shoe to detect the pressure forces and distribution under
      the feet. Once equipment has been set up in the room and with the participant, participants
      will complete various tasks including quiet standing, one-legged stance, and walking up and
      down a ramp while unexpectedly terminating gait (10 seconds), performing a cognitive task
      while walking up and down a ramp (10 seconds), and normal walking (10 seconds). Participants
      will be provided with 12 postcards outlining general questions regarding insole and footwear
      comfort, hours of wear, and record of falls. Participants will be required to complete these
      cards twice a week and mail/return the cards to Wilfrid Laurier University. The cards will be
      pre-printed with address on the front and a sticky tab to seal the card once completed.
    
  