
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the complete response rate in patients with relapsed or refractory acute
      lymphoblastic leukemia treated with methotrexate, vincristine, asparaginase, and
      dexamethasone (MOAB) in combination with alemtuzumab.

      II. Determine disease-free and/or overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

      III. Determine the toxic effects of this regimen in these patients.

      IV. Correlate the density of cluster of differentiation 52 (CD52) molecules on the surface of
      leukemic lymphoblasts with response in patients treated with this regimen.

      V. Correlate the presence of minimal residual disease at the time of maximal response to this
      regimen with overall outcome in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. The study had two steps. Step 1: 5 mg dose of Campath
      (alemtuzumab); Step 2: 10 mg dose of Campath.

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive methotrexate intravenously (IV) on day 1; vincristine IV
      and asparaginase intramuscularly (IM) on day 2; oral dexamethasone on days 1-10; and
      alemtuzumab subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 4, and 7. Treatment repeats every 10 days for 6
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve
      complete remission (CR) proceed to consolidation therapy.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients receive methotrexate IV on day 1 and asparaginase IM on day
      2. Treatment repeats every 10 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients who remain in CR proceed to cytoreduction therapy.

      CYTOREDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive vincristine IV and methotrexate IV over 6 hours on
      day 1; leucovorin calcium IV continuously over 24 hours on days 1 and 2 and then orally 4
      times a day on day 3; and oral dexamethasone on days 2-6. Treatment repeats every 30 days for
      12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who
      remain in CR proceed to maintenance therapy.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive oral mercaptopurine on days 1-30; oral methotrexate on
      days 1, 8, 15, and 22; vincristine IV on day 1; and oral dexamethasone on days 1-5. Treatment
      repeats every 30 days for 36 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Patients are assessed every 3 months if patient is < 2 years from study entry and every 6
      months if patient is 2-5 years from study entry.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Allowing for two dose levels, a maximum of 48 patients may be accrued
      approximately in 30 months.
    
  