
    
      PTSD is a serious debilitating disorder that negatively impacts a person's daily life. PTSD
      is a stress-related psychiatric condition that may occur following a traumatic event such as
      war, disaster, sexual abuse, violence, terrorism, and accidents. PTSD negatively impacts a
      person's daily life, resulting in relationship difficulties, difficulty in finding and
      maintaining a job, reduced cognitive and psychosocial functioning, substance abuse, high-cost
      healthcare use, and increased depression and suicide risk. Available PTSD treatments,
      including medications and therapy, effectively treat only a fraction of people who try them
      for adequate dose and duration. People with PTSD can be treated with psychotherapies and
      pharmacotherapies. In the past decade, there has been a growing amount of research into
      medications and other methods that may augment the effectiveness of psychotherapy for PTSD

      3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine is a drug that releases serotonin, norepinephrine and
      dopamine in the brain and indirectly increases levels of the neurohormones oxytocin, arginine
      vasopressin and cortisol. The combined neurobiological effects of MDMA increase compassion,
      reduce defenses and fear of emotional injury, and enhance communication and introspection.
      MDMA produces anxiolytic and prosocial effects, which counteract avoidance and hyperarousal
      in the context of therapy. A combined treatment of MDMA and psychotherapy may be especially
      useful for treating PTSD.

      This multi-site, open-label, Phase 2, lead-in study assesses the safety and effect of
      3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA)-assisted psychotherapy in participants diagnosed
      with at least severe posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Therapy teams that have been
      identified and trained to work on the sponsor's planned Phase 3 studies will treat at least
      one open-label participant in this study. The study will be conducted in up to N=60
      participants. A flexible dose of MDMA, followed by a supplemental half-dose unless
      contraindicated, is administered during the Treatment Period with manualized psychotherapy in
      three open-label monthly Experimental Sessions. This ~12-week Treatment Period is preceded by
      three Preparatory Sessions. During the Treatment Period, each Experimental Session is
      followed by three Integrative Sessions of non-drug psychotherapy. The Primary Outcome
      measure, the change in Clinician Administered PTSD Scale for DSM 5 (CAPS-5) from Baseline.
      Exploratory measures will address specific symptoms or behavior that is sometimes related to
      PTSD. Drug safety will be assessed by measuring blood pressure, heart rate and body
      temperature during experimental sessions, collecting adverse events and measuring suicidal
      thoughts or behaviors with the Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale (CSSRS). This study
      will compare the effects of three open-label manualized Experimental Sessions of
      psychotherapy assisted by flexible doses of MDMA. Initial doses per Experimental Session
      include 80 mg or 120 mg of MDMA compounded with lactose, followed 1.5 to 2 hours later by a
      supplemental half-dose (40 mg or 60 mg). Total amounts of MDMA to be administered per
      Experimental Session range from 80 mg to 180 mg.
    
  