
    
      Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is an autosomal dominant genetic disorder of lipoprotein
      metabolism characterized by markedly elevated LDL-C, premature onset of atherosclerosis and
      development of xanthomata. Patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia typically
      have total plasma cholesterol between 350 to 550 mg/dL and disease onset in their third and
      fourth decade.

      Mipomersen (ISIS 301012) is an antisense drug that reduces a protein in the liver cells
      called apolipoprotein B (apo-B). Apo-B plays a role in producing low density lipoprotein
      cholesterol (the "bad" cholesterol) and moving it from the liver to one's bloodstream. High
      LDL-C is an independent risk factor for the development of coronary heart disease (CHD) or
      other diseases of blood vessels. It has been shown that lowering LDL-C reduces the risk of
      heart attacks and other major adverse cardiovascular events.

      This study consisted of a 26-week treatment period and a 24-week post-treatment follow-up
      period (with the exception of patients who enrolled in the open-label extension study [Study
      301012-CS6; NCT00694109]). The treatment period spanned the time during which the study
      treatment was administered until the later of the primary efficacy time point (PET) or 14
      days beyond the last day of study drug administration. The post-treatment follow-up period
      began the day after completion of the treatment period and ended on the day of the patient's
      last contact date within the study.

      Following treatment and Week 28 evaluations, eligible patients who tolerated study drug could
      elect to enroll in an open-label extension study (301012-CS6). Patients who were not eligible
      for or who elected not to enroll in the open-label extension study and patients who
      discontinued during the 26-week treatment period were followed in this study for an
      additional 24 weeks from administration of the last dose of study drug.
    
  