
    
      Study site:

      The study are conducted at the Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine,
      Faculty of Medicine, Ramathibodi Hospital, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand.

      Sample size calculation:

      The sample size is obtained by using EPI Info program. Anticipated population proportion P
      which will be the major outcome of CM, the survival rate was 63% in Thailand (Chottanapund S,
      Singhasivanon P, Kaewkungwal J, Chamroonswasdi K, Manosuthi W. Survival time of HIV-infected
      patients with cryptococcal meningitis. J Med Assoc Thai. 2007 Oct;90(10):2104-11. PubMed
      PMID: 18041430). At the effect size of 80%, confidence level at 95% (P = 0.05), deviation
      error of allowanced of 5% and 210 expects HIV infected patients with CM during study period
      at Ramathibodi Hospital, the estimated sample size is 132 cases.

      Outcome measurement:

      Death case: Death case is CM patient who died for any reason during the period of follow-up.

      Survival case: Survival case is CM patient who did not die during the period of follow-up.

      Relapse case: This refers to a patient who developed a new episode of CM after clinical
      manifestations had disappeared and CSF culture had become negative, and confirmed by positive
      CSF culture for Cryptococcus neoformans.

      IRIS case: This refers to a patient who developed a new episode of clinical meningitis after
      clinical manifestations stemming from a previous episode of CM had disappeared and the
      patient had been started ART, and defined as negative CSF culture for Cryptococcus
      neoformans. Alternative etiology which presents symptoms similar to CM must be ruled out.

      Clinical outcome parameters:

      Short-term outcome: Short-term outcome is defined as the outcome that happened within 1 year
      of follow up period.

      Long-term outcome: Long-term outcome is defined as all outcomes that happened after 1 year of
      follow up period.

      Margin period to evaluate the blood findings at AmB induction therapy initiation is defined
      as within 3 months from the exact date of AmB induction therapy initiation.

      Margin period to evaluate the parameters at AmB induction therapy completion is defined as
      within 7 days from the exact date of AmB induction therapy completion.

      Margin period to evaluate the CSF findings at ART initiation is defined as within 1 month
      from the exact date of ART initiation.

      Margin period to evaluate the blood findings at ART initiation is defined as from 3 months
      before to 1 month after the exact date of ART initiation.

      Margin period to evaluate the parameters at secondary FLCZ prophylaxis completion is defined
      as within 3 months from the exact date of secondary FLCZ prophylaxis completion.

      Research methodology:

      The medical records of those diagnosed with HIV associated CM is retrieved from the medical
      record department in Ramathibodi Hospital. Then the inclusion and exclusion criteria are
      checked. We review at least 132 cases. The information from the medical records which pass
      the criteria is extracted and transferred to the case report form. Then data entry is carried
      out with coding and verified.

      Statistical analysis:

      The data will be computed by means of the descriptive statistical methods as the following
      values: frequency distribution, proportion, rate, median and range. To compare demographic
      and clinical characteristics, we will use chi-square tests or Fisher's exact tests for
      categorical variables and student's t tests or Mann-Whitney U tests for continuous variables.
      Cox's proportional hazards model and Kaplan-Meier survival analysis will be used to evaluate
      factors associated with outcomes. Hazard ratio, odds ratio and 95% CI will be calculated and
      used as a measure of the strength of the association between the outcome variables and their
      predictors. A two-tailed alpha level of 0.05 will be used to determine statistical
      significance. Statistical analyses will be performed with the statistical program, SPSS.

      Ethical committee approval:

      As a retrospective study, we review patients' medical records only. No patient are directly
      involved in this study and therefore no informed consent is obtained. The proposal is
      reviewed by the Ethical Committee of the Faculty of Tropical Medicine, Mahidol University,
      for clearance. Data collection was started after the protocol is ethically approved.

      Confidentiality:

      The names or any clues leading to the identification of the patients are not be recorded in
      CRF (case record form). Only code numbers are recorded in CRF. The information of patient's
      identification and code number are kept separately. The results are presented as medical data
      with no personal identifying information. Authorized person helps to collect data.

      Research funds:

      Funding for the study is provided by the Faculty of Tropical Medicine, Mahidol University,
      Bangkok, Thailand.
    
  