
    
      Glaucoma drainage devices (GDDs) have been used in the treatment of high-risk refractory
      glaucoma. To avoid tube exposure, which may lead to serious eye infection, the implanted GDD
      tube must be covered by a patch graft, traditionally made of either donor sclera or
      pericardium. However, these patch grafts still carry a high rate of progressive thinning and
      erosion, a complication that the investigators speculate results from the lack of cellular
      infiltration from the surrounding host conjunctival stroma and poor integration of these
      patch grafts to the host tissue. The investigators further speculate that a thicker version
      of cryo-preserved amniotic membrane (AM), manufactured by Bio-Tissue, Inc.,could offer better
      tensile strength, be suitable for tectonic support, and have biological activities to promote
      cellular infiltration by the surrounding host conjunctival stroma, thus reducing progressive
      allogeneic patch graft thinning/erosion.

      Through SBIR Phase I grant support (R43 EY19785), the investigators have evaluated the
      thicker AM as an alternative patch graft for covering the GDD tube during the primary
      implantation. The investigators further monitored the host cell interaction using anterior
      segment optical coherence tomography (OCT). The investigators have successfully accomplished
      the proposed aims of the above studies, which demonstrated the short-term stability/efficacy
      of AM in covering the tube in primary GDD surgery (Phase I-Aim 1) and confirmed the
      feasibility of using OCT to distinguish host cell infiltration into the AM after
      transplantation over the GDD tube (Phase I-Aim 2).

      In this SBIR Phase II, the investigators propose to conduct a prospective, controlled study
      to compare the long-term safety and efficacy of the thicker AM (AmnioGuard™, Bio-Tissue, Inc,
      Miami, FL) to the pericardium (Tutoplast®, IOP Inc, Costa Mesa, CA) in securing the GDD tube
      and reducing tube exposure and graft thinning in patients with high risk glaucoma. The
      investigators will also study the risk factors that may contribute to GDD tube exposure.

      Accomplishment of this Phase II study will position AM as an effective alternative to the
      existing patch grafts to reduce tube exposure and enhance the success of GDD implantation,
      while providing a better aesthetic appearance and allowing visualization of the tube in
      patients with high risk glaucoma. The investigators speculate that such a graft might also
      have other clinical applications outside of covering GDD tubes.
    
  