
    
      Evidence is increasing that there is no clear parameter for tissue oxygenation in critically
      ill septic patients to guide resuscitation. New studies have shown the potential of
      protoporphyrin IX-triple state lifetime technique to measure mitochondrial oxygenation
      tension (mitoPO2) in vivo, which possibly is an early indicator of oxygen disbalance in the
      cell and therefore a physiological trigger for fluid therapy.

      Objectives: 1. To describe mitoPO2 measurements in patients with sepsis who are about to
      receive fluid therapy 2. To describe the effects of fluid therapy and the associated change
      in mitoPO2 and change in other physiologic measures of tissue oxygenation and oxygen balance
      3.To describe the association between mitoPO2 and vital organ (dis)functions and change of
      SOFA (Sequential organ failure assessment) score after 24hrs 5. To describe the
      microcirculatory, cellular and mitochondrial function during the first 24 hours of septic
      patients.

      Study population: critically ill patients with sepsis which are admitted to the intensive
      care unit through the emergency department or hospital ward and in whom fluid therapy
      (crystalloid, albumin and red cell transfusion) is planned.

      Main study endpoints

      Primary endpoint: Change in mitoPO2 after fluid therapy. This will be compared to traditional
      parameters used to measure oxygenation and oxygen balance

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  Association of mitoPO2 trend with separate (ischemic) organ (dis)function. The SOFA
           score after 24 hours will also be assessed.

        -  Safety of mitoPO2 measurements in critically ill septic patients.

        -  Description of the association of sepsis with microcirculatory function, cellular
           function and mitochondrial function.

        -  Description of the association between mitoPO2 change and clinical outcomes , like
           length of stay(both ICU and in-hospital) and mortality (both ICU and in-hospital).
    
  