
    
      [Background]

      Medication non-adherence is a major public health issue for patients with diabetes.
      Approximately one third of patients with T2DM are non-compliant with their diabetes
      medication. This is problematic since suboptimal medication adherence has been shown to
      contribute to inferior glycemic control, increased healthcare costs, hospitalization and
      premature death. The aforementioned ramifications of nonadherence to chronic medication are a
      product of barriers to diabetes self-care behavior including patient-related factors
      associated with glycemic control. Dr. Chandra Osborn and colleagues have identified
      targetable patient factors related to patients' medication-adherence related knowledge (e.g.,
      information about medication purpose and dosage), motivation (e.g., awareness of medication
      benefits, social support for adherence) and self-efficacy or skills (e.g., ability to
      remember dosages and obtain refills). Said factors map onto the
      Information-Motivation-Behavioral skills (IMB) model, which has informed effective adherence
      promotion interventions among individuals with other chronic illnesses and may have utility
      in promoting medication adherence among patients with T2DM.

      Intervention content will be informed by a validated theory of medication adherence.
      Interventions are seldom informed by empirically established theories. This is problematic
      since theory-based interventions (i.e., interventions that draw upon theories that are
      relevant to the target population) have proven to be more effective than atheoretical
      interventions. Few published intervention studies specifically address medication adherence
      among adults with T2DM and of these limited studies, only one is grounded in theory. The
      study's web-based intervention is driven from the aforementioned IMB model of adherence. This
      model incorporates central components of other theoretical models and has been validated in
      cross-sectional and intervention research among patients with acquired illnesses.
      Furthermore, recent empirical findings indicate the IMB model's success in predicting
      outcomes in our target T2DM population. Thus, it is reasonable to believe an intervention
      (i.e., Diabetes MAP) that delivers IMB model-based content to a T2DM population may
      successfully improve medication compliance.

      Patient web portal (PWP)-delivered medication adherence promotion interventions are a
      practical tool for relaying health-related information and resources. The magnitude of the
      consequences associated with nonadherence to chronic medications makes web-based
      interventions imperative as they aim to reduce the impact of barriers to medication-taking
      practices. While there are few medication adherence promotion interventions specifically
      designed for patients with T2DM, the literature suggests barriers to medication adherence
      practices may be reduced with the use of interactive behavior change technologies (IBCT) that
      provide patients with access to resources, web tools and health knowledge. While there can be
      limitations to patient websites (e.g., poor design), the usability of the web-based health
      intervention Diabetes MAP has been previously evaluated in relation to ease of interaction
      and accessibility to individually-tailored components aimed at increasing diabetes-related
      knowledge, motivations and skills. This study aims to leverage the use of Diabetes MAP to
      help T2DM patients overcome barriers to self-care and promote medication adherence behavior
      and improve diabetes outcomes.

      Personality measures may moderate adherence and effectiveness of a PWP-delivered
      intervention. In an attempt to broaden our understanding of self-care behavior, the study
      implements an additional instrument, the Mindful Attention Awareness Scale (MAAS), to obtain
      a personality measure of mindfulness. Mindfulness is a psychological construct of Buddhist
      origin that draws together deliberate attention to moment-to-moment occurrences and the
      cultivation of knowledge, positive emotions and ethical behavior. The MAAS is a validated
      15-item scale designed to measure an individual's awareness and ability to attend to what is
      occurring in the present moment. Studies indicate that the quality of mindfulness targeted by
      the MAAS is related to, and predictive of, certain self-regulation and well-being constructs.
      More specifically, mindfulness has been linked to increased subjective well-being, reduced
      psychological symptoms and reactivity, and improved behavioral regulation, all of which may
      be correlated with self-care behavior and better decision making regarding health (i.e.,
      diet, exercise). Therefore, study participants with high baseline levels of self-awareness
      may draw even greater benefits from use of the Diabetes MAP website and therefore display
      greater medication adherence and lower A1c levels than those scoring lower on the MAAS.

      [Study Objective/Aim]

      The goal of this research is to evaluate a web-based medication adherence promotion
      intervention that uses patient-specific information (e.g., diabetes medication, survey
      responses) to deliver tailored content via the Diabetes MAP website to adults with T2DM.

      The specific aim is to evaluate the ability of an existing PWP-delivered medication adherence
      promotion intervention (Diabetes MAP) to improve medication adherence and glycemic control
      among patient participants with T2DM. Investigators will randomly allocate patients to a
      treatment (website intervention or no intervention) and subsequently test the website's
      ability to increase self-reported adherence to glucose lowering agents (GLAs) and improve
      diabetes health outcomes as demonstrated by lowered HbA1c levels.

      [Significance]

      This project evaluates the effect of the PWP-delivered medication adherence promotion
      intervention, Diabetes MAP, on patient adherence to glucose lowering agents (GLAs) and
      patient HbA1c. The study serves to fill the gap in the current literature by focusing on the
      power of interactive and individually-tailored technology to support medication adherence and
      the subsequent health benefits that arise when T2DM patients properly adhere to their
      prescribed medical regimen. In addition to reducing personal costs (e.g., hospitalization,
      mortality, healthcare fees), improving medication adherence among T2DM patients may benefit
      society by reducing the burden said individuals' health status places on the broader
      population. Ultimately, the tools and techniques utilized and the data collected from this
      study will provide insight for future studies that may seek to utilize web-based
      interventions to reach and impact medically afflicted individuals.
    
  