
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is a highly prevalent neuro-degenerative disorder in older adults
      that leads to reduced activity levels, physical disability, and accelerated age-related
      decline in mobility. Gait dysfunction and postural instability are key motor problems that
      develop with disease progression and adversely affect independent mobility, fall risk and
      activity participation. Prevention of balance, gait and functional decline are priority goals
      in physical therapy management for individuals with PD. Early activity-based and exercise
      interventions are supported as critical components for disease management and slowing disease
      progression. Furthermore, the underlying mechanisms by which exercise-based interventions
      effect changes in motor and non-motor symptoms in PD need to be further elucidated.

      Individualized aerobic exercise prescription that is task-specific, challenging, and feasible
      for an independent exercise program is needed for individuals with PD to optimize their
      walking and motor function and sustain long-term engagement in regular physical exercise.
      Walking as a form of aerobic exercise has been reported to be safe in a community setting and
      to improve functional and gait outcomes and quality of life in PD. Nordic walking (NW) is a
      form of fitness walking using specialty poles that mimics the full body movement pattern of
      cross-country skiing, can be performed in varied terrains and may offer additional benefits
      beyond simple treadmill or over ground walking. NW technique has specific benefits for
      Parkinson gait, as it incorporates rhythmic timing of inter-limb coordination, increased
      engagement of upper extremities and upright trunk, and high energy expenditure resulting in a
      beneficial aerobic conditioning effect.

      There is also consistent scientific evidence in both clinical and animal studies that shows
      the benefits of exercise at the cellular level in PD. Moderate to intense aerobic exercise
      enhances PD brain health and supports neural plasticity. Cellular changes include increased
      blood flow and angiogenesis, up-regulated neurotrophic factors, reduced neuro-inflammation,
      and enhanced immune responses. This project will evaluate the effects of NW in persons with
      PD at the molecular level with 3 known exercise-related bio-markers. These 3 bio-markers are
      brain-derived neurotropic factor (BDNF), cortisol, and alpha-amylase (α-amylase) proteins.

      Study objectives:

      Given the rapid accumulation of evidence showing the benefits of exercise in PD, there is a
      need to investigate which modes of exercise training have positive effects both on clinical
      measures and on bio-markers that are indicative of biochemical changes to support PD brain
      health. With a previously reported moderate aerobic conditioning effect following NW in both
      healthy elderly and PD cohorts, the premise is that this intensive fitness walking may
      produce changes at the cellular and molecular levels. Investigating changes in walking and
      motor/non-motor function following NW exercise and correlating these changes with
      exercise-related bio-markers may provide foundation support for the neuro-protective benefit
      of NW in persons with PD. Thus, the purpose of this proof-of concept study is to investigate
      the immediate and long-term effects of NW exercise on walking function, motor/non-motor PD
      symptoms and exercise-related bio-markers in persons with mild to moderate idiopathic PD.
      Additionally, this study will examine independent NW exercise engagement after a supervised
      training program to assess feasibility and sustainability of this mode of task-specific
      aerobic exercise.

      Study Design:

      This study will employ a prospective, single cohort pre- and post-intervention research
      design. Rationale for this design is twofold: 1. proof-of-concept in order to assess
      intervention effects based on functional and clinical measures following NW training and
      examine if these measures are associated with changes in exercise-related bio-markers in PD;
      and 2. assessment of feasibility of independent engagement in NW exercise after a supervised
      program in persons with mild to moderate PD as a mode of task-specific physical activity
      engagement. This research design will involve a 4-week baseline phase with two time points
      for assessment of dependent measures (T0-A and T0-B) to assess for a stable baseline,
      followed by a 6-week NW training intervention phase with a post-training assessment (T1) at
      the end of the 6 weeks, and a 3-month independent NW exercise phase with a follow-up
      assessment at the end of the 3 months (T2). Previous work in our lab has demonstrated
      significant improvements in walking and balance measures following a 6-week treadmill and
      rhythmic over ground auditory cuing protocols, and therefore, a 6-week training duration is
      expected to be sufficient for inducing training effects. Supervised NW adherence and
      independent NW exercise adherence, as well as any adverse effects will be monitored to
      determine feasibility and safety, particularly for independent NW phase of the study.

      Data Analysis:

      Descriptive statistics on patients' demographic characteristics (e.g. age, disease duration,
      stage, PD sub-type, fall history, activity level classification, medications and
      co-morbidity) will be documented. PD sub-type is categorized as tremor dominant, posture
      instability/gait difficulty, and indeterminate, based on MDS-UPDRS score. Descriptive
      statistics on patient's training sessions and training progression across the six weeks will
      be synthesized and analyzed. This training session data will include: training activities,
      walking speed, duration and distance of NW, Rating of Perceived Exertion, and walking
      terrain. Data from activity logs will be examined to reflect independent NW exercise
      adherence and activity level (number of steps/day) both during the 6-week training program
      and the follow-up independent exercise phase. Fall report data and any adverse events will be
      documented. This adherence and safety descriptive data during 3-month follow-up phase will
      reflect feasibility of independent home NW exercise program following a supervised NW
      training program.

      Descriptive statistics for the gait, clinical PD-motor and non-motor, and bio-marker outcome
      measures will be calculated. Comparison of the two-baseline gait and clinical measures
      (Baseline-week 1 T0-A vs baseline week 4 T0-B) will be analyzed using dependent t-tests to
      determine if there was a stable baseline for these dependent measures. If analysis reveals no
      differences between baseline measures, then measures taken at T0-B will be used for
      comparison to T1 and T2 measures. If analysis reveals differences between baseline measures,
      then the average of the two measures will be used for comparison to T1 and T2 measures.
      Dependent measures distribution across the three time points (T0, T1, T2) will be analyzed to
      assess if meet the assumption of normal distributions. If the data are normally distributed,
      one-way repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) with planned contrasts will be used
      for each outcome measure to compare baseline to T1, baseline to T2, and T1 to T2. ANOVA is a
      statistical method to test differences between two or more means (mean = average of a data
      set). A repeated measures ANOVA can be used to determine whether there is any statistically
      significant difference between the means of three or related groups (in this study, a related
      group is a specific time point). Repeated measures ANOVA will also be used to assess the
      changes in means over 8 collection time points in the BDNF, cortisol, and α-amylase data and
      show a time-course of the NW exercise effects in persons with PD. P value was set at p <.05
      for all statistical tests. To examine the magnitude of the training effects, the Cohen effect
      size will be calculated for those variables that demonstrated statistically significant
      change.

      Raw data of gene expression will be normalized and background corrected to set the data set
      to a common scale and remove the effects of non-specific binding across the micro arrays. The
      Limma package in R, a computational programming language for statistical computing and
      graphics will be used. Differential-expressed genes can then be identified to show gene
      expression changes that are statistically significant between different time points.
    
  