
    
      Locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) is treated with various
      combinations of radiation and chemotherapy. Docetaxel and cisplatin have been combined in
      Phase II trials in recurrent or metastatic head and neck cancer with very encouraging
      results. Induction therapy with docetaxel/cisplatin followed by chemoradiotherapy was
      investigated in a randomized Phase II study in nasopharyngeal cancer and showed superior PFS
      and OS in comparison with chemoradiation alone. Cetuximab is a chimerized EGFR monoclonal
      antibody that has produced positive results in Phase III trials in combination with either
      radiation for locally advanced disease or chemotherapy for metastatic disease. Upregulation
      of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) has been associated with cetuximab resistance.
      Bevacizumab, an anti-VEGF antibody is currently being investigated in SCCHN with promising
      results. The investigators have previously shown that cisplatin, docetaxel and cetuximab
      (TPE) followed by radiotherapy, cisplatin and cetuximab (XPE) is feasible and highly
      efficacious in locally advanced SCCHN (Argiris, A. et al.JCO 2011). In this Phase II study
      the investigators evaluate the addition of bevacizumab to induction therapy with TPE (TPE-A)
      and to subsequent XPE (XPE-A).

      Specific aims:

      To evaluate the rate of complete responses with induction therapy (primary endpoint) and
      progression-free survival, overall survival and objective response rates. Also, the
      investigators plan to investigate a panel of EGFR and angiogenesis biomarkers in pre- and
      post- treatment tumor biopsies. Finally, the investigators will evaluate the associated
      treatment toxicities and the quality of life.

      Subject population:

      The investigators will enroll patients with previously untreated locally advanced SCCHN (see
      detailed eligibility criteria).

      Treatment plan:

      Induction therapy consists of 3 cycles of bevacizumab 15mg/kg on day 1, docetaxel 75mg/m2 on
      day 1, loading dose of cetuximab 400mg/m2 on cycle 1, day 1, then 250 mg/m2 on all subsequent
      administrations (Day 8 and 15 of cycle 1 and days 1,8,15 of cycles 2 and 3), cisplatin
      75mg/m2 on day 1, docetaxel 75mg/m2 on day 1, repeated every 21 days. After 3 cycles of
      induction therapy, patients will receive standard radiation 70-74 Gy/ 200 cGy/ daily, 5 days/
      week with concurrent weekly cisplatin 30mg/m2, cetuximab 250mg/m2 and bevacizumab 15mg/kg
      every 3 weeks x 3. There is optional surgery for non-responders in the primary (stable
      disease) after TPE-A.

      Statistical design and sample size:

      Phase II, two-stage study with complete response rate after induction therapy as the primary
      endpoint. The sample size is 33 patients.
    
  