
    
      Cognitive Testing Phase:

      If participant agrees to take part in this study, participant will take part in a one-on-one
      interview where participant will be asked questions about participant's health and the
      disease. This is called the cognitive testing phase. Notes about the interviews may be kept
      so that the responses can be reviewed later by the study doctor and research staff.The
      interview may take from 45-60 minutes to complete.

      Pilot Testing Phase:

      Participant may be asked to take part in the next phase of the study called the pilot testing
      phase. If participant takes part in this phase, participant will have a second one-on-one
      interview. The interview will last from 45-60 minutes.

      Participant may also be asked to complete a questionnaire about the disease, what participant
      understands about it, and the treatment plan recommended for participant. Participant will
      also be asked to give participant's opinion about colorectal cancer follow-up materials. If
      participant is asked to complete it, the questionnaire will be completed during the
      interview, in person. The questionnaire will take 35-45 minutes.

      Collection of Information:

      Information may be collected from participant's medical record about participant's health,
      participant's treatment, basic information like participant's age and participant's gender,
      and the disease. Information will not be collected from all participants.

      Length of Study Participation:

      If participant takes part in the cognitive testing phase only, participation in this study
      will end when participant has completed the interview.

      If participant takes part in the pilot testing phase, participation in this study will end
      when participant has completed the second interview and questionnaire if participant was
      asked to complete it.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 100 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  