
    
      -  In a US nation-wide survey, lower urinary tract symptoms are one of the strongest
           predictors that patients will seek complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) care. In
           comparison to general gynecological patients, urogynecological patients are particularly
           prone to seek help in CAM. Moreover out of the different CAM options, herbal medication
           is one of the most preferred treatments. However, the effectiveness of CAM regarding OAB
           has not yet been adequately and objectively evaluated. Therefore, it is timely and
           essential to elucidate the mode of action as well as to prove efficacy of herbal
           treatments by a translational approach including comprehensive in vitro experimentation
           and randomized controlled clinical trials. Bryophyllum pinnatum and specially the
           flavonoid components have shown a muscle relaxing effect on porcine bladder strips.

        -  Study Design: Multicenter, prospective, double-blind randomized, placebo-controlled
           cross-over study, phase III to test the superiority of Bryophyllum pinnatum (BP) over
           placebo in the treatment of overactive bladder.

        -  In this cross-over trial a total of 30 patients is needed to proof the superiority of BP
           over placebo (5 randomization blocs, each 6 patients). Each patient gets each of the
           three study drugs (BP, Solifenacin, Placebo) in a double-blind randomization. The number
           of patients was calculated in a post-hoc analysis based on the primary endpoint of a
           previous study (reduction of micturition rates/24hours; 9.5 (SD2.2) before and 7.8
           (SD1.2) after Bryophyllum versus 9.3 (SD1.8) before and 9.1(SD1.6) after placebo), under
           the assumption of a normal data distribution and a power of 80% a patient number of
           2x20. Plus 10% for non-parametric tests in the case of a non-normal distribution
           (Wilcoxon) were added, what generated a number of 2x22 patients.

        -  In order to facilitate an equality in the randomization, the investigator choose a
           cross-over design. Due to the length of the study time, the drop-out rate was risen from
           10 to 20% what yielded under the assumption of a equal block randomization the number of
           30 patients. Additionally, an explorative arm containing the standard medication
           Vesicare was inserted, as this is of great clinical interest. For this explorative
           comparative arm are no existing data that would allow to do a power calculation.

        -  This follow-up study will give a compelling answer on the efficacy or non-efficacy of BP
           as well as the safety of BP in respect to placebo and possible answers of its position
           regarding the standard medication Vesicare.
    
  