
    
      Background: The number of patients in need of prolonged mechanical ventilation as means of
      life support is rapidly growing due to advancements in life-saving medical care for
      critically ill patients, an aging population, and the expanding use of aggressive surgical
      treatments. Both overfeeding and underfeeding are found to negatively affect the weaning
      process from mechanical ventilation. The caloric demands of chronically ventilated patients
      are reduced due to immobility and minimal energy requirements. Nowadays, nutrition plans are
      determined using the RDI (recommended dietary intake) formula, according to a patient's own
      weight and height. The RDI formula does not take into account the negligible activity levels
      of chronically ventilated patients or their deteriorating muscle mass, which is severely
      reduced due to prolonged periods of inactivity. This, in turn, may lead to increased body fat
      mass and fluid retention - which are both deleterious to the patients' health and may hinder
      their weaning from prolonged mechanical ventilation. Calorimetry is an accurate tool for
      measuring energy expenditures allowing us to assess the actual energy requirements of every
      patient. In indirect calorimetry, measurements of gas exchange are used to determine oxygen
      consumption versus the production and release of carbon dioxide. The "Reuth" Rehabilitation
      Hospital houses 108 chronically ventilated adult patients at a given moment, with turnover
      rates of 70-80 patients per year. If possible, these patients eventually undergo ventilation
      weaning. The current success rate for ventilation weaning reaches 55%, with a total duration
      of approximately two months.

      Aim: To increase the success rates of prolonged ventilation weaning, i.e achieve a higher
      percentage of patients who successfully undergo mechanical ventilation weaning, with a
      shorter overall weaning time.

      Hypotheses: The rates of chronically ventilated patients weaned off invasive ventilation will
      increase to 70% in the intervention group, and the average weaning period will be reduced by
      10 ± 4 days.

      Methods: A randomized controlled intervention trial that will include 200 chronically
      ventilated patients admitted to the "Reuth" Rehabilitation Hospital, who meet the criteria
      for weaning from prolonged mechanical ventilation. Patients in the intervention group (n=100)
      will undergo precise calorimetric measurements using indirect calorimetry and will be
      administered with a nutrition plan in accordance with these measurements. Nutrition plans of
      patients in the control group (n=100) will be calculated and administered according to
      current RDI conventions (up to 24 Kcal/kg/day). In order to assure blinding, patients in the
      control group will undergo the same calorimetric measurements using indirect calorimetry,
      however, these results will not be used in any way to determine or influence the nutritional
      plan.

      Significance: In the United States, the use of prolonged mechanical ventilation increases by
      5.5% annually, while total admissions rates increase by just 1% per year. According to
      estimates, the total number of patients requiring prolonged mechanical ventilation will be
      doubled by 2020, reaching 305,898 cases. It is safe to assume that similar trends exist in
      Israel, where 635 hospital beds are allocated to the ventilated patients. The total monthly
      admission costs for every ventilated patient in Israel are estimated at 14,140 USD, reaching
      nine million USD a year. Prolonged mechanical ventilation has a negative impact on both the
      patient and his family while caring for ventilated patients imposes a heavy burden on the
      health care system. In this study, we strive to increase the success rates of prolonged
      ventilation weaning, thereby improving ventilated patients' outcomes and alleviating the
      hardships inflicted on the patients, their families, and the health care system as a whole.
    
  