
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of MK-2206 (Akt inhibitor MK2206) in
      combination therapy with bendamustine (bendamustine hydrochloride)-rituximab in relapsed
      chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) patients. (Phase I)
      II. To assess the rate of complete response (CR) of MK-2206 in combination with
      bendamustine-rituximab in relapsed CLL or SLL patients. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess clinical efficacy of MK-2206 in combination with bendamustine-rituximab as
      demonstrated by analysis of overall response rate (CR, complete response with incomplete bone
      marrow recovery [CRi], clinical complete response [CCR], near partial response [nPR] and
      partial response [PR]), duration of response, and treatment free survival.

      II. To assess the toxicity profile of MK-2206 in combination with bendamustine-rituximab.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluation of whether the established CLL prognostic factors (cluster of differentiation
      [CD]38, CD49d, immunoglobulin heavy chain variable [IGHV], fluorescence in situ hybridization
      [FISH] and zeta-chain-associated protein kinase 70 [ZAP-70]) predict responses to the
      combination therapy of MK2206, with bendamustine-rituximab.

      II. Minimal residual disease will be evaluated after treatment in patients who achieve a
      clinical response; minimal residual disease (MRD) status will be explored in relation to both
      the quality and duration of response.

      III. Evaluation of the effects of the addition of MK-2206 to bendamustine-rituximab on B cell
      receptor initiated, phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt downstream signal pathways,
      apoptosis analysis and leukemic cell activation status, as well as multiple cytokine profiles
      and key gene expression analysis with focus on leukemic cells.

      IV. Evaluation of marrow stromal cells (MSC)-CLL biology including the effects of the
      addition of MK-2206 to bendamustine-rituximab on CLL marrow stromal cell (MSC) proliferation,
      migration and cytokine production, as well as the adhesion capacity between MSC and leukemic
      cells.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of Akt inhibitor MK2206 followed by a phase
      II study.

      Patients receive Akt inhibitor MK2206 orally (PO) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 (days 1, 8, 15,
      22, and 29 of course 1); rituximab intravenously (IV) on day 1 (day 8 of course 1); and
      bendamustine hydrochloride IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1-2 (days 8-9 of course 1).
      Treatment repeats every 28 days (35 days for course 1 and 84 days for course 6) for 6 courses
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 or 12 months for 3 years.
    
  