
    
      This is a single-center, uncontrolled, open-label, single administration patient study. Male
      and female subjects aged 6 through 17 years of age in need of primary tooth extraction will
      be recruited from the Principal Investigator's database and may be supplemented by
      advertising. Subjects who withdraw from the study prematurely will be replaced.

      Subjects will undergo an initial screening visit at which eligibility will be determined.
      After completion of informed consent/assent a physical examination, vitals, 12-lead ECG, and
      dental examination will be conducted. A medical history will be documented and a blood sample
      will be collected for analysis of biochemistry, hematology and as appropriate, serum
      pregnancy assessment for females.

      Subjects will return to the office approximately 1 to 10 days after Visit 1 for Visit 2. At
      Visit 2, study treatment will be administered and PK blood samples will be collected for
      analysis, and monitored for safety parameters. Up to a total of five cartridges of Oraqix®
      will be administered to the oral cavity in the area of the tooth extraction, based on the
      body weight of the subject. No more than five cartridges will be dispensed, since this is the
      maximum dose for this agent. The final sample will be collected 4 hours after administration
      of study material. An abbreviated dental examination will be conducted, any adverse events
      (AEs) will be documented and the subject will be discharged from the clinic.

      All subjects will be contacted by telephone approximately 24 hours after administration of
      study treatment. Study personnel will enquire about the occurrence of any AEs that have
      occurred since leaving the office. If appropriate, further follow-up of AEs will be arranged.
      In the absence of any ongoing AEs requiring follow up the subject will be considered to have
      completed the study at the completion of the telephone call.
    
  