
    
      This study will recruit patients from the NY/NJ/CT/eastern PA area only.

      Cryopreservation of human oocytes has a great potential to preserve or extend fertility in
      the face of disease whose treatment would result in a loss of ovarian function. (malignancy,
      severe autoimmune disease, etc.). It would also provide a means of quarantining oocytes to be
      used in oocyte donation to provide the lowest possible risk of infection.

      There are two methods for storage of oocytes: slow freezing or vitrification. Slow freezing
      is the conventional method and has been successfully used for embryos since 1983 and more
      recently for oocytes. Recent reports indicate that vitrification may be more successful than
      slow freezing. However, the technique has not been rigorously validated to date. The aim of
      this study is to determine the rate of cryosurvival of mature oocytes following
      vitrification, and to then compare the reproductive potential of vitrified oocytes relative
      to those which have not been cryopreserved.

      Patients will undergo ovarian stimulation for in vitro fertilization (IVF) according to the
      protocol recommended by their primary doctor. After retrieval, mature oocytes will be divided
      in half. One half will undergo vitrification, immediate thaw and intracytoplasmic sperm
      injection (ICSI). The other half will undergo just ICSI. All embryos will then develop on
      identical culture until day 3 or day 5. Prior to transfer, the best embryo from each group
      will undergo biopsy for genetic fingerprinting. The patient will have a 2 embryo transfer
      (one from each group). All extra embryos will be biopsied for pre-implantation genetic
      diagnosis (PGD) prior to being cryopreserved. If the patient becomes pregnant, we will follow
      up with an additional blood draw at approximately 9 weeks gestation and buccal swabs after
      the delivery of the infant(s).
    
  