
    
      Stroke patients will be prospectively recruited to the trial on admission to A&E. The patient
      will undergo normal clinical assessment and treatment for stroke. As soon after admission as
      possible, a finger-prick blood sample will be taken from the patient and the SMARTChip device
      will be used to measure the levels of purines in the sample. A medical history of factors
      relevant to the purine test will also be established. This will include factors such as any
      medications that might alter purine levels, a prior history of strokes, diabetes, a history
      (individual or family) of gout, and when they last had food. The patient will also be given a
      CT head scan as part of their normal treatment.

      In sub-set of patients repeated blood samples (once per hour for 6 hours) will be taken to
      gain information on how purine levels may change in blood following a stroke. In all
      patients, the blood purines will be re-tested at 24h (±3h).

      All patients will be offered the option of an MRI brain scan at 24-72h post-admission and
      recruitment will continue until 100 patients with MRI measurements have been enrolled. The
      flexibility in the timing of the scan is to allow scheduling of the scan to fit in with other
      demands on the MRI. The purpose of the scan is to identify the nature of the cerebrovascular
      event and quantify any infarction or area of brain bleeding.

      Control participants will give blood on 2 occasions 24h apart for a purine test. The purpose
      of this control is two-fold: 1) to establish the variability of blood purines in healthy
      controls and 2) to test whether stroke patients have elevated blood purine levels compared to
      healthy controls.

      Healthy volunteer feeding controls will give a baseline blood sample, eat a simple purine
      rich meal (a meat sandwich) and then give 4 more blood samples at 10, 30, 60 and 120 minutes
      following the meal. The purpose of this control is to test whether ingestion of a recent meal
      might alter baseline blood purine measurements.

      Main study patients recruited at University Hospitals North Midlands NHS Trust will also be
      given the option of participating in the Spasticity and Pharmacokinetic sub-studies.
      Participants taking part in the Spasticity sub-study will provide an additional blood sample
      to measure biomarkers and will undergo a spasticity assessment at admission, 24h, 72h, 7d and
      one or two clinic visits between 30-90d post-admission. Participants taking part in the
      pharmacokinetic sub-group will provide an additional blood sample for measurement of
      glutamate and other biomarkers at admission, 24h, 72h, 7d and 30-90d post-admission.
    
  