
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Beginning in the 1920s, death rates from coronary heart disease in the United States rose in
      an unyielding fashion reaching epidemic proportions by the mid-1960s. Since that time,
      mortality attributed to coronary heart disease has leveled off and then turned markedly
      downwards. In the ten-year period between 1968 and 1978 there was a greater than 25 percent
      decline in the overall age-adjusted death rate from coronary heart disease, a phenomenon
      observed in both sexes, all age groups and in the three major race/ethnic groups. While this
      significant and encouraging decline appeared real and not due to artifactual changes in death
      certification practices, the causes of this decrease remain obscure and coronary heart
      disease continues as a major cause of death and disability in the United States.
      Internationally, inconsistent trends in mortality rates attributed to coronary heart disease
      have occurred. These rates declined from the early 1960s for Australia, Canada, France,
      Japan, Switzerland and Italy while mortality rates from coronary heart disease continued to
      increase from this period until the late 1970s for England and Wales, Ireland, Finland,
      Norway, New Zealand and Israel.

      Despite this encouraging and enigmatic decline in mortality attributed to coronary heart
      disease in the United States and certain other countries, a paucity of population-based data
      exist to ascertain whether this temporal decline in death rates is due to changes in the
      incidence rates of new coronary events, changes in survival after an acute coronary episode
      or combinations thereof. These data are of crucial importance for formulating explanations
      for these declining mortality rates. A decline in the incidence rates of coronary heart
      disease would suggest that the mortality decline is due to measures of primary prevention and
      changes in the prevalence and/or levels of the major coronary risk factors such as, increased
      detection and control of hypertension, decreased cigarette smoking and declining serum
      cholesterol levels. If, however, the incidence rates of coronary heart disease are remaining
      steady or even increasing, a likely explanation of this downward trend in cardiovascular
      mortality would be that it is due to effort directed at secondary prevention including the
      establishment and more effective utilization of coronary care units, therapeutic
      interventions, and emergency medical services.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This longitudinal study examines recent (1997 and 1999) as compared to prior (1975, 1978,
      1981, 1984, 1986, 1988, 1990, 1991, 1993, and 1995) time trends in the annual attack rates of
      acute myocardial infarction and out-of-hospital coronary heart disease deaths, recent (1997
      and 1999) as well as prior (1975-1995) changes over time in the in-hospital and long-term
      survival rates of acute myocardial infarction, and the relationship of these incidence and
      survival patterns of acute myocardial infarction to selected demographic, clinical and
      medical care factors. The study also examines changes over time in the therapeutic
      management, diagnostic evaluation, and surgical workup of patients hospitalized with acute
      myocardial infarction, as well as related issues of cost.

      The study was renewed in 1992 and again in 1997. The 1997 renewal study, carried out in 13
      acute general hospitals in the Worcester Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area, used and
      extended previous approaches used in the conduct of the study. All new (incident) and
      recurrent episodes of definite acute myocardial infarction occurring among Worcester
      residents during calendar years 1997 and 1999 were identified from discharge diagnostic
      printouts obtained from all metropolitan Worcester hospitals. The medical records of these
      patients were individually reviewed for validation purposes according to pre-established
      diagnostic criteria for acute myocardial infarction. Abstraction of medical records of the
      patients satisfying the diagnostic and geographic eligibility criteria were carried out with
      the standardized recording of relevant data. A review of records for additional
      hospitalizations and a statewide and national search of death certificates were carried out
      to examine the long-term survival status of discharged hospital patients from each of the
      proposed study years as well as those identified previously (1975-1995) through the year
      2000. Death certificates of Worcester SMSA residents were reviewed to identify cases of
      out-of-hospital deaths due to coronary heart disease occurring in 1997 and 1999 to determine
      temporal trends in these incidence rates.

      The study was renewed in 2001 for five years to examine to examine recent (2000 and 2003) as
      compared to prior (1975 to 1999) trends in the annual attack and survival rates of AMI,
      out-of-hospital deaths attributed to CHD, and the relationship of these incidence and
      survival patterns of AMI to demographic, clinical, and medical care factors. An additional
      objective of this multi-hospital community-wide study is to examine changes over time in the
      use of selected therapies and coronary interventional approaches in patients hospitalized
      with AMI.
    
  