
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the survival of patients with stage II, III, or IV adenocarcinoma of the
           pancreas treated with gemcitabine versus intensive proteolytic enzyme therapy and
           adjunctive dietary and nutritional support.

        -  Compare the quality of life in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label study. Patients are stratified according to stage (II or III
      vs IV), performance status (0-1 vs 2) and nutritional status (well nourished or moderately
      malnourished vs severely malnourished). Patients are entered into 1 of 2 treatment arms at
      their choice:

        -  Arm I (Nutritional Arm): Patients receive pancreatic enzymes orally every 4 hours and at
           meals daily on days 1-16, followed by 5 days of rest. Patients receive magnesium citrate
           and Papaya Plus with the pancreatic enzymes. Additionally, patients receive nutritional
           supplementation with vitamins, minerals, trace elements, and animal glandular products 4
           times per day on days 1-16, followed by 5 days of rest. Courses repeat every 21 days
           until death despite relapse. Patients consume a moderate vegetarian metabolizer diet
           during the course of therapy, which excludes red meat, poultry, and white sugar. Coffee
           enemas are performed twice a day, along with skin brushing daily, skin cleansing once a
           week with castor oil during the first 6 months of therapy, and a salt and soda bath each
           week. Patients also undergo a complete liver flush and a clean sweep and purge on a
           rotating basis each month during the 5 days of rest.

        -  Arm II (Chemotherapy Arm): Patients receive gemcitabine-based chemotherapy. Quality of
           life is assessed at 0, 2, 6, and 12 months and then yearly thereafter.

      Patients are followed at 1, 3, 7, and 12 months and then yearly thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 72-90 patients will be accrued for this study within 3
      years.
    
  