
    
      Introduction The motor impairment of the upper extremity is the most common sequelae after
      ischemic stroke. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a promising non- invasive
      technique in the rehabilitation of motor deficits. However, its effect in post-stroke motor
      deficits remains moderate the investigators days. To potentiate the effect of TMS, techniques
      called Paired Associative Stimulations (PAS) involving the integration of afferent sensory
      inputs at the level of the ipsilesional primary motor cortex were developed in healthy
      subjects. PAS techniques have shown a gain of corticospinal excitability by such phenomenon
      known as long Term Potentiation (LTP) and a gain of motor performance. The investigators
      would like to propose to evaluate two types of these techniques with a volley of visual
      afferents (visuomotor stimulation, V_PAS) or of cerebellar afferents (CER_PAS), because these
      two structures convey important information in the execution of the movement.

      Design Multicenter, randomized study, 60 patients in 3 parallel groups (V_PAS, CER_PAS,
      control group with sham and sham V_PAS CER_PAS), 5 days of treatment, clinical assessment,
      electrophysiological and MRI before, immediately post- and second post-assessments (4 weeks).

      A group of 24 healthy subjects will undergo a parallel physiopathological study on the
      underlying mechanisms of cerebellar PAS Objectives Main objective: To determine whether (and
      how) Paired Associative Stimulation technique (PAS) induces cerebral reorganization in the
      primary motor cortex compared to the control group.

      Aim 2: Determine whether (and which) type of PAS is capable of inducing changes in motor
      performance of the upper limb paresis and duration Aim 3: Determine whether (and which) type
      of PAS is capable of inducing changes in excitability of the corticospinal tract and duration
      Aim 4: Determine how PAS techniques modify the functional connectivity during movement Aim 5:
      Determine if connectivity changes during induced movement correlate with clinical
      improvements Aim 6: Determine whether patients who benefit of a type of PAS have specific
      anatomical lesion characteristics (volume, afferent and efferent white matter fasciculi
      integrity) Aim 7: for healthy subjects: determine the TMS parameters that will influence the
      response to cerebellar PAS protocols

      Hypotheses

        -  The sensorimotor stimulation approach (V_PAS or CER_PAS) improves motor function of the
           hand compared to the control group. The CER_PAS approach may be more effective than
           V_PAS as the cerebellum plays a major role in the post-stroke recovery

        -  This improvement would be explained by an effect on brain reorganization by increasing
           the proportion of activation in the ipsilesional primary motor cortex comparing to the
           contralesional side, as well as strengthening the relationships between ipsilesional
           premotor and motor cortices.

        -  Clinical and electrophysiological effects observed in the combined approach are
           correlated with specific characteristics of the sensorimotor network assessed by MRI.

      Perspectives Demonstrating beneficial effects would subsequently consider protocols in order
      to achieve a therapeutic effect in the long term. The low cost greatly facilitates the
      implementation of feasible treatments in routine care in specialized centers (or pilot
      research centers) and potentially useful in many patients. The study of the characteristics
      of responders and non-responders patients would provide "patient-oriented" treatment, which
      take into account the particularities of each subject.
    
  