
    
      In recent years, diets of widely varying composition have been used in the treatment of
      obesity. While none of these diets has produced consistent, long-term weight loss, some
      individuals on virtually all types of diets do remarkably well. One explanation for this
      variation among individuals is differences in motivation and behavior. However, underlying
      biological differences may also play an important role. Previous work has identified insulin
      secretion (as quantified by serum insulin concentration at 30 minutes following a standard
      75-gram oral glucose load) as an important biological determinant. This
      randomized-controlled, multi-center trial aims to test the hypothesis that insulin secretion
      will predict which type of diet will work best for each individual. A total of 160 obese
      young adults (18 to 40 years) will be assigned to one of two diets: low-fat (60%
      carbohydrate, 20% fat, 20% protein) or low-glycemic load (45% carbohydrate, 35% fat, 20%
      protein). Participants will be enrolled at two sites (Children's Hospital Boston or
      University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill) and assigned to diet groups according to baseline
      insulin secretion status. The protocol will include an intensive 6-month intervention period
      and a 12-month follow-up period. Registered dietitians will provide nutrition education and
      behavioral counseling during group workshops and scheduled telephone calls. In an effort to
      avoid confounding, close attention will be paid to control for treatment intensity, physical
      activity prescriptions, and behavioral methods between groups. The primary endpoint will be
      percent body fat by DXA scan. Secondary endpoints will include cardiovascular and diabetes
      risk factors. Repeated, 24-hour dietary and physical activity recall interviews will provide
      process data. Metabolomic profiling and molecular analysis of identified metabolites will be
      conducted to characterize phenotype and explore potential physiological mechanisms. A
      successful outcome of this work will inform the practice of "personalized" nutritional
      therapy, enhancing the ability to select the most efficacious weight loss diet for an
      individual based on underlying biological differences.
    
  