
    
      The procedure will be performed on an outpatient basis, and the CryoBalloon 180 Ablation
      system will be used for all ablations following the instructions for use provided with the
      product.

      Patients who meet the eligibility criteria will be assigned to one of the treatment groups
      and doses, depending on the order of their enrollment:

      In phase I, the first 6 patients will be treated with Dose 1 (lowest), in one application to
      ablate 50% of the esophageal circumference.

      All patients will undergo 8 week (±2 weeks) follow-up EGD to evaluate efficacy of the dose
      before the study continues.

      If follow-up shows that Dose 1 eradicates ≥80% of the treated BE (by median percentage) and
      no SAE's are reported, this dose is defined as the therapeutic dose and enrollment will
      proceed to phase II.

      If Dose 1 eradicates <80% of the treated BE, enrollment in Phase I will continue at the next
      higher dose (Second Dose). Treatment doses will be escalated in this manner until the first
      of the therapeutic doses (based on endoscopic exam) is determined, or the incidence of a
      dose-related Serious Adverse Event (SAE).

      When the therapeutic dose is determined, the study will proceed to Phase II to generate
      additional safety and efficacy data.

      ---------------------------------------------------------------

      Dose-related SAEs include pain in the treatment area greater than 6 (0-10 VAS score) at 24
      hours AND seven (7) days post-treatment; symptomatic stricture requiring an additional EGD
      with endoscopic dilation before the first follow-up EGD; symptomatic stricture at follow-up
      EGD; or any stricture (symptomatic or asymptomatic) preventing passage of the therapeutic
      endoscope at follow-up EGD. Any other serious adverse events within 30 days after treatment
      will also be evaluated by the Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) for relationship to the
      dose and severity.

      When a Dose-related serious adverse event occurs, the Holding Rule will be invoked and
      enrollment at that dose will be held until the DSMB has evaluated the event.
    
  