
    
      Dental caries incidence is higher in adults than children. Recent recommendations from both
      the Centers for Disease Control and an NIH Consensus Development Conference on dental caries
      call for clinical trials of caries prevention methods in caries-active adults. Little is
      known about the effectiveness of caries prevention methods in adults, and virtually no
      information exists with respect to prevention among adults who are at elevated risk for
      developing caries lesions. This application describes a clinical trial of an intervention to
      prevent dental caries in caries-active adults that is responsive to the CDC and Consensus
      Conference recommendations.

      The Xylitol for Adult Caries Trial (X-ACT) is a three-year, multi-center, randomized,
      placebo-controlled, double-blind study to determine the effectiveness of xylitol lozenges in
      reducing the incidence of coronal and root caries in caries-active adults. The intervention
      is the daily use of xylitol lozenges. Participants will be 750 adults (ages 25-75) with
      current or recent caries lesions who are dental school patients at one of three Clinical
      Centers in Chapel Hill, NC, Birmingham, AL, and San Antonio TX. These Clinical Centers offer
      diverse populations with substantial proportions of minority populations that enhance the
      generalizability of the findings. The Study Chair is located at the University of North
      Carolina-Chapel Hill, and the Data Coordinating Center is at the Kaiser Permanente Center for
      Health Research in Portland, OR.

      This intervention is being tested because it represents a potentially effective caries
      prevention method with a high likelihood of adoption by dental practitioners as an "add on"
      caries preventive method for their caries-active patients. The potential for adoption of the
      intervention is an important consideration because current data suggest that caries-active
      adults are underexposed to caries-preventive treatment in dental practices. If effective, the
      intervention also holds potential as a public health measure.
    
  