
    
      Background:

      Low endoscopy completion rates are a major problem nationwide and in the VA. For clinics,
      delays or failure to complete exams can cause clinic inefficiencies, such as increased wait
      times for needed procedures, lost capacity, and increased costs. For patients, delays reduce
      the chance for recommended timely screening consistent with practice guidelines and for
      diagnostic tests, can cause significant anxiety, delayed treatment and possibly poorer
      prognosis. This study tests whether an Interactive Voice Response (IVR) messaging system is
      equally effective in motivating patients to complete a flexible sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy
      as usual clinical care practices, which include reminder phone calls from clinic nurses. This
      is the first study to evaluate the use of IVR for endoscopy completion and the first to
      compare it to the effectiveness of phone calls from nurses prior to an endoscopy appointment.

      Objectives:

      The primary set of objectives was to test whether IVR messaging was equivalent to clinic
      usual care (UC) practices in motivating patients to attend a scheduled flexible sigmoidoscopy
      or colonoscopy appointment and to adequately prepare for the exam. Secondary objectives
      included comparing patient satisfaction with UC and IVR phone calls and assessing if IVR or
      UC was more effective for sub-groups that may have more difficulty with preparation,
      including those with poor physical and mental functioning, health literacy, social support
      and trust in physicians and those with spinal cord injury, paraplegia, PTSD, or with little
      intention to be tested for colorectal cancer in the future.

      Methods:

      This was a stratified 3-arm randomized controlled trial among patients with upcoming flexible
      sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy appointments. All patients who had a colonoscopy or flexible
      sigmoidoscopy appointment scheduled from August 20, 2007 through October 31, 2008 were
      assessed for inclusion in this study. Patients were not considered eligible if, based on a
      medical record review prior to randomization, they had unreliable means of receiving the
      intervention or the intervention would have provided inappropriate or inaccurate information.
      The three study arms included: 1) UC (nurse phone call 7 days prior to the procedure); 2)
      IVR7 (call from IVR system 7 days prior to procedure); and, 3) IVR3 (call from IVR system 3
      days prior to procedure). One week after the initial appointment self-administered surveys
      were sent to all participants to assess satisfaction with reminder/motivation calls.
      Appointment and gastrointestinal (GI) procedure data were extracted from medical record files
      to assess study outcomes. The principal outcome measures were (1) attendance at the scheduled
      endoscopy appointment; (2) adequate preparation for the exam; (3) patient satisfaction with
      reminder/motivation telephone calls.

      Status:

      Complete
    
  