
    
      The purpose of this research study is to examine the potential benefits of vortioxetine in
      combination with at-home computerized cognitive training program to improve cognition, such
      as memory, attention, and concentration. This study will compare the effectiveness of
      vortioxetine plus cognitive training versus placebo plus cognitive training.

      Vortioxetine is considered investigational when used as a treatment for age-related cognitive
      decline, which means that it has not been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
      for this purpose. Vortioxetine is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration as a
      treatment for depression, and also goes by the name Trintellix (formerly known as
      Brintellix). That means that, while the drug itself is approved by the FDA, it is not
      approved for the reasons the investigators are using it in this study.

      Participation in this study entails an estimated 6 study visits over the course of
      approximately six months. Participants will complete various assessments at our lab at the
      Washington University School of Medicine along with check-in visits in-person or over the
      phone. Additionally, they will participate in at home computerized cognitive training for
      approximately six months, supplemented with either vortioxetine or placebo.

      The investigators will assess memory and problem-solving abilities using paper and pencil,
      computerized measures, and self-assessments of how participants feel. These tests could
      include numbers, letters, symbols, words, or sentences. These tests will be repeated
      throughout the study. If eligible to do so, participants will complete a baseline MRI scan.

      A subset of participants who completed a baseline MRI scan will complete another MRI scan
      after approximately 26 weeks of vortioxetine or placebo and at home computerized cognitive
      training.
    
  