
    
      The study population will consist of obese adolescents, male and female, age 7-18, that will
      go through weight loss reduction surgery (WLS) in the Obesity Clinic at Tel Aviv Sourasky
      Medical Center. A control group matched for age and sex will consist of patients that will go
      through conventional treatment (see below) at the Obesity Clinic in Dana Dwek Children's
      Hospital.

      Written informed consent form will be signed by the participant before enrollment Patient
      Population Patients with a diagnosed primary liver disease (autoimmune liver disease,
      metabolic liver disease, Wilson's disease, alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency), patients treated
      with medications known to induce steatosis (such as valproate, amiodarone or prednisone), and
      patients with hepatic virus infections or history of parenteral nutrition were excluded from
      the study.

      Study Design and measurements This clinical trial aims to asses the effect of bariatric
      surgery and dietary intervention on hepatic fibrosis in obese pediatric population with NAFLD
      (Clinical Trial Registration- MOH_2017-06-07_000470,
      https://my.health.gov.il/CliniTrials/Pages/MOH_2017-06-07_000470.aspx). At the initial visit,
      data were collected on socioeconomic parameters, lifestyle, birth details, and medical,
      family, and social histories. All patients underwent anthropometric measures (height, weight
      and BMI) and a physical examination focused on obesity-related conditions. Laboratory
      evaluation included liver enzyme profile, lipid profile, glucose, insulin, and HbA1C. Liver
      fibrosis was estimated by Shearwave elastography (Supersonic) and categorized into 4 levels,
      F0-F4, according to liver stiffness (measured by kPa), as recently demonstrated elsewhere
      [9]. Liver steatosis was calculated by a hepatorenal index (HRI) and divided into 3 levels of
      severity. All measurements were taken by a single experienced radiologist (MW), who was
      blinded to the results of other parameters of the patients. A multidisciplinary team included
      a gastroenterologist, hepatologists, a registered dietitian (RD) and a psychologist. All
      participants received nutritional recommendations (see below) and general recommendation for
      a healthy lifestyle (regular engagement in daily physical activity and reduction of screen
      time). Compliance with the dietary guideline was reviewed by a RD on a biweekly basis with a
      3-day food questionnaire (2 weekdays and 1 day of the weekend). Blood tests and elastography
      were repeated after 3 months of intervention.

      Determination of the BMI percentiles for age and gender was based on WHO growth charts.
      "Obesity" was defined as a BMI >95th percentile . Abnormal glucose metabolism included taking
      a hypoglycemic medication or having an elevated homeostatic model assessment index of insulin
      resistance, glucose, or HBA1c. Hypertriglyceridemia and hypercholesterolemia were defined as
      a serum level >95 percentile for age and sex. Hypertension was diagnosed as systolic and/or
      diastolic blood pressure ≥95 percentile for age and sex. Patients with clinical suspicion of
      obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) were diagnosed by polysomnography that was conducted by the
      hospital's sleep specialists. Socioeconomic status was defined according to parents' years of
      education.

      The dietary intervention The participants received nutritional recommendations for a low
      carbohydrate, low glycemic load, and isocaloric diet. The diet was composed of carbohydrates
      (CHO;30-40%), fats (35-50%), and proteins (20-25%), and was tailored to individual
      preferences and calorie requirements. The number of CHO, protein and fat servings was
      determined based on the recommended total energy requirements for age, calculated on the
      basis of dietary reference intake (DRI). Participants were not instructed to restrict
      calories, but to reduce carbohydrate based on their glycemic load. High glycemic index (GI)
      carbohydrate intake (refined grains, potatoes, sweet and salted snacks and sugar sweetened
      beverages) was completely restricted, low GI carbohydrates (non-starchy vegetables, legumes,
      nuts,) were allowed and some low /moderate GI carbohydrate were allowed but limited such as
      fruits and whole grain bread.

      The subjects were instructed about appropriate food choices, and each participant was
      provided a diet information booklet containing food list, sample menus and recipes

      Statistical Analyses Descriptive statistics were examined for all variables. Continuous
      variables were expressed as median with interquartile range (IQR) when they were not normally
      distributed and as mean ± standard deviation (SD) for normally distributed variables.
      Categorical variables were presented as number and percentage. Categorical variables were
      compared by the McNamer test and continuous and ordinal variables by the Wilcoxon test. The
      Fischer test was used when the McNamer test was not applicable for some variables. The
      Pearson correlation and simple linear regression analysis were performed to examine bivariate
      associations between fibrosis and metabolic and nutritional parameters. The Wilcoxon signed
      rank test was applied to compare the difference between steatosis, fibrosis, and metabolic
      parameters between the 2 time points (baseline and 3-month follow-up). A P level <0.05 was
      considered statistically significant. All statistical tests were 2-sided. The statistical
      analysis was performed with SPSS (IBM SPSS statistics, version 22, IBM Corp. Armonk, NY, USA,
      2013.).
    
  