
    
      Older adults often experience physical decline that can be directly ameliorated by physical
      activity and exercise. Evidence is building that exercise prevents cognitive decline or
      delays the onset of debilitating dementia (e.g. Alzheimer's disease [AD]) yet, the optimal
      dose and combination of exercise modalities for promoting brain health, however, remains
      unknown and essentially untested.

      Our long-term research goal is to develop and test strategies to support successful aging and
      prevent AD.We will enroll 280 individuals, age 65 to 80 years without cognitive impairment,
      into a 26-week exercise intervention to test the combined and independent effects of aerobic
      and resistance training on cognition, brain structure, and physical function. We will also
      explore underlying biological mechanisms that may link exercise with brain health.

      Participants will be randomized into 1 of 4 groups: flexibility, toning and balance
      (control), aerobic exercise training, progressive resistance training, or combined aerobic
      and resistance training. All intervention groups represent the most common modalities of
      exercise and directly reflect the public health recommendations for aerobic and resistance
      training. Exercise training will occur in a community setting through the network of Greater
      Kansas City Young Men's Christian Association. We hypothesize that 26 weeks of exercise will
      improve 1) cognitive performance, 2) regional brain volume, 3) cardiorespiratory fitness and
      strength 4) biomarkers.

      This will be the largest study to assess the combined and independent effects of the two most
      recommended forms of exercise. Demonstrating specific exercise effects on cognitive function
      and brain health in older adults would have enormous public health implications. The study's
      results will also impact public health policy and education by providing evidence towards the
      specific or synergistic effects of aerobic and resistance training on cognition and brain
      structure. Encouraging the public to adapt more active lifestyles and stimulate the
      development of effective exercise delivery programs to enhance initiation and maintenance of
      physical activity interventions is key to increasing the number of quality years of life for
      America's aging population.
    
  