
    
      The investigators hypothesize that participation in the guided relaxation and imagery
      sessions, at least once during each hemodialysis session by subjects presenting with anxiety,
      will result in a demonstrated ability to shift out of anxiety into a peaceful state of mind,
      and result in a decrease in the reported immediate and overall anxiety levels.

      Intervention will involve listening to a pre-recorded guided relaxation and imagery during
      regularly-scheduled dialysis sessions for four weeks. Subjects will be asked to complete the
      Kidney Disease and Quality of Life (KDQOL) questionnaire relating to quality of life
      measures, Likert scales to measure anxiety, headaches, insomnia, fatigue and pain and a
      questionnaire to assess other practiced meditative therapies, psychological therapies and
      medications.

      Study Procedures:

      Baseline: Following consent, each subject will be given an introduction to the program and
      will be provided with an MP3 player, pre-loaded with a recording of the guided mediation
      program. Subjects will be asked to complete the KDQOL questionnaire, as well as a Likert
      Scale to measure the psychophysical parameters in question at baseline. Subjects will be
      given a short questionnaire to assess other practiced meditative therapies. Per standard of
      care, patients will have blood drawn to measure C Reactive Protein (CRP) levels on day of
      consent, or within one week prior to Visit 1.

      Visits 1 - 12: Subjects will complete a Likert Scale at the start of every dialysis session
      for 4 weeks (a total of 12 sessions), as well as listen to the recording at least once during
      each of the 12 sessions. Every recorded session will last approximately 25 minutes. Subjects
      will repeat the Likert Scale completion following each recorded session.

      Visit 12: Subjects will be asked to complete the KDQOL questionnaire and a short
      questionnaire to assess other practiced meditative therapies, psychological therapies, and
      medications. Subjects will have C reactive protein drawn as standard of care. The subject's
      medical record will be reviewed for data relevant to the study. This includes dialysis
      attendance, notes on study measures, including anxiety, as well as headaches, insomnia,
      fatigue, and pain, KDQOL results, and CRP levels.
    
  