
    
      Relevance and strategic approach Prostate Cancer (PCa) is the most common cancer in men and
      the second leading cause of cancer deaths in western countries. Known risk factors are
      advanced age, ethnic origins and positive family history of the disease (1). There are
      considerable ethnic disparities in PCa risk, with a 60% higher incidence rate among
      African-American (AA) men as compared with European-American (EA) men (2). Similarly, in the
      French West Indies, where at least 90% of inhabitants are of African descent, the incidence
      of PCa is twice as high as in the rest of France (3). Many lifestyles, environmental and
      occupational related risk factors including obesity, diet, medications and pesticides have
      been implicated in PCa etiology, but their roles remain unclear (4). Current research
      suggests that there is a complex interplay of genetic and environmental factors that have a
      causative role in PCa.

      PCa also has a highly heterogeneous potential of evolution. While some cancers will behave in
      an aggressive manner, other patients will have an indolent form of the disease that could not
      require any treatment. Several parameters are used to predict the risk of evolution in PCa
      patients, either before any treatment: clinical stage, Gleason score on biopsies, and serum
      prostatic specific antigen (PSA), or after the analysis of radical prostatectomy specimens:
      pathological stage and surgical Gleason score (5). However, despite the value of these
      prognostic factors, the potential of aggressiveness remains difficult to assess at diagnosis,
      and patients classified within the intermediate risk group are often difficult to manageThere
      is a challenge to discover new markers and novel targets for early therapeutic manipulation.

      Both genetic and environmental factors have been linked to the risk of aggressive disease.
      The ethnic origin is likely to play a role, since the proportion of cases diagnosed at the
      metastatic stage is reported to be higher for African-American patients (35%) than for
      European-American patients (22%), with a 2.4-fold higher mortality rate in AA men than in EA
      men (2).Together with genetic factors, environmental factors also seem to play a key role in
      PCa progression. Some environmental factors such as obesity have been associated with
      aggressive PCa (6). However, much remains to search about the role of genetic and
      environmental factors and their interplay in PCa aggressiveness. White adipose tissue (WAT)
      and lipids are potentially involved in the development and/or progression of PCa at many
      levels.

      WAT is a metabolically active endocrine organ. Adipocytes secrete a variety of hormones,
      bioactive peptides and cytokines, termed adipokines (9). Several adipokines have been
      involved in the mechanisms leading to PCa progression and aggressiveness, including leptin,
      interleukin IL-6 and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF).

      Storage of endocrine disruptors. Endocrine disruptors (ED) are thought to be involved in
      prostate cancer (10). However, epidemiologic evidence of a positive link between
      environmental exposures to ED is limited. Two studies using blood plasma or abdominal fat for
      monitoring persistent pollutants have shown positive associations with PCa risk
      (transchlordane, beta-hexachlorocyclohexane, trans-nonachlore, dieldrine, and polychlorinated
      biphenyl 153) (11, 12). A recent study carried out in French West Indies showed that
      chlordecone, an organochlorine pesticide with well defined estrogenic properties, increases
      the risk of PCa, and is associated with an aggressive form of the disease in subjects with a
      positive family history of PCa (13).

      WAT composition: Lipidome. Among nutrients, dietary lipids are major determinants of the
      overall lipid composition of WAT, as assessed during dietary intervention studies (19-22).
      Among fatty acids, essential polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) are a subclass of bioactive
      components divided in two groups, n-6 and n-3 fatty acids. The n-6 series include the
      precursor linoleic acid (LA, 18:2n-6). The n-3 series include the precursor alpha-linolenic
      acid (ALA, 18:3n-3), and highly unsaturated derivatives. The fatty acid composition of WAT
      has been shown to reflect the past fatty acid intake (23). Although there are no conclusive
      studies showing an association between total dietary fat intake and PCa risk, specific types
      of dietary fat (animal fat) appear to be more significant in increasing PCa risk (6, 28). The
      association between fish consumption (rich in in the long-chain omega-3 PUFAs) and lower risk
      of prostate cancer is controversial, but a significant reduction in prostate cancer-specific
      mortality has been described (29). Previous studies analyzing the PUFAs composition in
      prostate tissues have led to conflicting results. However, fatty acid composition of WAT has
      never been studied in PCa in association with aggressiveness and progression.

      The objective of the program is to structure a network associating clinicians, pathologists,
      and scientists devoted to prostate cancer management and research. The network will generate
      a multi-centric centralized database of PCa patients treated by radical prostatectomy, with
      standardized bio-resources collection, including prostate and adipose tissue samples. The use
      of the bio-resources will be orientated mainly toward the relationships between adipose
      tissue/lipids and PCa aggressiveness.

      The project aims to characterize an association between PCa aggressiveness and the
      composition of pelvic adipose tissue. Adipose tissue samples from patients with either low
      risk (n=100) or aggressive (n=100) PCa will be analyzed for 1/ the lipid profile (fatty acid
      composition and phospholipids proportions), 2/ expression of adipokines, and 3/ persistent
      organic pollutants with hormone-like activity. The analysis will take into account known
      factors of aggressiveness, including obesity, MetS components, ethno-geographic origin, and
      positive family history of the disease.

      Methodology and techniques implemented I- Constitution of the database and bio-resources
      collection Each patient with prostate cancer treated by radical prostatectomy in the 7
      clinical centers of the network will be included in the cohort. Given the surgical activity
      of these centers during the last 3 years, a minimum of 1000 inclusions is expected after 18
      months, with around 250 african-carribean patients.Standardized clinical, biological, and
      pathological data will be entered in a common centralized eCRF available in each center
      (Clinsight®) with central management and validation (Team 13). Financial support will be
      provided to the clinical teams for entering the data (technicians specialized in clinical
      research).

      The data commonly associated with PCa will be entered in the database: administrative items
      (name, DOB, address, Hospital N°, Pathology N°), preoperative PSA, clinical stage,
      pathological items (weight and size of the specimen, pathological stage including lymph node
      status, Gleason score, % of grade 4 ou 5, greater axis of the main focus, margin status), and
      follow-up items (both biological and clinical).The following items will also be specified:
      BMI, waist circumference, fasting glucose, blood pressure, circulating lipids (triglycerides,
      total, LDL and HDL cholesterol), ongoing treatments (lipid lowering drugs, HTA, treatments
      for diabetes), ethno-geographic origin, and family history of PCa During the surgical
      procedures, 3 pieces of pelvic adipose tissue (around 5g, 2g and 2 g, for tasks 1, 2, and 3
      of Axis 1, respectively) will be sampled, sent to the biological resource center, and
      immediately frozen at -80°C. The investigators choose to sample visceral WAT instead of
      subcutaneous WAT, because visceral adipocytes are more metabolically active (8). Among
      visceral WAT, the investigators choose to sample perivesical adipose tissue, since fat around
      the bladder is always very abundant, and can be easily taken during the surgical procedure.
      The prostate specimens will be sent immediately to the pathology departments, and managed in
      a standardized manner.

      The patients included in the cohort will be asked to sign an informed consent (after
      agreement of the Ethical Committee/IRB). The annotated bio-resources concerning the subjects
      included in the programs will be managed in respect of the rules defined by the CNIL.

      Selection of patients with either aggressive or low risk disease from the cohort from the
      1000 patients expected at M18, 100 patients with highly aggressive disease will be selected.
      Selection will be made based on the criteria of high risk disease, mainly high grade PCa
      (Gleason score 8 or more) and/or pathological stage pT3. Each of these 100 patients will then
      be matched (center by center) with 1 patient with indolent disease and identical status for
      age (50 or less, 51-55, 56-60, 61-65, 66-70, 71-75, more than 75 years old) and BMI (normal,
      overweight, and obese). Criteria for indolent disease will include preoperative PSA <
      10ng/ml, and Gleason score 6 or less (on the surgical specimen), and pT2 stage. If several
      indolent cases could be matched with 1 aggressive case, the one with the smaller tumor size
      will be preferred. Adipose tissue sampled from these 200 patients will be used.

      The aim is to identify associations between aggressive and significant PCa and the
      composition of adipose tissue. The investigators hypothesize that persistent organic
      pollutants (that reflect cumulative past exposure), and/or lipid composition (that reflect
      past intake), could be, together with adipokines expression, associated with disease
      aggressiveness. Known factors of PCa aggressiveness (ethnic origin, familial history, and
      obesity status) will be taken into account.

      Task1: Lipidome analysis Analyses performed on the adipose tissue samples will be: i)
      triglyceride fatty acid composition, and ii) adipose cells membrane phospholipids classes
      relative amounts. Five major phospholipids classes found in the plasma membrane of adipose
      cells can be separated and quantified: phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine,
      phosphatidylinositol, phosphatidylserine and sphingomyelin. Adipose tissue being mostly
      composed of triacylglycerol and only approximately 1% phospholipids, the study of membrane
      phospholipids will require larger sample amounts (5 g) than would typically be necessary for
      triglycerides fatty acid composition analysis (400-500 mg).

      Adipose tissue samples will undergo lipid extraction with the use of chloroform and methanol
      (according to the Folch method). Briefly, total extract will be vacuum-dried, then
      resolubilized in a mixture of hexane and methanol to partition neutral (hexane soluble) and
      polar (methanol soluble) lipids. Triglycerides in the hexane phase will be further purified
      from other neutral or polar lipids by thin layer chromatography on silica-gel plates.
      Purified triglycerides will undergo methanol transesterification to produce volatile fatty
      acids as methyl esters. Separation and quantification of fatty acids will be performed by gas
      chromatography (BPX-70 phase capillary column, on-column injection, flame-ionization
      detector).

      Task2: Adipokine measurements Total RNA from adipose tissue samples will be extracted by the
      Trizol technique and RNA quality will be checked by gel agarose electrophoresis and
      quantification by NanoDrop. After reverse transcription of encoding mRNA into cDNA, control
      quality of reverse transcription PCR amplification will be done using a housekeeping gene in
      the low number of cycles and new control by gel agarose. Real-time quantitative PCR will then
      be performed in triplicate on nine genes of interest (adipokines) and three housekeeping
      genes for normalization (18S, beta-actin and SDHA), ie 10 800 points generated. PCRs will be
      made in 384-well plates and the reaction mixtures distributed by robot distribution.Adipokine
      list (n=9): chemerin, interleukin-6 (IL-6), plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1),
      retinol binding protein 4 (RBP4), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha), visfatin, leptin,
      adiponectin, apelin.

      Task3: Measurements of persistent organic pollutants (organochlorine pesticides) The
      analytical methodology used for measuring the targeted organochorine pesticides is derived
      from procedures previously developed, validated, and accredited for other classes of
      lipophilic persistent organic pollutants such as dioxins and PCB compounds. Briefly, a
      preliminary step using accelerated solvent extraction (ASE) will be followed by successive
      purification stages on activated silica and celite columns. The measurement will be performed
      using gas chromatography coupled to high resolution and/or tandem mass spectrometry (GC-HRMS,
      GC-MS/MS). The quantification will be achieved according to the isotopic dilution method
      (i.e. using 13C labeled analogous as internal standards). The selection of the main targeted
      substances will be preliminary based on the Stockholm convention that lists about 12 major
      pesticides of concern.

      The multicenter standardized clinical and biological database will identify 2 homogeneous
      groups of PCa patients with characteristics of either aggressive or potentially indolent
      disease. The investigators expect that the analysis of pelvic adipose tissue will demonstrate
      whether some categories of 1/ Lipids (reflecting the diet), 2/ Adipokines and 3/ Stored
      Xenobiotics are preferentially associated with a greater or lower risk of PCa aggressiveness.
      Such identification could then lead to preventive strategies.
    
  