
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the toxicity and activity of cyclophosphamide, etoposide, total body
      irradiation, and autologous bone marrow transplantation in patients with relapsed or
      refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. II. Determine the feasibility of pretransplantation
      cytoreduction with a regimen of high-dose cytarabine, cisplatin, and dexamethasone in this
      patient population. III. Determine the feasibility of posttransplantation radiotherapy given
      to sites of residual disease (involved-field "boost" irradiation) in this patient population.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified by disease status (refractory vs relapsed). Autologous bone
      marrow is harvested before cytoreduction or involved field radiotherapy (IFRT). Patients with
      marrow involvement who achieve marrow complete response after cytoreduction undergo harvest
      of bone marrow before IFRT. Patients receive cytoreduction comprising high-dose cytarabine IV
      over 1 hour every 12 hours, cisplatin IV over 10 hours, and dexamethasone three times daily
      on days 1 and 2. At 3 weeks, a second course is administered if tumor reduction is at least
      25% and in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Patients with involved sites 2 cm or greater
      in diameter at evaluation and previously unirradiated active disease sites, at least 90% of
      which can be treated with IFRT, undergo IFRT 5 days a week for 2 weeks beginning after
      cytoreduction and 3-5 weeks after harvest of bone marrow. Within 10 days after completion of
      IFRT, patients receive etoposide IV over 26 hours beginning on day -7, cyclophosphamide IV
      over 2 hours on days -6 to -4, and total body irradiation twice daily on days -3 and -2 and
      once on day -1. Bone marrow is reinfused on day 0. Eligible patients with residual disease at
      3 months after transplantation undergo involved field "boost" irradiation to sites of
      residual disease.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 50 patients (25 per stratum) will be accrued for this study.
    
  