
    
      Skin diseases account for 30% of all physician office visits. In the United States, access to
      dermatologists remains a significant challenge for those in underserved or rural communities.
      To increase access to specialists and improve patient outcomes, we will evaluate a team-based
      connected health (TCH) model that enables structured asynchronous online interactions among
      patients, primary care providers (PCPs), and dermatologists. The goal of TCH is to enable
      effective management of chronic skin diseases via high-quality and efficient online care
      between providers and patients. TCH purports to bring direct and expedient specialist care to
      patients and PCPs in a location-independent and asynchronous manner.

      Specifically, TCH offers several ways that patients and providers can communicate online
      asynchronously to manage skin diseases: (1) PCP-dermatologist, (2) patient-dermatologist, and
      (3) patient-PCP interactions. With PCP-dermatologist interactions, PCPs can access
      dermatologists online asynchronously for consultations or to request a dermatologist to
      assume care of patient's skin disease. With patient-dermatologist interactions, patients can
      upload clinical images and history online and obtain asynchronous evaluation and
      recommendations from dermatologists directly. Finally, PCPs have the option of managing their
      patients' skin diseases online. Importantly, TCH applies efficient workflow that maximally
      supports providers and fosters multi-directional, informed communication among patients,
      PCPs, and dermatologists.

      To evaluate the impact of TCH, we use atopic dermatitis (AD) as a disease model. AD is a
      common, relapsing inflammatory skin disease affecting 32 million individuals in the U.S. AD
      is characterized by intense itching and red, scaly patches. It incurs significant morbidities
      and high healthcare costs. To address skin inflammation, itch, and psychosocial consequences,
      PCPs and dermatologists need to adopt a team-based approach to effectively manage all aspects
      of AD.

      The primary goal of the proposed research is to test whether the online TCH model results in
      equivalent improvements in disease severity and quality of life, provides better access to
      specialist care, and is cost- saving as compared to usual in-person care in pediatric and
      adult patients with AD. Specifically, we will conduct a pragmatic, cluster-randomized
      controlled equivalency trial and use validated measures to compare AD disease severity,
      health-related quality of life, and access to care between TCH and in-person care. We will
      also compare costs of the two healthcare delivery models from a societal perspective by
      conducting cost- minimization and sensitivity analyses.

      This proposal evaluates a significant innovation in specialty-care delivery that will likely
      result in improved patient outcomes, greater access to specialists, and cost savings. The
      study findings will be highly impactful and have immense dissemination potential to the
      management of many other chronic diseases.
    
  