
    
      In the United Kingdom (UK) alone, approximate 100,000 people suffer a stroke each year.
      Improved management of stroke patients not only reduces morbidity and mortality, but also
      reduces the cost of long term social care.

      The brain has control systems (i.e.cerebral autoregulation) to maintain blood flow to the
      brain, over a relatively wide blood pressure range. Cerebral Autoregulation can be described
      as static, reflecting the integrity of such mechanisms over time, or dynamic, occurring in
      response to sudden fluctuations in perfusion pressure. When blood pressure drops, small
      arteries increase in size to restore flow levels, and when blood pressure rises, they narrow
      to protect the most delicate blood vessels. It is known that sudden decompensated blood
      pressure (BP) changes can occur after stroke, this could result in brain bleeding and
      swelling when there is uncontrolled increased blood flow, or reduce the viability of tissue
      surrounding the stroke area when there is reduced blood flow to the brain.

      It is known that the clot busting agent (Alteplase), the main effective treatment used in the
      acute stroke can only improve blood flow in already blocked arteries in 50% of patients.
      Therefore, as well as attempts to treat blockage of major vessel, improving the blood flow
      through vessel that bypass the blocked vessel around the stroke area (penumbra) could be
      another potential therapeutic approach in acute ischaemic stroke patients. A simple way of
      increase blood flow to these penumbral area might be just lower the head of acute stroke
      patients into a lying flat position. Several observational studies have investigated the
      effects of head positioning on blood flow to the brain in a healthy population, however few
      studies carried out on acute ischaemic stroke patients so far.

      Cerebral autoregulation can be assessed non-invasively by the use of Trans Cranial Doppler
      (TCD). This means using ultrasound probes over both sides of the head to measure changes in
      blood flow in one of the main brain arteries (the middle cerebral artery) in response to beat
      to beat changes in blood pressure dynamic cerebral autoregulation. This research will use the
      noninvasive technique of Trans Cranial Doppler to see how blood flow changes during different
      head position between acute ischaemic stroke patients and healthy controls, as well as over
      time during recovery after a stroke. This knowledge will help us to understand the changes in
      brain blood flow control and blood pressure in stroke patients, with implications of
      diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment of the disease.
    
  