
    
      1. To determine the effect of GenotropinTM on height, height velocity, body weight and lean
           body mass. Growth records from previous years will be assessed to determine growth
           velocity and weight gain. We will measure height and weight during the study using a
           standardized stadiometer and scale. These parameters will be converted to Z scores
           (GenenCalcTM, Genentech). Lean body mass (LBM) will be measured by DXA every six months.
           This specific aim tests the hypothesis that GH significantly improves height, height
           velocity, weight, weight velocity and LBM in chronically ill children who have grown
           poorly despite adequate nutritional rehabilitation.

        2. To determine the effect of GenotropinTM on whole body protein turnover (WBPT), IGF-1
           levels and cytokines. Utilizing the stable isotope 1-[13C] leucine, we will measure
           WBPT. Measurements of WBPT will be correlated with LBM and changes in height and weight
           velocity. This data will be compared to that from age matched normal children (archival
           data maintained by the PI). We will measure IGF-1 and the cytokines TNF-α, IL-6 and
           IL-10 at baseline and very six months. These measures will be correlated with height and
           weight velocity and IGF-1 levels. Cytokine levels will also be correlated with protein
           catabolism. This specific aim tests the hypothesis that chronically ill children have
           increased catabolism, caused by high levels of circulating cytokines and low levels of
           IGF-1, and that these abnormalities improve with GenotropinTM.

        3. Evaluation of bone mineral content (BMC) and bone turnover. At baseline and every six
           months we will measure BMC of the whole body, hip and spine using DXA. Results will be
           compared to those from age-matched normal children whose results are archived in the
           body composition laboratory of Dr. Ken Ellis (Children's Nutrition Research Center,
           Houston). At baseline and every six months we will also measure bone mineral turnover
           markers including: osteocalcin, bone specific alkaline phosphatase activity, and
           deoxypyridinoline. All findings will be related to cytokine levels and to use of
           glucocorticoids. This specific aim tests the hypothesis that bone density is low in
           chronically ill children secondary to increased osteoclast activity correlating with
           elevated cytokine levels.
    
  