
    
      Down Syndrome (DS) is a genetic disorder most commonly attributed to the trisomy of
      chromosome 21. It is considered the most prevalent reason for intellectual impairment. The
      extra chromosomic copy results in gene over-expression, which in turn is responsible for the
      characteristic non-uniform degeneration, affecting both cognition, and physical condition.
      The disorder has been linked to many underlying conditions such as early aging and
      Alzheimer's disease. Considering the cognitive decline that accompanies the increase in age,
      there is a need to develop non-invasive, counterbalancing interventions that will provide
      these individuals with a better quality of life and support them in acquiring and improving
      their skill set.

      The target population is individuals with DS. The participants followed similar training
      schemes of the intervention, two days per week for one hour, for 10 weeks (aiming at 20
      sessions/ participant), for one hour (30 minutes of cognitive and 30 minutes of physical
      training). Specifically, the participants completed the LLMcare protocol (combined cognitive
      and physical training) while a subgroup underwent measurements two times, one month apart,
      before initiating the intervention to serve as control.

      The intervention is a based on LLM Care (NCT02313935) Integrated Healthcare System
      (https://www.llmcare.gr/en/home/) which is a successful example of commercializing the LLM
      (NCT02267499) research program (http://www.longlastingmemories.eu/), and has been customized
      to meet the needs and capacity of people with DS. The LLM Care (non-pharmaceutical)
      intervention is an integrated training system that targets nondemented and demented aging
      population and adopts an approach of cognitive and physical training to improve the quality
      of life and prolong the functionality of the elders.The main goal of this study is to
      quantify the effects of implementing the LLM Care intervention on people with DS, and
      particularly its effect on their physical status, cognition, behavior, and brain function.
      The study can potentially evaluate if adopting a cognitively and physically stimulating
      lifestyle can support DS individuals in acquiring and improving their skill set and act as
      and effective treatment against the physical and cognitive degeneration that is inherent to
      this syndrome The individuals with DS were evaluated via a battery of clinical and
      neuropsychological tests, and EEG measures at baseline (pre), exit (post) and one month after
      the training (follow up). Additionally, the training platform utilizes affective computing
      systems to evaluate the affective status of all participants throughout the training, and to
      establish a pleasant learning environment for all participants.
    
  