
    
      Major depressive disorder (MDD) is one of the most prevalent mental disorders, as well as one
      of the leading causes of disability worldwide. Behavioral activation is an empirically
      validated treatment for depression associated with medium effect size. The rationale of
      behavioral activation is to increase activation and reduce avoidance in order to reduce
      depressive affects. In parallel, Attention Training Techniques (ATT) is also an empirically
      validated treatment for depression. The rationale of ATT is to attenuate the self-focused
      attention and increase flexible attentional control over information processing to reduce
      depressive affects. ATT could target specific cognitive factors that are not changed through
      traditional interventions, and might enhance treatment outcomes for clinical and subclinical
      depressed when used in adjunct to psychotherapy. Then, the use of ATT may be a promising
      avenue to increase effectiveness of behavioral activation treatment.

      The aims of the study are multiple. First, to measure the treatment feasibility and adherence
      of different treatment combinations and to measure it throughout the study. Second, to
      investigate the efficacy of Behavioral Activation Therapy for Depression combined with
      Attention Training sessions in subclinical and clinical depressed participants. Third, to
      investigate the mechanisms of change of both interventions.

      The design will follow an "A1-B-A2'" design. Daily ideographic measures will be collected
      during all phases. Phase A1 and A2 are non-interventional phases of baseline and follow-up
      period respectively. Participants are randomly allocated to baseline lengths of 7, 10 and 15
      days. Phase B is the intervention phase ranging from 5 weeks to 7 weeks. Three conditions
      exist with participants randomly allocated to one of these conditions. The intervention is
      provided in individual once a week. The first condition is a combination of 5 weeks of
      behavioral activation treatment for depression (BATD) and Attention Training technique
      (ATT)(2 hours/week). The second condition is 3 weeks of ATT followed by 5 weeks of BATD (1
      hour/week), and the third is 5 weeks of BATD followed by 3 weeks of ATT (1 hour/week).
      Nomothetic standardized measures were also collected at pre-treatment (T0), after treatment
      (T1), after two weeks (T2) and 3 months later (T3).

      The investigators hypothesized that the three proposed conditions will have an effect on the
      following target variables: activation, avoidance, reward motivation, self-focused attention,
      awareness as well as on transfer measures: depressive symptoms, rumination, anhedonia,
      well-being, social and work impairments, and cognitive control (2) changes in the target
      variables should preceded changes in the transfer measures (3) the therapeutic effects would
      be greater and faster when the treatments are combined than when they are offered sequentialy
      (i.e., in condition 1 versus conditions 2 and, (4) the therapeutic effect observed in Phase B
      was maintained in follow-up.

      Target measures were expected to change with the introduction of intervention in comparison
      to baseline phase. In Condition of combination, the investigators expected to observe in
      Phase B an enhancement of activation, awareness and reward motivation and a decrease in
      avoidance and self-focused attention in comparison to the baseline phase. In Condition 2 with
      ATT sessions followed by BA sessions, the investigators expected to observe a reduction of
      self-focus attention, and an enhancement of awareness with the introduction of ATT, and an
      enhancement of activation and reward motivation and a reduction of avoidance with the
      introduction of BA. In Condition 3 with BA sessions followed by ATT sessions, the
      investigators expected the opposite pattern of change with first an enhancement of activation
      and reward motivation and a reduction of avoidance with the introduction of BA in comparison
      to baseline and then a reduction of self-focus attention, and an enhancement of awareness
      with the introduction of ATT in comparison to baseline.
    
  