
    
      Cancer treatments, including surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy, are often linked to
      acute and late side effects. Historically, these effects were assessed by physicians and
      scored using standardized scales such as the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
      (CTCAE). Thorough and accurate assessment of symptoms facilitates timely and patient-centered
      symptom management.

      Multiple studies have demonstrated that PROs more accurately capture patient symptoms than
      physician assessment. In a prospective trial, Falchook et al. investigated patient vs.
      physician report of symptoms in head and neck cancer patients undergoing radiotherapy (N=44).
      Patients and physicians separately completed weekly symptom assessments during treatment and
      once during follow-up. Patients tended to report more severe symptoms than physicians. For
      example, in week six, physicians rated 86% of patients' fatigue as non-existent or mild while
      86% of patients rated their own fatigue as moderate to very severe. In a larger study
      conducted at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center of 163 lung cancer patients undergoing
      chemotherapy, Basch et al. similarly examined patient vs. physician report of symptoms over
      one year. Compared to patients, physicians reported less severe and lower rates of fatigue,
      nausea, and pain and higher functional status.

      Findings from these prior studies are consistent with evidence from a recent systematic
      review, which concluded that PRO data were essential for the evaluation of symptoms in cancer
      survivors. Many researchers have hypothesized the reasons behind this discrepancy in
      physician/patient ratings of symptoms, including poor communication, inadequate physician
      time spent per patient, and patients' underreporting of symptoms to physicians. Thus,
      incorporation of PRO data into routine clinical care can facilitate better detection and
      management of cancer and treatment-related effects.

      Therefore, the goal of this pilot study is to move PRO data collection from a purely research
      exercise into using this as a tool to improve care for cancer patients. This pilot study will
      assess the feasibility of collecting PRO data as part of clinical care, and assess its
      "value" from the patient and physician perspectives. The investigators will recruit 80
      patients with prostate or bladder cancers from the UNC Genitourinary Oncology clinics
      (including Urology and Radiation Oncology). PRO data that is most relevant to this patient
      population will be collected, including: gastrointestinal, urinary, sexual function,
      anxiety/depression, and sleep.

      Further, given longstanding racial disparities in symptom experiences (e.g., symptom
      assessment, severity, frequency) among cancer patients and limited evidence of effective
      strategies for mitigating such inequities, this pilot study will also examine Black-White
      differences in terms of the feasibility and perceived value of sharing of patient-reported
      data to improve communication and decision-making.
    
  