
    
      Impairments in attention are among the symptoms most frequently reported by parents and
      teachers following pediatric traumatic brain injury (TBI_. These cognitive disabilities are
      responsible for a wide range of academic and adjustment issues. Broadly defined, attention
      encompasses all of the mental processes, operations, and systems requisite for acquiring and
      applying information. It interacts with other cognitive functions including perception,
      memory/learning, organization, and reasoning; attention is core to the integration of those
      systems. A number of different attentional subcomponents with interconnected neural systems
      have been identified and shown to be differentially disrupted following trauma and other
      brain disorders, including maintenance or sustained attention, attentional selectivity,
      attentional capacity, and ability to effectively shift attention. Given the prevalence of
      attention difficulties and secondary attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
      following TBI, it is imperative to identify treatments to effectively address attention
      impairments.

      The study will develop and pilot the Attention Intervention and Management program (AIM). AIM
      focuses on direct attention training in conjunction with metacognitive strategy training.
      Strategies are designed to improve focus and self regulation, reduce distractions, and
      enhance problem solving in academic settings. Integration of attention training and
      metacognitive strategies will help to ensure that the student can apply the skills across
      settings and situations.

      The Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) in Phase 2 of this project will address two
      interrelated hypotheses:

      Hypothesis 1: Children receiving the Attention Intervention and Management (AIM) program will
      evidence better performance on standardized tests of attention and executive functions (EF)
      than those in the wait list control (WLC) group.

      Hypothesis 2: Children receiving AIM will have fewer attention and EF problems than those in
      the WLC on parent and teacher rating scales of attention and EF.

      Participants will include children ages 10-18 with significant evidence of attentional
      impairments.
    
  