
    
      To sustainably provide good quality care to increasing numbers of people living with HIV
      (PLHIV) receiving antiretroviral therapy (ART), care delivery has to shift from a
      "one-size-fits-all" approach to differentiated care models. Such models should reallocate
      resources from patients who are doing well to patient groups who may need more attention,
      such as those with treatment failure or medical and psycho-social problems. Ideally, such a
      reallocation allows health systems and patients to save resources while improving quality of
      care.

      One proposed approach to differentiate care and intensity of monitoring is viral load-driven
      differentiated service delivery. Reducing the intensity of monitoring in patients with
      suppressed viral load (VL) and no other clinical problems would substantially reduce the
      workload at health care facilities and save time and transport cost for patients, thus
      potentially improve long-term engagement in care. Time and resources saved in patients with
      suppressed VL and no other clinical problems would allow focusing on those participants with
      elevated viral load and/or other clinical problems (like tuberculosis, which is the most
      common cause of mortality among PLHIV in sub-Saharan Africa). This may potentially improve
      PLHIVs' clinical outcome through intensified adherence support, clinical follow-up and timely
      switches to second-line ART. In many settings in sub-Saharan Africa, however, the potential
      of VL monitoring to differentiate care is not exploited and thus constitutes a missed
      opportunity. In Lesotho it was shown that the majority of unsuppressed VLs are not acted upon
      in a timely manner, be it due to providers and patients not being aware of the results or
      health care providers not being proficient in the management of treatment failure.

      The concept of the proposed automated differentiated service delivery model (aDSDM) is to use
      VL results, other clinical characteristics (TB screening results and CD4 cell counts) and
      participants' preference to automatically triage participants into groups requiring different
      levels of attention and care. Innovatively, triaging of participants will be done
      automatically capitalising on an existing VL database platform. The implemented aDSDM will
      differentiate care according to three elements:

        -  clinical characteristics (with focus on VL measurement)

        -  sub-population (women, men)

        -  participants' and health care providers' preferences

      To ensure effective flow of information, VL results and other relevant information is sent
      directly to participants' phones, whereas health care providers receive results directly on
      their study tablet together with the recommended action. Further features of the platform are
      preference-based tailored adherence reminders and automated calls to participants for
      symptomatic tuberculosis screening. The proposed aDSDM is designed for being scaled up at
      national and regional level as it mainly builds on automated triage and communication with
      participants and health care workers, thus not requiring additional human resources.
    
  