
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the feasibility of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation after
           a reduced-intensity conditioning regimen comprising fludarabine phosphate, busulfan, and
           anti-thymocyte globulin, in terms of donor engraftment, transplant-related mortality,
           and development of acute and chronic graft-vs-host disease, in pediatric patients with
           high-risk relapsed or refractory neuroblastoma.

      Secondary

        -  To elucidate the role of natural killer (NK) cells as effectors of graft-vs-tumor effect
           in these patients.

        -  To evaluate the role of killer immunoglobulin-like receptor (KIR) mismatches in the
           donor-recipient pairs on the outcomes of these patients.

        -  To determine the incidence of progression-free survival at 1 year post-transplantation
           in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Reduced-intensity conditioning regimen: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate IV over 1
           hour on days -10 to -6, busulfan IV over 2 hours once on day -10 (test dose) and then
           every 6 hours on days -5 and -4, and anti-thymocyte globulin IV over 6-8 hours on days
           -3 to -1 and on day 2.

        -  Transplantation: Patients undergo allogeneic bone marrow or G-CSF-mobilized peripheral
           blood stem cell transplantation on day 0.

        -  Graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis: Patients receive cyclosporine or tacrolimus IV
           or orally beginning on day -2 and continuing until day 60 or day 100, followed by a
           taper until day 100 or day 180 in the absence of GVHD. Patients also receive
           mycophenolate mofetil IV or orally on days 1-30, followed by a taper until day 60 in the
           absence of GVHD.

      Blood samples are collected at baseline and on days 30, 60, and 100 for correlative
      laboratory studies. Samples are analyzed for killer immunoglobulin-like receptor (KIR)
      mismatches by genotyping and immunophenotyping methods (PCR and flow cytometry); natural
      killer (NK) cell reconstitution by flow cytometry; and NK cell function, NK cell
      allo-reactivity by ELISPOT and ELISA.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 1 year.
    
  