
    
      Objective

      Humans develop skilled movements such as using a spoon or dancing a waltz through a process
      known as "motor learning. Harnessing this innate process for its therapeutic potential is an
      attractive strategy to help patients suffering from diseases of movement disorders, yet we do
      not yet fully understand the normal phenomenon. This study will utilize new paradigms to
      explore the physiology of motor learning. It will test the validity of a traditional motor
      learning task that has been modified to invoke the mirror neuron system and odor
      conditioning. Additionally, by taking advantage of the unique opportunity to assess motor
      learning awareness immediately following the task, it will also explore this
      behavioral-cognitive relationship. Thus, this work will lay the foundation for further
      physiologic characterization of a novel motor learning technique and may support the
      development of future therapies.

      Study Population

      We will study up to one hundred fifty-two healthy, right-handed volunteers who are 18 to 50
      years old.

      Design

      In phase I of the study, volunteers will be seated in front of a computer monitor with their
      right hands on a keyboard and respond to visual cues presented on the monitor by pressing the
      associated, finger-specific keys as quickly and accurately as possible. Each volunteer will
      be presented only the standard visuospatial or the novel mirror cues, defining the two
      reaction time task paradigms and experimental groups. In phases II and III of the study, a
      similar task will take place while subjects undergo magnetic resonance imaging scanning
      either in the presence or absence of an odor. In addition to the motor learning tasks above,
      volunteers will have the option to participate in genetic testing for normal genetic
      variability that may affect motor learning.

      Outcome Measure

      The primary outcomes are motor learning and awareness, which will be measured by the
      key-press reaction time and accuracy, respectively.
    
  