
    
      The goals of the proposed research are to advance quality improvement and practice based
      research in Neurology using the electronic medical record (EMR). The American Academy of
      Neurology (AAN) has published evidence-based guidelines, quality improvement measures, and
      resources for several neurological disorders. However, the AAN guidelines and measures have
      not been implemented routinely and benchmark data are lacking. There are few EMR tools
      available to standardize neurology office visits according to Best Practices, to provide
      alerts when neurological care is deviating from AAN guidelines, to capture data regarding
      adherence to AAN or other quality parameters, to measure the effects of compliance with
      guidelines on outcomes, or to share longitudinal data and to compare effectiveness of care
      across neurological practices. The Department of Neurology at NorthShore University
      HealthSystem (NorthShore) has built into its commercial EMR "Epic" structured clinical
      documentation support (SCDS) and clinical decision support (CDS) tools that standardize care,
      write progress notes, and capture up to 1,000 discrete and cascading fields of neurological
      data per office visit. However, these EMR tools have not been disseminated for use by other
      Neurology practices or for data sharing, and presently do not support clinical trials.
      Pragmatic trials using EMRs would enable comparisons of treatments at the point of care. To
      address gaps in quality improvement and practice based research in Neurology, the
      investigators are proposing to the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) a
      project with the specific aims: 1) To create a Neurology Practice Based Research Network
      (NPBRN). The NorthShore site will share SCDS and CDS tools for 10 common neurological
      disorders (brain tumors, epilepsy, migraine, mild cognitive impairment, mild traumatic brain
      injury, multiple sclerosis, neuropathy, Parkinson's disease, restless legs syndrome, and
      stroke) with seven other Department of Neurology that also use the Epic EMR platform (eight
      sites total). 2) To conduct at NorthShore pragmatic trials using the EMR for 10 common
      neurological disorders. The investigators will demonstrate the feasibility of subgroup based
      adaptive assignment of treatments, electronic consenting, and outcomes data capture at the
      point of care using the EMR. They will identify the most effective treatments for common
      neurological disorders and seek replication by the NPBRN. The aims are innovative because the
      investigators will use the EMR to hardwire quality and outcomes research in Neurology. They
      will individualize medicine at the point of care by conducting pragmatic trials using
      subgroup based adaptive designs, comparing the effectiveness of available treatments for
      common neurological disorders. The aims are significant because they are studying several
      neurological disorders, a leading cause of healthcare burden worldwide. They will create a
      national practice based network to improve health care quality by accelerating implementation
      of patient-centered outcomes research in Neurology using the EMR, and evidence to make health
      care safer and to improve health care efficiency. NOTE: This ClinicalTrials.gov registration
      relates to Aim 2 of the project (pragmatic trials using the EMR). Aim 1 is an observational
      study only (quality improvement, comparative effectiveness research).
    
  