
    
      Encephalitis is a syndrome of neurological dysfunction caused by inflammation of the brain
      parenchyma, resulting in altered mental status, seizures, and/or focal neurologic deficits,
      usually accompanied by laboratory and radiological evidence of brain inflammation. The
      worldwide annual incidence of encephalitis ranges from 3.5 to 7.4 per 100,000, rising to 16
      per 100,000 in children. In the United Kingdom, Public Health England (formerly the Health
      Protection Agency) reports an annual rate of 1.5 cases per 100,000 in the general population
      and 2.8 per 100,000 in children, with the highest incidence in infants under 1 year of age of
      8.7 per 100,000.

      Despite the use of current standard treatments, mortality of 7-10% and morbidity of up to 50%
      are still being reported. Encephalitis also imposes a substantial economic and resource
      burden on healthcare services. Strategies to reduce the disability in patients with
      encephalitis are therefore required.

      There is increasing evidence from case reports of a beneficial role of IVIG treatment in
      encephalitis. However, in clinical practice, the use of IVIG in encephalitis varies. The
      variation in practice is in most part due to a lack of class 1 evidence to support the use of
      IVIG in encephalitis. For the immune mediated forms of encephalitis, IVIG is typically used
      after inevitable delay (by weeks in some cases) while alternative diagnoses are being
      excluded, or a definitive diagnosis is obtained. In other cases, IVIG is used usually as a
      last treatment option where clinical improvement is slow. Again, this is usually after
      several days from hospital admission. Delays in the institution of appropriate treatment in
      encephalitis may contribute to the high rate of morbidity and mortality, prolonged
      hospitalisation and associated costs from encephalitis. In particular, it is currently
      unknown whether wider use of IVIG in infectious encephalitis and earlier use in
      immune-mediated encephalitis could alter the outcome of this group of conditions.

      This study will fill in the evidence gap on the potential benefit of IVIG in reducing disease
      burden in children with encephalitis. The trial also aims to generate evidence to inform
      clinical decision making in the National Health Service (NHS) and provide added value to the
      NHS by addressing healthcare, quality of life and productivity costs of this expensive and
      resource limited product.
    
  