
    
      Background: Lipoprotein (a) [Lp (a)] is an independent cardiovascular risk (CVR) both in the
      general population and in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM-2). Until now no
      effective treatment is known to decrease the levels of Lp (a) levels and thus achieve a
      reduction of CVR. Among the new antidiabetic drugs are GLP-1Receptor agonists(GLP-1R). In
      addition to lowering blood glucose, these drugs have other beneficial effects. In our
      laboratory we have demonstrated that both native GLP-1 and various GLP-1R agonsits reduce the
      synthesis of Lp (a) in hepatocytes.

      Hypothesis: Treatment with GLP-1R agonists will lower the levels of Lp (a) in patients with
      DM-2.

      Objective: The objective of the study is to confirm in humans the results observed in vitro.
      We will analyze whether treatment with GLP-1R agonists (Liraglutide, Exenatide or
      Lixisenatida) will reduce serum levels of Lp (a) in patients with DM-2.

      Methods: we will evaluate 40 patients with DM-2 treated at the Endocrinology Department of
      the Vall d'Hebron University Hospital. The patients will be distributed in two groups
      according to the treatment prescribed by the endocrinologist during the visit of routine
      monitoring: group A (20 patients who were prescribred treatment with GLP-1R agonists) and
      group B (20 patients who were not prescribed this treatment). According to the current
      guidelines for treating DM-2, the GLP-1R agonists are situated as a second line treatment
      after metformin, and the treatment should be individualized according to the characteristics
      of each patient. (Inzucchi et al. Management of hyperglycemia in type 2 diabetes: a
      patient-centered approach: position statement of the American Diabetes Association (ADA) and
      the European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD) Diabetes Care 2012; 35 (6):..
      1364-1379). Following these recommendations, the GLP-1R agonists are usually selected when
      there is obesity and / or very important to avoid hypoglycaemia. The decision to prescribe a
      GLP-1R agonist is made by the endocrinologist before and independently of the patient´s
      participation in the study.

      Blood levels of Lp(a) will be evaluated at baseline and at 2 months (+/- 15 days). Diabetic
      patients who are treated with insulin, enzyme inhibitors DPP-4 (IDDP-4) or already treated
      with receptor agonists GLP-1, presenting with kidney and liver failure, HbA1c> 10%,
      LDL-cholesterol> 180 mg / dl and / or triglycerides> 350 mg / dl will excluded.

      Relevance: The results will identify a potential treatment for lowering levels of Lp (a) in
      patients with DM-2 and thus reducing cardiovascular risk associated with this lipoprotein.
    
  