
    
      This is a multi-centered non-interventional descriptive study. The Declaration of Helsinki is
      followed. All procedures will be conducted in accordance with the GCP guidelines.

      About 100 Consecutive NTG glaucoma patients will be included in this study. NTG is defined
      as:

        1. Six median untreated intraocular pressure consistently less than 21 mm Hg, with no more
           than 1 reading = 23 mmHg or 24 mmHg, and with no single measurement greater than 24 mm
           Hg,

        2. Open drainage angles on gonioscopy,

        3. Typical optic disc damage with glaucomatous cupping and loss of neuroretinal rim,

        4. Absence of any secondary cause for a glaucomatous optic neuropathy (trauma, steroids,
           uveitis),

        5. Glaucomatous visual field defect compatible with glaucomatous optic neuropathy.

      Age and sex-matched normal control subjects and age, sex, severity-matched POAG control
      subjects will be recruited.

      Randomization not required as this will be a non-interventional descriptive study.

      A complete baseline ophthalmic assessment will be performed with Snellen visual acuity (VA),
      Best-corrected VA, intraocular pressure (IOP) measurements, slit lamp examination,
      gonioscopy, disc assessment and dilated fundal examination.

      These measurements were performed at recruitment and then at 3,6,9,12 months after the
      intervention. The details of some of these measurements were as follows.

      All IOP was measured with Goldmann applanation tonometry. The median of 5 readings were
      taken. Gonioscopy was carried out first using a Goldmann 2-mirror gonioscope. The examination
      was carried out at the lowest level of illumination that permitted a view of the angle and at
      high magnification (×16 to ×25). A 1-mm light beam was reduced to a very narrow slit, and was
      offset horizontally for assessing superior and inferior angles and vertically for nasal and
      temporal angles. Care was taken to avoid light falling on the pupil during gonioscopy. Slight
      tilting to gain a view over the convexity of the iris was permitted, but further manipulation
      of the lens or redirection of gaze was avoided because of the possibility of exerting
      pressure on the cornea and artificially widening the angle. The drainage angle was graded
      according to Shaffer's convention in each quadrant. The average angle width was calculated by
      adding the Shaffer grade in each quadrant and dividing by 4. Indentation gonioscopy using a
      Posner lens was also used to detect PAS, and the number of clock hours of PAS was recorded.
      All gonioscopy was performed by a single investigator for standardization.

      The vertical CDR was taken to be the longest vertical cup diameter divided by the longest
      vertical disc diameter. Estimates were made to the nearest 0.05. The vertical disc diameter
      was examined. All features of a glaucomatous optic neuropathy were noted.

      All subjects underwent static automated white-on-white threshold perimetry (program 24- 2,
      SITA standard, model 750, Humphrey Instruments, Dublin, CA), and the first reliable VF was
      used in our analysis. The global indices mean deviation (MD), and pattern standard deviation
      (PSD) were documented for all cases. After finding the proportion of VF that is reliable, the
      VF was then scored using the tested scoring algorithm developed for the Advanced Glaucoma
      Intervention Study (AGIS).

      Minimal criteria for glaucomatous VF defect were as follows: glaucoma hemifield test outside
      normal limits, pattern standard deviation with a P value of <5%, or a cluster of ≥3 points in
      the pattern deviation plot in a single hemifield (superior or inferior) with P value of <5%,
      one of which must have a P value of <1%. Any one of the preceding criteria, if repeatable,
      was considered sufficient evidence of a glaucomatous VF defect.

      Subjects will be verified by diurnal tension curve, which was recorded no more than one year
      before inclusion in the present study.

      Systemic haemodynamics Systolic, diastolic, and mean blood pressures (SBP, DBP, MAP) were
      measured on the upper arm by an automated oscillometric device. Pulse rate (PR) and blood
      oxygenation was automatically recorded from a finger pulse oximetric device (HP-CMS patient
      monitor, Hewlett Packard, Palo Alto, CA, USA).

      Measurement of intraocular pressure (IOP) A Median of 3 readings for each subject with
      Goldmann applanation tonometer was used for each measurement of intraocular pressure.

      Fundus Photography and Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) A baseline fundus photo will be
      performed for all participants. A baseline OCT for retinal nerve fiber layer thickness and
      optic nerve head parameters will be determined. Serial changes of these parameters will be
      correlated to VF indices.

      Dynamic Contour Tonometry (DCT) and Ocular Response Analyzer (ORA) will also be performed on
      these subjects.

      A history of the following systemic conditions was recorded: systemic hypertension (HT),
      hypotension, ischemic heart disease (IHD), arrhythmia, diabetes mellitus (DM),
      hypercholesterolemia, cerebral vascular accidents (CVA), migraine, obstructive sleep apnea
      (OSA), sensorineural hearing loss and Raynaud's phenomenon. All diagnoses were obtained from
      the history and confirmed by the clinical management system of the Hong Kong Hospital
      Authority, which is a computerized database connecting all public hospitals and clinics in
      Hong Kong.

      Systemic use of statins, beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting-enzyme-inhibitors (ACEI),
      calcium-channel-blockers, aspirin and diuretics was also noted.
    
  