
    
      The Social ABCs intervention was developed to meet the need for evidence-based, feasible, and
      sustainable interventions for toddlers with emerging ASD. Unlike other more comprehensive
      programs, the Social ABCs selectively targets only two key developmental areas (i.e.,
      functional spoken language and positive affect). These domains were selected in order to
      promote developmental progress in areas thought to be central at this developmental stage in
      ASD. By targeting only two core domains, this program maximizes feasibility and portability
      (i.e., reduces resource demand) while effecting meaningful change with potential for
      collateral effects in untargeted, but related, areas.

      Bolstered by evidence of acceptability, feasibility, and promise from a pilot study, the
      Social ABCs was subsequently evaluated in a two-site RCT, demonstrating the efficacy of this
      caregiver-mediated intervention for toddlers with suspected or confirmed ASD. This study
      found increases in child vocal responsiveness, vocal initiations, parent smiling, and a trend
      toward increased social orienting in toddlers with suspected or confirmed ASD. Findings also
      demonstrated that caregivers attained fidelity relatively quickly, rated the intervention as
      highly acceptable, reported increased feelings of self-efficacy, and did not report increased
      stress associated with the burden of learning and providing the intervention.

      While the Social ABCs intervention effectively targets social-communication skills and
      positive caregiver-child affect sharing, the previous RCT demonstrated a promising, but
      non-significant trend toward increased social attention (orienting), which depends on
      attentional control; the investigators argue that this is another important developmental
      domain often impaired in ASD. Improving attentional control may reduce or even prevent
      expression of ASD-related impairments such as emotion dysregulation and impaired social
      engagement, due to hypothesized relationships in both typical development and ASD. By
      targeting early attentional control abilities, this research not only also has the potential
      to enhance understanding of the fundamental mechanisms that drive behavioural dysregulation
      in ASD, but also to enhance early development in high-risk toddlers.

      Wass and Johnson (2011) have successfully used a brief battery of gaze-contingent computer
      tasks to enhance cognitive control, sustained attention, and attentional disengagement of
      typically developing infants. This attention training paradigm has now been adapted for use
      with toddlers with suspected or confirmed ASD, and its impact will be evaluated as part of
      this study. Participants will be randomized into one of two groups: Enhanced Social ABCs
      (Social ABCs plus attention training) or Standard Social ABCs (Social ABCs with placebo). A
      third group, comprised of a convenience sample of age-equivalent toddlers who meet clinical
      eligibility criteria but are otherwise unable or unwilling to participate in the
      interventions, will be used as a Treatment as Usual comparison group.

      Toddlers in the Enhanced Social ABCs group will receive eight attention training sessions,
      taking place in-home or in-clinic, which will be twice weekly for four weeks prior to
      beginning the Social ABCs. The attention training sessions use a computer-based program that
      is designed to provide practice in disengaging and shifting attention between competing
      visual stimuli. The Standard Social ABCs group will be allocated to an adjunct sham computer
      attention training condition in which they will interact with study staff and be exposed to
      identical computer equipment for the same schedule and duration of visits. However, this
      paradigm will involve a display of interesting moving on-screen objects without a
      gaze-contingent component (i.e., placebo). Both programs track the toddlers' gaze behaviours.
      Toddlers in both conditions will complete the same pre- and post-training testing
      assessments. The caregivers will be blind to whether children received the attention training
      or placebo.

      Following the attention/placebo phase, caregivers of both groups will receive Social ABCs
      caregiver coaching with a Social ABCs coach blind to the participants' attention training
      (vs. placebo) condition. Social ABCs intervention will include 12 weeks of 1.5-hour home
      visits of tapering frequency, with follow-up visits at key time points. Home visits include a
      didactic session based on the Social ABCs manual, followed by practice and live coaching (see
      Brian et al., 2016, for further information).

      In response to the 2020 global COVID-19 pandemic, the intervention has shifted to an online
      format, with sessions being completed virtually with participant families. The delivery
      schedule and session design remains the same. Follow-up assessment protocol measures that can
      be collected via mail or virtually are completed at the original time points.

      Data from the Treatment as Usual group will be used to compare Standard and/or Enhanced
      Social ABCs to developmental trajectories of those not receiving this active intervention.
      These data include scores from standardized measures and eye-tracking data from one portion
      of the pre- and post-attention training assessments (i.e., a gap-overlap task).

      This project is highly relevant to improving early treatment models, and thus, outcomes for
      toddlers with emerging ASD. Early action capitalizes on brain plasticity, potentially
      interrupting the negative developmental cascade, and optimizing outcomes in this high-risk
      group.
    
  