
    
      Digoxin is recommended as adjunctive therapy in patients with left ventricular dysfunction
      and symptoms of heart failure despite treatment with standard therapy. Recently, the
      therapeutic range for digoxin in patients with heart failure has been redefined to a narrower
      therapeutic window (0.5 - 0.9 ng/ml) because lower serum levels in this range have been
      associated with improved survival whereas higher serum levels have been associated with
      increased mortality. However, dosing methods have not been updated to reflect the newly
      defined therapeutic range for digoxin. We developed a simplified dosing nomogram for digoxin
      in patients with heart failure designed to achieve serum digoxin concentrations (SDC) within
      the new therapeutic range using retrospective data. The long-term goal of this study is to
      prospectively validate the ability of our digoxin dosing nomogram to achieve desired SDC and
      provide clinicians a simplified tool to optimize digoxin dosing in patients with heart
      failure. Because digoxin is a substrate of the efflux pump p-glycoprotein (pGP) and genetic
      polymorphisms of the MDR1 gene (known to regulate pGP expression) have demonstrated
      conflicting results on the pharmacokinetic profile of digoxin, we will also characterize the
      influence MDR1 functional gene variants may have on digoxin dosing. This study will include a
      total of 170 subjects with symptomatic heart failure treated with digoxin, comparing
      steady-state SDC in a prospective group of patients dosed according to our nomogram to a
      historical control group in whom the dose of digoxin was derived from standard dosing
      practices. We will also conduct an analysis of genetic polymorphisms of the MDR1 gene known
      to affect digoxin pharmacokinetics. The primary objectives of the study are to compare the
      percentage of patients in each group achieving steady-state SDC within the desired range of
      0.5 - 0.9 ng/ml, characterize the relationship between genetic variability in the MDR1 gene
      and digoxin dosing, and to update our digoxin dosing nomogram to account for the clinical and
      genetic variability shown to have the greatest influence on digoxin dosing. The rationale for
      this study is that lower doses of digoxin are recommended because lower SDC are associated
      with improved survival. Therefore, digoxin dosing methods must be updated to reflect these
      recommendations and account for genetic variability of the MDR1 gene in an effort to improve
      clinical outcomes and minimize the potential for adverse events. To address these issues, the
      specific aims of this research are:

      Aim 1: Compare steady-state SDC observed using our dosing nomogram to those obtained using
      standard dosing practices.

      Aim 2: Characterize the relationship of the genetic variability of the MDR1 gene and SDC
      observed using our digoxin dosing nomogram.
    
  