
    
      The proportion of elderly patients with end-stage kidney disease undergoing renal replacement
      therapy (RRT) is steadily increasing. National registry data consistently shows a trend
      towards increasing median ages for patients both starting dialysis and awaiting kidney
      transplantation on deceased-donor waiting lists (www.renalreg.org). For example, in the
      United Kingdom, national audit data from the UK Renal Registry demonstrates that the median
      age for all incident patients commencing RRT was 64.5 years (www.renalreg.org). Among the
      prevalent RRT population, the percentage of patients aged greater than 70 years has increased
      from 19.2% (in 2000) to 25.0% (in 2013) in the last registry report (www.renalreg.org).
      Focusing on data from the UK Transplant Registry, 28% of transplant recipients receiving a
      deceased-donor kidney allograft in the last year were aged 60 and over (7% were aged 70 and
      over), while 32% of the active kidney transplant waiting list is aged 60 and over (9% aged 70
      and over) (http://www.odt.nhs.uk/uk-transplant-registry/). With chronic kidney disease
      increasingly recognized as a public health epidemic, the long-term prospects are of an
      increasingly elderly component to our end-stage kidney disease population.

      Kidney transplantation is the gold standard method of RRT due to superior mortality, quality
      of life and cost effectiveness versus dialysis. It is therefore concerning that
      transplantation is an infrequent RRT choice for older adults and the number of older adults
      aged 70 and over who are listed for a kidney transplant is <10%. The Renal Association
      states; "age is not a contra-indication for transplantation but age related co-morbidity is
      an important limiting factor", but clearly the risk versus benefit ratio remains unclear for
      clinicians because mortality risk is higher for older versus younger kidney transplant
      recipients. However, improved mortality is observed with kidney transplantation versus
      wait-listed dialysis patients across all age groups, and specifically among older adults aged
      70 and above in US studies, and therefore Investigators should consider kidney
      transplantation for this increasing large cohort. The risk of immunosuppression-related
      complications increases with age and therefore age-adapted immunosuppression should be
      considered to balance efficacy versus complications. However, no targeted age-adapted
      immunosuppression clinical trials have been conducted in kidney transplantation and this
      remains a major gap in the literature.

      Sub-analyses of recently published work showed clinically relevant advantages of Envarsus
      versus twice-daily tacrolimus for prevention of treatment failure after 2-years among
      patients aged 65 and over (age ≥65 yrs; -25.89% (-45.11%, 0.36%), p=0.067) (Rostaing et al,
      AJKD 2016; Budde et al, AJT 2014). However, small numbers render the effect of borderline
      statistical significance

      As one of the largest growing demographics, it is imperative to design a targeted clinical
      trial to ascertain if Envarsus has clinical benefits above and beyond twice-daily tacrolimus
      in older kidney transplant recipients. Before that is possible, investigators must
      investigate two things in preparation for a definitive study; 1) investigators must confirm
      reproducibility of this trend among older kidney transplant recipients in a separate cohort
      to determine effect size and power calculations, and 2) identify possible mechanistic,
      biological and/or pharmacogenomic rationale to understand any effect. This feasibility study
      will be the first contemporary randomised controlled trial in kidney transplantation looking
      at a modified age-adapted immunosuppression protocol specifically for older adults,
      attempting to determine whether the above results can be recreated and probed in greater
      detail. As one of the most topical questions in the field of transplantation, the results of
      this feasibility study would advise on the merits of undertaking a more definitive study
      which would almost certainly be one of the most eagerly awaited studies by global transplant
      clinicians.
    
  