
    
      Postoperative pain due to surgical incision may limit lung expansion. After cardiac surgery,
      all patients receive respiratory therapies, because it is critical to expand lung after
      surgery to prevent respiratory complications such as lung collapse (atelectasis) due to
      shallow breathing or accumulation of airway secretions.

      Although incentive spirometer is the most common method used for lung recovery after cardiac
      surgery, some studies were not able to find any benefits from the use of incentive
      spirometer. Inspiratory positive-pressure breathing (IPPB), Intermittent positive end
      expiratory pressure (EzPAP), and chest airway clearance (Metaneb) are hyperinflation
      therapies used after surgery. The purpose of this research study is to determine which
      hyperinflation respiratory therapy provide better lung recovery after cardiac surgery.

      Hyperinflation Respiratory Therapies:Participants will be randomly assigned one of the
      hyperinflation respiratory therapy, intermittent positive pressure breathing (IPPB) and the
      EzPAP or the Metaneb.

        1. Intermittent positive pressure breathing (IPPB) is a respiratory therapy technique which
           will support your breathing by providing pressure support. This respiratory method will
           increase air volume breathing in.

        2. The EzPAP is another respiratory treatment and participants will breath against to
           resistance in order to prolong the time the lung remain open.

        3. The Metaneb will provide resistance when patients breathing in order to prolong the lung
           opening.

      Hyperinflation therapy will be performed every 4 hours in the intensive care unit (ICU). Each
      respiratory therapy session will take about 15 minutes. Participants' pulmonary function will
      be evaluated daily to monitor the lung recovery with microspirometer which will take place
      approximately 5 minutes. Total study duration is about 96 hours after surgery or until
      discharge from the Intensive Care Unit.

      Risk for Lung over expansion (hyperinflation) therapy:

      Hyperinflation respiratory treatments target to expand your lung to prevent complication such
      as collapse of small airway after surgery. This over expansion of your lung may increase work
      of breathing. All expected complications are typical in the post-operative cardiac patients
      and not unique to hyperinflation therapy.

      The possible complications listed below:

        1. Over distention of air sucks (alveoli). Sometimes pressure trauma in your lung may cause
           pneumothorax.

        2. Infection

        3. Bloody sputum (hemoptysis)

        4. Blood gas changes such as decrease carbon dioxide or increase oxygen in your blood.

        5. Sometimes stomach may distend

        6. Impaction of airway secretions if gas mixture not humidified enough.

        7. Your blood return to the heart maybe decreased which may affect your blood pressure.

        8. Exacerbation of low blood oxygen level (hypoxemia),

        9. Decreased or increased respiration

       10. Air trapping in your airway

       11. You may psychologically dependence to device
    
  