
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      The ability to efficiently select information from the environment relies on a balanced
      interaction between the right and left hemispheres. Hemispatial neglect, most frequently
      following damage to the right hemisphere, has been hypothesized to result from the breakdown
      of this interhemispheric balance. There is evidence from transcranial stimulation studies
      that the breakdown of this interhemispheric balance is reflected in fronto-parietal
      connectivity. The primary goal of this study is to test whether altering the balance between
      the left and right hemispheres, with repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) or
      prism adaptation (PA), will affect functional connectivity measured with functional magnetic
      resonance imaging (fMRI). We will also explore the relationship between the changes in
      functional connectivity and behavioral performances.

      STUDY POPULATION: Healthy adult volunteers and patients with neglect after a right hemisphere
      damage.

      DESIGN: The study contains three experiments. Experiment 1 is designed to investigate the
      mechanism of the changes induced by PA in both resting state functional connectivity in
      neglect patients and healthy volunteers (a two-arm parallel study). Experiment 2 is designed
      to investigate the mechanism of the changes in resting state functional connectivity induced
      by lPA, rPA, nPA in healthy volunteers with right dominant eyes and lPA in healthy volunteer
      with left dominant eye (a four-arm parallel study). Experiment 3 is designed to see if
      inhibitory rTMS over the right posterior parietal cortex (PPC) can influence functional
      connectivity and visuospatial bias in healthy volunteers (a crossover study).

      OUTCOME MEASURES: For all three experiments the primary outcome measure is the change (or
      difference) in fronto-parietal resting state connectivity between post and pre PA or rTMS
      procedure. The secondary outcome measures are the changes in visual field representation and
      in visuo-motor and cognitive behavior accompanying these manipulations.
    
  