
    
      The objective of this study is to define associations between gut microbiota, short chain
      fatty acids (SCFAs) and obesity in populations spanning the epidemiologic transition, and
      explore mechanisms by which these factors may independently and collectively influence the
      development of obesity. The gut microbiota and SCFAs have been associated with obesity, yet
      the causal mechanisms are unknown, as are the individual obesogenic effects of the individual
      SCFAs (butyrate, acetate and propionate). Existing studies are, limited by contradictory
      findings, small sample sizes, limited and imprecise measurements of obesity, and lack of
      detailed dietary and other environmental exposures/mediators. The investigators propose to
      overcome these challenges by leveraging an existing cohort of five diverse, well-defined
      populations from the Modeling the Epidemiologic Transition Study (METS, R01-DK080763). METS
      is comprised of a cohort of 2,500 African-origin adults, living in 5 distinctly different
      environments; Ghana, South Africa, Jamaica, the Seychelles and the US, and who have been
      prospectively followed since 2010. Our preliminary data suggest that while gut microbiota and
      SCFAs differences exist across sites, similar relationships exist across the sites for gut
      microbiota/SCFAs adiposity effects. In addition to yearly health measurements; the
      investigators propose to measure gut microbiota and stool SCFAs in all participants (2500)
      during the first year of the current study, thus providing one of the largest gut microbiota
      population-based studies to date. We will divide our cohort of 2500 individuals into 2 sets:
      (1) a test set of 1000 participants to explore which gut microorganisms and stool SCFAs are
      associated with adiposity; (2) a validation set of 1500 participants to independently verify
      the biomarkers identified in the test set, thus minimizing spurious correlations due to large
      number of features (e.g., bacterial taxa). The investigators will follow all 2500
      participants for 3 years to assess weight and adiposity changes, using Bayesian Kernel
      Machine Regression modeling to explore whether changes can be predicted by gut microbiota and
      SCFAs factors. Finally, using a causal mediation analysis, the investigators will identify
      the direct and indirect effect of single and/or cumulative gut microbiota on adiposity as
      mediated by SCFA. The investigators will thus capitalize upon an existing, extensively well
      described cohort of adults of African-origin, with significant variability as a result of the
      widespread geographic distributions, and therefore variation in the environmental covariate
      exposures. The proposed study will substantially advance the understanding of the role gut
      microbiota and SCFAs play in the development of obesity and provide novel obesity therapeutic
      targets targeting SCFAs producing features of the gut microbiota.
    
  