
    
      Individuals forming modern societies along with technological developments are increasingly
      adopting sedentary lifestyle. This situation increases the risks in terms of morbidity and
      mortality. For this reason, especially all countries build their health policies on
      increasing physical activity and make strides to improve it. In order to reach the ideal
      physical activity level, the physical activity level should be evaluated. However, when the
      literature is evaluated, it is possible to come across different and many physical activity
      evaluation methods. This makes it difficult to compare. On the other hand, many researchers
      prefer to use scales and surveys because of their low costs and ease of use. Although there
      are many physical activity assessment scales in the literature based on age, gender, disorder
      or disease, social needs and other features, many of them cannot be used in our society
      because they are not Turkish. This poses an important obstacle for Turkish researchers to
      evaluate physical activity.

      "The Active-Q: Physical Activity Questionnaire" is a web-based scale developed to investigate
      the absence of physical activity and activity for individuals over the age of 18. Individuals
      are asked to answer questions about their activity habits in the past year. By developing the
      scale, Bonn et al. Tested its validity and reliability comparatively with the 'Double labeled
      water' method and the accelerometer.

      The investigators think that "The Active-Q: Physical Activity Questionnaire" will help
      physiotherapists and other health professionals in the field and in the field to evaluate
      individuals' physical activity by revealing their energy consumption values. Therefore, it
      was aimed to make this scale available to Turkish healthcare professionals by conducting the
      Turkish validity and reliability study.
    
  