
    
      STUDY SETTINGS: Cardiology and cardiothoracic out-patients and in-patient wards of Castle
      Hill hospital

      SAMPLE SIZE CALCULATION: FRAIL-HEART is a preliminary observational study designed to
      evaluate the practicality of undertaking frailty assessments in this population. The sample
      size of n=150 is estimated on the basis of feasibility. Investigators aim to recruit all
      consecutive patients who attend our department over a 1 year period. With an expected
      drop-out rate of 10% , investigators anticipate that it will be feasible to enrol 150
      patients in the required time-frame.

      PARTICIPANTS: The study target population will be patients aged 80 years or more, who are
      admitted or referred to the cardiology department because of underlying coronary artery
      disease.

      IDENTIFICATION & RECRUITMENT: These participants will be recruited into the study from
      outpatient cardiology clinics and from identification of suitable inpatients admitted to the
      cardiology and cardiothoracic units.

      BASELINE ASSESSMENT: The baseline assessment will include gathering patient baseline
      demographic data, current diagnosis and clinical status, assessment of the comorbid
      conditions, and information regarding relevant investigation results including blood results,
      electrocardiogram (ECG), echocardiogram and coronary angiography data. Participants will be
      asked to complete QoL questionnaire and undergo the frailty assessments. This will entail
      completion of several questionnaires.

      SF-12 QoL QUESTIONNAIRE: This questionnaire of 12 questions have been extensively used in
      research practice and validated to assess QoL in a variety of clinical settings20.

      FRAILTY ASSESSMENT: This will be evaluated using both the Fried phenotype and Edmonton
      frailty scale. Study participants will first be asked to complete the written questionnaires.
      They will then have a measure of handgrip strength and if feasible will be asked to do 'get
      up and go' and 'five metre walk 'test as detailed in the Edmonton and Fried assessments
      respectively. Participants who are unable to walk will be marked as per the criteria. Where
      applicable, participants will be allowed to use walking aids as required.

      Where applicable, the research team will also evaluate the results of coronary angiography
      and will undertake both SYNTAX as well as EUROSCORE calculations.

      FOLLOW UP ASSESSMENTS: The study participants will be seen at 3, 9 and 24 month intervals and
      will be asked to complete the QoL questionnaire and undergo frailty assessment. The following
      variables will be recorded at each follow-up visit.

        -  Patient symptoms- CCS angina class, NYHA class

        -  Height, weight, BMI, Vital signs

        -  Medication with dosages

        -  Document all major adverse outcomes: myocardial infarction, acute cerebrovascular event,
           major bleeding, or unplanned re-hospitalisation.

        -  Document any other adverse events such as kidney injury, transient ischaemic attack.

        -  Document length of stay on ICU and total length of hospital stay (where applicable).

        -  SF-12 questionnaire

        -  Fried Frailty phenotype

        -  Edmonton frailty scale

        -  Patient perspective survey form- Two separate patients perspective have been developed
           depending whether the study participants are managed medically or undergo intervention
           and cardiac surgery.

      DEATHS DURING THE STUDY PERIOD: Due to the advanced age of the study participants, it is
      expected that some patients might die during the study period. In such a situation the data
      already gathered will be retained in the study. Investigators will be advised to check on the
      Hull and East Yorkshire NHS Trust record systems before sending out any follow up
      appointments. The participant's family and relatives will not be approached after their
      death.
    
  