
    
      Specific Aims:

      This study was to extend our previous research to longitudinally examine the effectiveness of
      three intervention programs (CBIP, HBIP and UCP) for VLBW preterm children in Taiwan at seven
      years of age. Gender and maternal education level matched term children were also included to
      serve as the reference group for comparison of developmental outcomes. The intervention had
      been delivered from birth to one year of corrected age in the previous study. Effectiveness
      examined including children's and parental outcomes. Primary outcome referred to measures of
      child neurobehavioral functions. Neurobehavioral assessment included cognitive, motor and
      behavioral measurement. Secondary outcomes referred to child growth and health,
      neurophysiological functions, and the quality of parenting measures. Neurophysiological
      assessment referred to electroencephalogram/event-related potential examinations that were
      used to investigate the neurological pathways underlying the effective intervention.

      Subjects and Methods:

      Participants:

      One hundred and seventy-eight VLBW preterm children and 62 term children who had participated
      in our previous study were enrolled in this study. VLBW preterm children were born or
      admitted at the National Taiwan University Hospital, the Mackay Memorial Hospital and Taipei
      City Hospital, Branch for Women and Children in Taipei, Taiwan, during the time period of
      2006 to 2008.

      Methods:

      While age seven is an important time period that children enter elementary school and begin
      to participate in school activities, more comprehensive outcome measurements are required.
      The World Health Organization emphasizes that health conditions should be considered from the
      body, individuals and societal perspectives as depicted in the International Classification
      of Functioning, Disability and Health model. Accordingly, the outcome measures in this study
      consisted of the primary (i.e., child neurobehavioral functions) and secondary outcomes
      (i.e., child growth and health, neurophysiological functions, and quality of parenting).
      Child neurobehavioral assessment included measurements of cognitive, motor, and behavior
      function. The domains of cognitive functions examined including the intelligence (IQ test),
      the efficiency of attention control (sustained attention test), and the cognitive flexibility
      and planning (executive function test). The motor function included motor skill acquisition
      and coordination. Children's behavior was measured using the parental report of child
      behavior and teacher's observation for child's adaptive behavior in the school context.
      Children's educational resources (special education or resource class) or other
      education-related support received from any institution would also be recorded in this study.
      Child neurophysiological functions were measured by the electroencephalogram
      (EEG)/event-related potential (ERP) technique.

      All families were contacted via phone call and mail to be enrolled in this study. Children
      and their parents would have been examined for the following outcomes when the children
      approached at seven years of age. All measures except for the neurophysiological measures
      were conducted at Infant Motor Development Laboratory, School of Physical Therapy, National
      Taiwan University. Several examiners with the background knowledge of physical therapy or
      psychology received training with the testing instruments and procedures. Before commencing
      the study assessments, the interrater reliability (agreement with an experienced investigator
      > 0.80) would have been required for the assessors. All the examiners were kept blind to
      children's group assignment. To decrease the fatigue in children due to the prolonged
      examination, participants were asked to return twice for assessment.The first assessment
      would have taken 180 minutes which consisted of the IQ test, sustained attention test, and
      executive function test that the whole session.The second assessment was the
      neurophysiological measurement with the EEG/ERP tasks which would have taken 90 minutes.
    
  