
    
      Hydrocephalus could be defined as disturbance of formation, flow or absorption of CSF. We
      encounter some challenging cases with intermittent non specific symptoms as delayed
      milestones and headache with concomitant imaging showing dilated ventricular system, so we
      find ourselves hesitating to take the decision of surgical intervention to put shunt or not,
      therefore MRI CSF flowmetry gives us a chance to overcome this problem. Phase contrast MR
      imaging is a rapid, simple and non-invasive technique which is sensitive to even small CSF
      flows, and can be used to evaluate CSF flow both qualitatively and quantitatively.

      CSF flow measurement at the suspected level of obstruction gives reliable and reproducible
      results for more accurate diagnosis and can be used to guide therapeutic decisions in a more
      reliable manner, and follow up post treatment outcome.

      With the CT and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques, it is possible to localize with
      accuracy the exact site of blockage of flow to CSF. Hence classification is as follows: The
      hydrocephalus may be due to 1) overproduction of CSF 2) obstructive 3) absorption defect.
      Depending on the exact aetiology, a secondary classification could be added under the
      following headings: 1) congenital, 2) acquired, eg; traumatic inflammatory, neoplastic, and
      degenerative . Bypassing the site of obstruction to CSF flow by diverting the CSF from
      ventricular cavity to a site where it is readily absorbed is the basic principle underlying
      the treatment of hydrocephalus. Extensive range of complications has been reported for
      shunting for hydrocephalus. They could be classified as mechanical or flow-related
      complications as CSF over drainage leading to subdural hematoma, subdural collections,
      low-pressure headaches cranial deformity, and asymmetrical drainage can lead to trapping or
      isolation of a part of a ventricular system. The slit ventricular syndrome is a complication
      related to absorption. Besides, ascites, loculations, hydrocele, perforation of the stomach,
      large and small bowel are also described. The success rates of shunt operation for
      hydrocephalus depend on the age of the patient and the reason why the shunt is needed.
      Generally, there is around a 50% failure rate for ventriculoperitoneal shunts.
    
  