
    
      Long QT syndrome (LQTS) is a genetic disorder characterized by a prolonged QT interval on the
      ECG and occurrence of syncope, ventricular arrhythmias, and sudden death. LQTS is a major
      cause of sudden death in infants, children, and young adults. Treatment by β-blockers and/or
      placement of an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) are effective in preventing
      sudden death, if the diagnosis of LQTS is made early.

      The efficacy of ECG screening of newborns for LQTS has been demonstrated in Italy.
      Furthermore, within the national healthcare system in Italy, universal ECG screening in
      newborns (<30 days old) is cost-effective. The U.S. debate for universal LQTS screening
      started in the mid-2000's. In a 2007survey completed by North American pediatric
      cardiologists, 27% favored optional ECG screening of newborns, whereas 11% supported
      mandatory screening (363 responses, 35% response rate). There may be stronger support for
      universal screening, now that more data are available.

      Obtaining a good standard 12-lead EKG on a neonate in the clinic is difficult and time
      consuming. If an ECG device for newborn screening were readily available, reliable, easy to
      use, and cost-effective, then universal screening of all 4 million newborns in the U.S. each
      year would identify 2,000 infants with LQTS who are at risk for sudden death, assuming the
      prevalence is the same as in Italy. Perhaps more than 300 deaths per year from SIDS could be
      prevented, as well as many more sudden deaths in children, adolescents, and young adults.

      During Phase I of this project, a new device was developed to meet this clinical need (called
      QTScreen). In Phase II, the aim is to test the capacity of QTScreen for LQTS screening in
      newborns and the feasibility of home screening by parents in an ethnically diverse population
      of Northern and Southern California. The results of this clinical trial may validate the
      device as a screening tool for LQTS, and also provide important scientific data for
      supporting newborn screening for LQTS in the U.S.

      The 4 main objectives are:

        1. To validate the capacity of QTScreen for LQTS screening in newborns. This will be a
           clinical trial on 4,000 newborns, conducted at the Los Angeles Biomedical Research
           Institute (LABioMed).

        2. To determine the extent to which parents are able to use QTScreen on their babies at
           home.

        3. To survey end-user experience and opinions. The target users of QTScreen are parents.
           Participating parents will be asked to complete a survey, to obtain data for further
           development of the device.

        4. To estimate the LQTS prevalence in California. To date, the only population-based
           estimate of LQTS prevalence is 1 in 2,000 in Italy. In a recent study in Japan, 4,285
           1-month-old infants had ECG screening. The LQTS prevalence was not reported, because
           only 10% of subjects with QTc values >450 msec had gene testing. There has been no
           population-based study of LQTS in the US. In a study of 707 children with hearing loss
           in California, 2 subjects had potassium voltage-gated channel KQT-like subfamily member
           1 (KCNQ1 potassium channel) mutations, truncation or splicing. This trial will provide
           data on the LQTS prevalence in California.

      Study Sites:

      Study procedures will be conducted at subjects' homes. Subjects will be recruited from LA
      BioMed at Harbor-UCLA Medical Center, Providence Little Company of Mary Medical
      Center-Torrance, Santa Clara Valley Medical Center, and St. Francis Medical Center. Approval
      from each of the recruitment sites will be obtained prior to commencing recruitment.

      Consent:

      Consent will be sought from one parent only. Parents will be given the opportunity to
      thoroughly read the consent form and to ask questions.

      Risk/Benefit:

      ECG is a routine test performed on infants, children and adults every day in the hospital for
      many years with no problems or adverse events. The QTScreen system used in this study is a
      simplified way of performing an ECG test on infants. Some subjects may undergo genetic
      testing as part of this research and there are some risks associated with genetic testing,
      such as emotional and confidentiality.

      There is a very small risk of infection or rash related to the procedure involved in ECG
      testing. The subject may feel some discomfort from the sticky patches placed on and removed
      from his/her chest. Discomfort will be minimized by using an adhesive remover wipe which is
      commercially available and used by hospitals. Although infection is very unlikely to occur,
      rules and procedures of the nursery and clinic will be followed. This includes cleaning the
      ECG equipment and sanitizing it using a disinfecting wipe before and after each use to
      prevent infection.

      The effects of drawing blood are usually pain, bleeding and/or a bruise where the needle is
      inserted. Occasionally the area around the vein may swell. Serious complications such as a
      blood clot or infection may occur but these are rare. Some people feel faint when having
      blood drawn. Necessary precautions, such as gloves and proper sterilization, will be taken to
      minimize pain and infection. A small amount of local anesthetic cream may be placed on the
      child's forearm.

      Appropriate precautions will be used to minimize the risks associated with this project and
      feel that in general the risks associated with this project are low.

      The information gained from this study will help to find ways to possibly simplify the ECG
      test. This research study may also lead to a better understanding of LQTS which can provide
      important insight for future treatments and research. Therefore the general feeling is that
      the benefits of this project outweigh the risks.
    
  