
    
      Adolescents inclusion criteria: weight-fof-height over 20% over normality (finnish
      recommendations), age 13-16 years old Exclusion criteria: mental health problems, or long
      term illness.

      Adolescents outcome measures:

        1. Change from baseline physical activity at 12 weeks using a blinded Polar Activity
           activity monitor. Primary outcome is measuder using continuous scale and measurement
           unit is one minute. For each subject the minutes per day is calculated (minimum value is
           0).

           It is a wrist worn uni-axial accelerometer designed to determine physical activity of
           children and adolescents. Polar activity monitor records activity in every 30 seconds
           bouts and the device records steps when user takes >70 steps per minute. Activity
           measurements were done for 21 days at baseline and three months follow-up measurements.
           A wear-time shows valid days in this study, and one valid day required at least 500
           minutes / day and users had to have at least eight valid days from weekdays and also one
           from weekend.

           The device integrates the total amount of acceleration in one dimension and counts
           physical activity quantity and quality, amount of steps and total energy expenditure in
           calories (Kcal). Physical activity is defined by metabolic equivalent of tasks (MET),
           which are divided in five areas of activity; very light (1-2 MET), light (2-3.5 MET),
           moderate (3.6-5 MET), vigorous (5.1-8 MET) and vigorous plus (>8 MET).

        2. Change from baseline body mass index (BMI) at 12 weeks BMI was calculated from weight
           (kg) and height (cm) that were measured by heath care professionals. Formula BMI= weight
           (kg)/(height (m))2 were using calculating BMI. Scale is continuous.

        3. Change from baseline adherence to healthy lifestyles at 12 weeks, 24 months and 36
           months. The Adherence to healthy lifestyle is measured using Likert scale with 5 point.
           The range were from 1 to 5, where 1=strong disagree - 5=strong agree. The adherence to
           healthy lifestyle questionnaires validity and reliability have been tested before
           (Kyngäs et al. 2000. The development of an instrument to measure the compliance of
           adolescents with a chronic diseases. Journal of advanced nursing 32 (6):1499-1506.

      Parents outcomes:

      1) Change from baseline adherence to healthy lifestyles at 12 weeks, 24 months and 36 months.
      The Adherence to healthy lifestyle is measured using Likert scale with 5 point. The range
      were from 1 to 5, where 1=strong disagree - 5=strong agree. The adherence to healthy
      lifestyle questionnaires validity and reliability have been tested before (Kyngäs et al.
      2000. The development of an instrument to measure the compliance of adolescents with a
      chronic diseases. Journal of advanced nursing 32 (6):1499-1506.

      Data analysis: Across-group comparison of baseline physical activity, BMI, gender and age
      were conducted for evaluable participants using ANOVA (Kruskal-Wallis test) for continuous
      variables and for categorical variables (eg. sex) we used Fischer´s exact test.
    
  