
    
      To evaluate a standardized multicomponent cognitive behavioral treatment program for child
      and adolescent obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). The treatment program consists of
      individual Exposure and Response Prevention (ERP) for the OCD child plus a concurrent family
      intervention designed to reduce OCD-related family conflict, facilitate family disengagement
      from the affected child's OCD behavior, and rebuild normal family interaction patterns. The
      ERP/Family Treatment Program is compared with Relaxation Training (RT).

      OCD is a chronic, often disabling disorder in childhood that has been associated with
      increased rates of parental psychopathology and significant disruptions in family
      relationships and functioning. Preliminary studies suggest that ERP is an effective treatment
      for children with OCD although no controlled trials to this effect have been published. RT
      was selected as the comparison treatment because of its credibility as an anxiety treatment
      and familiarity to potential subjects. RT has been used as a comparison condition for at
      least 2 randomized controlled ERP trials for adult OCD and shown to be ineffective in
      treating this disorder. Although it has long been hypothesized that family participation in
      treatment may be helpful, this is the first controlled study incorporating a systematic
      manualized family treatment component.

      Participants are randomly assigned to receive either the combined ERP/Family Treatment
      Program (n=56) or RT (n=24). Both treatments are delivered over 12 90-minute outpatient
      sessions according to detailed treatment manuals.Youth and families undergo comprehensive and
      systematic, including behavioral, assessments by blind clinical evaluators at baseline,
      monthly during treatment, post-treatment and 2 follow-up evaluations over 6 months. Treatment
      outcome is examined in multimodal fashion and across multiple functional domains with a
      special emphasis on family contextual variables. The impact of baseline functioning,
      including family context, and initial change over time on treatment outcome is also
      systematically evaluated.
    
  