
    
      Research Design and Methods Overview of Study Design & Procedure. The aim of this randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) is to determine the efficacy of a behavioral intervention targeting
      health communication skills and diabetes self-management skills in preparation for the
      transfer to adult diabetes care, compared to usual care. The intervention, Plan, Reflect, and
      Engage with Providers for Diabetes Care (PREP-DC), consists of three intervention sessions
      with a study interventionist, paired text messages, and access to glucose management
      software. It is expected that adolescents and young adults allocated to the intervention
      condition (PREP-DC) will evidence: 1) better glycemic control (lower A1c); 2) shorter gap in
      time between the last visit in pediatric diabetes care and the first visit in adult diabetes
      care; 3) better diabetes management (better adherence to the diabetes regimen); 4) fewer
      reported complications (e.g. hospitalizations and emergency department visits). A total of
      100 adolescent and young adult participants (ages 17-23) will be randomly allocated in a 1:1
      ratio to either the PREP-DC intervention condition (n=50) or usual care (n=50; standard care
      comparison condition): all participants receive standard resources for transition to adult
      diabetes care as part of usual care in both conditions.

      Participants include 100 adolescents and young adults (ages 17-23) diagnosed with T1D for at
      least one year (anticipated 50% female) seen for diabetes care at Children's National Medical
      Center (CNMC) in Washington, DC. Eligible participants will self-identify as planning to
      transfer to adult diabetes care within the upcoming 6-8 months. Participants in the PREP-DC
      intervention will complete three intervention sessions with study team members over a 3 month
      period (approximately 1 intervention session per month). Two sessions will be with a trained
      study interventionist focusing on communication with health care providers and preparation
      for medical visits and adult diabetes care. One session will be with a certified diabetes
      education focusing on problem-solving using glucose data and glucose data review. PREP-DC
      intervention participants will also receive text messages (3-4 messages/week) for the 3 month
      intervention period supporting intervention content. Participants also will be given
      information about accessing glucose management software specific to their diabetes devices
      and related study resources (e.g. study website). Participants are evaluated at baseline
      (pre-randomization to intervention or standard care comparison group) and follow-up
      (approximately 4 months post-baseline and approximately 8-12 months post-baseline after the
      transition to adult diabetes care).
    
  