
    
      Patients Patients with peripheral artery disease met the inclusion criteria if they were PAD
      patients, had performed preprocedural CTA and PTA. The hospital's database was used to
      identify the patients met inclusion criteria. The medical records and radiologic information
      system database were reviewed to retrieve clinical information including background diseases
      and radiographic findings.

      Computed Tomography Angiography Protocol A 128-section multidetector CT (Philips
      brillianceiCT was used for scanning with the following scanning parameters，tube voltage was
      120 kVp, tube current 40-440mA, and 0.625-mm slice thicknesses. The protocols required
      patients to lie supine with legs extended, A fixed bolus of contrast medium with total volume
      of 90 ml (370 mg iodine per milliliter) was injected into antecubital vein at a rate of 4
      mL/sec, followed by a 30 mL saline flush, by using a dual-barrel power injector. CT scanning
      was performed with the coverage from the common iliac artery bifurcation to the tiptoe.
      Scanning began 12 seconds after an attenuation threshold of 150 HU was reached.

      CTA Data Analysis CTA data were transferred to an offline workstation for further analysis.
      Axial images, cross-sectional views, curved planar reformations (CPR), and multiplanar
      reformations (MPR), as well as three-dimensional maximum intensity projection images were
      available for evaluation. We measure the degree of transluminal calcification, CT attenuation
      value of the proximal occlusion ,anatomic distribution of the leision,and length of
      occlusion,and the degree of stenosis CTO Crossing Strategy CTO crossing strategy was
      wire-catheter. Technical success was defined as crossing the CTO and placement of a guidewire
      in the distal true lumen confirmed by angiography.Outcomes include binary variables of lesion
      crossing described as technical success or failure.

      Follow-up We also examined patient adverse events after procedures at 12 months: all-cause
      death,nonfatal myocardial infarction,revascularization and amputation.

      Built prediction model we can establish model with preoperative computer tomography
      angiography that provided the lesion detail characteristic combing the patients' biochemical
      and clinical feature to predict the procedural and long-term outcomes of endovascular
      revascularization for Lower extremity peripheral artery chronic total occlusions.
    
  