
    
      The aim of this study is to determine whether an intensive care management program for
      high-risk lupus patients (Rheum-iCMP, modeled after the highly successful BWH iCMP for
      primary care patients) reduces acute care utilization (emergency department (ED) visits,
      hospitalizations), improves rheumatology clinic appointment attendance, and ultimately
      improves quality of lupus care in this group. Selected iCMP nurses will receive a 4-hour
      training using unique educational materials already developed by our team that specifically
      address lupus-related racial, ethnic and socioeconomic disparities, as well as clinical
      information about lupus.

      The investigators plan to identify high-risk lupus patients in the Partners' risk contract
      (Medicaid, Medicare and certain commercial insurances) with BWH primary care physicians
      (PCPs) from three sources. First, the investigators will use the BWH Lupus Registry, which is
      updated regularly and includes lupus patients actively receiving care at BWH. Second, the
      investigators will identify lupus patients via Partners electronic medical record (EMR) using
      our validated lupus algorithm and look specifically at those receiving primary care within
      the BWH system. The investigators will link both BWH Lupus Registry patients and patients
      meeting our algorithm to claims data through the Population Health Repository. The
      investigators will then identify patients with increased healthcare utilization, including ED
      visits and/or hospitalizations during the preceding 3 years, and who are at risk for
      avoidable outcomes (rheumatology appointment no-shows/same-day cancellations within the same
      period). The investigators will also apply the Partners' Center for Population Health
      high-risk algorithm to both cohorts to identify additional high-risk patients. The
      investigators will then reach out to the identified patients' PCPs or their rheumatologists
      for approval to send a study invitation to patients or asking physicians to introduce the
      study to their patients with a fact sheet. Third, the investigators will ask rheumatologists
      to refer lupus patients who might benefit from Rheum-iCMP, since a similar referral system
      has been successful within BWH-wide iCMP.

      The investigators plan to newly enroll 40 lupus patients aged ≥18 years old, both male and
      female, English-speaking, and who receive their primary care at BWH prospectively using a
      stepped wedge design starting first with 20 patients enrolled in Rheum-iCMP, and then with 20
      additional patients enrolled 4 months later. For the second 20 patients, for the first 4
      months, patients will receive educational material about lupus on a monthly basis. The
      investigators will invite these 40 patients to also participate in a semi-structured
      interview that includes asking participants ahead of time to take 10-15 photographs (with a
      disposable camera the investigators will provide) of their neighborhoods and homes, in order
      to begin a conversation about the social determinants that contribute to their care-seeking
      behaviors. Participants will then sit with a moderator for a ~60-90 minute semi-structured,
      in-depth photo-elicitation interview. Participants will be asked to 1) select the photographs
      for discussion, 2) contextualize each image and tell a story, 3) describe what is really
      happening and how it relates to their life and 4) propose suggestions for what can be done to
      improve any barriers described. The elicitation interviews will be audio-recorded,
      transcribed verbatim, and entered into Dedoose for analysis. Participation in the
      photographs/interview is not a requirement of being a part of Rheum-iCMP.

      In addition to these 40 newly enrolled patients, the investigators expect that 70 additional
      adult lupus patients within the Partners system are already enrolled in BWH iCMP. Among these
      patients, the investigators plan to examine EMR and claims data pre and post additional
      lupus-specific iCMP nurse education. However, the investigators do not plan to ask for survey
      completion for this population since this iCMP program is considered standard of care and
      these patients are already a part of it. Because the investigators do not feel that this will
      involve more than minimal risk and because it would not be feasible, the investigators do not
      plan to consent these individuals to allow us to examine their medical records.

      The investigators will compare lupus-related quality metrics, rheumatology appointment
      attendance, and acute care use 12 months after enrollment in rheum-iCMP as compared to 12
      months before enrollment in rheum-iCMP. The investigators will collect surveys at 12 months
      after enrollment in rheum-iCMP. The investigators will also examine EMR and claims data when
      available prior to the rheum-iCMP and then for the subsequent 12-24 months during and
      following rheum-iCMP. For the lupus patients who are already enrolled in BWH iCMP, the
      investigators will compare measures extractable from EMRs and claims pre-iCMP, during iCMP
      but pre-lupus-specific iCMP nurse training, and during Rheum-iCMP (post- nurse training) for
      N=70.

      During the intervention period, our project coordinator will set up a sustainable EPIC system
      for tracking appointment no-shows and SLE quality metrics (e.g. lab monitoring, contraceptive
      use). The investigators will collect the following surveys: medication adherence and
      medication beliefs using the MASRI survey and the Beliefs about Medications scale, lupus
      disease activity using SLAQ and SLEDAI, mental health using the MHI-5, social determinants of
      health using the Partners Healthcare Social Determinants of Health (SDH) Survey, global
      health assessment using the PROMIS global health scale short form, and racial discrimination
      using the Everyday Discrimination Scale. The investigators will also collect baseline
      demographics information via a demographics survey. The investigators will determine acute
      care utilization (e.g. ED visits, hospitalizations) using partners risk contract claims data.
      The investigators will also use surveys at 12 months after rheum-iCMP enrollment to assess
      patient, iCMP nurse, and MD satisfaction. Surveys will be collected at outpatient
      appointments or via mail. For longer term quality metrics 12-24 months past the intervention
      period, the investigators will work with the Center for Population Health's team to set up a
      tracking system that has Partners-wide claims data linked with EMRs. For the 70 patients
      already enrolled in the iCMP intervention, the investigators will collect data on process
      measures (e.g. rheumatology appointment no-shows, acute care utilization, receipt of
      standard-of-care SLE monitoring laboratory tests, vaccinations, preventive care screenings
      and medications). The investigators will also collect these data for the 40 newly enrolled
      patients.

      This is a pilot study. One of our primary measures is to reduce ambulatory rheumatology care
      no-show rates for the highest risk patients. The investigators estimate that the no-show rate
      is about 70% and the aim of this study is to reduce this rate to 20%. The investigators would
      need a total of 40 patients (20 in each arm) to have 80% power to detect this difference,
      which is why the target enrollment for new patients in Rheum-iCMP is 40.
    
  