
    
      The evolution of our regimen, consisting of Gemzar, Taxotere and Xeloda (oral 5FU) (GTX), was
      carefully developed over the past three years from laboratory and clinical work. Initially,
      in collaboration with Dr. William Sherman of the Division of Medical Oncology we assessed the
      clinical effects of two agents, Gemzar and Taxotere in pancreatic cancer patients. In our in
      vitro studies we found that as single agents these drugs (Gemzar and Taxotere) were minimally
      effective against pancreatic carcinoma lines, which expressed mutant p53 and activated
      mutated ras. Activated or mutant ras is found in approximately 95% of all pancreatic
      carcinomas. However, when the agents were added together in tissue culture experiments we
      found that their activity was additive. The clinical study performed at Columbia Presbyterian
      Medical Center demonstrated a 27% objective response rate by CT scan including one complete
      response with intent to treat analysis of all 15 patients within the study. The majority of
      these patients had metastatic liver disease and a minority had inoperable pancreatic
      carcinoma without liver metastases. Though this was a small single arm, single institution
      study it did suggest a trend towards improved responses in patients with this disease when
      these two agents were combined. In addition, valuable lessons were learned from the in vitro
      work with Gemzar and Taxotere. Importantly, we found that this combination was equally toxic
      to mutant and wild type p53 pancreatic cancer cells, as well as to cells with mutant ras.
      Also, docetaxel pharmacokinetics are more favorable and have distinct advantages over the use
      of the other taxane known as paclitaxel. They are the following: 1) Taxotere enters tumor
      cells more efficiently than paclitaxel because it is more lipophilic; 2) Taxotere is not
      pumped out by the cell by P-glycoprotein as efficiently as paclitaxel; 3) Taxotere' half life
      was significantly longer than that of paclitaxel such that a 60 minute infusion of Taxotere
      gives you approximate pharmacokinetics as paclitaxel when administered as a 24 hour
      continuous infusion. These laboratory studies from the literature formed the rationale for
      our use of Taxotere (docetaxel) instead of paclitaxel.

      After our initial clinical and laboratory study we went back to the laboratory to investigate
      further some of the properties of Gemcitabine, Taxotere added to Xeloda (5-DFUR) in vitro to
      maximize biochemical synergy and to minimize toxicity. We found important characteristics of
      these drug combinations against pancreatic cancer cells that have been synthesized into the
      current protocol. We found that there was sequence specificity for these drugs in that 5-DFUR
      should precede Gemzar by 72 to 96 hours and Gemzar should be added before Taxotere to achieve
      maximum synergy. Taxotere cytotoxicity was dose dependent up to 20 nM but then no further
      cell kill was obtained past that point. This would mean that one would not need to use high
      dose Taxotere in a regimen because it would be doubtful whether increased doses would obtain
      further cell kill in a linear scale.

      We investigated many different combinations of these 3 agents in the laboratory to determine
      the best combination to achieve biochemical synergy while decreasing the concentration of
      each drug and not lose anti-tumor effect so as to decrease toxicity to patients.
    
  