
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Assess the toxicity and response rates to induction therapy with docetaxel and
      doxorubicin in women with chemotherapy naive metastatic breast cancer. II. Assess the
      toxicity and response rates to sequential high dose chemotherapy following induction
      chemotherapy in women with metastatic breast cancer. III. Determine the hematopoietic
      recovery rate following CD34+ selected peripheral blood stem cell support in this patient
      population. IV. Assess the toxicity of noncytotoxic maintenance therapy following high dose
      chemotherapy in this patient population.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients with no prior chemotherapy for metastatic
      disease receive induction chemotherapy consisting of doxorubicin IV immediately followed by
      docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1. Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SQ)
      beginning on day 2 and continuing until day 11-15. Induction therapy repeats every 3 weeks
      for 4 courses. Within 4 weeks of the last course of induction chemotherapy, patients receive
      mobilization chemotherapy consisting of cyclophosphamide IV for 2 days, and etoposide IV and
      cisplatin IV for 3 days. At 24 hours following completion of chemotherapy, patients receive
      G-CSF SQ twice daily until the target number of peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are
      reached. Within 5 weeks following completion of mobilization chemotherapy, patients receive
      cyclophosphamide IV, thiotepa IV, and carboplatin IV continuously on days -7 through -4.
      Patients receive CD34+ selected PBSC on day 0 followed 4 hours later by G-CSF SQ daily and
      continuing until blood counts recover. Within 30 days of blood count recovery or immediately
      following completion of post transplantation radiotherapy, patients receive maintenance
      therapy consisting of oral anastrozole daily until disease progression. Patients with bone
      involvement also receive pamidronate IV over 2 hours monthly for 1 year. Patients are
      followed monthly for 6 months, every 3 months for 1 year, every 4-6 months for 5 years, and
      then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 50 patients will be accrued for this study over 12 months.
    
  