
    
      Pancreatic cancer (PCa) is one of the most deadly cancers with a 5-year survival rate of less
      than 10 %. The majority of PCa are found to be none-resectable at the time of diagnosis. Only
      10 - 20% of patients are offered surgical treatment, which is the only chance of cure. The
      mean survival times of none-resected patients are 3 to 6 months. Despite surgical treatment
      many patients experience recurrence. The high overall mortality is mainly caused by
      difficulties in early diagnosis due to unspecific/lack of symptoms in the early stages of the
      disease.

      Patients with resectable tumors and no co-morbidity, have a 5-year survival rate up to 54 %.
      This indicates that early detection of the disease, which enables complete surgical resection
      of the tumor, is a way to improve survival. Chronic pancreatitis is one of the only known
      risk factors for PCa.

      Currently there is no valid diagnostic marker for PCa. Diagnosis requires advanced methods
      and several of these are invasive and entail a risk of complications. A blood-based marker
      for pancreatic cancer would be a major achievement and of great benefit to the patients, and
      may even be used in screening.

      During development of cancer changes in DNA arise, including DNA hypermethylation where a
      methyl residue is attached to the DNA. The methylation most frequently occurs in the
      regulatory region of the gene leading to inactivity. Some of the inactivated genes are
      necessary to ensure the control of cell growth. When these genes are inactivated, the cell
      will no longer be subject to normal control mechanisms and may eventually develop into a
      cancer cell.

      Small amounts of DNA are released into the blood and can be detected in a blood sample. The
      DNA changes may be tumor specific and potentially useable as a marker for PCa. In 2012 our
      research unit in cooperation with Department of Molecular Diagnostic, Aalborg University
      Hospital published an optimized method for detection of hypermethylated DNA in plasma. The
      method has greatly improved sensitivity.

      The purpose of our study is to test whether alterations in DNA hypermethylations in blood can
      be used as:

        -  A diagnostic marker for pancreatic cancer.

        -  A prognostic marker for pancreatic cancer.

        -  A marker for recurrence.

        -  Monitoring patients with chronic pancreatitis and detecting patients with particularly
           high risk of developing pancreatic cancer.
    
  