
    
      Cigarette smoking continues to have a startling adverse impact on public health, leading to
      more than 5 million premature deaths annually worldwide. Smoking rates are disproportionately
      high among the population suffering from substance use disorders (SUDs) (e.g., alcohol or
      cocaine). In this regard, smokers with comorbid SUD are more likely to smoke heavily and meet
      criteria for high nicotine dependence. As they experience more difficulty in quitting smoking
      than their non-SUDs counterparts, they present lower rates of abstinence.

      In recent years there has been a great interest in developing effective strategies to promote
      abstinence in smokers with SUDs. In particular, a proliferation on CM treatments for smokers
      with SUDs has been recently produced. There is promising evidence for the positive effect of
      CM treatments upon both quitting smoking and both legal and illegal abuse drugs. On the other
      hand, CM has shown promising results in promoting both retention and nicotine abstinence
      among comorbid and non-comorbid smokers. Nevertheless, there is a lack of research exploring
      the effectiveness of CM on smokers with SUDs.

      The primary aim of this clinical trial is to yield data on the effectiveness of CM for
      smoking cessation in smokers with SUDs. To address this issue, both CBT for smoking cessation
      plus EFT, and the same treatment alongside CM for shaping abstinence will be assessed.
      Participants will be randomly assigned to one of the following treatment conditions: 1)
      CBT+EFT; 2) CBT+EFT+ CM.

      In view to assure adequate power for achieving statistical significance, investigators
      carried out a priori power analysis by using the G*Power 3.1. An estimated sample size of 120
      participants would detect a medium effect size (Cohen's d = 0.3, with power (1-β) set at 0.97
      and α = 05).

      The primary analyses derived from this clinical trial will be conducted using Statistical
      Package for the Social Science (SPSS) version 24 for Windows. A set of descriptive and
      frequency analyses will be carried out with regard to participants' characteristics.
      Comparisons between treatment groups in both baseline characteristics and treatment outcomes
      will be conducted using a set of chi-square tests for categorical variables and t-tests
      (two-tailed) for continuous variables.
    
  