
    
      Although nasal polyposis has been recognized as an inflammatory process for many years, the
      true etiology of nasal polyposis mainly unknown. Despite surgical removal, the recurrence
      rate after surgery has been reported as high as 87% within the first year after surgery.
      Anecdotally the Principal Investigator found an incidence of pH probe-proven
      laryngopharyngeal reflux approaching 80% in his patients with nasal polyposis. Although his
      number of cases was small, the incidence of recurrence of polyps in these patients was 17%.

      The PI believes that such an association is too great to be explained by chance alone, and
      deserves further study. He anticipates two contributions to the literature from this study,
      the first documenting the incidence of extraesophageal (laryngopharyngeal) reflux in patients
      with polyposis, and the second showing the impact of reflux treatment on the recurrence rate
      of the polyps, initially after one year of therapy.

      Eligible patients found to have nasal polyps will be offered the chance to participate in
      this study. They will undergo non-invasive pH probe monitoring for 24 hours. If
      extraesophageal (laryngopharyngeal) reflux is discovered, they will be provided (at no cost)
      proton pump inhibitor medication (PPI), prescribed in accordance with published standards in
      the otolaryngology literature. Their polyposis will be treated as any other patient
      presenting with polyposis; participation in the study will not affect the course of polyp
      treatment. The incidence of recurrence will be monitored and recorded over the first year
      after treatment.

      Included: Subjects will be adults with nasal polyposis, recruited from the PI's private
      practice, will not be currently taking a PP!, will be able and willing to undergo a
      noninvasive 24 hour pH probe study, and willing to take a PPI. Excluded: patients who are
      pregnant, have a history of surgical treatment for reflux disease, history of allergic or
      adverse reaction to Prevacid or adverse reaction to Prevacid during the study period, and
      those not meeting inclusion criteria.

      In addition to routine office otolaryngology examination, subjects will undergo noninvasive
      24 hour esophageal pH probe monitoring. The probe is swallowed and placed in the same manner
      as a feeding tube. The procedure is done in the office. No sedation is required, but the
      mucosa may be sprayed with topical 4% lidocaine for comfort. This procedure is the standard
      for diagnosis of extraesophageal (laryngopharyngeal) reflux, and will be performed in
      accordance with manufacturer guidelines

      Risks include temporary dysphagia while the probe is in place, and nasal irritation. Mild,
      self-limited epistaxis has been rarely reported

      The procedure will be done within manufcturer guidelines under direct vision. Topical Afrin
      may be used to control any mild epistaxis. Topical 4% lidocaine will be applied to minimize
      dysphagia. These steps have proven very affective in minimizing these risks.

      If the study hypothesis is correct, the patient may have an diminished risk of recurrence of
      their nasal polyposis. If the patient is found to have previously undiagnosed reflux disease,
      this will allow it to be treated appropriately. Undiagnosed/untreated reflux has been
      associated with multiple medical problems including laryngeal and esophageal cancer. The
      patient will be given their PPI medication free of charge for the duration of the study. The
      noninvasive pH probe study will be done free of charge. No direct monetary payment will be
      given to participants.
    
  