
    
      Asthma is the most common chronic disease in children. Asthma exacerbations are responsible
      for many unscheduled consultations by paediatricians and general practitioners, numerous
      emergency room visits and frequent hospitalizations

      Asthma action plans are documents given to families and schools to give the actions to be
      taken in the event of an asthma attack occurring in the family or school environment. They
      are recommended by all learned societies, because, combined with patient education and
      regular consultations, they reduce the need for unscheduled care.

      The main drug in the action plan is the emergency treatment, i.e. a short-acting
      bronchodilator (SABA). However, the doses of SABA to be used vary widely depending on the
      recommendations. For children up to 5 years of age, the international board of the Global
      Initiative for Asthma (GINA) suggests limiting the home dose to 2 puffs of 100μg every 20
      minutes, to be repeated twice before consulting a physician if there is no improvement. This
      dose is increased to 4-10 puffs every 20 minutes in children 6 years and older. The British
      Thoracic Society in the United Kingdom advises administering salbutamol puffs one at a time,
      30 to 60 seconds apart, until symptoms improve, with a maximum of 10 puffs. In France, the
      Groupe de Recherche sur les Avancées en PneumoPédiatrie (GRAPP) recommends to administer
      higher doses of salbutamol at home, up to one puff per 2 kg of weight, with a maximum of 10
      to 15 puffs, to be repeated every 20 minutes for one hour, before giving oral
      corticosteroids. These very heterogeneous protocols reflect the diversity of doses proposed
      in the literature, and the paucity of clinical research data that makes it impossible to
      determine whether one approach is better than another. A study that looked at the goals of
      parents of children with asthma highlighted that this heterogeneity of practices is a source
      of stress for families: "I would like one plan and not ten" explained one parent; "I would
      like a plan that doesn't change all the time" reported another.

      Harmonization of practices is necessary in order to provide families and school physicians
      nurses with a consistent approach..

      The aim of this study is therefore to observe, using inhalers connected to salbutamol
      inhalers (smart inhalers), how families manage an asthma exacerbation at home, and to
      integrate these data into the establishment of future recommendations.
    
  