
    
      Background:

      Research has shown that residents have limited knowledge on documentation requirements.
      However, correct coding and documentation plays a pivotal role in today's health care system.
      Inadequate billing and coding in health record documentation can constitute fraud and abuse.
      Surgeons that are trained on proper billing and coding can be instrumental to reducing waste
      and increasing efficiency throughout the sphere of health care. The low quality of physician
      documentation has been widely recognized; however, definitive measures correcting the
      situation are absent. Truthfully, most residents are unaware that ICD-9 data is used for
      planning, reimbursement, quality rating, Medicare Conditions of Participation, JCAHO Core
      Measures thereby reinforcing the lack of understanding regarding the importance of such
      codes.Lack of education and time constraints results in poor physician documentation and as a
      consequence, inadequate coding leads to delayed or denied reimbursements. Several studies
      have shown under-billing and down-coding from resident encounters. However, no interventional
      studies directly addressing coding and documentation in General Surgery Residents were
      identified.

      Purpose and objectives:

      Objective 1: To educate general surgery residents on proper documentation; therefore,
      facilitating coding analyst efficiency by increasing processing time and employee
      satisfaction.

      Hypothesis 1: Increasing note clarity will improve coding analyst productivity and output.

      Objective 2: To ensure fair and accurate re-imbursement by appropriate translation of
      documentation to ICD-9 and CPT codes.

      Hypothesis 2: Better reimbursement accuracy will result from an increase in precise, clear
      and complete medical records.

      Objective 3: To increase self-efficacy in surgical trainees. Hypothesis 3: By incorporating
      appropriate documentation and coding techniques early on in their careers, we will observe
      increase in documentation confidence among residents.

      Design and Procedure:

      To initiate this study, surgical coding analysts at the Michael E. DeBakey Department of
      Veteran Affairs (MEDVAMC) will be interviewed on the most commonly encountered documenting
      mistakes in current practice at the surgery department. We intend to conduct a blinded
      randomized, control trial examining documentation entered by surgical trainees who receive no
      documentation education compared to trainee documentation after education. Endpoints will be
      measured by evaluating coding analyst quota which is defined as the number of charts
      translated into ICD-9 and CPT codes per day. Additionally, we will also be evaluating
      employee satisfaction as defined by the Maslach Burnout inventory; a well-researched
      validated survey. A time range of twelve months, starting from day one of a surgical
      rotation, will be used in each arm of the study. Trainees with no education on documentation
      will serve as the control group while those who recieve documentation education will make up
      the intervention group. Outcomes will be measured by changes in quota, and coder satisfaction
      as described above. Randomization: A randomized block design will be employed with each
      surgery rotation month as a unit of randomization. In other words, surgery trainees will be
      randomly assigned to the control or intervention group per rotating month. Since residents
      rotate through a surgical service every 30 days, randomization will be done per month.

      Blinding and allocation concealment:

      The random month assignment will take place in advance using a pre-sealed envelope containing
      the randomization arm that will be opened the day prior to the start of the next surgical
      trainee rotation. The coders and surgical trainees will be blinded to the group allocation.
      Furthermore, surgery residents rotating through a surgical rotation at the VA during an
      intervention month will be trained on documentation and coding on the first day of their
      rotation; the teaching session will be about 20 minutes with high yield information on proper
      documentation and coding. The content of the teaching session will be determined through
      interviews conducted with the coding analysts. In addition to this session, a note card will
      be provided to the residents stressing the importance of proper documentation as well as
      serving as a reference tool.

      At the end of the rotation, an anonymous survey will be provided to the residents in order to
      assess if their documentation skills changed after the intervention. In addition, the coding
      analyst will also complete the Maslach Burnout inventory survey, a well-researched validated
      survey, to assess their employee's satisfaction in control vs intervention months. In
      addition, de-identified generally available data on the surgery department, such as relative
      value units and daily analyst quota will be collected. No identifiable provider information
      will be collected.

      Data Collection and Analysis Coding Analyst satisfaction will be analyzed with the Maslach
      Burnout Inventory (MBI) provided at the end of each month. In addition, residents will be
      surveyed on knowledge on coding and documentation confidence pre and post intervention.
      Billing and documentation data from the surgical deparment will be collected. Data will be
      analyzed using the t-test to determine if increasing the clarity of notes increases
      productivity. Secondary outcomes: Coding analyst satisfaction scores and resident surveys
      will be analyzed among the intervention and control groups using t-test.The criteria used for
      statistical significance will correspond to a P= 0.05 and a confidence interval (CI) of 95%.
      Analysis will be performed with STATA IC 13.0 (Stata Corporation, College Station, TX)
    
  