
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase II
      dose (RP2D) of decitabine in combination with enzalutamide in patients with refractory
      metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). (Phase 1b) II. To determine the
      12-month progression free survival rate of patients with enzalutamide-naive metastatic
      castrate resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) treated with decitabine plus enzalutamide. (Phase
      2)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and tolerability of decitabine in combination with enzalutamide in
      patients with refractory metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). (Phase 1b)
      II. To determine the overall response rate, overall survival and prostate specific antigen
      (PSA) changes in enzalutamide-naive mCRPC patients treated with decitabine plus enzalutamide.
      (Phase 2) III. To determine the safety and tolerability of decitabine in combination with
      enzalutamide in the study population. (Phase 2)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the relationship between decitabine dose and plasma biomarkers (e.g., levels
      of HbF, LINE-1 methylation, number of circulating tumor cell's [CTC?s] and, NY-ESO expression
      in CTC?s). (Phase 1b) II. To explore plasma and tumor immune biomarkers associated with
      efficacy to the study combination. (Phase 2) III. To determine if treatment emergent
      neuroendocrine transformation is present as a result of the treatment combination of
      enzalutamide plus decitabine. (Phase 2) IV. Evaluate changes in stem cell reprogramming
      factors and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)/ribonucleic acid (RNA) markers resulting from the
      treatment combination. (Phase 2)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase Ib, dose-escalation study of decitabine followed by a phase II
      study.

      Participants receive decitabine intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1-5 and enzalutamide
      orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up every 3 months for 24
      months.
    
  