
    
      Investigators enrolled 264 patients from February 2014 to February 2015, the principal
      inclusion criterion included CHF: left ventricular eject fraction (LVEF) <= 50%; moderate to
      severe CKD was diagnosed as an eGFR 15 to 59 mL/min per 1.73 m2, calculated via the
      abbreviated Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) study equation from SCr obtained
      within 72 hours of enrollment, patients were scheduled to undergo diagnostic cardiac
      angiography or percutaneous coronary interventions. We randomly assigned eligible patients in
      a 1:1 ratio to either CVP guided therapy or a standard hydration administration protocol.
      Investigators used the same fluid type commercially available 0.9% sodium chloride in all
      patients. Investigators monitored the CVP by placing an 5-French catheter in the jugular
      vein. Investigators recorded the CVP with commercially available haemodynamic monitoring
      software. In the CVP guided group the fluid rate was adjusted according to the CVP as
      follows: 3 mL/kg/h for CVP lower than 6 mmHg, 1.5 mL/kg/h for pressure of 6-12 mmHg, and
      1mL/kg/h for pressure higher than 12 mmHg. The control group was hydrated at 1 mL/kg per h.
      The fluid rate was set at the start of the procedure (before contrast exposure). Thus, both
      study groups received intravenous fluids for the same duration but at different rates. All
      study participants received intra-arterial Visipaque(320 mg I/ml; GE Healthcare) iso-osmolar
      contrast medium.

      Primary end point of the study was the incidence of CIN: The median peak increase in serum
      creatinine concentration between day 0 (when contrast was administered) and day 7. Definition
      of CIN was an absolute increase in serum creatinine (SCr) >0.5 mg/dl or a relative increase
      >25% compared to baseline SCr. Definition of non-Q-wave myocardial infarction was a creatine
      kinase-myocardial band enzyme elevation 3 times the upper normal value without new Q waves on
      the electrocardiogram. Definition of Q-wave myocardial infarction was presence of new
      pathologic Q waves on an electrocardiogram in conjunction with an elevation in creatine
      kinase greater than 3 times the normal value. All adverse clinical events as well as study
      end points were monitored and adjudicated by the independent event committee. Each patient
      was contacted in every week after administration of the contrast, investigated if dialysis or
      main cardiovascular events (myocardial infarction,acute heart failure and death), and record
      any adverse events.
    
  