
    
      This study proposal is looking at the application of an accurate assessment of fluid status
      in hemodialysis (HD) patients to correct fluid overload. Patients undergoing hemodialysis
      suffer from the inability to maintain their normal body fluids and have a high probability to
      develop hypertension at initiation of dialysis (1). Long-standing fluid overload is no longer
      linked solely to high blood pressure, but also to vascular dysfunction and heart failure (1).
      Fluid overload is estimated based on the amount of fluids available outside the cells
      (extracellular fluid volume, ECFV). Thus, determination of the right amount of fluid removal
      during the dialysis depends on the weight of the patient when the ECFV is normal (referred to
      as Target Weight, TW). Essentially, TW is assessed by routine clinical judgment, for example,
      leg and hands swelling (edema), elevation in blood pressure and the expansion of the external
      jugular vein. Unfortunately, this clinical judgment is not reliable to assess fluid status
      (2, 3); hence, overestimation of TW occurs and leads to fluid overload. Current technology
      allows assessing fluid overload accurately by using bio-impedance, a non-invasive method that
      can be easily used in the HD setting. Despite this, very few studies have been reported where
      a systematic approach was followed to use bio-impedance to correct a TW that has been set too
      high, with the ultimate goal to correct fluid overload. Therefore, this study aims to provide
      better fluid control through an intervention to improve fluid status toward normovolemia by
      using bio-impedance assessment of fluid overload rather than clinical judgments. First, the
      fluid status will be measured in all study participants by multifrequency bio-impedance using
      a 'Body Composition Monitor' (BCM, Fresenius). Second, we will divide the study subjects into
      two groups; the control group which will initially receive standard conventional therapy (no
      intervention) for 3 months, and the intervention group will undergo by BCM measurements and
      integrated TW correction protocol for 3 months. Third, after three months, the control group
      will also involve in the same TW correction adjustment. The Primary outcome is improvement in
      fluid status towards normovolemia (<1.1 L fluid overload). Secondary outcomes are a)
      improvement in vascular health as assessed by pulse wave velocity and augmentation index and
      b) a decrease in the use of antihypertensive medications. Altogether, an optimized fluid
      status via implemented fluid management plan will provide better control of fluid overload,
      blood pressure, and improvement in vascular function.
    
  