
    
      Management of postoperative analgesia following breast surgery extending beyond a simple
      lumpectomy can sometimes be a challenge, especially when such surgery is being performed as a
      day-case procedure. Patients undergoing mastectomy have a very high possibility of developing
      postsurgical pain syndrome, as high as 20% to 50%.There has been some evidence to suggest
      regional analgesia techniques reduce the incidence of postsurgical pain in patients
      undergoing mastectomy. This underlines the importance of performing regional anaesthetic and
      analgesic techniques for postoperative analgesia following breast surgery.There are many
      techniques of regional analgesia as thorasic epidural block , paravertebral block , PECS1
      block ,PECS2 block , and recently erector spinae plan block.Paravertebral blocks have
      superseded thoracic epidurals when it comes to choice of a regional anaesthesia technique to
      provide analgesia for breast surgery.The injection of local anaesthetic solution in the
      paravertebral space results in a unilateral block, which is sensory, motor, and sympathetic.
      The uptake of the local anaesthetic solution is enhanced due to the absence of fascial
      sheaths binding the spinal nerves.TPVB produces ipsilateral somatic and sympathetic nerve
      blockade due to a direct effect of the local anesthetic on the somatic and sympathetic nerves
      in the TPVS, extension into the intercostal space laterally, and the epidural space medially.
      Ultrasound-guided erector spinae plane (US-ESP) block is a novel analgesic technique, in
      which local anaesthetic is injected into fascial plane deep to erector spinae muscle. It is
      possible to block the dorsal and ventral rami of the spinal nerve depending on the level of
      injection and amount of local anaesthetic injected. Erector spinae block (ESP) leads to
      effective post-operative analgesia where it is performed at T4-5 level for breast cancer and
      thoracic surgery , when performed bilaterally it has been reported to be as effective as
      thoracic epidural analgesia.The drug spreads in craniocaudal fashion over several levels as
      the erector spinae fascia extends from nuchal fascia cranially to the sacrum caudally. Forero
      et al. recently described US-ESP block for thoracic neuropathic pain. This block could be
      effective in both acute post-operative thoracic and abdominal surgeries and also neuropathic
      pain in these regions.
    
  