
    
      Apparently minor head trauma (MHT), defined by a Glasgow coma scale score (GCS) of 14-15, is
      the most frequently assessed group among the population of children attending Emergency
      Department (ED) for head trauma. Less than 1% of children with MHT have a clinically
      important traumatic brain injury (ciTBI) that is requiring immediate and specific care,
      especially neurosurgery. Those ciTBI should be identified rapidly. Assessment of children < 2
      years is particularly difficult. This may promote excessive computed tomography (CT) scans
      ordering in this age group, while the youngest are the most sensitive to the risk of
      secondary malignity induced by ionizing radiation from CT scan. In USA, 31% of children < 2
      years with MHT undergo CT scan. Data for CT scan use in France are unavailable and subjected
      to practice variations. The predictive values of TBI clinical variables such as vomiting,
      immediate loss of consciousness, impact seizure, severe injury mechanism, scalp hematoma or
      skull fracture, are controversial. A short clinical observation of children with such signs
      or post-traumatic symptoms before making the decision regarding CT scan ordering seems to be
      beneficial, allowing selective CT scan use for children whose symptoms fail to resolve. To
      improve patient care, clinical decision rules attempting to risk-stratify the need for a scan
      have emerged in the literature.

      Age-based PECARN rule derived and validated in the larger cohort of 10 718 children < 2 years
      is the reference in the management of minor head trauma. The PECARN rule identifies ciTBIs
      with an optimal sensitivity but with a high rate of normal scans or identifying a
      non-significant lesion (expected CT scans rate: 23%; ciTBI: 0,85%). This North American rule
      is recommended by the Emergency Medicine French Society for the management of minor head
      injury. This study aims to evaluate the performance of the PELICAN rule, a decision rule for
      the management of apparently minor head trauma in children < 2 years that proposes targeted
      indications for CT scan use and defines precise indications for clinical observation. The
      PELICAN rule was built after a literature review of the predictive values of TBI clinical
      variables with the intention of minimizing the CT scans rate without missing any ciTBI.

      The primary objective is to assess the performance of the PELICAN clinical prediction rule
      for identifying clinical-important traumatic brain injuries after apparently minor head
      trauma (GCS 14-15) in infants less than 2 years. The performance of the PECARN TBI prediction
      rule when applied to a large national French population will also be assisted and compared to
      that of PELICAN rule in terms of security, efficacy and expected impact on CT ordering.
    
  