
    
      Surgery is considered one of the most stressful events in human life. Research indicates that
      patients show high levels of stress from at least six days before surgery and up to a week
      post the operation. Stress levels return to normalcy only after several weeks. Research shows
      that psychological interventions given to women suffering from cancer can improve their
      coping abilities and overall function, decreases stress levels, enhances adherence to
      treatments,and increases quality of life and even life expectancy.

      Women enrolled in this study will be divided into two groups: an experimental group and a
      control group. Both groups will receive standard care. The control group will interact with a
      nurse for one hour. The experimental group will receive one of two forms of psychological
      intervention: either a cognitive intervention, or a psychophysiological intervention
      (tailored to each woman).

      Measurements and Instruments include: 1) Self-report questionnaires, such as:Profile of Mood
      States (POMS-SF),Coping Inventory (COPE), Life Orientation Test Revised (LOT- R),Stress Level
      Report, 2) Demographics, 3) Global assessment by the head nurse. 4)Physiological and
      behavioral measures, such as: vital signs and use of medicine. 5)Hormonal and immunological
      measures: levels of cortisol in saliva and plasma, levels of catecholamines in plasma,
      salivary levels of IgA1, and peripheral blood NK cells and lymphocyte phenotyping.6)levels of
      cytokines including IL-1,2,4,6,10,12, TNF-alpha, Interferon-gamma.

      Time intervals for the collection of blood and saliva and the administration of the
      questionnaires:

      During the first week after being given the diagnosis and prior to the intervention:Blood &
      saliva, Stress Level Report, POMS-SF, COPE, LOT-R

      A day prior to surgery:Blood & saliva, Stress Level Report

      On discharge from hospital:Blood & saliva, Stress Level Report

      30 days after surgery:Stress Level Report,POMS-SF,COPE,LOT-R.
    
  