
    
      ADHD affects from 3 to 5% of children, persists into adolescence in 40 to 70% of these
      children and continues into adulthood in at least 50% of affected adolescents.
      Methylphenidate was the first medication shown to be effective in treatment for adults with
      ADHD and continues to be widely used. While the extended release formulations represent an
      improvement over the immediate release versions, significant problems remain for many
      patients. In particular, most have been designed with the goal of providing medication only
      during school hours and a short time period after school. In adults, there is a frequent need
      for much more extended duration of treatment. MTS is a new form of methylphenidate that
      provides medication in a transdermal patch delivery system. It has a very even, slowly
      ascending pharmacokinetic profile. MTS's very stable slowly increasing blood level should
      overcome the problems noted above with a delivery system that is more convenient for many
      patients. It is currently approved for treatment of childhood ADHD, with effectiveness and
      safety profiles similar to other forms of methylphenidate. This study will be the first to
      evaluate the effectiveness and safety of MTS in adult ADHD.

      This is a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, crossover trial comparing MTS with
      placebo patch. The double-blind trial will be preceded by an enrollment period consisting of
      two screening visits followed as quickly as possible by a baseline visit. Patients who
      continue to meet admission criteria at baseline will be randomized into the first of two
      4-week treatment periods. We will attempt to reach the highest tolerated dose size of MTS
      within 2 weeks and then observe the response over the last two weeks of each crossover phase.
      The double-blind period will be followed by a 180 day open-treatment, flexible-dose phase
      designed to assess long-term effects.
    
  