
    
      It is a prospective observational study, in two 15-bed intensive care units, including adult
      patients with septic shock who have a mean arterial pressure (MAP) < 65 mmHg within the first
      three hours after the start of resuscitation. For every patient, the physician taking care of
      the patient should have already decided to initiate NE or to increase its dose in order to
      achieve a MAP value of at least 65mmHg without any other change of the associated therapy
      (fluid administration, ventilator settings, other drugs). The study was approved by the
      institutional review board of our institution (Comité de Protection des Personnes,
      Paris-Ile-de-France VII). Informed patient (or next-of-kin) consent was obtained from all
      patients.

      Data collection: demographic and clinical information (origin of sepsis, major elements of
      the clinical history) were collected. The volume of fluids administered before inclusion, the
      use of mechanical ventilation and the interval time between the start of resuscitation and
      inclusion (T0) were also recorded.

      Hemodynamic data: At T0 and at T1, defined as the time a MAP value of at least 65 mmHg was
      reached after initiating NE (or increasing its dose), heart rate (HR), systolic arterial
      pressure (SAP), diastolic arterial pressure (DAP), MAP and blood lactate concentration were
      collected.

      Transthoracic echocardiographic data: Echocardiographic measurements were performed at T0 and
      T1.

      Transthoracic echocardiographic (TTE) examination were performed with 3.75 MHZ probe using a
      CX50 Philips and a Vivid i (GE Healthcare) machine. Patients were on supine flat or lateral
      supine positions depending on their respiratory tolerance. A four- and five-chamber apical
      views were used in order to collect the following variables: left ventricular ejection
      fraction (LVEF) calculated by the biplane method of disks summation (modified Simpson's
      rule), velocity-time integral (VTI) of the sub-aortic flow, tissue Doppler imaging of
      tricuspid annular motion (Sa), tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE) measured by
      M-mode echocardiography, the peak early (E) and late (A) transmitral flow velocity, the mean
      early diastolic velocity (Ea) of the lateral mitral annulus, the ratios E/A and E/Ea and
      tissue Doppler imaging of mean systolic velocity of the lateral mitral annulus (Sm). All the
      parameters were averaged over three beats or five beats in case of atrial fibrillation.
    
  