
    
      This is a study of Radium-223 in combination with Tasquinimod. The target population is
      patients with bone metastases from castration-resistant prostate cancer intended for
      treatment with radium-223.

      After baseline assessment, all subjects will receive six cycles of Radium-223 separated by an
      interval of 28 days. Radium-223 will be administered per FDA-approved dosing (six IV
      injections at a dose of 50kBq/kg of body weight, administered every 4 weeks). The treatment
      maintenance dose of tasquinimod will be a maximum of 1 mg of tasquinimod taken once daily
      with water (~200 mL). The initial target dose of tasquinimod is 0.5mg/day. All subjects will
      be followed up for 12 months after start of study treatment.

      The investigators propose a phase I/Ib trial of the addition of tasquinimod to FDA-approved
      doses of radium-223 in men with symptomatic bone-only metastatic CRPC. The investigators
      anticipate that given their distinct mechanisms of action and non-overlapping toxicity
      profiles that additive or synergistic toxicity would be minimal. The investigators
      hypothesize that adding tasquinimod to radium therapy may result in improved measures of
      efficacy including reduction in total alkaline phosphatase, time to first skeletal-related
      event and PSA and radiographic progression-free survival.

      In the Phase I portion of dose-escalation scheme, the dose escalation will follow a 3+3
      design with intra-patient dose-escalation from 0.25mg/day of tasquinimod to a goal dose of
      either 0.25mg (dose-level -1), 0.5mg (dose-level 1), or 1.0mg/day (dose-level 2) based on
      individual tolerability.

      Upon identifying a recommended Phase II combination dose-level of Radium-223 and tasquinimod,
      the investigators will move to the Phase Ib portion and open an expanded cohort of up to 35
      additional patients to achieve a total of 38 patients treated at the recommended phase II
      dose-level (including those from the dose-escalation phase).
    
  