
    
      Carcinoma of the uterine cervix is a serious health problem. In Taiwan, cervical cancer is
      the most common malignant neoplasm and the 5th leading cause of cancer deaths in women (after
      carcinoma of the lung, liver, colorectum and breast). The Department of Health estimated that
      in 2000 there were 2,720 new cases of invasive carcinoma of the cervix and 971 deaths from
      the disease, in addition to more than 3,566 cases of carcinoma in situ (1).

      The traditional treatment of invasive cervical cancer has been by surgery or radiotherapy or,
      certain situations, a combination of both. Most women with early-stage cervical cancers can
      be cured with radical surgery or radiotherapy. Those with a large cervical lesion at
      presentation or with spread to the pelvic lymph nodes or other pelvic tissues are usually
      treated with a combination of external-beam and intracavitary radiation. (2-6) To eradicate
      micrometastases and sensitize tumor cells to radiation, several studies have explored the use
      of radiotherapy with concomitant chemotherapy. (7-10) Because patients with cervical cancer
      usually present with disease that is clinically confined to the pelvis, locoregional disease
      control is the primary challenge for physicians. Treatment with carefully tailored surgery or
      radiotherapy has produced impressive cure rates in patients with early-stage disease. Primary
      radiotherapy for early-stage disease offers cure rates equivalent to those with radical
      hysterectomy. For more locally advanced disease, with spread beyond the uterus (stage IIB to
      IVA according to the staging system of the International Federation of Gynecology and
      Obstetrics), radiotherapy is the primary modality of treatment. For these patients, cure
      rates decrease with advancing stage and tumor bulk. (11) A significant reason for treatment
      failure in many patients is the inability to achieve control over the primary cancer and
      first-echelon lymph node metastases. (12) Improvement in local control can be expected to
      lead to improved cure rates. (13) Simply increasing the dose of RT will increase local
      control rates, but it does so at the expense of increased complication rates. (14) Once
      cervical cancer has extended beyond the cervix, cure with radical surgery alone is unlikely.
      After reports from several randomized clinical trials showing an improvement in time to
      progression and survival for patients given chemoradiotherapy compared with radiotherapy
      alone. (15-18) the chemoradiotherapy should be considered as standard care for locally
      advanced (stage IIB-IVA) or high-risk early-stage cervical cancer.

      Radical radiotherapy is effective for patients with locoregionally confined cervical cancer
      of any stage. Treatment must be carefully tailored to the patient and to the extent of
      disease but usually consists of a combination of external-beam irradiation and brachytherapy.
      Overall, reported 5-year survival rates of patients treated with radiation alone are
      approximately 75% to 85% for stage IB , 65% to 75% for stage II, 30% to 50% for stage III,
      and 10% to 20% for stage IVA disease. Within stage subsets, cure rates are strongly
      correlated with the size of the primary tumor and the extent of regional involvement.(17, 18)
      For locally advanced disease, a systematic review and meta-analysis of reports on the use of
      chemoradiotherapy generally supported the use of chemoradiotherapy over radiotherapy alone,
      or neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by radiotherapy. (19) Chemoradiotherapy showed to
      improve overall survival by about 30% and reduced the risk of both local and distant
      recurrence. Absolute survival benefit was estimated as 12%, though several studies have
      reported higher survival benefits.

      Angiogenesis plays an important role in the pathogenesis of cancer (20). Recent studies have
      related angiogenesis to cancer growth and metastasis(21). The growth of solid tumors and
      their metastatic spread is angiogenesis dependent and this has been confirmed in several
      experimental and clinical studies (22, 23). Ultrasonography has been used in the gynecologic
      field for decades. Our previous studies have shown that incremental angiogenesis could be
      demonstrated in the tumorigenesis of ovarian, endometrial malignancies, and cervical caner.
      (24-28) Besides, other growth factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and
      IL-6 have also been reported to correlate with the angiogenesis and the prognosis of cervical
      cancer (29-31), ovarian cancer (32), and endometrial cancer (27, 33). Tumor angiogenesis of
      cervical cancer has been proved to be correlated with the disease severity and prognosis of
      the cervical cancer patients with early stages (26, 29, 30, 34). It seems that tumor
      angiogenesis could be utilized as a good marker to survey the severity of disease and
      prognosis of early-staged cervical cancer patients.

      However, there is no good method or marker which could be utilized to monitor the response of
      radiotherapy and evaluate the prognosis of cervical cancer patients with advanced stages. So
      we would like to propose this proposal to focus on the tumor angiogenesis in cervical cancer
      patients with advanced stages. Cervical cancer patients who will receive radiotherapy or
      concurrent chemoradiotherapy will be enrolled in this study. Transvaginal sonography and
      angiogenesis-related growth factors will be evaluated to monitor and response of treatment in
      each patient. There are several purposes in this study. First, we will evaluate the kinetic
      changes of tumor angiogenesis in cervical cancer patients who receive radiotherapy or
      concurrent chemoradiotherapy. Second, we will evaluate that if the tumor angiogenesis could
      be a marker to monitor the response of radiotherapy or concurrent chemoradiotherapy in
      cervical cancer patients. The relation between tumor angiogenesis and radiotherapy will be
      explored and clarified by this study. The comprehensive role of tumor angiogenesis in
      cervical cancer will be elucidated by the results of this study.
    
  