
    
      This is a single arm, phase 4, prospective, open-label, United States single-center study to
      develop laboratory data and assess the clinical hemostatic efficacy and safety of Hemlibra
      (emicizumab) for hemostatic control of mild hemophilia A patients (baseline FVIII activity,
      >5 to 30%). Males aged ≥5 years to ≤45 years without inhibitors are eligible for enrollment.
      Secondary outcomes will assess changes in quality of life and joint health in treated
      patients.

      Approximately 30-40 patients will be enrolled. As much as possible, the patient population
      will be selected to provide a variety of FVIII activity levels and F8 genetic defects.

      Carrier females are not eligible for the study as the goal is to examine the effect of
      altered FVIII on Hemlibra (emicizumab) binding; carrier females with FVIII levels in the mild
      range of deficiency have one altered and one normal F8 gene that results in a mixture of both
      normal and altered FVIII proteins thereby complicating the interpretation of study results.

      Patients with a FVIII inhibitor (or a history of a FVIII inhibitor) are not eligible for this
      study; if a subject develops a FVIII inhibitor during the study, they will be withdrawn from
      the study and offered the current standard of care.

      Patients <5 years of age will be excluded from the study due to 1) the number of blood draws
      and the quantity of blood required; and 2) likelihood of reaching a minimum weight to utilize
      Stimate (~20 kg).

      Patients with risk factors for thrombosis or TMA will be excluded from the study. Patients
      >45 years of age, >30 BMI, with a history of CVD, or >20% risk of CVD over a 10-year period
      using the atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk estimator will also be excluded
      to minimize potential adverse events.

      Patients with any number of FVIII exposure days are eligible for enrollment, as are
      previously untreated patients (PUPs). Although expected to be an uncommon occurrence, PUPs
      may be at risk of developing FVIII inhibitors while enrolled in the study due to exogenous
      FVIII exposure if required; as such they will be tested (bovine chromogenic modified
      inhibitor assay) after FVIII exposure per IHTC standard guidelines (after an episode of
      intensive treatment, between 3-5 EDs and then at 10 ED, etc.) Should a FVIII inhibitor
      develop in a PUP while on study, they will be removed from the study and offered the current
      standard of care.

      To ensure no other bleeding disorders are present that might confound responses or lead to
      the development of a bleeding event unrelated to the underlying diagnosis of mild hemophilia
      A, a VWD panel and blood group will be obtained during screening.

      Hemlibra (emicizumab) will be administered as weekly prophylaxis using the FDA-approved
      weekly dosing regimen following the enrollment/screening visit (first study visit) and the
      administration of the 4 weekly loading doses (second study visit). A choice of other approved
      dosing regimens (Q2W or Q4W) will not be offered as the primary regimen to limit variability
      in Cmin/Cmax exposure levels. The weekly prophylaxis regimen was selected to be the easiest
      for mild hemophilia A patients to remember as they are rarely on FVIII prophylaxis and
      infrequently need to administer on-demand hemostatic agents.

      Bleeding events will be recorded and treated with locally available hemostatic agents (eg,
      Stimate [DDAVP/desmopressin acetate], pdFVIII, rFVIII, etc) as required. If FVIII is required
      for treatment of a bleeding event, the dose expected to achieve hemostasis will be utilized.

      The enrollment period is 9 months; with a total study period of 35 months. The study
      comprises 3 parts following screening. Subjects will initially be enrolled for loading dose
      administration and collection of baseline laboratory data (1 month) and Part A (12 months),
      with the option of enrolling in part B (12 months) upon successful completion of Part A and
      approval of the Study Investigator. Up to a 1-month window is provided between screening and
      administration of the first loading dose, depending on the return of required laboratory
      testing data and subject availability. When subjects complete the study they will be
      requested to meet with their IHTC hemophilia physician to resume their previous therapeutic
      regimen or be offered the current standard of care.

      Loading dose administration (month 1 ±2 days):

      This is a 1-month (±2 days) period during which the 4 weekly loading doses of Hemlibra
      (emicizumab) will be administered. Additionally, baseline laboratory data, banked plasma
      samples, MSKUS imaging and quality of life questionnaires will be completed.

      Part A [months 2-13 (±2 weeks)]:

      Part A is a 12-month study to collect laboratory data to determine the impact of Hemlibra
      (emicizumab) on laboratory coagulation parameters including thrombin generation in patients
      with circulating levels of endogenous altered FVIII (>5% to 30% baseline FVIII activity).
      Laboratory data will be collected at month 4 (±2 weeks), month 7 (±2 weeks) and month 13 (±2
      weeks). Additional data, including bleeding events, bleed treatment, intercurrent procedures,
      quality of life (Haemo-QoL and CATCH questionnaires if <17 years of age; Haem-A-QoL and CATCH
      questionnaires if ≥17 years of age) and joint health (MSKUS) will be collected at baseline
      and 12 months (±2 weeks).

      A Stimate/DDAVP challenge may occur at either the 4-month (±2 weeks) or 7-month (±2 weeks)
      study visit to investigate the hemostatic characteristics of Hemlibra (emicizumab) in the
      presence of elevated levels of altered FVIII using coagulation laboratory assays. The
      Stimate/DDAVP challenge will not be performed if the patient has a documented history of lack
      of response as defined by an increase of FVIII < 2 times baseline level. The Stimate/DDAVP
      challenge may be delayed to a later study visit due to recent treatment (within the previous
      4 days) with a FVIII concentrate or Stimate (DDAVP/desmopressin acetate) or for convenience
      (at the discretion of the Study Investigator). The Stimate/DDAVP challenge may also be
      delayed or its route of administration altered if a subject weighs ≥10kg to <20kg; a
      weight-based subcutaneous dose of DDAVP/desmopressin acetate may be administered for subjects
      <20 kg at the discretion of the Study Investigator). The Stimate/DDAVP challenge may be
      delayed to a later study visit if the intranasal route of administration is compromised and
      subcutaneous administration of DDAVP/desmopressin acetate is not planned. See Section 3.1.9
      for full details on the Stimate/DDAVP challenge.

      Part B [months 14-25 (±2 weeks)]:

      Upon successful completion of Part A, subjects may continue Hemlibra (emicizumab) treatment
      by enrolling in Part B if approved by the Study Investigator and per patient desire to
      continue treatment. The goal of Part B is to acquire additional data on bleeding events,
      bleed treatment, intercurrent procedures, changes in quality of life (Haemo-QoL and CATCH
      questionnaires if <17 years of age; Haem-A-QoL and CATCH questionnaires if ≥17 years of age)
      and joint health (MSKUS). This extended collection period is desired due to the infrequent
      and variable ABR in individuals with mild hemophilia A. Subjects will receive Hemlibra
      (emicizumab treatment in Part B for 12 months.

      The study is seeking to address the following knowledge gaps:

        -  Is Hemlibra (emicizumab)-conferred hemostatic coverage additive to the activity of the
           endogenous altered FVIII protein in mild hemophilia A patients or is there evidence that
           endogenous altered FVIII protein is competitive with Hemlibra (emicizumab)?

        -  Do specific FVIII mutations confer more or less additive or competitive effect? In
           silico simulations of the altered protein (based upon the patient's genetic alteration)
           may be investigated to predict the protein's in vivo function and interaction with
           Hemlibra (emicizumab) binding (secondary exploratory goal)

        -  What is the hemostatic contribution of Hemlibra (emicizumab) in the presence of maximal
           endogenous altered FVIII protein release (Stimate/DDAVP challenge with coagulation
           laboratory assays)?

        -  Are there patients with specific genetic mutations who would benefit from Hemlibra
           (emicizumab) usage, or can a sub-population of patients of mild hemophilia be identified
           for whom Hemlibra (emicizumab) would not represent optimal therapy?

        -  Is weekly Hemlibra (emicizumab) safe to administer in patients with mild hemophilia A
           and does it reduce the incidence of bleeding events or the need for alternate hemostatic
           agents, including during/following surgeries and procedures?

        -  Does weekly prophylactic Hemlibra (emicizumab) result in an increase in QoL and/or
           activity in mild hemophilia A patients?

        -  Does weekly prophylactic Hemlibra (emicizumab) result in an improvement in joint health
           (ie, the control of progression, stabilization or regression of joint damage) using 6
           joint point of care musculoskeletal
    
  