
    
      Subjective scores have traditionally been used to measure human pain, such as the visual
      analog scale (VAS) to determine the presence or absence of pain and its severity. People can
      only express the pain experienced by dictation, scale, and image depicting the degree of
      pain. Although this is important information, the self-evaluation method has problems for
      diagnosis and research purposes. The results of a person's self-assessment depend on past
      pain experiences and many other cognitive and behavioral factors and therefore change over
      time. In addition, it is difficult to obtain a reliable comparison between the rewards of
      different people. When the patient complains of a certain degree of pain, it is impossible to
      know whether it is equivalent to the same pain described by other patients. Moreover, it is
      difficult to obtain self-evaluation results among ethnic groups of different natures, such as
      young people, patients who block the transmission of ideas due to different disease types,
      and those who are unconscious. A variety of survey-based pain scales and functions have been
      developed recently, and the utility has improved.

      However, because it is still based on self-assessment, it will leave some of the same
      problems with self-assessment. Developmental measurements of biomarkers or surrogate markers
      with acute and/or chronic pain have made significant progress over the past few years. Thanks
      to the development of new and improved technologies, such as in the field of angiography and
      wearable biosensors, there has been considerable development. Studies have shown that pupils
      respond to a variety of different stimuli and may predict the presence of pain. There are
      many different physiological parameters, such as changes in heart rate, pulsating components
      of the heart cycle, and skin activity, which have been shown to be associated with the
      presence or absence of pain. From the development of research in this field, it is feasible
      to develop clinical tools for measuring the presence or absence of acute and/or chronic pain,
      including cancer pain, using biomarkers or surrogate markers. This objective tool can make
      more significant advances in clinical pain research and treatment.
    
  