
    
      Obstructive jaundice (OJ) is a condition where a blockage of flow of bile from the liver
      leads to the accumulation of bile products in the blood resulting in yellowing and itching of
      the skin. Common causes of OJ include gallstones and also tumours of the pancreas or bile
      duct. Relieving this type of jaundice and treating the underlying cause can include
      endoscopic or surgical procedures. It is known however, that patients with OJ have increased
      surgical risks than non-jaundiced patients who undergo the same operations. Studies have
      shown that surgery for severe OJ is associated with a postoperative mortality in the region
      of 10-15% and morbidity rates of 30-65%. Complications related to bacterial infection are
      common and patients developing severe infections may require treatment with broad spectrum
      antibiotics with care in intensive or high dependency units.

      Although antibiotics have proved invaluable in treating postoperative infections they carry
      the potential for adverse effects. Antibiotics can suppress normal gut bacteria and allow
      disease causing bacteria to proliferate, such as Clostridium difficile. This usually
      manifests as mild-to-moderate diarrhoea but can occasionally cause life-threatening bowel
      inflammation. The widespread use of antibiotics is also central to the development of
      bacterial strains with antibiotic resistance. This clinical problem also has economic,
      political and environmental implications for the National Health Service. Adherence to
      measures of infection control, education and antibiotic policy can minimise antibiotic
      resistance; however the limits surrounding such approaches have led to a demand for novel or
      alternative strategies.

      It has recently been discovered that bacteria are able to communicate by producing
      specialised molecules known as quorum sensing signalling molecules (QSSMs). An accumulation
      of QSSMs in their surrounding environment allow for the bacteria to quantify the size of
      colonies. At specific colony sizes the concentration of QSSMs reaches a critical threshold
      leading to the activation of genes that cause an infection. Disruption of quorum sensing has
      been shown to reduce the severity of infection in animal studies and this has led to the
      development of inhibitors of quorum sensing as a possible strategy in antibacterial therapy.

      Previous work conducted at the University of Nottingham has demonstrated that QSSMs also
      influence the number and function of a specific type of immune cell known as 'antigen
      presenting cells'. These cells are pivotal in allowing the immune system to recognise
      components of bacteria as foreign and thereby mount the appropriate response. It was found
      that large numbers of these types of cells underwent programmed cell death (cell suicide) in
      the presence of QSSMs compared to when QSSMs were absent. This mirrors the situation in blood
      sampled from patients with severe infections where there is a greater proportion of cell
      deaths among antigen presenting cells than other types of immune cell.

      It is likely that the susceptibility to infectious complications in patients with obstructive
      jaundice is due to the interplay of various factors. The absence of intestinal bile has
      implications for the integrity of the bowel wall as a barrier, changes in gut microflora
      flora and translocation of both bacteria and their products. In addition, it is clear that a
      form of immune dysfunction occurs, which dampens the normal response following exposure to
      bacterial products. This immune dysfunction may avert powerful inflammatory cascades
      resulting in life-threatening multi organ dysfunction but at the expense of conditions that
      favour bacterial survival. QSSMs represent good candidates for the mediators of this immune
      dysfunction and although there is a compelling case for their involvement in the pathogenesis
      of sepsis, definitive evidence to support their role in infective processes in OJ is
      currently lacking.
    
  