
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of trametinib given orally in combination
      with everolimus in pediatric and young adult patients with low-grade gliomas (LGGs).

      II. To describe the toxicity profile and define the dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) of the
      combination of trametinib and everolimus in pediatric and young adult patients with recurrent
      LGGs.

      III. To characterize the pharmacokinetic profile of trametinib and everolimus when given in
      combination.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the objective response rate and the 2-year progression-free survival (PFS) of
      LGGs to this therapy in the context of a phase I study.

      II. To assess quality of life (QOL) and cognitive measures in pediatric and young adult
      patients with LGGs.

      III. To identify potential predictive biomarkers to targeted therapy in pediatric and young
      adult patients with LGGs.

      IV. To assess endocrine outcomes in pediatric and young adult patients with LGGs.

      V. To explore magnetic resonance (MR) quantitative measures of relative cerebral blood
      volume, permeability and apparent diffusion coefficient within the region of hyperintensity
      on T2-weighted images as markers of disease response and/or progression in comparison to
      institutional evaluation of disease response and/or progression and quantitative measures of
      tumor response as determined by central review (based upon both area and volumetric
      measures).

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive a combination of trametinib orally (PO) and everolimus in either of two
      dosing scheduled (continuous and intermittent). Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 26
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months for
      1 year, then every 6 months for 5 years from the start of therapy.
    
  