
    
      In the recent 2015 MS Society of Canada MS Wellness Survey almost 25% of people indicated
      that they think physical activity is the most important area of wellness, yet physical
      inactivity is still common in individuals with multiple sclerosis (MS). While some of this
      may be due to factors related to MS such as fatigue, pain, and physical restrictions,
      research has shown that exercise has beneficial effects on mobility, strength, balance, and
      overall quality of life. However, because the symptoms of MS vary, there is not one optimal
      exercise program that exists. Pilates may be a good exercise option for MS. Pilates focuses
      on body positions and movement, with specific attention on the core (stomach or trunk)
      muscles. Very few researchers have studied Pilates in MS, but those that have, noticed some
      improvements in walking, balance, and strength. There were no negative effects reported from
      the Pilates exercises, and the exercises can be adapted for all levels of ability in MS. We
      are interested in studying the effect of Pilates in MS. To do this, we will recruit 30 people
      with MS to participate in this study. Participants will be randomly put into either the
      Pilates group or the control group. Those individuals in the Pilates group will attend two
      50-minute Pilates classes twice weekly, plus receive a weekly 1-hour massage therapy session.
      Individuals in the control group will only receive the weekly massage therapy session. At the
      end of the study (12 weeks), we will look to see if there are any differences between the two
      groups in walking ability. We will also compare other important outcomes such as muscle
      strength, balance, and quality of life between the two groups. Results from this study may
      provide individuals with another exercise option to help manage their MS and improve their
      wellness. Results will also be useful for organizations such as the MS Society to help make
      decisions about which programs and services to offer to individuals with MS.
    
  