
    
      Stomach cancer is the fifth largest cancer in the world, with an estimated 723,000 patients
      each year, and cancer-related deaths being the third leading cause. In contrast to the
      decline in the West, the Far East Asia, including South Korea, showed a high prevalence of
      cancer. In 2014, 29,854 new cases of cancer were reported in Korea. This is the second most
      important cancer in terms of incidence and the third in cancer related mortality.

      The 5 year survival rate has increased to 74 % due to increased early detection of stomach
      cancer, but in the case of metastatic stomach cancer, the rate of gastric cancer is about
      one-third of the total number of stomach cancer cases, resulting in poor outcomes. Treatment
      is 5-fluorouracil, Oxaliplatin, Irinotecan, Epirubicin , Docetaxel, etc. based on platinum or
      non-platinum. Despite many combinations of studies, metastatic stomach cancer shows a median
      survival period of 10 to 12 months..

      According to a report in Korea in 2010, 17 % of cancer patients had over-expression of human
      epidemiology growth factor receptor-2(HER-2). And Using of Trastuzumab reported better
      results in progression free survival (18.6 months vs. 17.1 months) and total overall survival
      (13.8 months vs. 11.1 months) (hazard ratio 0.74 ; 95 % confidential interval(CI) 0.60-0.91 ;
      p=0.0046) Trastuzumab was first used for HER-2 and breast cancer, and in three weeks of
      treatment, it is recommended to perform an induction phase of 8 mg/kg of 90 min and then a
      maintenance phase of 6mg/kg of 30min to 60min infusion. However, clinical research and data
      analysis are required because of concerns of toxic expression due to short-term injection.
      The phase I study of the maintenance 30 minutes toxicity was performed in breast cancer, and
      there was little difference from 60 minutes of injection in a 250ml or 100ml solution or new
      toxic event.

      Herzuma速 is the Trastuzumab biosimilar (Biosimilar) cloned antibody. In the phase I
      pharmacodynamics study, same the results with trastuzumab were reported. Biosimilar use was
      approved based on the results of a phase III clinical study on breast cancer. A double-blind,
      random assignment test was conducted on 549 HER-2 positive breast cancer patients comparing
      the validity and stability of Trastuzumab. The primary goal was to achieve a postoperative
      pathologic complete remission in 46.8 % of Herzuma速 compared to 50.4% of trastuzumab. In
      addition, the secondary goal of "overall response rate " and "pharmacodynamics" showed the
      same results as the Trastuzumab control group.

      Biosimilar Herzuma速 licensed through breast cancer study also can be used in HER-2
      overexpressed stomach cancer. However, there has not been a study on the effects and side
      effects of the drug.

      So in this study, the investigators want to prospectively analyze the effects and side
      effects of Herzuma速 in gastric or gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma.
    
  