
    
      Antibiotic resistance is a problem of immense public health significance. Effective
      antibiotics are essential to complex therapeutic interventions such as transplant medicine,
      critical care or major surgery. It is estimated that at least 2 million people acquire
      infections with bacteria that are resistant to standard therapy each year in the United
      States, with at least 23,000 deaths directly attributable to the infection. With few new
      antibacterial agents in late-stage development, it has been necessary to consider using
      existing generic agents in a more targeted approach. This might include revisiting
      therapeutic options that have previously been considered inferior.

      Bloodstream infections caused by Gram negative bacteria are commonly encountered in clinical
      practice and can be associated with high rates of mortality. Outcomes may be dependent upon
      the timely administration of appropriate antibiotics, especially in septic shock. Bacteria
      that possess resistance mechanisms to commonly employed antibiotics are therefore of great
      concern and may contribute to further mortality.

      Over the last 25 years, two antibiotic choices have predominated for intravenous management
      of these infections. These are combinations of beta-lactam antibiotics with beta-lactamase
      inhibitors (such as piperacillin/tazobactam) and third generation cephalosporins, such as
      ceftriaxone. However, some commonly encountered Gram negative organisms possess chromosomally
      encoded beta-lactamase enzymes, known as AmpC beta-lactamases, that may hydrolyse 3rd
      generation cephalosporins. Expression of AmpC may be inducible following beta-lactam exposure
      in some Enterobacteriaceae by loss of inhibitory effects from regulatory elements that
      control gene transcription. Furthermore, such inducible gene-expression can become
      constitutively 'de-repressed' by mutational loss of regulatory ampD or ampR genes, leading to
      high-levels of AmpC production and a phenotype that demonstrates in vitro resistance to most
      beta-lactams and beta-lactam/beta-lactamase inhibitor (BLBLI) combination agents, except
      cefepime or carbapenems. Such variants are usually present at low levels (e.g. between 10-5
      to 10-7 of the total bacterial population) but may be rapidly selected for during antibiotic
      therapy.

      As a result, AmpC-producing bacteria present particular problems for antibiotic
      susceptibility reporting and treatment. In vitro susceptibility may not correlate with
      clinical efficacy as resistance to beta-lactam antibiotics can emerge by selection of
      variants expressing high levels of AmpC. This has been best described in the context of
      Enterobacter bacteraemia and therapy with 3rd generation cephalosporins (3GCs). In a landmark
      study by Chow et al. in 1991, 129 patients with Enterobacter bacteraemia were prospectively
      examined. Prior cephalosporin use predicted a greater likelihood of identifying a multi-drug
      resistant isolate on initial blood culture, which was associated with higher subsequent
      mortality. Furthermore, emergence of resistance to cephalosporins developed during treatment
      in 6 (19%) of 31 bacteraemic episodes treated with cephalosporins. It is worth noting that
      this phenomenon was not seen in the small number of patients treated with piperacillin in
      this study, and that many of the Enterobacter isolates would now be reported as
      non-susceptible to 3GCs according to current breakpoints. Several other Gram-negative
      bacteria contain such inducible beta-lactamase genes with the capacity for de-repression.
      They have been informally labelled the 'ESCPM' group, and are variably described as
      comprising Enterobacter spp. (especially E. cloacae and E. aerogenes), Serratia marcescens,
      Citrobacter freundii, Providencia spp. and Morganella morganii.

      Clinical studies have shown a variable risk of such emergent resistance and clinical failure
      occurring with beta-lactam therapy, particularly 3GCs, but when it occurs it has been
      associated with higher mortality and healthcare-related costs. As a result, 3GCs are usually
      not recommended as therapy for AmpC-producers, even when susceptible in vitro.

      Although few clinical studies have directly addressed this question, carbapenems are often
      considered optimal therapy for serious infections caused by AmpC producers such as
      Enterobacter, Serratia or Citrobacter spp. Yet widespread use of carbapenems may cause
      selection pressure leading to carbapenem-resistant organisms, thus further limiting
      therapeutic options to "last-line" antibiotics such as colistin or tigecycline. There is
      therefore a need for establishing the efficacy of generically available alternatives to
      carbapenems for serious infections caused by bacteria with such AmpC-mediated resistance
      mechanisms.

      Infections caused by ESCPM organisms may also be treated with agents such as quinolones,
      aminoglycosides, trimethoprim-sulphamethoxazole or cefepime, when susceptibility is proven.
      However, these have some limitations in terms of toxicity (aminoglycosides), limited
      contemporaneous efficacy data as well as the adverse effect profile
      (trimethoprim-sulphamethoxazole) or selective pressure for other multi-resistant organisms or
      C. difficile (quinolones). A controversial meta-analysis has cast doubt over the safety and
      efficacy of cefepime, although the significance of this finding has been debated.
      Beta-lactam/beta-lactamase inhibitor (BLBLI) combination agents, such as
      piperacillin/tazobactam, have an uncertain role in this context, but are frequently avoided
      over concerns relating to the development of AmpC-mediated resistance. However,
      piperacillin-tazobactam, unlike clavulanate-containing BLBLIs, shows some degree of synergy
      against AmpC de-repressed isolates. In vitro and in animal models, piperacillin-tazobactam
      appears less able than cephalosporins to select for resistant Enterobacter mutants.
      Tazobactam is also a less potent inducer of AmpC expression than clavulanate. Furthermore,
      different 'ESCPM' species display variable degrees of AmpC production; for instance,
      de-repressed Serratia, Providencia and Morganella strains express levels of AmpC
      approximately 10-fold below some de-repressed Enterobacter or Citrobacter. It is also worth
      noting that piperacillin-tazobactam retains activity against M. morganii even when expressing
      high levels of its AmpC enzyme. It may therefore be misleading to consider 'ESCPM' organisms
      as a homogenous group in this regard.

      The risk of therapeutic failure from the use of BLBLIs for ESCPM organisms that test
      susceptible has been little studied directly in prospective clinical studies. Retrospective
      studies would suggest that the risk may be relatively low or even associated with improved
      outcome. In a study examining 477 patients with Enterobacter bacteraemia, the risk of
      emergent AmpC-mediated resistance with broad-spectrum cephalosporin therapy was 19% - in
      concordance with the original finding of Chow et al - and remained a significant risk factor
      in a multivariate analysis (RR = 2.3; 95% CI 1.2-4.3). However, there was no association with
      emergent resistance and the use of piperacillin-tazobactam (RR 1.1; 95% CI 0.4-2.7) or other
      BLBLI combinations, although these agents were not frequently used. A later study analysing
      377 consecutive episodes of Enterobacter bacteraemia, the only factor independently
      associated with a reduction in 30 day mortality was empirical use of piperacillin-tazobactam
      (OR 0.11; 95% CI 0.01-0.99), although again only 13.1% and 35.4% of patients received this
      agent as empirical and definitive therapy respectively.

      The concept that BLBLIs are to be universally avoided for infections caused by AmpC
      producers, even when susceptibility is proven, has been questioned. There is great variation
      in clinical practice and laboratory reporting across Australia and the world in this regard.
      Demonstrating, in a well-designed clinical trial, that the use of piperacillin-tazobactam for
      serious infections caused by ESCPM organisms is non-inferior to established options such as
      carbapenems would prove invaluable to antimicrobial stewardship programs aiming to restrict
      carbapenem or quinolone use.

      We still have relatively few clinical studies to help guide therapeutic decisions for
      infections caused by AmpC-producers, and no randomised-controlled trials specifically
      examining this question. Bloodstream infections caused by such bacteria are relatively common
      and can drive the use of broad-spectrum antibiotic use. Given the alarming emergence of
      bacterial resistance to 'last-line' antibiotics such as carbapenems, we urgently require well
      designed studies to guide therapeutic decisions in this area.

      Both meropenem and piperacillin-tazobactam are antibiotics that have been widely used in
      clinical practice for many years. They have proven efficacy in a wide range of infectious
      syndromes, including severe sepsis, febrile neutropenia, ventilator-associated pneumonia and
      intra-abdominal sepsis. Both agents are licenced for the treatment of serious infections and
      are available for routine clinical use in generic form.
    
  