
    
      Approximately 616 patients will enroll in this study. Participants will be asked to complete
      sessions about behavior, personality, and experiences. Participants will be randomized into a
      study group (either Bridging the Gap or Treatment as Usual) by drawing a number. If patients
      agree to the study but do not like the group they are assigned to, they can request to switch
      groups. Participants assigned to the Treatment as Usual intervention will receive a brief
      violence awareness brochure during your hospital stay. Participants assigned to the Bridging
      the Gap intervention will receive an in-hospital intervention and, once released from the
      hospital, will receive 6-months of community case management services. The study team thinks
      that adults who receive the Bridging the Gap intervention will see greater improvements than
      adults who do not receive the intervention. This study will allow them to learn more about
      the intervention's effectiveness.

      During these study sessions participants will complete questionnaires about exposure to
      traumatic events, symptoms of trauma, history of suicide, aggression and violence, antisocial
      personality traits, illegal behaviors, substance use, and mental health. Participants will
      complete several tasks which measure cognitive ability, such as problem-solving,
      attention/concentration, and decision-making. They will also complete a clinical interview
      that covers antisocial personality traits and behaviors, including history of aggressive
      behavior and substance use. These interviews will be video recorded. These recordings will be
      used to help score the interviews and for training purposes. Information will also be
      collected from participant's medical records, including demographic information, history and
      reason for past hospitalizations, mental health history, and substance use reports, as well
      as a criminal background check.

      The surveys take about 2 hours to complete. Participants will complete these questionnaires
      again 6 and 12 months later. Participation in this study will last up to 12 months.
    
  