
    
      Heavy alcohol consumption is common among patients seeking treatment for depression. Heavy
      drinking is associated with a variety of medical and psychosocial problems. Heavy drinking is
      particularly problematic among depressed patients, increasing the likelihood of poor
      depression treatment outcomes. While methods for reducing alcohol use in this population have
      been unexplored to date, brief interventions to reduce heavy alcohol use have been
      well-validated in numerous patient populations and offer the promise to reduce heavy drinking
      among depressed patients and to improve depression treatment outcomes.

      We hypothesize that adding a brief alcohol intervention to standard psychiatric care,
      relative to standard psychiatric care alone, will reduce overall drinking volume and heavy
      drinking days among heavy-drinking depressed patients. Furthermore, we expect patients who
      receive the brief alcohol intervention to have better depression outcomes than patients
      receiving standard psychiatric care alone. We also expect that reduced alcohol consumption
      will mediate the effect of the brief alcohol intervention on depression outcomes. In
      addition, we will examine individual difference variables as predictors of change in alcohol
      use.

      The proposed study is a randomized, two-group design with repeated measures over time,
      comparing a brief, motivationally-focused alcohol intervention plus standard psychiatric care
      to standard psychiatric care alone. For this study, we will recruit a sample of 240
      psychiatry clinic outpatients meeting structured diagnostic criteria for major depressive
      disorder who drink heavily but are not alcohol dependent.

      We expect that the results of this study will improve depression treatment outcomes for the
      significant subpopulation of depression patients who drink heavily and are likely to do
      poorly in depression treatment in the absence of a change in their drinking behavior. The
      intervention proposed in this study represents a novel approach to reducing heavy drinking
      among depressed patients that, if effective, can be readily integrated into depression
      treatment in a variety of treatment settings. In addition, this study will provide valuable
      information on the association between alcohol use and depression outcomes and on the
      mechanisms of change in alcohol use among heavy-drinking depressed patients.
    
  