
    
      Atherosclerosis associated cardiovascular disease (CVD) remains a significant cause of
      morbidity and mortality. Asymptomatic individuals with a moderate to high-risk of developing
      acute atherosclerotic cardiovascular events will benefit most from intensive evidence-based
      medical interventions.

      The traditional approach to identify patients with moderate to high-risk of CVD involves
      quantifying the presence of CVD risk factors. Based on gender, age, smoking, systolic blood
      pressure and cholesterol levels, risk stratification algorithms such as the Framingham Risk
      Score (FRS) and the European SCORE system can predict the 10-year risk of cardiovascular
      death.

      However, these algorithms are associated with several limitations, including
      misclassification of women and individuals with high levels of a single risk factor. The risk
      is underestimated in these individuals. Therefore, these individuals are not eligible for
      treatment by current criteria of CVD prevention guidelines. Several studies indicate that the
      traditional risk score models leave room for improvement, as they work reasonably well for
      populations, but remain suboptimal for individual subjects.

      New risk parameters are discovered on a regular basis. One of these parameters is
      cardiovascular molecular calcification (CMC). This entity can be detected and quantified by
      18F-NaF PET CT. It has been hypothesized that CMC can be detected years, maybe even decades,
      before coronary artery calcium scoring (CACS) can be detected by conventional imaging
      modalities like multislice CT. Theoretically, this tool can detect patients at a very early
      stage of the disease. Providing evidence-based treatment to these individuals can,
      theoretically, improve the prevention of CVD. Before this hypothesises can be tested, the
      feasibility of 18F-NaF PET CT has to be demonstrated in both healthy controls as well as in
      subjects with cardiovascular disease.
    
  