
    
      Objective: HIV persists as a reservoir in the brain in several different cell types,
      including macrophages, microglia and astrocytes, and this reservoir persists even when
      antiretroviral therapy (ART) suppresses the virus in blood. This viral persistence in the CNS
      is thought to cause neuroinflammation through the release of inflammatory cytokines and
      chemokines. HIV-infected patients who have evidence of neuroinflammation in CSF are more
      likely to have cognitive impairment even when the virus is optimally treated with ART. This
      cognitive impairment, currently named HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder (HAND), affects
      20-37% of the HIV-infected and ART-treated population. Without ART, the rates of severe HAND
      are incredibly high, but in the current era in areas where ART is widely available, the
      cognitive deficits are often subtle. Despite this reduction in the degree of impairment and
      fewer cases of overt dementia, patients with HAND have poor medication adherence, problems
      with decision making, vocational disability, and an overall reduced quality of life compared
      to HIV-infected patients without cognitive impairment.

      This phase 1 study of anakinra will investigate the safety of anakinra in patients with HIV
      on antiretroviral therapy. Anakinra, an IL-1 receptor antagonist that has broad
      anti-inflammatory effects, has demonstrated safety and efficacy in two other inflammatory
      diseases (rheumatoid arthritis and neonatal onset multisystem inflammatory disorder) for
      which it is FDA-approved. It has not yet been used in patients with HIV infection.

      Study Population: The study will be conducted simultaneously at two centers: the NIH Clinical
      Center and the Johns Hopkins University (JHU) Department of Neurology and will enroll twelve
      participants with HIV infection on antiretroviral therapy. Approximately half of the patients
      will be enrolled at each site. The study will not enroll patients with evidence of dementia.

      Design: This is a single-arm, open-label study of anakinra. Participants will self-administer
      daily injections of anakinra for 8 weeks. The dose will be increased over the first four
      weeks to minimize injection site reactions. Participants will be evaluated prior to the first
      dose of anakinra, weekly during the first five weeks, at the end of anakinra administration,
      and after an 8-week follow-up period without anakinra.

      Patients enrolled at the NIH will complete all visits there. Patients enrolled at JHU will
      complete all visits there with the exception of the three study MRI s which will be completed
      at the NIH.

      Outcome Measures: Safety will be assessed throughout the 8 weeks of treatment and during the
      8-week followup period. The anti-inflammatory effects of anakinra will be explored through
      analyses of cerebrospinal fluid and magnetic resonance imaging results before and after
      treatment.
    
  