
    
      The Surgical Treatments Outcomes Project for Dysfunctional Uterine Bleeding (STOP-DUB) is a
      multicenter, randomized clinical trial that assessed the efficacy and effectiveness of
      hysterectomy versus endometrial ablation (EA) for dysfunctional uterine bleeding (DUB) in
      women for whom medical management has not provided relief. Institutional review
      board-approved study sites included the coordinating center, chair's office, the American
      College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, and 33 clinical centers in the United States and
      Canada. STOP-DUB enrolled (1) 237 eligible patients for whom medical treatment had not been
      successful and who were randomized to either hysterectomy or EA; and (2) an observational
      cohort of 139 patients who were "provisionally ineligible" or who were eligible but did not
      wish to be randomized. Enrollment began November 25, 1997 and ended June 30, 2001. Randomized
      women were followed using telephone interviews at least 2 years and observational women were
      followed a maximum of 6 months. We also collected information on return clinical center
      visits and hospital bills from the sites directly. The primary outcome addressed by the
      randomized trial is the impact of surgery on bleeding, pain, fatigue, and the major problem
      (symptom) that led the woman to seek treatment for her condition, measured 1 year following
      surgery. Additional outcomes included the impact of surgery at time points after 1 year;
      changes in quality of life, activity limitation, sexual functioning, and urinary
      incontinence; surgical complications; additional surgery; and resource utilization. The costs
      and the relative cost-effectiveness of the two surgeries will be calculated. The main
      scientific objective for the observational study was to examine changes over time in terms of
      treatment selected, DUB-related symptoms, and quality of life. Enrolled women signed an
      informed consent to participate.
    
  