
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To select, based on overall survival, any or all of the "Novel Therapeutic" regimens for
      further testing against azacitidine in patients age 60 and older with newly diagnosed acute
      myeloid leukemia (AML) or myelodysplastic syndrome with excessive blasts-2 (MDS-EB-2). (Phase
      II) II. To compare overall survival of the "Novel Therapeutic" regimens selected in the phase
      II portion of the trial to azacitidine in these patient populations. (Phase III)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the frequency and severity of toxicities of the regimens in these patient
      populations.

      II. To estimate response rates, event-free survival, and relapse-free survival for these
      regimens in these patient populations.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To investigate associations between cytogenetic and molecular abnormalities (including
      FLT3) and outcomes for each of the regimens in these patient populations.

      II. To bank specimens for future correlative studies.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive azacitidine subcutaneously (SC) or intravenously (IV) daily on days
      1-7 or on an interrupted schedule which ensures that all 7 days of therapy are received
      within a 12 day period. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive azacitidine as in Arm A and nivolumab IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1
      and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM C: Patients receive azacitidine as in Arm A and midostaurin orally (PO) twice daily (BID)
      on days 8-21. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM D:

      INDUCTION: Patients receive decitabine IV over 2 hours on days 1-5 and cytarabine IV
      continuously on days 6-11. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 courses in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE: Patients deemed stable at the discretion of the treating physician receive
      decitabine as in Induction. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year,
      every 6 months for 2 years, then annually for 2 years.
    
  