
    
      Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis (PAP) is a rare respiratory disorder. Recently, a genetic
      cause has been identified for a specific form of PAP predominant on La Reunion Island. This
      form is characterized by a multisystem phenotype including PAP, failure to thrive, hepatic
      involvement and chronic inflammation. This is a severe disease without any specific treatment
      and a high rate of mortality related to end-stage respiratory insufficiency. Two recurrent
      mutations were isolated in the MARS gene that encodes the methionine tRNA synthetase (MetRS).
      This enzyme catalyzes the ligation of methionine to tRNA and is critical for protein
      biosynthesis. Functional studies on mutated yeast show an altered growth and protein
      synthesis as compared to control yeast. Addition of methionine in culture medium corrects
      these defects. Complementary experiments on human purified MetRS show altered enzymatic
      catalytic parameters in mutated forms. Increasing blood concentration of methionine in
      patients could correct these parameters and potentially improve patients' phenotype in this
      severe disorder where no curative treatment exists.

      The main objective of this protocol is to determine the tolerance of a prolonged daily
      supplementation of methionine in patients presenting a MARS related PAP. The secondary
      objectives are to determine the efficiency of such treatment on respiratory, hepatic,
      inflammatory and growth status.

      To meet the objectives of the study, enrolled patients will receive daily oral or enteral
      methionine administration at increasing doses, under surveillance of plasma levels of
      methionine and homocysteine, and possible clinical side effects, until determining the
      "ideal" dose for each patient.

      Once daily dosage determined for each patient, this dosage will be continued for a total of 2
      months with daily clinical monitoring of tolerance and bi-monthly plasma levels surveillance
      of methionine and homocysteine.
    
  