
    
      At present there is no standard method for the evaluation of in vivo cuff leak and
      aspiration. Most of the tested techniques have major pitfalls that render their routine
      application infeasible. Lacking a practical and reliable marker, any possible intervention
      aimed at improving cuff seal and ETT performance in order to reduce VAP occurrence is going
      to be hindered by the inability to truly evaluate its efficacy. Radio-labeled markers are
      expensive, expose the patient to considerable radiological risk, and require transport to a
      radiological department, which would expose critically ill patients to additional risk. Dyes
      have the potential to give useful information about the presence of a cuff leak, but due to
      persistent staining of secretions, they do not allow continuous monitoring of aspiration.
      Amylase detection could be a good marker of aspiration, but its ability to detect aspiration
      is poor even when compared to pepsin. Pepsin and bile acids have the potential to detect some
      of the aspirations and cuff leaks that happen daily in mechanically ventilated patients, but
      due to their gastrointestinal nature, they do not offer any kind of information about
      aspiration of contaminated oropharyngeal secretions. With this research protocol, the
      investigators would like to validate the use of Quinine suspended in sterile water as marker
      for determining cuff leakage and aspiration events in an ICU population. Quinine is compound
      commonly used in food manufacturing. His pharmacokinetic and -dynamic has extensively been
      studied. The chemical structure of this molecule allows the detection up to pico-molar
      concentration by spectrophotometry.

      The investigators will challenge the oropharyngeal cavity with a known concentration of
      Quinine suspended in sterile water. The investigators hypothesized that the detection by
      spectrophotometry of the same substance in the tracheal secretions will prove aspiration.

      The investigators specific aims are:

        1. To quantify the measurements of Quinine in the tracheal sample and compare with the
           measurements of Quinine in the oral sample.

        2. To assess association between the amount of oropharyngeal aspiration and the development
           of upper and lower respiratory complications (i.e. ventilator associated pneumonia
           [VAP], tracheobronchitis, ventilator-associated events, acute respiratory distress
           syndrome [ARDS], etc.).

        3. To determine patient's risk factors associated with oropharyngeal aspiration. The
           introduction of this new, safe and inexpensive markers for evaluating ETT cuff
           performance and for detecting aspiration will improve the design of future studies aimed
           at VAP prevention.
    
  