
    
      Abstract Title: "Heart-track" cardiac rehabilitation device prototype designed for exercise
      training post coronary revascularisation: A usability study Background: Percutaneous Coronary
      Intervention (PCI) is a common surgical procedure for heart attack patients. International
      guidelines recommend that all patients complete phase two (outpatient) cardiac rehabilitation
      (CR) after PCI, as it plays a critical role in reducing five-year cardiovascular mortality
      and the risk of cardiovascular-related hospital admission. Patients in our institution have
      suboptimal exercise compliance and effectiveness during cardiac rehabilitation. Root cause
      analysis identified 'lack of commitment', 'lack of care monitoring and continuity' and 'lack
      of motivation and engagement' to be key contributing factors. Yet, healthcare resource
      limitations necessitate innovation for care continuity and patient engagement. "Heart-track",
      a novel, app-based innovation was created. By 'game-ifying' cardiac rehabilitative exercise
      training program, "Heart-track" guides and tracks cardiac rehabilitation at home at patient's
      comfort.

      Purpose: To explore experiences of app usability in terms of content, functionality and
      design of the prototype "Heart-track" app to improve user experience.

      Methods: Twelve community-dwelling adults who are also active member of cardiac rehab support
      group, aged above 50, and undergone coronary revascularisation for acute myocardial
      infarction at least 1 year before were recruited. Participants were introduced to
      "Heart-Track" mobile app system and its navigational characteristics with standardised
      instructions. Each participant then performed a self-directed Cardiac rehabilitation session
      using the app. Participants rated their experience with the hardware and software components
      of "Heart Track", and their acceptance of it as a cardiac rehabilitation tool. Descriptive
      analysis of quantitative responses were analysed using IBM SPSS software version 19.0
      (Armonk, NY: IBM Corp).
    
  