
    
      Viral keratitis has now become the highest incidence and the most severe-caused blindness
      corneal disease in the worldwide, as is superior to bacterial keratitis and fungal keratitis.
      At present, clinical treatments mainly depend on local and systematic use of antiviral drugs
      for viral keratitis, which can inhibit replication of viruses in corneal tissues and directly
      damage viral action. However, basal studies for viral keratitis have suggested that
      pathological immune injury produced by the body also play an important role in the formation
      of corneal ulcer, the damage of visual function in patients, during the necrotic stromal
      inflammation phase, endotheliitis phase and even serious combination of iridocyclitis phase
      of viral keratitis. There is, however, a larger controversy in the hormone therapy for this
      disease clearly caused by pathological immune injury in medical world. Patients with
      infectious keratitis caused by viral infection, who receive hormone treatment, may cause
      viral replication enhanced and out of control, and hormone itself could also cause
      spontaneous corneal tissues fusion; hence, treatments combined with hormone have a certain
      risks. In clinical treatments, permanent corneal opacity caused by corneal inflammation
      responses will cause patients permanent visual acuity loss, after patients' corneal lesions
      were controlled with simple use of antiviral drugs. Another important reason is the high
      incidence of blindness caused by viral keratitis: herpesvirus, such as herpes simplex virus
      and herpes zoster virus, will involve trigeminal ganglia and hide after primary infection,
      and will repeatedly recur under the stimulation of excessive drinking, menstruation, taking a
      cold and operation etc.. Viral keratitis often does not cause patients severe visual
      impairment at initial onset. But, viruses in patients with herpes simplex virus keratitis
      show extremely high recurrence rates. As suggested in epidemiologic studies in the
      Euro-American countries, its recurrence rate could be up to 30% in the first year, and 46% in
      the second years. In most cases, transparent corneal tissues develop nephelium and even
      macular nebula opacities after repeated recurring, and patients eventually lose visual
      acuity, becoming people with blindness and disabilities. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs,
      such as pranoprofen and bromfenac sodium, show significant inhibition of virus recurrence and
      relief of corneal inflammation responses in experiments in vitro and animal experiments,
      which indicated in previous studies. In clinical, local application of nonsteroidal
      antiinflammatory drugs does not result in spontaneous corneal tissue fusion, drug-induced
      glaucoma, drug-induced cataract and other risks. In order to seek more effective clinical
      treatments for viral keratitis patients in terms of controlling inflammation injury,
      preserving visual functions and reducing virus recurrence, this study observed that
      pranoprofen, a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug, inhibits pathological immune injury of
      viral keratitis and prevents this disease recurring, according to the basal research
      background of viral keratitis.
    
  