
    
      Cobalamin (Vitamin B12) deficiency is common in many low- and middle-income countries. This
      is not surprising as the main source of vitamin B12 is animal source foods, which are
      expensive and for cultural and religious reasons often not eaten at all. We have in several
      studies in women and children demonstrated that poor vitamin B12 status is common in South
      Asia. There is also compelling evidence that vitamin B12 deficiency occurs frequently in many
      other settings including pregnant women .

      Case studies have demonstrated harmful effects of severe vitamin B12 deficiency on the
      developing infant brain.The consequences of mild or subclinical vitamin deficiency are less
      clear but it has been shown to be associated with decreased cognitive performance in both
      elderly and children.

      Three randomized controlled trials (RCT) have measured the effect of vitamin B12
      supplementation on neurodevelopment in children: In a Norwegian trial, an intramuscular
      injection of B12 substantially improved motor development in six weeks old infants after one
      month. Another intervention study in low birth weight children in Norway recently confirmed
      these findings. The infants in these studies had evidence of suboptimal vitamin B12 status,
      but none were severely deficient. We found a beneficial effect of vitamin B12 supplementation
      for six months on neurodevelopment in young North Indian children.

      During pregnancy, vitamin B12 is concentrated in the fetus and stored in the liver. Infants
      born to vitamin B12-replete mothers have stores of vitamin B12 that are adequate to sustain
      them for the first several months postpartum. Consequently, vitamin B12 deficiency rarely
      occurs before the infant is about four months old if the mother has adequate vitamin B12
      status during pregnancy. However, many infants of vitamin B12-deficient breastfeeding mothers
      are vulnerable to B12 deficiency from an early age.

      In this project we will randomise Nepalese women to receive a supplement containing 50µg
      cobalamin or a placebo from early pregnancy until 6 months postpartum.

      Hypothesis to be tested

      Principal hypothesis: Daily administration of vitamin B12 to pregnant women from early
      pregnancy until 6 months postpartum will:

        1. Increase the scores of the Bayley Scales of Infant and Toddler Development, 3rd ed.
           (Bayley-III) by 0.25 SD points measured at 6 and 12 months of age.

        2. Increase length for age and weight for length by 0.2 z-scores at 12 months of age.

      Other hypotheses to be tested (dependent on additional funding):

        1. Daily maternal administration of vitamin B12 from the start of the early pregnancy and
           for 6 months postpartum improves the hemoglobin concentration in the mother and infant.

        2. Daily maternal administration of vitamin B12 from early pregnancy and for 6 months
           postpartum improves plasma vitamin B12 concentration and reduces plasma total
           homocysteine and methylmalonic acid concentration in the mother and infant.

        3. Daily maternal administration of vitamin B12 from early pregnancy and for 6 months
           postpartum improves insulin sensitivity in the offspring.
    
  