
    
      Pregestational diabetes represents a high-risk for evolution of preeclampsia (PET), with
      rates of PET within this group at approximately 20%. The combination of diabetes and
      preeclampsia places the pregnancy at heightened risk for hypoxia and stillbirth. Placental
      dysfunction, due to disordered early placental development, is central to the disease
      process. Early placental disease is followed months later by clinical manifestations of PET,
      which reflect widespread endothelial dysfunction resulting in vasoconstriction, ischaemia and
      increased vascular permeability. While not all adverse perinatal outcomes in diabetes are
      attributed to placental dysfunction, any therapy that offers the potential to optimise
      placentation in this group deserves close attention.

      The dose of aspirin used in randomized trials ranges from 50mg to 150mg. For some women,
      particularly those with type 2 diabetes-related obesity, the commonly-used 60mg dose may be
      too low to exert a full effect on thromboxane production. Recent work by one of the
      collaborators for this submission indicates that 20% of patients in Ireland with established
      coronary artery disease are inadequately 'protected' by aspirin, as evidenced by a
      thromboxane B2 level of >2.2 (indicating platelet aggregation of greater than 20%). Age,
      hypertension and weight were identified as risk factors for an inadequate aspirin response.
      Furthermore, randomized trials of this nature are potentially compromised by an inability to
      confidently ensure patient compliance. The use of platelet function assays for a sub-group of
      the participants in this proposed work offers the potential both to determine whether body
      mass index and gestational age influence the ability to achieve an optimal biologic drug
      effect and also to confirm patient compliance.

      Pre-pregnancy nephropathy places a woman at particularly high risk for superimposed
      preeclampsia and for fetal growth restriction. Microalbuminuria is known to be the forerunner
      for diabetic nephropathy. Indeed, microalbuminuria is considered to be a marker of
      generalized endothelial dysfunction. Whether sub-threshold degrees of microvascular disease,
      as evidenced by microalbuminuria in early gestation, may confer a heightened risk of
      preeclampsia, is unclear. Furthermore, whether aspirin therapy may benefit this subgroup with
      microalbuminuria has not been studied. The largest study to date to investigate the
      prevalence of microalbuminuria was conducted in Denmark, on a cohort of 1,200 pregnant women
      with type I diabetes and documented a fourfold increase in risk of developing preeclampsia
      among microalbuminuric women compared to normoalbuminuric diabetic women. A secondary
      analysis of the MFMU aspirin study documented no increased risk of preeclampsia among women
      with diabetes who had proteinuria <499mg/24h in early pregnancy. A randomized trial of
      aspirin therapy for the prevention of placental dysfunction in the setting of pregestational
      diabetes may clarify whether aspirin therapy confers particular benefit among
      microalbuminuric women.

      Importantly, although NICE has issued guidance on the prevention of hypertension in pregnancy
      that includes a recommendation that women deemed to be at high risk for hypertension in
      pregnancy be considered for low-dose aspirin after 12 weeks' gestational age, and
      pregestational diabetes is listed as an example of 'high risk', this recommendation is not
      supported by randomized-trial evidence demonstrating a benefit to aspirin therapy in women
      with diabetes. Furthermore, this guidance is at variance with international guidelines on the
      management of diabetes in pregnancy, none of which includes a recommendation that aspirin is
      prescribed to this group. This reflects the dearth of studies that have been done on this
      high-risk subgroup and the paucity of evidence gleaned from meta analyses in favour of
      aspirin therapy in this group.

      Routine prescription of aspirin therapy for women with pre-existing diabetes does not
      represent standard care in Ireland. The Mother and Baby CTN is well placed to answer the
      clinical question here, centred on whether low-dose antiplatelet therapy in pregnancy may
      carry the potential to optimise pregnancy outcome in this high-risk group.

      9.2 Preclinical data Aspirin is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) with analgesic
      and antipyretic effects. Aspirin also inhibits cyclo-oxygenase isoforms 1 and 2 (COX1/COX2)
      by irreversible acetylation, thus inhibiting the biosynthesis of prostaglandins and
      thromboxanes from arachadonic acid. Aspirin's antiplatelet effects relate to its inhibition
      of the production of platelet thromboxane A2, a prothrombotic vasoconstrictor. This
      inhibitory effect is cumulative on repeat dosing, with complete suppression of platelet
      thromboxane synthesis estimated to occur within a few days after daily dosing of 20 to 50mg
      and more rapid suppression occurring with larger doses of 150-300mg. Much higher doses are
      required for anti-inflammatory, analgesic and antipyretic effects (3.6-4g daily).

      Animal studies showed that at very large dose levels, aspirin is teratogenic in rodents, with
      cranial defects, neural tube defects, and cardiac defects among the most consistent findings.
      Offspring of food-restricted rats that also received aspirin 250 mg/kg/day had more than
      twice the incidence of malformations as those that received aspirin without food restriction.
      The most notable malformations were rib and limb defects and umbilical hernias. At higher
      dose levels, aspirin produced similar embryotoxicity in rhesus monkeys. The anomalies
      observed included neural tube defects, skeletal malformations, and facial clefts. A 2003
      review of the experimental animal literature noted diaphragmatic hernia, ventricular septal
      defect, or midline defects associated with aspirin or other NSAIDs. This analysis noted that
      the general quality of available reports was poor, but work in rats, with bolus
      administration of the maximum tolerable dose of aspirin, as well as some reversible COX-1
      inhibitors, consistently produced midline and cardiac defects. In rabbits, because of
      maternal toxicity, aspirin cannot be administered at high enough dose levels to produce
      developmental defects.

      9.3 Clinical data Low-dose aspirin has been investigated for the prevention of preeclampsia
      owing to its negative effect on thromboxane production. An imbalance between prostacyclin and
      thromboxane plays a key role in the development of PET and is believed to result from shallow
      placental invasion and ischaemia that occur shortly after implantation, very early in the
      first trimester of pregnancy.

      Studies on the role of aspirin in the prevention of preeclampsia in high-risk women have
      yielded conflicting results. Initial studies suggested a protective effect. Subsequently,
      some larger studies failed to identify a benefit to aspirin therapy although CLASP did
      demonstrate a benefit in women affected by early-onset severe preeclampsia in a prior
      pregnancy.

      A metaanalysis, based on 27 trials on 31,678 women, concluded that aspirin is effective in
      preventing preeclampsia, although the effect, a 10% reduction in PET incidence, was too
      modest to warrant routine use in all women. The authors concluded that 'Despite a very large
      dataset, the evidence base for particular groups of high risk women remains limited '.
      Pre-existing diabetes was identified in 905 randomized women in this metaanalysis and the
      authors calculated a relative risk for PET of 0.76 (CI 0.56 to 1.04), thus failing to
      demonstrate a statistically significant effect. No information is provided on gestational age
      at recruitment for this subanalysis, but very few studies were included that recruited women
      <16 weeks. Two thirds of the overall dataset were recruited after 20 weeks' gestational age.
      However, if started early in pregnancy the treatment may be effective, although studies are
      few and results are inconsistent, demonstrated a 17% reduction in the incidence of PET when
      combining studies of different design. These authors stratified patients according to
      risk-status for PET and concluded that aspirin may confer a 25% reduction in preeclampsia for
      women deemed to be at high risk for developing the disease. Pre-pregnancy diabetes
      constituted a high risk factor in this analysis. However, any benefit of aspirin therapy in
      reducing the incidence of PET in this group was not demonstrated by the Askie metaanalysis.

      Few studies investigate the role of aspirin in preventing preeclampsia specifically in women
      with diabetes. Only two randomized trials have recruited women with pregestational diabetes
      without chronic hypertension or established renal disease. A large multicenter MFMU Network
      study investigated the role of aspirin in prevention of PET for high-risk women, which
      included a subgroup of 471 women with pregestational diabetes. Although this study did not
      demonstrate a difference in the incidence of PET between aspirin and placebo groups, women
      were recruited in the 2nd trimester (mean GA at recruitment 18 weeks +/- 4 weeks). It is
      plausible that any effect of aspirin on placentation may only be observed if therapy is
      initiated in the first trimester. Indeed, a recent metaanalysis investigating the role of
      aspirin in prevention of perinatal death concludes that low-dose aspirin has potential to
      reduce perinatal mortality when initiated prior to 16 weeks compared to later treatment.
      Therefore, if aspirin is to be used for the prevention of placental dysfunction, it must be
      initiated before the second active phase of trophoblast invasion, which takes place from 14
      weeks' gestation onwards. No randomized trials investigating the role of aspirin in
      prevention of preeclampsia have initiated treatment in the first trimester, the gestational
      period at which it is most likely to exert an effect on placentation.

      9.4 Rationale and risks/benefits The investigational medicinal product to be used in this
      trial: Tromalyt速 150mg prolong release capsule for oral ingestion. The gelatine capsule
      contains 150mg of anti-platelet agent acetylsalicylic acid, maize starch and Sucrose 20:80. .
      Tromalyt速 is trademark of Meda Pharma SL (Reg 59.210).

      Placebo hard gelatin capsules (Sanitatis速) will be used for patients randomized to the
      placebo arm. These capsules are externally identical to Tromalyt capsule. The capsules
      contain 198mg microcrystalline cellulose and 2mg of magnesium stearate (Sanitatis速)

      . The antiplatelet properties of aspirin may confer a beneficial effect on placental
      function, owing to the putative imbalance between thromboxane and prostacyclin that are
      thought to result in shallow placental invasion in the first trimester. The ability of
      antiplatelet therapy such as aspirin to potentially optimize placental architecture early in
      pregnancy may lead to a greater prospect of a low-resistance placental circulation being
      established early in pregnancy in this cohort of women with microangiopathic disease relating
      to pre-pregnancy diabetes. Therefore, the study hypothesis is that initiation of low-dose
      aspirin in the first trimester of pregnancy may lead to a reduction in placental
      dysfunction-mediated adverse perinatal outcome (namely, pre-eclampsia, fetal growth
      restriction, preterm birth or perinatal death).
    
  