
    
      It is widely known that being physically active is beneficial for one's health and
      well-being, yet only a small percentage of adults engage in the recommended amounts of
      physical activity. Research has shown that health-damaging behaviors such as a sedentary
      lifestyle can be attributed in part to a lack of self-control. There is some evidence that
      self-control strategies can be improved with targeted interventions. The overall aim of the
      proposed study is to test self-control as a behavior change mechanism for physical activity
      and to investigate whether a smartphone-based self-control intervention can increase physical
      activity among sedentary middle-aged and older adults. To test the effect of this
      self-control intervention, participants will be randomized into two conditions: The
      self-control treatment group and the control group. Both groups will track their daily
      physical activity using a Fitbit step counter over eight weeks. Additionally, the
      self-control intervention group will receive a 7-week smartphone-based self-control
      intervention to learn strategies how to potentiate desirable impulses or weaken undesirable
      ones. It is expected that the self-control treatment group will show greater increases in
      physical activity and that changes will last longer compared to the control group.
      Self-control is expected to mediate the relationship between condition and physical activity.
      It is predicted that the self-control treatment group will show greater changes in
      self-control compared to the control group and that people who increase more in self-control
      also increase more in their physical activity. Two versions of the MindHike smartphone
      application will be used to communicate with all participants. The self-control treatment
      group will receive a version delivering a self-control intervention. The control group will
      receive a minimal version without the interventional components. Both groups are matched in
      terms of contact frequency.
    
  