
    
      Scientific Background Nearly 30% of patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting
      (CABG), 40% of patients undergoing valvular heart surgery and over 50% of patients with
      combined coronary and valvular procedures develop atrial fibrillation (AF).

      Postoperative AF occurs mostly due to conditions like chronic kidney diseases, emergency
      surgery, age >75 years, cardiopulmonary bypass time >180 min and due to lacking postoperative
      application of aldosterone- and beta-blockers.

      An overview of pre- intra- and postoperative risks for AF is listed in

      Table 1: Pre-, intra-, postoperative risks for AF.

      Preoperative High age Male gender Previous cardiac surgery Valvular heart disease Chronic
      lung disease Chronic renal failure Leſt atrium enlargement Leſt ventricular hypertrophy
      Withdrawal of beta-blocker medication History of AF Hypertension Obesity Diabetes Metabolic
      Syndrome

      Intraoperative Endotracheal tube insertion Intraoperative IABP Leſt ventricular venting
      Aortic cross-clamp time Extracorporeal circulation Myocardial ischemia Venous cannulation
      Damage to the atrium Excess inotropic requirements Acute volume change

      Postoperative Return to intensive care unit Ventilation longer than 24 hours Volume overload
      Pneumonia Electrolyte imbalances Imbalance of auton. nervous system Atrial extrasystole
      Increased postop adrenergic status Increased aſterload Inflammation Hypotension

      Several theories describe the emergence of AF like "multiple-wavelet re-entry", "focal
      mechanism" and "mother rotor" but the exact underlying mechanisms are still not well
      understood.

      Prevention and treatment of postoperative AF are managed with conservative medication
      therapies including e.g. beta-blockers and other clinical interventions include radio
      frequency catheter ablation, cardioversion and occlusion of the left atrial appendage.

      A novel approach for suppression of AF utilizing low-level transcutaneous electrical vagus
      nerve stimulation has been described recently in the Journal of the American College of
      Cardiology. The newly developed "DUCEST Neurostimulator V" device (manufactured by Biegler
      Medizinelektronik GmbH Mauerbach, Austria) offers similar action as in. This Neurostimulator
      device is designed to emit small direct current electrical pulses (0-1,2mA) to stimulate the
      R.auricularis of the vagus nerve located at the Fossa triangularis. The target population are
      patients with de-novo postoperative AF. The stimulation is achieved with the attachment of
      two needle- electrodes and connection of the electrodes to the Neurostimulator.

      Following the stimulation of the vagus nerve positive effects were already achieved in
      chronical wound healing, peripheral artery occlusive disease (PAOD), Claudicatio intermittens
      (CI) and chronic pain patients.
    
  