
    
      Pneumococcus is the most common bacterial opportunistic infection in HIV-infected children,
      and it is the leading cause of bacterial pneumonias in HIV-infected pregnant and non-pregnant
      adults. Pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPV-23) and pneumococcal conjugate vaccine
      (PCV-13) are two vaccines used for the prevention of pneumococcal (PNC) disease. The PPV-23
      vaccine is recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) for
      HIV-infected adults, including HIV-infected pregnant women. The PCV-13 vaccine is recommended
      by the CDC for use in children, including HIV-infected children. Studies have shown that
      PCV-13 and vaccines like PCV-13 are safe for use in healthy pregnant women, but they have not
      been studied in HIV-infected pregnant women. This study will compare the safety and immune
      response to the PCV-13 and PPV-23 vaccines in HIV-infected pregnant women.

      This study will enroll HIV-infected pregnant women in their second or third trimester who are
      receiving antiretroviral therapy. The study will take place in two steps. In Step 1,
      participants will be randomly assigned to receive PPV-23 vaccine, PCV-13 vaccine, or placebo
      vaccine. At a baseline study visit, participants will undergo a physical examination, medical
      history and nutritional status review, fetal heart rate measurement, blood collection, an
      ultrasound, an adherence questionnaire, and a nose and throat swab procedure. They will then
      receive their assigned vaccine. Participants will not be told which vaccine they are
      receiving. Participants will remain in the clinic for 30 to 60 minutes after receiving the
      vaccine for monitoring. They will attend study visits 14 to 21 days after the vaccination
      visit, at Week 8, and at the time of labor and delivery. During these visits, they will
      undergo select baseline study procedures. After delivery, participants' babies will have a
      physical examination and blood collection. At 2 and 4 months after delivery, participants'
      babies will undergo select baseline study procedures. Participants' babies will receive the
      PCV vaccine according to the local standard of care.

      Step 2 of the study will begin 6 months after delivery, at which time participants and their
      babies will attend a study visit for a physical examination, medical history and nutritional
      status review, an adherence questionnaire, and blood collection. Participants who received
      the PPV-23 vaccine or the PCV-13 vaccine in Step 1 will end their participation in the study
      after this visit. Participants who received placebo vaccine in Step 1 will be randomly
      assigned to receive the PPV-23 vaccine or PCV-13 vaccine at this study visit but will not be
      told which vaccine they are receiving. Participants will attend a study visit 14 to 21 days
      after receiving the vaccine, which will include select study procedures.
    
  