
    
      Children with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) (DSM-5) are characterised by
      three core symptoms: inattention, hyperactivity and impulsivity. Approximately 2-3 % of
      Danish school children are diagnosed with ADHD (Madsen, Ersbøll, Olsen, Parner, & Obel,
      2015), and the prevalence in Denmark is about 5 % (Dalsgaard, Nielsen, & Simonsen, 2013).
      Many children with ADHD experience difficulties in managing social relations, e.g. team
      sports, and are often excluded from leisure activities with other children. This can have an
      impact on their well-being and quality of life which to a high degree depend on whether they
      have friends and communities with peers (Riley et al., 2006). Almost 50 % of children with
      ADHD experience the core symptoms in adulthood, and many develop psychological and social
      problems (Dalsgaard, Mortensen, Frydenberg, & Thomsen, 2013) and are at risk of premature
      death (Dalsgaard, Ostergaard, Leckman, Mortensen, & Pedersen, 2015). The NICE guideline
      (National Collaborating Centre for Mental Health, 2009) recommends a combination of
      pharmacological and psychosocial treatment (multimodal treatment approach) for children aged
      6-18 years, to remedy other symptoms than ADHD core symptoms. A growing focus on the benefits
      of sports activities, yoga and mindfulness suggests that physical activity may have a
      positive impact on children and young people with ADHD (Cerrillo-Urbina et al., 2015; Kang,
      Choi, Kang, & Han, 2011; Haydicky, Wiener, Badali, Milligan , & Ducharme, 2012; van der Oord,
      Bogels, & Peijnenburg, 2012; van de Weijer-Bergsma, Formsma, de Bruin, & Bogels, 2012).

      The sport of Target shooting can be regarded as a type of mental training in which the
      athlete uses techniques breathing to calm down, focus and improve attention. Mind and body
      must be in complete balance and the techniques used are similar to those used in meditation
      (Jeppesen & Pensgaard, 2006). Furthermore, regulations apply to the Danish Shooting
      Associations, in combination with the way the target shooting sport is practiced in Denmark
      is associated with fixed physical boundaries, clear rules and a distinct structure for the
      activity. Furthermore, it is a sport where the adult instructor always is very close to the
      child, and it is custom for the instructor gives instructions in a calm, structured and
      concise manner. Thus, target-shooting sport has implicitly features elements that can be
      considered protective environmental factors for the inattentive child and thus may contribute
      to reduce ADHD-symptoms and strengthen the child's well-being and quality of life. In 2012,
      the Danish Gymnastics and Sporting Organization (DGI) initiated a sports project, where
      children with ADHD or similar symptoms of inattention, hyperactivity and impulsivity
      practiced target-shooting sport in Danish Shooting Association. The evaluation showed, that
      the children became more concentrated and focussed during the training (Maansson, 2015).
      Based on this experience, this study has been initiated. However no studies have investigated
      the effect of target shooting sports for children with difficulties with inattention,
      hyperactivity and impulsivity.

      The main aim of this study is therefore to investigate the influence of participation in
      target shooting sports in Danish Shooting Association for children having difficulties with
      inattention, hyperactivity and impulsivity.
    
  