
    
      Background: Mental health and neurological disorders constitute 13% of the global burden of
      diseases. Alarmingly this burden has risen by 41% in the last 20 years. It is estimated that
      severe mental disorders (i.e. severe depression, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia and other
      psychotic disorders) have a two to three times higher average mortality compared to the
      general population. Treatment rates for these disorders are low in low-and-middle-income
      countries (LMICs), where treatment gaps of more than 90% have been documented.

      In western countries, the efficacy of psychoeducation, as an add-on treatment to
      pharmacotherapy in the treatment of symptoms and relapse prevention initiatives concerning
      bipolar disorder (BD), is well documented. Yet, few studies on psychosocial interventions for
      BD have been conducted in low-income countries.

      The overall aim of the study is to determine the effect, feasibility and acceptability of
      psychoeducation for patients with BD in Rwanda.

      Methods: The study is divided into a prospective randomized controlled trial (RCT) and a
      district trial. Patients with bipolar disease type I or II that meet DSM-V diagnostic
      criteria given by a trained psychiatrist and age ≥ 18 years will be invited to participate.

      For the RCT study participants will be randomised to 1) group-psychoeducation for patients
      and relatives, 2) a waiting list. The RCT will take place at a referral hospital. The
      district trial compares the impact of psychoeducation given at the district level by mental
      health nurses with psychoeducation conducted at referral hospitals.

      Intervention: Manual-structured group psychoeducation with eight sessions of 90 minutes over
      eight weeks (at one session per week). Patients will be offered to invite their relatives for
      2-3 psychoeducation-days for relatives.

      Outcomes: The primary outcome is a reduction in symptom severity, the incidence of relapse
      and hospitalization. Secondary outcomes include Improved quality of life and medication
      adherence and knowledge, as well as reduced self-stigmatization. All outcomes will be
      assessed at baseline, immediately post-intervention, and at the 3 and 6 months follow-up.

      Sample size: In the literature on group-psychoeducation, 13 out of 18 RCT's have a reduction
      in general psychiatric symptom severity, the incidence of relapse and hospitalization as main
      outcomes. Eighteen RCT's on group psychoeducation for BD were reviewed before a study of
      Colom et al. was selected as the base of the power calculation. The incidence of relapse in
      the study was (92%) (55 subjects) in the control group vs 67% (40 subjects) in the
      psychoeducation group. For this study, a sample size of 40 patients for each arm is required
      to achieve a level of 80% power with a 5% level of significance when comparing the mean
      change in each intervention with the control arm via a two-sample t-test. Adjusting for a
      drop-out rate of 20%: 40/(1-(20/100))= 50 participants will be needed for each group (50 for
      intervention, 50 for waiting-list and 50 for the district trial).

      Randomization: Study participants at the hospital level who meet the inclusion criteria and
      sign the informed consent form will be randomized individually into either intervention-arm
      or waiting list through block-randomization with a ratio of 1:1.

      Patients at the district level will not be randomized since the number of patients with BD at
      these levels is unknown and can result in the sample size will be too small. Instead, all
      will be offered participation.

      Ethical Approval The research protocol and study-related documents have been approved by the
      College of Medicine and Health Sciences Institutional Review Board, Rwanda and The National
      Council for Science and Technology (NCST) in Rwanda.
    
  