
    
      Clevidipine, a recently introduced, short-acting, vascular-selective calcium antagonist,
      could be a potentially useful adjuvant for neurosurgical cases. It decreases arterial blood
      pressure by reducing systemic vascular resistance with no effect on venous capacitance
      vessels (7). Clevidipine was successfully used for the treatment of hypertension in cardiac
      surgical patients (8). However, there is no information available on its efficacy and safety
      in patients undergoing intracranial surgery.

      The perioperative course of patients undergoing intracranial surgery is frequently
      complicated by acute hypertensive episodes. Acute hypertension in neurosurgical patients is
      associated with intracranial bleeds and prolonged hospital stay (1). Even with current
      neuroanesthesia management, hemodynamic stability may be challenging, especially in
      hypertensive patients. An anesthetic technique that improves perioperative hemodynamics
      without increasing the incidence of undesirable events (such as increased intracranial
      pressure, prolonged recovery, etc.) is desirable.

      A number of antihypertensive agents are available to treat perioperative hypertension.
      Labetalol is commonly used to treat hypertensive episodes in patients undergoing craniotomy,
      but may not be desirable in certain patient populations because of its low potency, a slow
      onset of peak effect (2), and unpredictability in dose requirements (3). Esmolol is only
      mildly effective in treating postoperative hypertension. Perioperative use is further
      complicated by bradycardia and conduction delay. Nicardipine is more effective than esmolol
      in controlling postoperative hypertension (4). However, it causes a dose-dependent cerebral
      vasodilation, inhibition of autoregulation, as well as a high incidence of hypotension (as
      compared to labetalol) (5). Hydralazine may increase intracranial pressure by as much as 100%
      and is rarely used as the sole agent in treating hypertension in neurosurgical patients (6).
    
  