
    
      Child behavioral concerns are common among families served by Children's Hospital of
      Philadelphia (CHOP) and University of North Carolina (UNC) pediatric primary care centers. To
      address this, Child Adult Relationship Enhancement in Pediatric Primary Care (PriCARE) was
      developed. PriCARE has been evaluated in primary care centers at CHOP and UNC with promising
      findings with regards to reductions in child behavioral problems. The PriCARE curriculum has
      now been enhanced with strategies to increase participant engagement, retention of skills,
      and attendance. Efficacy of this enhanced PriCARE curriculum has not yet been evaluated. Nor
      has the impact of the PriCARE intervention on child maltreatment risk been explored.

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of the enhanced PriCARE
      program to improve parenting capacity as measured by the Parenting Scale total score and 3
      sub-scales.

      The secondary objectives are to:

        1. Measure the impact of PriCARE on parent-reported child behavior problems as assessed by
           the Eyberg Child Behavior Inventory intensity and problems scales.

        2. Measure the impact of PriCARE on the quality of the parent-child relationship as
           measured by the Dyadic Parent-Child Interaction Coding.

        3. Measure the impact of PriCARE on the risk of child maltreatment as measured by the Child
           Abuse Potential Inventory.

        4. Identify and describe predictors of attendance in PriCARE groups.

        5. Identify and describe modifiers of the efficacy of PriCARE including but not limited to
           caregiver and child demographics.

        6. Assess caregivers' perceptions of the efficacy of PriCARE on improving parenting skills
           and child behavior as measured by the Therapeutic Attitude Inventory (TAI).

        7. Develop and pilot a new PriCARE Positive Discipline Module.

        8. Collect pilot data on added benefit of completing the PriCARE Positive Discipline
           Module.

      The investigators will perform a randomized controlled trial (RCT) of the effectiveness of
      the enhanced PriCARE on objectives listed above among 2- to 6-year-old children and their
      parents at five CHOP Primary Care Centers and two University of North Carolina primary care
      sites. The investigators intend to randomize up to 110 child-caregiver pairs (220 subjects)
      to receive PriCARE immediately plus usual treatment (intervention group) and up to 110
      child-parent pairs (220 subjects) to receive PriCARE at a later time plus usual treatment
      (control group) for a total of up to 220 child-caregiver pairs (440 subjects). All
      child-caregivers pairs randomized to the control group will be placed on a waitlist and
      offered PriCARE after completion of data collection. Child maltreatment risk, parenting
      attitudes and skills, child behavior, and quality of the child-caregiver relationship will be
      measured at baseline (time 1) and approximately 8-17 weeks after randomization (time 2) for
      both the intervention and control groups. The follow up interview will also include a brief
      satisfaction questionnaire for participants randomized to the intervention group. For the
      subgroup of participants who complete the Positive Discipline Module, these measurements will
      be repeated approximately 2-4 weeks after completion of the Positive Discipline intervention
      (time 3).
    
  