
    
      For patients and their intimate partners, advanced cancer poses significant challenges that
      can negatively impact both individuals and the couple's collective well-being. Couples'
      ability to communicate openly and effectively with each other about cancer-related concerns
      can improve their psychological adjustment and quality of their relationship. Open and
      effective communication may also lead to better symptom management and goal-concordant care.
      However, many couples report difficulties communicating about cancer, even in the context of
      overall satisfying relationships. This can have a number of deleterious consequences,
      including deficits in emotional support, decreases in intimacy and relationship quality, and
      increased psychological distress. Thus, interventions designed to facilitate effective
      communication between cancer patients and their partners are likely to have beneficial
      effects on both individual and relationship functioning.

      Prior research, including studies conducted by our team, has found that couple-based
      interventions that target communication lead to positive outcomes for cancer patients and
      their partners. However, most prior studies have been limited by reliance on an in-person
      treatment delivery format which keeps many couples from participating. In addition, prior
      studies have not targeted interventions to couples who are most likely to benefit. There is
      increasing evidence that psychosocial interventions for cancer, including couple-based
      interventions, should be targeted to those at risk of poor outcomes. Our prior research
      indicates that couples who report communication difficulties (e.g., high levels of holding
      back from discussing cancer-related concerns) have increased psychological distress and
      poorer relationship functioning and are most likely to benefit from a couple communication
      intervention specifically designed to addressed their communication problems.

      The specific aims of this study are (1)To determine whether CCST significantly improves
      patients' and partners' individual psychological adjustment (i.e., psychological distress,
      life completion) and patient health and health care outcomes (physical well-being, symptom
      distress, advance care planning discussions and completion of advance directives,
      hospitalizations, and emergency department visits) compared to an education condition. (2) To
      determine whether, for couples receiving the CCST intervention, improvements in psychological
      adjustment, relationship functioning, and patient health are mediated by improvements in
      their communication, including objective measures of communication quality and communal
      coping (e.g., "we-talk") derived from couple conversations and self-reported protective
      buffering. (3) To examine differences in response to the CCST intervention for patients
      versus partners, for male versus female participants, and for patients with different cancer
      diagnoses (breast, lung, GI, GU). (4) To conduct an implementation-related process evaluation
      of the intervention.
    
  