
    
      Overhead athletic performance requires both static and dynamic mechanisms to coordinate
      glenohumeral and scapulothoracic stability to induce the appropriate motor response. Active
      function is predicated on a sufficient balance of muscular strength, endurance, flexibility
      and neuromuscular response to proprioceptive input. Coordinating, planning and synthesising
      complex multi-joint information is a process within the central nervous system, from the
      periphery to the higher centres of the brain, in a synergy of afferent and efferent feedback.

      Joint position sense plays an important role for the shoulder joint in two key components of
      athletic performance: conscious limb placement and unconscious motor patterning in response
      to external force during movement. Such motor patterns can be characterised as the motor
      responsiveness to perturbations of joint position. This assists efficiency of muscular
      coordination when the shoulder is placed in the long lever position during overhead
      activities, where the desired motor pattern reaction is essential alongside contractile
      strength for successful performance and attenuation of injury risk. It is suggested that
      efficiency in neuromuscular control to provide responsive stabilization is necessary to
      sustain high levels of overhead performance and to avoid injury. The neuromuscular control
      response of the shoulder musculature on glenohumeral and scapulothoracic joint positions
      becomes deficient in the presence of structural injury. For example, rotator cuff injury
      specifically leads to deficiencies in neuromuscular control timing, patterning and strength
      compared with asymptomatic clients.

      Perturbation of upper limb position during overhead activities causes unpredicted change in
      tissue length, resulting in a responsive pattern of muscular contractions. The OPT exercise
      series ensures that the deficient client is exposed to positions of vulnerability against
      displacement of the limb by external force. It is postulated that neural adaptations are
      induced through introduction of both rhythmic and sudden alterations to these positions A
      training stimulus (such as OPT) which facilitates neuromuscular control and speed of response
      to perturbation has potential to enhance overhead function. This signifies the role of
      neuromuscular control training in both rehabilitation and prevention of shoulder joint
      injury. The inclusion of this type of exercise training during rehabilitation and as part of
      injury risk minimisation strategies is an important component to sustain synchronization of
      muscular movement patterns.

      Population in Focus

      The subjects recruited for this study will be explained in greater depth further in the
      proposal, however are characterised by having a degree of functional glenohumeral joint
      instability. The physiotherapy class setting which will be utilised as the source of
      referrals is a heterogenous group of upper limb disorder patients, with a distinct sub group
      of individuals with functional instability who achieve sufficient recovery to meet the
      criteria for return to sport. According to the Stanmore classification of shoulder
      instability this group would correspond to Polar type II-III- that is placed on a continuum
      between atraumatic structural instability and non-structural, muscle patterning instability.

      Current treatment versus OPT

      The optimal management of anterior shoulder instability in those who undertake sport
      continues to be a challenge. Exercise therapy rehabilitation in a structured protocol shows
      statistically significant changes in validated outcome measures (Oxford Instability Shoulder
      Scores and Western Ontario Shoulder Index scores) but fails to incorporate exercise at the
      point of most instability through range of motion, particularly with sufficient challenge to
      the neuromuscular system to promote adaptation against perturbation at this point.

      Of course OPT is not suggested to replace traditional measures of exercise therapy, but
      instead is designed to complement and optimise rehabilitation. By influencing both the
      physical and psychometric obstructions to return to activity, the OPT aims to improve patient
      care and enhance quality of life in its users. This has the additional benefit of
      streamlining the care pathway of this patient population, and in preparing them to return to
      higher levels of function, will potentially reduce recurrence of future injury. The pathway
      for these patients is optimised and made more efficient by providing the same amount of
      therapist contact, in a class setting to incorporate multiple users at once, but should
      enhance post intervention clinical scores. The application of similar programmes as a
      component of rehabilitation is already considered elsewhere; however the specific nature of
      OPT is suggested to enhance even these currently used protocols.
    
  