
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Observe the incidence of mucositis in patients receiving ProThelial prior to developing
           chemoradiation mucositis in the oral cavity, esophagus, stomach, small or large
           intestine.

        -  Observe the change from baseline in symptoms & signs of mucositis in chemoradiation
           patients on Prothelial who have developed mucositis in the oral cavity, esophagus,
           stomach, small or large intestine.

      Secondary

        -  Patient-reported quality of relief by ProThelial (treatment portion) Using Pain Visual
           Analogue Scale (PVAS) Using Difficulty Swallowing Visual Analogue Scale (DSVAS)

        -  To evaluate the safety and tolerability of ProThelial (Phase I non-oral uses)

        -  To observe the adverse event profile of ProThelial using patient-reported Questionnaire

        -  To observe effect on pain assessed day 1, 2,4,7,14,21 by Pain VAS

        -  To observe effect on oral ulcerations assessed day 1, 2,4,7,14,21 by OMAS

        -  To observe effect on symptoms of esophageal mucositis assessed day1, 2,4,7,14, 21using
           Difficulty Swallowing Visual Analogue Scale

        -  To observe effect on symptoms of gastric and small intestine mucositis assessed day
           1,2,4,7,14,21 using the Nausea Visual Analogue Scale & the NCI GI Toxicity Scale for
           Nausea, Vomiting

        -  To observe effect on symptoms of large intestine mucositis assessed day 1,2,4,7,14,21 by
           NCI GI Toxicity Scale for Colonic Diarrhea

      Tertiary

        -  Functional status prior to and following use of ProThelial (ECOG/Karnofsky) in patients
           with mucositis

      OUTLINE:

      This is a multicenter observation study with 3 treatment cohorts and 3 prevention cohorts.
      Patients are stratified according to gender, age, treatment, cancer under treatment (type &
      stage), the presence, type, & severity of mucositis.

        -  Treatment (active mucositis): Patients are grouped in accordance to the type of
           mucositis experienced - oral/esophageal, gastric/small intestine & colonic.

        -  ▪ Arm 1 Patients with oroesophageal mucositis (with pain, erythema, ulceration and
           difficult pain swallowing as prominent symptom/signs) (Phase I)

        -  ▪ Arm 2 Patients with gastric/small intestinal mucositis (delayed nausea vomiting as
           prominent symptom/sign). (Phase I)

        -  ▪ Arm 3 Patients with chemoradiation diarrhea as their prominent symptom/sign. (Phase I)

        -  Prevention (no mucositis): Patients are grouped in accordance to type of mucositis
           anticipated - oral/esophageal, gastric/small intestine and colonic.

        -  ▪ Arm 4 Patients anticipated to develop oroesophageal mucositis (with pain, erythema,
           ulceration and difficult pain swallowing as prominent symptom/signs). (Phase IV)

        -  ▪ Arm 5 Patients anticipated to develop gastric/small intestinal mucositis (delayed
           nausea vomiting as prominent symptom/sign) (Phase I)

        -  ▪ Arm 6 Patients anticipated to develop chemoradiation diarrhea as their prominent
           symptom/sign. (Phase I)

      BACKGROUND ON INTERVENTION: PROTHELIAL™ Polymerized High Potency Sucralfate Malate Paste

      STANDARD POTENCY VS HIGH POTENCY SUCRALFATE IN MANAGING MUCOSITIS

      Standard potency non-polymerized sucralfate is not recommended by MASCC/ISOO (Multinational
      Association of Supportive Care in Cancer/ International Society of Oral Oncology) for the
      treatment or prevention of mucositis, oral or alimentary. However high potency polymerized
      sucralfate has been associated with rapid amelioration and prevention of both oral and
      alimentary mucositis in a patient with advanced head neck cancer treated simultaneously with
      high dose chemo-radiation. High potency sucralfate is standard sucralfate polymerized into
      'sucralfate sheets' that adhere and orderly layer upon the mucosa achieving and maintaining
      elevated concentrations of sucralfate long after the initial dose administration. Three hours
      following administration, high potency sucralfate maintains a 7 fold greater surface
      concentration of sucralfate on normal lining and a 23 fold greater concentration on inflamed,
      ulcerated mucosa. In August 2013, the FDA cleared the use of ProThelial, a polymerized high
      potency sucralfate paste, as a device for the management of oral mucositis.

      RAPID HEALING BY STANDARD POTENCY SUCRALFATE AT HIGH DOSES

      Early sucralfate investigations showed that undissolved (thus high dose concentration)
      sucralfate adherent to the human gastric mucosa caused rapid mucosal changes within 10-60
      minutes. These changes included the release of mucus and bicarbonate as well as vacuolization
      and exfoliation of superficial enterocytes being replaced by newly regenerated cells.
      Laboratory animals given high doses of standard potency sucralfate (3-20 times the standard
      14mg/kg dose) were observed to resist gastric injury, rapidly heal mucosal injuries and
      showed increased secretion of luminal prostaglandins, mucus and bicarbonate. These mucosal
      changes were shown to be linked to the local expression of growth factor receptors and the
      secretion of epidermal growth factor. Later research identified that sucralfate-mediated
      mucosal changes are growth factor dependent. Independently investigators have concluded that
      sucralfate accelerates growth-factor mediated mucosal healing, though the mechanism is
      unclear.

      RAPID HEALING BY HIGH POTENCY SUCRALFATE GIVEN AT LOW DOSES

      High potency sucralfate is the active ingredient of ProThelial. At standard 14mg/kg doses,
      high potency sucralfate causes a 7-23 fold hyper-concentration of sucralfate on mucosal
      lining. In a placebo controlled, double blinded multi-center trial involving 60 patients,
      there was a 28 day 87.7% healing rate of GERD erosions (compared to placebo's 37.7%) in
      patients using high potency sucralfate at 1.5 gram twice daily. This represented a 2.34 fold
      or 334% improvement in healing over placebo. Esophageal erosions in both treatment groups
      were exposed to untreated gastric acid making the results observed with high potency
      sucralfate that much more remarkable.

      Similarly, in a randomized 7 day four-arm trial involving 41 patients with erosive GERD, the
      rate of healing for patients using high potency sucralfate was 80%. The 7 day healing rate
      for acid therapy groups were considerably lower: omeprazole (20mg bid) was 30% and for
      ranitidine (150mg bid) and antacid groups healing was 0%. Apparently the topical coating of
      high potency sucralfate affects a mucosa-centric mechanism for healing that appears
      indifferent to gastric pH or acid exposure. Comparing the 7 day healing rate of high potency
      sucralfate to that of omeprazole there was a 2.67 or 367% improvement similar to that seen
      when high potency sucralfate is compared to placebo where there was a 2.34 fold or 334%
      improvement.

      EXPERIENCE USING HIGH POTENCY SUCRALFATE FOR ORAL & ALIMENTARY MUCOSITIS IN STAGE 4B HEAD AND
      NECK CANCER

      In a 42 yo head and neck patient treated simultaneously with paclitaxel, carboplatin and
      radiation (201Gy), high potency sucralfate (HPS - ProThelial) prevented mucositis, allowing
      continuance of standard oral diet. The percutaneous gastric-tube surgically placed in
      anticipation of Grade 3-4 mucositis was never used by the patient. While on ProThelial, the
      patient never developed mucositis. Noncompliant discontinuation of HPS by patient midway
      through chemo-radiation led to the emergence oral and alimentary mucositis with oral
      erythema, nausea and diarrhea. Two days following resumption of HPS, both oral and alimentary
      mucositis disappeared. Throughout treatment with ProThelial a normal oral diet was maintained
      and no analgesia was required for mucositis. Patient reported no adverse events while on HPS
      for 6 weeks.

      PROTHELIAL'S DEVICE MECHANISM OF ACTION - EXPEDITED HEALING

      High potency sucralfate in polymerized sucralfate malate paste has a device mechanism of
      action. It is assumed that the more efficient layering of polymerized sucralfate paste
      produces adherent restrictive microenvironment across the mucosal lining which advantages the
      activation of growth factor receptors by growth factor. Restrictive micro-environs generated
      by cross-linked layers of polymerized sucralfate "crowds" free-moving growth factor, limiting
      its random movements to "pockets" that overlie growth factor receptors. Spatially limiting
      the movement of growth factor to the vicinity of its receptor heightens the chances of
      receptor site activation. This device action leads to expedited healing.

      PROTHELIAL'S DEVICE MECHANISM OF ACTION - REVERSING MUCOSA-BASED PAIN, NAUSEA, VOMITING &
      DIARRHEA

      The surface "pockets" of restrictive micro-environs created by Prothelial's unique layering
      probably affect the flux of ions across mucosal receptors responsible for pain, nausea,
      vomiting and neuro-secretory diarrhea. These specialized mucosal receptors triggered by
      chemo-radiation maintain their state of activation by means of gated-ion fluxes across
      surface membranes that face the lumen of the gut. It is probable that the same restrictive
      micro-environs that crowd growth factors to the vicinity of their receptors also affect the
      surrounding space available to membranes for ion-flux and exchange. Spatial limitation of the
      immediate surface environment surrounding ion-gated receptors along the GI tract impact the
      receptor's ability to perpetuate the ion fluxes required to keep the receptor "turned on" or
      stimulated. Physically restrictive micro-environs surrounding membranes of stimulated
      receptors exhaust the ions immediately available to it for exchange. This limits the ability
      of the receptor to stay "on". The result is the quiescence of the membrane and the reduction
      of receptor-associated pain, nausea (thereby vomiting) and neurosecretory diarrhea, all of
      which are triggered by chemoradiation therapy.
    
  