
    
      Workers in the United States spend large amounts of time on the job, making the workplace a
      key venue for preventive health programs. A workplace risk that has received limited
      attention is solar ultraviolet radiation (UVR). Unprotected exposure to solar UVR of outdoor
      workers can produce both an immediate acute harm (i.e., severe sunburn) and long-term skin
      damage that can elevate the risk of developing skin cancers. Preventing skin cancer is a
      priority due to its high prevalence; tendency to recur; association with other cancers; and
      lost productivity ($66.9 billion in losses were attributed to melanoma-related mortality from
      1990-2008). Sun Safe Workplaces (SSW) is a comprehensive occupational sun safety education
      and policy intervention that was tested by Klein Buendel, Inc.'s (KB) research team in a
      randomized control trial with 98 cities, counties, and special districts in Colorado.
      Posttesting was completed in November 2013. The SSW intervention focused on three sectors in
      the organizations: public works, public safety, and parks and recreation. Half of the
      employers received the SSW intervention, with the remaining employers in the control
      condition receiving basic sun safety information. Preliminary analyses indicate that 80% of
      employers in the SSW intervention condition provided sun safety education to employees and
      36% adopted formal sun protection policies. No control organizations reported policy
      adoption. KB will conduct a two-year follow-up study on the benefits of the SSW intervention
      (i.e., increasing employees' sun protection) and return on investment (ROI; benefits relative
      to intervention costs). Employee behavior was not assessed in the current SSW trial because
      it was uncertain whether the SSW intervention would result in uptake of education and policy
      and thus have the potential to influence their sun protection practices. The proposed
      two-year follow-up of the 98 organizations in the SSW trial will include: (1) surveys with
      employees (n=10,787) and front line supervisors (n=767) to assess employees' sun protection
      practices and workplace actions to support employee sun safety; (2) on-site observations of
      sun protection actions by the employers (e.g., posters, sunscreen, shade structures); and (3)
      tracking of the costs of implementing the SSW intervention and induced employer costs. The
      proposed analyses will compare the sun protection practices of employees a) between
      workplaces that received the SSW intervention and controls and b) among workplaces that
      provided education and adopted policy, provided education only, and control workplaces.
      Analyses will determine if the extent of sun protection actions by employers influences
      employees' sun safety practices. The economic evaluation will estimate the ROI (i.e.,
      comparison of the estimated program benefits to combined cost elements). The proposed study
      is significant and innovative because it provides critical information applicable to a wide
      range of industrial sectors with outdoor workers on a workplace risk that has received scant
      attention. Determining the effectiveness and ROI of prevention programs is essential for
      national and local resource investment.
    
  