
    
      Research Design This is a randomized clinical trial with masked assessment, comparing
      recovery indices for patients receiving longer acting versus shorter acting opiate analgesia
      using hydromorphone or fentanyl as intraoperative analgesics. An otherwise standardized
      anesthetic and analgesic regimen will be utilized, as consistent with routine care at the
      research institution.

      Sample and Setting Patients included will be children age 3 through 10 years scheduled for
      strabismus surgery. The procedure may also include scheduled exam under anesthesia (EUA) of
      the eyes, but any other surgical procedure in conjunction with strabismus will be excluded
      from enrollment. Review of anesthesia records shows that 480 patients met inclusion criteria
      for the preceding 12 months. The primary outcome measure is pain as measured by the revised
      Faces, Legs, Anxiety, Cry & Consolability scale (rFLACC). Based on previous pilot work, the
      investigators expect pain scores to have a mean of five and a standard deviation of two. The
      goal is to detect a change of one point in rFLACC scores, which the investigators believe
      would be clinically significant. With alpha of 0.05 and power of 0.80, the investigators
      would need 64 patients in each arm for a one point decrease in rFLACC scores to be
      statistically significant. The investigators expect that ten percent of patients will have to
      be dropped because of missing data, so the investigators are proposing to enroll 71 patients
      in each arm (142 patients total) in order to have data for 64 patients in the analyses.

      Inclusion criteria will be 1) children ages 3 to 10 years old having strabismus surgery for
      the first time, a repeated strabismus surgery, or an eye examination for strabismus under
      anesthesia; 2) the child has to be evaluated as an American Society of Anesthesiologists
      Physical Status (ASAPS) classification Class 1 or 2; 3) the caregiver should be present in
      the hospital; and 4) the child and caregiver must be English speaking. Exclusion criteria
      will include 1) children evaluated as an ASAPS Class 3 or 4; non-English speaking children or
      parents; 3) additional surgery performed at the same time; 4) children with documented
      behavioral disabilities; 5) prior participation in the study.

      Tools A researcher developed demographic questionnaire will be used to collect information
      from a parent that includes patient age, gender, previous surgery, any medication allergies,
      and primary caregiver. The Amsterdam Preoperative Anxiety and Information Scale (APAIS) will
      be used to assess parent feelings of anxiety in the preoperative phase. The APAIS is short
      6-item questionnaire with acceptable reliability with Cronbach's alpha greater than or equal
      to 70 and correlated highly (0.74) with the widely used State Trait Anxiety Scale. Because of
      its length, the APAIS can be quickly administered to parents of children undergoing surgery
      in order to assess parental preoperative anxiety . The measure will be completed on all
      parent participants after consent is obtained. The tool takes approximately 1-2 minutes to
      score.

      For evaluating anxiety in children the Modified Anxiety Scale (mYPAS) will be used. The mYPAS
      is frequently used to measure anxiety prior to induction and has demonstrated both inter and
      intra-rater reliability (using k statistics) ranging from 0.63 - 0.90 and acceptable
      reliability (p = 0.01, r = 0.79) The tool can be administered in less than one minute, is
      reliable in children ages 2-12 years, and uses five areas (activity, vocalization,
      expression, arousal, and interaction) to rate preoperative anxiety.

      In the Post Anesthesia Care Unit (PACU) and in Same Day Surgery (SDS), nurses will use the
      rFLACC scale to measure pain. The tool has established reliability and validity and is used
      throughout the hospital to assess pain in children unable to verbalize pain. The interrater
      reliability revealed intra-class correlation coefficients ranging from 0.76-0.90. Criterion
      validity (p=0.65-0.87) was supported by correlations between parent and child scores. For
      pain assessment at 24 hours post operatively, parents will be asked to rate the intensity of
      the subject's pain on a scale of 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst pain imaginable). The Numeric Pain
      Rating Scale developed by McCaffery is a widely used instrument in the clinical setting with
      previously established reliability and validity. The instrument is scored as 0 = no pain; 1-3
      = mild pain; 4-6 = moderate pain; 7-10 = severe pain.

      Procedure IRB approval will be secured prior to recruitment. As is standard care, subjects
      will be contacted by telephone in the days prior to the scheduled surgery. During that
      contact, subjects will be informed of the offer to participate in this study, and be provided
      with a brief description of the protocol. On the day of surgery, a researcher will visit
      interested subjects and provide a complete explanation and written consent document.

      Consenting subjects will then be evaluated with the Amsterdam Preoperative Anxiety Scale, and
      the researcher will complete the YPAS-m scale prior to surgery. At the time consent is
      obtained, subjects will also be asked to complete a brief demographic data form.

      After surgery, the nurse will evaluate the patient's pain using rFLACC scale on arrival to
      the Post Anesthesia Care Unit (PACU) and every fifteen minutes during the patient's stay.
      After transferring from PACU to SDS, the nurse will continue to evaluate pain using the same
      scale on arrival and before discharge. The nurse will document the patient's level of pain
      and need for any additional pain medication. To help ensure study fidelity in regard to pain
      assessment, all nurses will be given a refresher class on use of the rFLACC. After discharge,
      the patient will receive a telephone call 24 hours after surgery to evaluate post-operative
      nausea and vomiting and the level of pain at home.

      Patients will receive a standard anesthetic consisting of midazolam premedication when
      indicated for anticipated separation anxiety, then sevoflurane inhalation utilizing nitrous
      oxide during mask induction, but no nitrous oxide during maintenance anesthesia. Analgesia
      and PONV prophylaxis is standardized as acetaminophen 15 mg/kg oral preoperative (maximum
      650), followed by ketorolac 0.5 mg/kg IV (maximum 30), ondansetron 0.15 mg/kg IV, and
      dexamethasone 0.15 mg/kg IV. Airway maintenance will be with a laryngeal mask, and emergence
      conducted in the operating room with the aim of a responsive patient at time of departure
      from the operating room.

      Patients will be randomized to either hydromorphone or fentanyl once in the operating room by
      opening a sealed protocol envelope. The anesthesiologist will fractionate the total dose
      opiate administered as the clinical situation warrants to preserve spontaneous breathing. The
      anesthesiologist will titrate the same drug as required during the first 15 minutes in the
      recovery room to ensure that immediate analgesic goals are met.
    
  