
    
      The choice of management in an individual patient is determined largely by the presence and
      distribution of significant coronary narrowings. Usually, this significance is judged by the
      visual estimation of a narrowing on an angiogram. However, although this is the standard way
      of assessing coronary narrowings, it is now widely published that pressure wire measurements
      are more accurate because they assess the true physiological consequences of the narrowing.
      Interventional cardiologists now frequently use Fractional Flow Reserve (FFR) measurements to
      help them decide if arteries require stenting.The hypothesis for this study is that routine
      measurement of FFR in the main coronary arteries could provide diagnostic information above
      and beyond that obtained by an angiogram alone. This additional information may well then
      affect the choice of management in a proportion of these patients. For example, a narrowing
      considered to be significant angiographically may be shown to be insignificant with FFR, or
      vice versa.

      Background

      Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in the United
      Kingdom. It accounts for approximately half of all cardiovascular related deaths annually
      and, according to statistics from the British Heart Foundation, CAD related expenditure was
      £3,500 million in 2003 alone. Much effort has been placed on improving methods that detect
      and assess the severity of CAD and facilitate more rapid and appropriate management for CAD
      patients. Once diagnosed, CAD may be treated in 3 ways: (1)tablets alone, (2)tablets plus
      angioplasty with stents or (3) tablets plus coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG). The
      method of choice depends primarily on the extent and severity of disease at the time of
      coronary angiography. Coronary angiography is the current conventional method for the
      diagnosis of CAD and is used in the assessment of disease severity. For the angiographic
      procedure,vascular access is secured via the femoral artery or radial artery route and a dye
      is injected into the coronary artery blood vessels. The progress of the dye through the
      coronary blood vessels provides a visual assessment of where narrowings are present in the
      coronary arteries.

      Where there is thought to be significant flow obstruction, particularly in symptomatic
      patients, one of the above three treatments will be offered.

      While coronary angiography has revolutionised the management of CAD, the procedure is not
      without limitation. The purely visual assessment of disease severity with coronary
      angiography is subjective and patient management can depend on the cardiologist reviewing the
      films. Many such narrowings can be graded 'moderate' severity and deciding whether these are
      of haemodynamic significance is notoriously difficult by angiography alone. In recent years,
      the Radi pressure wire has been shown to provide accurate physiological haemodynamic data
      about coronary narrowings. Furthermore, the FFR measurement derived predicts clinical
      outcome, hence giving a 'cut-off' measurement for severity of disease that correlates with
      the requirement for revascularisation with either stents or surgery. Thus FFR is now
      frequently used in clinical practice by interventional cardiologists to decide if narrowings
      require treatment. However, the majority of diagnostic angiography in the UK is performed by
      non-interventional cardiologists who do not currently have access to the pressure wire
      technology. In this study, we speculate that if we measure the FFR routinely in all the main
      coronary arteries of patients undergoing coronary angiography the FFR data obtained may
      affect the angiogram-derived management of some patients in terms of the choice of
      tablets/stents/CABG. For example, some narrowings that look significant angiographically may
      not be haemodynamically important by FFR and vice versa. Clearly this could make a difference
      between revascularising a patient or not.

      Research Aims

      To evaluate:

        1. The degree of correlation between standard angiographic assessment of the coronary
           arteries and pressure wire assessment of the main arteries.

        2. To determine whether the FFR data would influence the management strategy for patients
           as derived only on the basis of the angiogram (which represents clinical practice).

      Methods and Design

      The study will recruit 200 patients listed for diagnostic coronary angiography performed by a
      non-interventional cardiologist.

      Methodology 1: In Catheter Laboratory

        -  All patients will receive an information sheet after initial invitation to take part.

        -  Written informed consent will be obtained.

        -  Patients will undergo coronary angiography in a routine manner.

        -  The non-interventional cardiologist in charge of the patient's care will analyse the
           pictures and grade the outcome in the manner shown in table 1. He/she will formulate a
           management plan consistent with their routine clinical practice and independent of
           subsequent pressure wire data. This management plan will be documented in the CRF.
           He/she will then take no further part in the procedure.

      Table 1

        1. Are there significant stenoses (>70% by eyeball) in the major epicardial vessels (i.e.
           main coronaries or any branch of >2.25mm)

        2. Recommend revascularisation or medical/conservative treatment

        3. If revascularisation: recommended strategy for referral (Percutaneous Coronary
           Intervention (PCI) or CABG?) and which vessels (i.e. LAD + RCA etc) represent targets
           for that revascularisation

             -  The management strategy will be recorded according to the following options:

                  1. medical;

                  2. PCI

                  3. CABG

             -  Data will also be collected in regard to vessels as targets (i.e. which vessels
                require stent/graft)

             -  If the non-interventional cardiologist cannot make a plan they can allocate the
                patient to a fourth category in which "more data are required". Such patients are
                generally then referred for further non-invasive stress imaging or even for a
                pressure wire.

             -  FFR measurements will then be undertaken by a consultant interventional
                cardiologist

             -  Additional screening time and contrast use accrued during FFR measurements will be
                recorded.

             -  The patient will be given 70units/kg heparin i.a. or i.v. prior to passage of the
                pressure wire

             -  A pressure wire will be introduced into the distal third of all patent major
                epicardial coronary arteries and branches of >2.25mm with TIMI 3 flow.

             -  FFR measurements will be taken using either intracoronary or intravenous adenosine
                according to local conventional practice and operator preference.

             -  The protocol mandates i.v. adenosine for ostial LM stem and ostial RCA stenoses.

             -  Where i.c. adenosine bolus is employed, the minimum data required by the study is:
                1 baseline FFR without adenosine and 2 boluses with at least 50mcg adenosine.

             -  An angiogram will be acquired before the first adenosine measurement to document
                satisfactory engagement of the guiding catheter and the position of the measurement
                in each vessel

             -  The minimum FFR reading will be taken in each case

             -  FFR readings of <0.8 will be considered as representing haemodynamic significance
                as per FAME protocol

             -  Once the FFR data are derived the procedure will be finished and haemostasis will
                be achieved in the normal manner

             -  Provided the angiogram-derived management plan has been recorded in the CRF then
                the FFR data can then be revealed to the non-interventional cardiologist. The
                management plan will then be recorded in the light of the FFR data using the same
                categories and dataset as previously.

             -  The non-interventionalists will then manage the patient as they see fit

      Analysis

      PRIMARY ENDPOINT Estimation of number of cases where FFR data results in a change in the
      management strategy the revascularisation strategy (number of vessel requiring treatment
      and/or PCI vs medical vs CABG)

      Potential Clinical Value

      If this study proves its hypothesis, it will suggest that coronary angiography would be
      better supported by routine pressure wire assessment in order to tailor revascularisation
      strategies for individual patients more accurately. The result of this study will carry
      important clinical implications if the study hypothesis is proven.... not least in terms of
      potential patient benefit. The current widely held practice of diagnostic test followed by
      either (i) referral for revascularisation or, (ii) in the case of equivocal angiographic
      results, referral for stress imaging to look for objective evidence of ischaemia followed by
      referral for revascularisation where positive could be rendered obsolete by diagnostic
      angiography performed by interventional cardiologists with FFR availability and the ability
      to perform PCI at the same sitting where appropriate.

      The study may generate the hypothesis that such routine FFR measurement will not only be of
      benefit to patients but also be cost-effective if there would have been fewer interventions
      overall (ie less CABG + PCI) or fewer expensive interventions (i.e. less CABG versus PCI)?
    
  