
    
      This randomized, placebo-controlled, double blind trial (RCT) is carried out during the
      period of May 2006 to December 2014 as a multicenter study. The two participating centers are
      the Section of Orofacial Pain and Jaw Function, Department of Dental Medicine, Karolinska
      Institutet, Sweden and Department of Clinical Oral Physiology at the Eastman Institute,
      Folktandvården Stockholms län AB, Stockholm, Sweden. The patients are divided randomly into
      two groups that receive either granisetron or placebo. The randomization is performed by
      computer (www.randomization.com) by a research assistant not participating in data
      collection.

      The study comprise seven visits; V1) Screening for study participation, V2) First treatment,
      V3) Second treatment, V4) Third treatment, and V5 to V7) Follow-ups at 1, 2 and 12 months
      (Fig. Y1) V1 (baseline) include a general health questionnaire, the RDC/TMD Axis II
      questionnaires (25), the McGill Pain Questionnaire (MPQ) (27), pain drawings of the lateral
      side of the head (each side separately), and a 1-week pain diary. In addition, a clinical
      examination according to the RDC/TMD Axis I is performed, including registration of the
      maximum voluntary mouth opening capacity (MUMO), and also registration of the pressure pain
      threshold (PPT) as well as blood sampling.

      V2-V4 include a shortened clinical examination according to RDC including registration of
      MUMO and PPT, treatment with intramuscular injections of study substance and a 1-week pain
      diary. At V3 and V4 a patient's global assessment of treatment outcome questionnaire is also
      included.

      V5-V7 include the RDC/TMD Axis II questionnaires, the McGill Pain Questionnaire (MPQ), pain
      drawings of the lateral side of the head (each side separately), a 1-week pain diary, a
      patient's global assessment of treatment outcome questionnaire, a clinical examination
      according to the RDC/TMD Axis I including registration of MUMO and PPT, and registration of
      adverse events.

      Three orofacial pain specialists (N.C., L.F., B.H.M.) and one dentist attending a specialist
      training program (S.O.) will be calibrated in the RDC/TMD examination technique to a gold
      standard examiner (M.E.) during one day, and will perform the study. They and the patients
      are blinded to group assignment (i.e. study substance) during the entire trial and the
      substances used will not be revealed until the last patient has undergone the last follow-up.
    
  