
    
      Many children diagnosed with brain tumours are at significant risk of disease recurrence
      following their initial treatment, with recurrence rates ranging from 30-100% depending on
      the type of brain tumour. Disease recurrence represents a serious clinical issue in brain
      tumour patients and when this occurs, additional treatment is needed. These treatments may
      result in further damage to the surrounding normal brain tissue, resulting in neurocognitive
      decline (brain or mental function) and reduced quality of life. A novel treatment option for
      these patients is to administer a second course of radiation (re-irradiation). However, the
      effects of re-irradiation on quality-of-life are poorly studied. This study aims to increase
      the knowledge surrounding re-irradiation, particularly with regards to HRQOL.

      The primary objective of the proposed study is to describe the HRQOL and symptoms for
      children diagnosed with DIPG or recurrent brain tumours treated with repeat radiation and
      their caregivers over time.

      We have four Aims. Aim 1: To describe the HRQOL trajectory and symptoms for children
      diagnosed with DIPG and in children treated with re-irradiation for a recurrent brain tumour
      and their caregivers over time. Aim 2: To identify critical time points of HRQOL difficulty
      across the trajectory of DIPG/recurrent brain tumour treatment and to ascertain demographic
      and/or medical sequelae that are related to HRQOL outcomes. Aim 3: To determine the
      feasibility of conducting routine assessment of HRQL in children diagnosed with
      DIPG/recurrent brain tumours and their caregivers based on recruitment and retention rates.
      Aim 4: To report the incidence of radiation necrosis (RN), local control, progression-free
      survival and overall survival after re-irradiation.

      Our goal to is enroll 25 to 30 patient/caregiver dyads diagnosed with DIPG and 32
      patient/caregiver dyads treated with re-RT for a recurrent/progressive brain tumour onto the
      trial over the study period and to follow patients until their disease progresses again,
      which has been, on average, 6 months after completion of RT2.

      Once deemed eligible, individual patient recruitment will be the responsibility of the
      institution Clinical Research Assistant (CRA). Upon consenting to take part in the study,
      patients and families will be contacted using an online administration and scoring program.
      HRQOL assessments will take 15-25 minutes to complete at each time point. Baseline
      questionnaires will be completed at the time of recurrence or progressive DIPG or other brain
      tumor (+/- 7 days from start of treatment, maximum 14 days). Patients will then complete
      HRQOL measures at the end of re-irradiation and then again every two months.

      Necrosis and local tumour control will be assessed using MRI ordered as part of
      standard-of-care follow-up (recommended scan interval every 3-6 months until 5 years
      post-treatment). Necrosis and other toxicities, if present without evidence of disease
      recurrence, will be graded at baseline and each post-RT2 standard-of-care visit using CTCAE
      v5.0 (a rating scale of side effects). Steroid use and Lansky play score will be recorded at
      each visit. Progression and death will be collected from the health record. Re-irradiation
      dosimetry (in electronic RT-DICOM format) will be requested for all enrolled patients.

      Study measures will be available in both English and French. HRQOL measures will include: the
      Pediatric Quality of Life (PedsQL) General module; the PedsQL Brain Tumour module; the PedsQL
      Family Impact module; and the Short Form 36 (SF-36), to assess parent quality of life via
      physical and mental health functioning subscales. Children who require help completing
      questionnaires will be aided by a CRA. For those 2 to 5 years of age or those who have
      cognitive disability that impairs their ability to self-report as assessed by their parents,
      proxy-report by parent or caregiver will be used.

      The Symptom Screening in Pediatrics Tool (SSPedi) will also be used to screen for pediatric
      cancer symptoms.

      The Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Anxiety, Depressive
      Symptoms, and Pain Interference measures short forms will be administered to screen for
      current symptoms of anxiety, depression and assess pain interference.

      A linear mixed models approach will be used to compare HRQOL outcomes over time. Further,
      HRQOL outcomes will be compared across assessment time points and paired sample t-tests will
      be conducted to identify critical periods of significantly lower and/or higher HRQOL for
      patients and caregivers. Correlational analyses will be used to explore variables that might
      emerge as related to HRQL outcome scores. Recruitment rates (patients participating vs.
      patients eligible) and retention rates (non-completion, lost to follow-up) will be examined.
      Finally, all incident cases of radiation necrosis without obvious tumour progression will be
      examined, while accounting for competing risks of disease progression and death from any
      cause.
    
  