
    
      Feeding optimization and nutritional assessment in patients with severe heart failure are
      challenging. The reasons are rather complex and many questions have not been answered yet.
      Unfortunately, no clear and definitive guidelines are available from the big Nutritional
      Societies - The European Society for Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism (ESPEN), American
      Society for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition (ASPEN), British Association for Parenteral and
      Enteral Nutrition (BAPEN), Society of Critical Care Medicine (SCCM), Canadian Clinical Care
      Guidelines. However, there are more and more heated debates in Nutritional Conferences and
      the need of "Heart Failure feeding-guidelines" is urged. Though local and international
      comprehensive proposals are highly demanded unfortunately these suggestions are still
      missing. As we mentioned above there are lots of reasons why this nutritional insufficiency
      persists. Probably one of these reasons is the "splitting" of medical professions hence
      creating a proper guideline entail many problems and reveal some unsought difficulties such
      as lack of knowledge.

      The nutrition (esp. TPN) primarily is carried out by anaesthetists and in a less extent
      manner by gastroenterologists. Feeding performed by surgeons, internists, paediatricians etc.
      is minimal. Cardiologists can play an important role in the field of nutrition. Cardiac
      patients are losing their weights very easily and their cardiac cachexia is usually not
      perceived by most of cardiologists. The best conceivable compensation of heart failure is a
      prerequisite of "nutritional appropriateness" and in most severe cases this compensation is
      done by cardiologists. Without this compensation and consequently insufficient cardiac
      output, this "refeeding" seems to be impossible. Cardia cachexia is an absolute
      contraindication of Heart Transplantation (HTX) and Ventricular Assist Device/Total
      Artificial Heart (VAD/TAH) implantation. These patients are usually younger than 65
      year-of-age, the expected quality of life (QoL) with a transplanted heart is good and
      according to the international data the rate of survival is acceptable. Moreover, it is a
      well known phenomenon that the prevention of cardiac cachexia is much easier than its
      treatment. Sadly, the use of known nutritional scoring systems - Malnutrition Universal
      Screening Tool (MUST), Short Nutritional Assessment Questionnaire (SNAQ), Nutritional Risk
      screening (NRS2002), Malnutrition Screening Tool (MST), Subjective Global Assessment (SGA),
      Mini Nutritional Assessment (MNA) - which work well in other situations, are of limited value
      or might not be used at all in this patient group. We must emphasize the fact that increasing
      number of patients suffering in end-stage heart disease (ESHD) can be expected and further
      specialization within cardiology makes this problem more pronounced. Without this proper
      compensation appropriate nutrition is often impossible as well as cardiac compensation can be
      unsuccessful without proper feeding.

      The existing recommendations and traditions in gastroenterology and surgery are different
      hence it seems to be sensible that the formentioned facts may contribute to the lack of
      proper guidelines. We believe that the elimination of cardiac cachexia is feasible only with
      special care and in suitable units. In 2014 our ICU patients, who had not previously been
      eligible for HTX because of their cachexia, were treated according to our "protocol" and all
      of them reached the minimum desired weight and were transplanted. The postoperative care and
      recuperation was similar to those who had not been suffered from cachexia before. These
      results were also similar we found in the literature. According to our experiences cardiac
      cachexia seems to be manageable. In case of proper nutrition, international cost-benefit
      analyses showed positive results regarding patients' recovery: less infections and severe
      sepsis, decreasing number of in-hospital stays, better wound healing and less ventilatory and
      ICU days.

      Summing up we would like to draw the attention for an unsolved problem which exists not only
      in Hungary but all over the world. The solution of this problem is urgent but seems possible.
      We think for overcoming this severe condition we have to change our system, we need new
      guidelines, we need education and we need further research.

      The definition of cardiac cachexia is weight loss of 6% or more in at least 6 months. The
      incidence in CHF patients with NYHA class III/IV is approximately 10% per year. Chronic heart
      failure patients with cardiac cachexia have a mortality two to three times higher than
      noncachectic patients. The prevalence of cardiac cachexia may be underestimated by simple
      measurements of body weight and body mass index because many patients show relative
      reductions in muscle mass despite being of normal overall weight. Body composition
      measurement can be essential in chronic heart failure patients to estimate sarcopenia. These
      methods can determine the different components of the whole body weight. To estimate
      sarcopenia it is essential to measure fat-free mass (FFM). According to literature dual
      energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) is the gold standard procedure to determine body
      composition and FFM. The use of DXA is limited in chronic heart failure patients due to low
      availability and relatively high cost. Bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) is a
      non-invasive, relatively low cost, bedside body composition measurement method. With no
      radiation exposure it can be repeated multiple times.

      Hypothesis:

      The BIA method is already validated in healthy patients and in different disease groups. We
      suppose that it can be used and reliable data can be obtained in chronic heart failure
      patient population.

      Objectives and aims:

      Bioelectrical impedance analysis is not approved in extreme body mass index and body fluid
      ranges. These conditions however may present in chronic heart failure patients. Thus it is
      essential to validate BIA to the gold standard DXA method which is our primary aim. Patients
      admitted to Gottsegen György Hungarian Institute of Cardiology with acute decompensation of
      chronic heart failure will be enrolled in this prospective study. Enrolled participants will
      undergo body composition measurements with dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (Hologic, Delphi
      QDR) and bioelectrical impedance analysis (Bodystat, Quadscan 4000) methods. The main
      measured parameters - body weight, total body water, fat mass, fat-free mass (lean weight),
      extracellular mass, body cell mass, resistance, reactance, phase angle, basal metabolic rate
      - will be registered in database. Statistical analysis of data acquired by the different
      methods will be performed to validate BIA.

      Primary aim:

        1. Verify that bioelectrical impedance analysis can be safely performed in chronic heart
           failure patients.

        2. Compare body composition values measured with BIA and DXA. Validate the use of BIA in
           chronic heart failure patient population.

      Secondary aim:

      To examine if there is a relationship between sarcopenia or any other altered body
      composition value and other parameters of chronic heart failure (NYHA functional class,
      biomarkers, echocardiographic values, hand grip test).

      Expected results:

      Body composition values measured by bioelectric impedance analysis are correlating with DXA
      values. These results validate the use of BIA in chronic heart failure patients.
    
  