
    
      There is a significant amount of evidence that the use of Paclitaxel-coated balloons in the
      treatment of peripheral arterial disease (PAD) has demonstrated favorable outcomes when used
      to treat lesions in the superficial femoral and popliteal arteries. For subjects with lesions
      in the infrapopliteal arteries, which includes lesions in the mid to distal popliteal artery
      and below, a smaller profile balloon is necessary. Typically, lesions in the SFA and proximal
      popliteal arteries are treated by larger diameter balloons and larger sized guidewires (most
      commonly 0.018" or 0.035") which are too large for vessels below-the-knee. For this reason,
      the Stellarex™ 0.014" OTW Drug-coated Angioplasty Balloon was developed as a line extension
      to the Stellarex™ 0.035" device in order to accommodate the treatment of these smaller
      vessels. The Stellarex™ 0.014" balloon has the same drug concentration and is manufactured
      using a similar method as the Stellarex™ 0.035" device. Additionally, the Stellarex™ 0.035"
      and 0.014" balloon share a common balloon diameter of 4 mm, a size which was used to treat
      lesions throughout the popliteal artery in the previous Stellarex 0.035" studies. For the
      reasons noted above, equivalence between the two devices has been demonstrated. Furthermore,
      it is believed that the 0.014" device will not demonstrate any performance differences nor
      change the anticipated or residual risks.

      In conclusion, the current study has been developed in agreement with post-market
      requirements as per the Post Market Clinical Follow up (PMCF) plan. The prospective design of
      the study, the sample size and the selected outcomes will be able to provide the additional
      clinical information to support the safe use and performance of the Stellarex 0.014" device
      in the intended population of patients with below-the-knee arterial disease.
    
  