
    
      Design The study is a single-center double blind, placebo controlled, parallel group study.
      Patients were randomized to receive either the probiotic supplement (1.109 Lactobacillus
      acidophilus ATCC SD5221 and 1.109 Bifidobacterium lactis HN019) or placebo for 6 months. All
      participants receive individualized dietary couseling sessions with a nutritionist.

      Randomization Randomization was performed using the website www.randomization.com. The
      allocation sequence remained concealed throughout the study. Researchers, outcome assessors
      and patients were blinded to the treatment received.

      The trial was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov. (number NCT02764047)

      Intervention Patients receive the probiotic or placebo supplement in identical medicine
      bottles to maintain blinding. The instruction for administration of the capsules is taking 1
      capsule per day before bedtime with 1 cup of water. Patients are also advised to keep
      medications in use without change until the end of the study and to communicate the
      investigators if they used antibiotics.

      Questionary - Profile and the risk factors for fibrosis and NASH The profile of patients with
      NASH will be analyzed according to the variables collected (age, gender, smoking, diabetes,
      hypertension, high blood pressure, heart rate, weight, height, BMI, waist circumference, AST,
      ALT, total bilirubin, albumin, total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol,
      triglycerides, glucose, insulin, C-reactive protein, platelets), as well as the possible risk
      factors for the development of the disease. It is believed that the interaction between diet,
      intestinal microbiota and genetic background is the most important in the development and
      progression of NAFLD.

      Participants are requested to bring all medication they use or a list from their pharmacists
      to the research center. During a medication interview generic name, dose and frequency are
      registered by trained staff.

      Nutritional and Physical assessment Height is measured at baseline to confirm BMI. At 0
      (baseline), 3 and 6 months body weight is measured using a calibrated balance, waist
      circumference, systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, heart rate. Body
      composition is assessed at baseline and 6 months phase angle of bioelectrical impedance
      analysis (BIA) method, hand grip strength.

      Biopsy, Fibromax and NAFLD score Improvement in liver injury will be defined by reduction of
      fibrosis, steatosis and inflammation in liver biopsy and noninvasive tests Fibromax test and
      NAFLD score of varying degrees. NAFLD score and the FibroMax ™ test (Biopredictive, Paris,
      France), which evaluates fibrosis, inflammation and hepatic steatosis. Sensitivity,
      specificity, positive and negative predictive values will be assessed for comparison of these
      non-invasive fibrosis assessment methods with liver biopsy. Hepatic transaminases (AST, ALT)
      will be assessed as well.

      Biochemical markers - General labs and Cytokines sample At baseline, 3 and 6 months, a
      fasting blood sample is taken for measurement of plasma laboratory tests (AST, ALT, total
      bilirubin, albumin, total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, triglycerides,
      glucose, insulin, C-reactive protein, platelet), serum -1 leptin and MCP will be quantified.
      To determine levels of serum leptin and MCP-1, 15 mL venous blood samples were taken from the
      antecubital vein, and transferred to tubes without anticoagulant (4 mL). Blood samples were
      collected between 9:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m., at baseline (PRE), after 3 months and after 6
      months. Tubes without anticoagulant were centrifuged at 1048g for 10 min. Serum samples were
      then divided into several aliquots and stored at -20 °C for further analysis. Serum leptin
      and MCP-1 levels were determined using the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) method,
      using the specific kit (Peprotech, EUA) following the manufacturer's instructions. All
      samples were measured in duplicate by microplate reader SpectraMax M2e (Molecular Devices,
      EUA). Intra-assay coefficients of variation were always <5.0%, 3.8% for BDNF and cortisol,
      respectively.

      Gut microbiota - Stool sample Fecal samples are collected by patients in their own bottle and
      delivered to the Nutrition Clinic in Hepatology Hospital Santa Clara Santa Casa Hospital
      Complex. The samples are transported to the Immunology Laboratory. Samples are aliquoted in 4
      samples, frozen, and stored in -20 and -80 degrees freezers. At the end of the collections,
      DNA will be extracted (MoBio PowerFecal® DNA Isolation Kit). DNA samples will be sent to the
      University Institute Research Center of Cardiology and Pneumology at the University of Quebec
      Laval. Genetic sequencing of the microflora in the samples will be performed. Results will be
      analyzed and correlated with clinical outcomes.

      Food record Eligible patients will be submitted to food assessment using a food frequency
      questionnaire validated for liver diseases, and a 24-hour recall survey used for possible
      comparisons with the food frequency questionnaire. The multiple-step method for performing is
      applied during the patient interview, aiming to improve collection accuracy and reduce memory
      bias.
    
  