
    
      Plasmodium knowlesi is the most common cause of malaria, and malaria deaths, in Sabah,
      Malaysia. Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a common feature of severe knowlesi malaria; however
      the mechanisms of AKI in knowlesi malaria are unknown. In falciparum malaria, recent evidence
      suggests that oxidative stress from haemolysis-related cell-free haemoglobin (CFHb) may
      contribute to pathogenesis of AKI.

      Cell-free haemoglobin and oxidative stress: CFHb is released during intravascular haemolysis,
      and when exceeding the binding capacity of plasma haptoglobin, is filtered by the glomeruli
      and enters the renal tubules. CFHb is pathogenic as the ferrous heme can be oxidized to the
      ferric state, conferring peroxidase activity to the hemoglobin. Consequently, the hemoglobin
      can reduce hydroperoxides, such as hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and lipid hydroperoxides, which
      generate the ferryl state of heme (FeIV=O) and a protein radical. The ferryl heme and protein
      radical can then generate lipid radicals by oxidation of free and phospholipid-esterified
      unsaturated fatty acids. The arachidonic side chains of membrane phospholipids are
      particularly vulnerable to this free radical-mediated damage in the complex cascade of lipid
      oxidation leading to the generation of F2-isoprostanes (F2-IsoPs) and isofurans (IsoFs).
      F2-IsoPs and IsFs are increased in severe falciparum malaria, and have been shown to induce
      vasoconstriction associated with renal injury in other haemolytic conditions including
      rhabdomyolysis, sepsis and post-operatively.

      Paracetamol and oxidative stress: A novel mechanism of paracetamol was recently demonstrated,
      showing that paracetamol acts as a potent inhibitor of hemoprotein-catalyzed lipid
      peroxidation by reducing ferryl heme to its less toxic ferric state and quenching globin
      radicals. In a proof of concept trial, paracetamol at therapeutic levels was shown to
      significantly decrease oxidative kidney injury and improve renal function by inhibiting the
      hemoprotein-catalyzed lipid peroxidation in a rat model of rhabdomyolysis-induced renal
      injury. In a retrospective study of patients with sepsis, receiving paracetamol in the
      setting of raised CFHb was associated with reduced lipid peroxidation, and reduced risk of
      death. More recently, in a randomized placebo-controlled trial, paracetamol was associated
      with a reduction in F2-IsoPs and improved renal function in adults with sepsis and detectable
      CFHb.

      Rationale: The investigators hypothesize that paracetamol may provide renal protection in
      patients with severe knowlesi malaria by reducing the hemoprotein-induced lipid peroxidation
      that occurs in haemolytic conditions. As there is currently no consensus that exists
      concerning adequate medical treatment for severe malaria complicated by intravascular
      haemolysis and AKI, the potential application of paracetamol would be of great benefit,
      especially as it is safe and widely available.

      Proposed activities: The main activity proposed is a randomised, open label, controlled trial
      of regularly-dosed paracetamol, versus no paracetamol, in patients with knowlesi malaria, to
      assess the effect of paracetamol on renal function and oxidative stress.
    
  