
    
      Hemodialysis patients suffer severe cognitive impairment: Abnormalities of cognitive
      impairment (predominately sub-cortical defects in executive decision making) are almost
      universal in hemodialysis (HD) patients and appear early after starting dialysis. Around 75%
      of patients exhibit mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and a high proportion (˜15%) have
      dementia. Mechanisms of injury: It has been demonstrated that HD associated circulatory
      stress and recurrent regional ischemia drives brain injury. The extent of injury is
      determined by the degree of BP instability during HD. Peritoneal dialysis patients are not
      subject to the same stress and retain cognitive abilities. The injury is multifactorial, and
      amenable to HD based intervention. Optimizing dialysis to minimize harm requires
      understanding the wide range of potential of pathophysiological processes contributing to
      this injury. Putative components of pathophysiology that might be amenable to intervention
      include: a) Direct reduction in tissue perfusion is the characteristic consequence of HD
      driven multi-organ injury. The investigators have directly visualized this in multiple organ
      beds during dialysis (heart, gut and kidney), and have inferred it in the brain from the
      development of ischemic based white matter (WM) injury. b) Inflammation drives WM
      injury.Endotoxin (derived from gut bacteria) is profoundly pro- inflammatory and translocates
      from intestinal lumen into the circulation during HD treatment directly causing WM
      inflammation. Daily HD (gentler fluid removal) normalizes endotoxemia and markers of
      inflammation. c) Release of the excitotoxic neurotransmitter, glutamate, produces injury in
      ischemia. Plasma levels are lower in HD patients with less ongoing brain injury. Removal of
      glutamate by dialysis significantly reduces ischemic injury severity and functional
      consequences. Previous success in protecting the brain during dialysis: The Investigator
      recently completed a successful multi- centre RCT of cooled dialysis fluid to abrogate WM
      progressive injury- strongly supporting the integral role that the HD process plays in brain
      injury. Hemodialysis patients have specific patterns of progressive brain injury: Currently
      the problem of dialysis induced functionally significant brain injury is typically not well
      recognized or a focus of care. Leukoaraiosis describes rarefaction of brain WM, typically
      associated with vascular cognitive impairment. It is universally present in HD patients (even
      when correcting for BP). Severity of reduction in cognitive function is proportional to the
      amount of WM injury, with a predominant loss of subcortical functions (executive
      functioning). The Investigators have previously demonstrated that the signature of the change
      in fractional anisotropy in dialysis patients was entirely explained by changes in radial
      diffusivity, rather than axial diffusivity- pathognomonic of a vascular etiology. Urgent need
      to develop additional interventions: Although dialysis fluid cooling appears to be effective
      in helping to protect against WM injury, there are limitations. The degree of cooling that
      can be applied is limited in some patients by cold symptom tolerability and effectiveness has
      only been tested in patients new to HD. Patients with more established injury may require
      additional therapies. These need to be suitable for combination with other emerging dialysis
      based therapies. Ideally they will be universally applicable, independent of dialysis machine
      type, low-cost, safe, well tolerated, and simple-requiring few healthcare resources to apply.
      Remote ischemic preconditioning (RIPC): Ischemic conditioning occurs when a transient
      non-lethal episode of ischemia reduces the effect of a subsequent larger insult. Similar
      levels of protection can be achieved by applying brief episodes of ischemia (with a BP cuff
      on a limb) remote from a target organ. Successful clinical studies using RIPC have been
      performed to provide protection against ischemia in many organs, including acute stroke, and
      can prevent leukoaraiosis in animal models. RIPC provides protection against HD-induced acute
      myocardial injury: The investigators have recently completed a pilot RCT demonstrating a RIPC
      intervention reduced HD-induced acute cardiac injury by 50%, after only a single application.
      This effect was maintained over a period of 28 days. RIPC was effective, safe and well
      tolerated. The investigators are currently engaged in a larger Canadian based study to refine
      the optimum RIPC regime to provide protection against HD-induced cardiac injury. Interim
      analysis of this study has confirmed similar levels of efficacy in a Canadian population and
      allowed us to select the maximally effective RIPC regime, for use in the current proposed
      study. Clear translational pathway: This project is conceived in an integrated framework of
      new therapeutic target discovery, intervention development and sequential testing of safety
      and efficacy. The investigators will use clinically relevant surrogate imaging endpoints for
      rapid evaluation and refinement of candidate intervention, prior to large-scale testing with
      survival-based endpoints. The Investigators have already developed a prototype phase III
      equivalent study. MY-TEMP is an Ontario based cluster randomized study of individualized
      dialysate cooling (trials registration NCT 02628366), funded in partnership by the Heart and
      Stroke Foundation, Ontario Ministry of Health and US based large dialysis provider
      organizations. All 7000 patients will be randomized in Q3 2016. Impact: HD patients
      characteristically suffer from cognitive impairment. Understanding the mechanisms behind this
      will allow the development of therapies integrated into dialysis treatment delivery
      (anti-ischemic, but potentially also directed at issues such as inflammation and dialyzable
      injury factors), helping patients maintain cognitive vitality, independence and maximize
      quality of life.
    
  