
    
      Unfortunately, despite the best clinical efforts and breakthroughs in biotechnology, most
      patients diagnosed with pancreatic cancer continue to die from the rapid progression of their
      disease. The primary reason for this is that the disease is typically without symptoms until
      significant local and/or distant spread has occurred and is often beyond the chance for cure
      at the time of the diagnosis. The lack of any treatment to significantly increase long term
      survival rates is reflected by the poor outcomes associated with this disease, specifically
      time to disease progression and overall survival.

      These disappointing facts typically shape discussions of treatment options for patients with
      this disease. However, another important part of the body is now being looked at as a target
      for therapy against this disease -- the immune system. Scientists have clearly shown that
      pancreatic tumor cells produce a number of defective proteins, or express normal proteins in
      highly uncharacteristic ways, as part of this cancer. In some cancers, these abnormalities
      can cause an immune response to the cancer cells much in the way one responds to infected
      tissue. In progressive cancers however, the immune system fails to identify or respond to
      these abnormalities and the cancer cells are not attacked or destroyed for reasons not yet
      fully understood. This clinical trial proposes a new way to stimulate the immune system to
      recognize the abnormal components found in pancreatic cancer cells and to stimulate an immune
      response that destroys or blocks the growth of the cancer.

      This new method of treatment helps the immune system of pancreatic cancer patients to
      "identify" the cancerous tissue so that it can be eliminated from the body. As an example,
      most people are aware that patients with certain diseases may require an organ transplant to
      replace a damaged kidney or heart. After receiving their transplant these patients receive
      special drugs because they are at great danger of having an immune response that destroys or
      "rejects" the transplanted organ. This "rejection" occurs when their immune system responds
      to differences between the cells of the transplanted organ and their own immune system by
      attacking the foreign tissue in the same way as it would attack infected tissue. When the
      differences between foreign tissues and the patient's body are even larger, perhaps like
      differences between organs from pigs and the immune system cells of humans, the rejection is
      very rapid, highly destructive and the immunity it generates is long lasting. This is called
      hyperacute rejection and the medicine used to immunize patients in this protocol tries to
      harness this response to teach a patient's immune system to fight their pancreatic cancer
      just as the body would learn to reject a transplanted organ from an animal.

      To do this, the investigators have placed a mouse gene into human pancreatic cancer cells so
      that the immune system will easily recognize them as foreign, stimulating the patient immune
      system to attack the vaccine cells just as they would any other animal cells. As part of the
      process of destroying the immunotherapy cells, the patient immune system is stimulated to
      identify as many differences from normal human as possible. This extra stimulation is thought
      to encourage immune responses against the pancreatic cancer in the patient based on shared
      abnormalities of pancreatic cancer vaccine cells and the patient's pancreatic cancer cells.

      In this experimental therapy, patients are given injections of an immunotherapy consisting of
      two types of cancer cells that the investigators have modified to make them more easily
      recognized and attacked by the immune system. The investigators propose to test this new
      treatment in patients with pancreatic cancer who have undergone tumor removal surgery but
      remain at extremely high risk of disease progression to demonstrate that treatment with the
      immunotherapy increases the time until the tumor recurs or increases overall survival when
      given in combination with the current standard of care therapy for this disease.

      For more information, please see our study specific website:
      www.pancreaticcancer-clinicaltrials.com
    
  