
    
      Patients with advanced cancer suffer from many symptoms which dramatically reduce their
      Quality of Life (QOL). There have been significant improvements in the management of pain,
      nausea and constipation, but other common symptoms such as fatigue, anxiety, depression, and
      a lack of well-being are not readily addressed by conventional therapies. As cancer patients
      usually present with numerous symptoms, it would be important to try to address all of these
      globally, instead of only treating individual symptoms that respond well to conventional
      therapy. Attempts at controlling individual symptoms can also give rise to iatrogenic
      effects. One well known example is constipation occurring in patients who are on opiate
      analgesics. Successful treatment from the caregiver's perspective is often scored against
      each individual symptom that is being treated. From the patient's point of view, it is the
      interplay of the whole treatment package that succeeds or fails in improving his QOL

      In an attempt at treating all of the patient's symptoms, research into the use of
      complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) has been conducted to determine the utility of
      these treatments in addressing the unmet needs of many patients with cancer. There is
      preliminary evidence that acupuncture in particular, is successful at improving many cancer
      and treatment associated symptoms.

      Given the potential to improve symptom control and QOL, it is thought that acupuncture should
      be investigated to assess its effectiveness and feasibility in symptomatic patients with
      advanced cancer. Acupuncture should be compared against another intervention, so that the
      control group would also be receiving attention to their symptoms. As supportive care has
      been shown to be helpful in ameliorating symptoms in terminal care, acupuncture will be
      compared against this intervention. Sham acupuncture is not considered to be a good
      comparison for acupuncture as it is not well tested, and its effects are often
      indistinguishable from acupuncture. Recently however, some studies have reported the use of
      novel techniques that prevent acupuncture-naïve patients from distinguishing between
      acupuncture treatment and placebo. These techniques have yet to be independently validated.

      Objectives: 1. To determine feasibility of recruiting patients and running a randomized study
      that involves acupuncture at the BCCA-VIC. 2. To gather enough data to support a grant
      application to fund a larger study to look at the effectiveness of acupuncture as adjunctive
      treatment for the management of symptoms associated with palliative cancer care.
    
  