
    
      The diagnosis of FMF is mainly clinical and genetic tests are only used to confirm the
      diagnosis . Even though the disease is autosomal recessive, not all FMF patients have two
      recognizable MEFV mutations. The phenotype of FMF patients varies according to the genotype,
      as shown by a number of studies showing that patients with one MEFV mutation have milder
      disease or even no symptoms. Some of the previously mentioned studies have shown that ceasing
      colchicine prophylaxis in these patients caused no recurrence. So far, no prospective
      controlled study has tested the effect of colchicine cessation in this group of FMF patients.
      The investigators presume that asymptomatic FMF patients with a single mutation can stop
      regular colchicine treatment while remaining under close follow-up.

      The purpose of the work:

      To examine the effect of colchicine cessation in a defined group of asymptomatic FMF patients
      with a single mutation in MEFV gene.

      Methods and study population:

      The work will be a controlled prospective comparative study including FMF patients aged 2-18
      years. Patients included will be those who were asymptomatic for six months prior to entering
      the study and were regularly treated with colchicine, and with a normal serum level of Serum
      Amyloid A (SAA). The study group will include patients with a single MEFV mutation that will
      stop colchicine therapy, and the control group will include FMF who will continue regular
      colchicine treatment. Follow-up in both groups will include clinical and laboratory (serum
      SAA levels) evaluation.

      The study end points and renewal of the colchicine:

      Any patient that develops acute symptoms of FMF will be immediately invited to the
      rheumatology clinic for medical examination. In addition, patients will be invited to the
      clinic after 3 and 6 months from the beginning of the study. At any clinic visit (scheduled
      or not) the patients will be assessed clinically and laboratory (serum SAA levels). The study
      will be stopped and colchicine will be renewed if at any of the above mentioned clinic visit
      the patient will be diagnosed as having a classic FMF attack or the SAA level will be above
      10 mg / l.

      The importance of the study:

      If the investigators conclude that colchicine prophylaxis can be safely discontinued in this
      group of FMF patients this will save them a treatment currently defined as a treatment for
      life.
    
  