
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the efficacy of conventional intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) vs
           hypofractionated IMRT, in terms of freedom from biochemical failure in men with
           intermediate- to high-risk prostate cancer.

        -  Compare the local control, freedom from distant metastasis, and overall survival of
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine local failure, using biopsy of the prostate, when objective tests
           (prostate-specific antigen, ultrasound, and digital rectal exam) suggest relapse in
           these patients.

        -  Compare the extent of disease eradication using biopsy of the prostate at 2 years after
           therapy in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the impact of these regimens on patient preferences and utilities.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to pretreatment
      prostate-specific antigen (no greater than 10 ng/mL vs greater than 10 to 20 ng/mL vs greater
      than 20 ng/mL), Gleason score (5-7 vs 8-10), and risk status (high risk vs intermediate
      risk). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo conventional intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) 5 days a
           week for 7.5 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo hypofractionated IMRT 5 days a week for 5 weeks in the absence
           of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients with high-risk disease also undergo androgen deprivation therapy for 2 years.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually for 4
      years.

      Patients are followed at 3 months, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 300 patients (150 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 3 years.
    
  