
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare overall survival of patients with relapsed adenocarcinoma of the esophagus or
           stomach after treatment with docetaxel and active symptom control vs active symptom
           control alone.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the time to documented progression in patients treated with docetaxel.

        -  To assess response rates to docetaxel in patients treated with docetaxel.

        -  To determine toxicity of docetaxel in patients treated with docetaxel.

        -  To assess the quality of life of these patients.

        -  To evaluate the health economic impact.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients are stratified according to stage (locally advanced vs metastatic), site of disease
      (esophagus vs esophagogastric junction vs stomach), duration of response to prior
      chemotherapy (no response vs response duration < 3 months vs response duration 3-6 months),
      and ECOG performance status (0-1 vs 2). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1 and active symptom control
           (e.g., analgesics [including opioids], antiemetics, steroids, palliative radiotherapy)
           daily.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive active symptom control as in arm I. Courses repeat every 3
           weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      Patients in arm I undergo tissue biopsy collection at baseline and after 3 courses of
      treatment for biomarker analysis.

      Quality of life is assessed by the QLQ-C30 and QLQ-STO22 questionnaires at baseline and at 3,
      6, 9, 12, 18, and 24 weeks. Health resource use is assessed by the EQ-5D questionnaire at
      baseline and then periodically during and after treatment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 weeks for 1 year and
      then every 3 months thereafter.
    
  