
    
      Lumbar zygapophysial (facet) joints are recognized as one of the most common causes of
      chronic low back pain with an estimated prevalence among patients with LBP ranging from 15%
      to 40%. Radiofrequency (RF) denervation of facet joints has been utilized as an effective
      treatment of chronic pain attributed to these joints. Blocks of the medial branches
      innervating the joints are commonly used to localize the pain and make a diagnosis of lumbar
      zygapophysial (l-z) joint pain. However, considering the high false-positive rates of these
      blocks (25-40%), the false-negative rates (8-10%), and the number of blocks necessary to make
      the diagnosis before treatment, the cost-effectiveness of performing these blocks and the
      benefit of exposing these patients to additional risks is under question. The risks of RF
      denervation are so low (equivalent to performing the diagnostic block), some have questioned
      whether or not any diagnostic facet blocks should be performed before RF lesioning.

      The purpose of the study is to determine the optimal number of diagnostic blocks that should
      be performed before radiofrequency denervation in patients with chronic lower back pain with
      suspected facet joint etiology.

      In this prospective randomized study, we will recruit 150 patients with suspected chronic
      (l-z) joint pain without neurological symptoms to undergo one of three treatment modalities.
      In group I, 50 patients will undergo RF denervation based on history and physical exam alone
      (what we advocate in a recent review article). In group II, 50 patients will receive a single
      diagnostic block with 0.5% bupivacaine. Those that obtain greater than 50% pain reduction
      will undergo RF denervation. In group III, 50 patients will receive a block with either 2%
      lidocaine or 0.5% bupivacaine. Those patients that obtain greater than 50% pain relief with
      the first block receive a second block with the other local anesthetic. Patients that obtain
      greater than 50% pain relief with the second block then undergo RF. Patients in any group
      that obtain less than 50% pain relief with any block exit the study.
    
  