
    
      This retrospective study will be conducted on 100 patients who were diagnosed as SARS COVID19
      positive. The data will be collected from patient records in COVID19 isolation hospitals in
      Sohag governorate and isolation department in Sohag university hospitals during the period
      from the start of June 2020 to the end of July 2020.

      The study protocol will be approved by the Scientific Research Ethical Committee, Faculty of
      Medicine, Sohag University.

      Inclusion criteria:

      Patients with Covid19 positive PCR.

      Exclusion Criteria:

      Patients with chronic liver diseases as liver cirrhosis, Hbs Ag positive, or patients having
      anti-HCV antibodies positive and HCV RNA positive.

      The Data will be collected according to the rules of the Sohag university ethical committee.
      The following will be collected

        1. Data about clinical manifestations including fever, cough, dyspnea, fatigue, and
           diarrhea.

        2. Laboratory investigation:

             -  CBC -Total bilirubin and direct

             -  AST - ALT

             -  Albumin - Prothrombin time and concentration

             -  CRP -D-dimer

             -  Serum ferritin

        3. Assessment of the severity of the disease:

      Patients were classified into severe or mild cases based on results from chest radiography,
      clinical examination, and symptoms.

        -  Patients with mild symptoms (i.e., fever, cough, expectoration, and other upper
           respiratory tract symptoms), and without abnormalities, or with mild changes on chest
           radiography, were classified as non-severe types.

        -  A mild change in chest radiography is defined by multiple small patchy shadows and
           interstitial changes, mainly in the outer zone of the lung and under the pleura.

        -  Severe pneumonia was defined by the presence of any of the following conditions: i)
           significantly increased respiration rate (RR): RR >-30 times/minute; ii) hypoxia: oxygen
           saturation (resting state) <-93%; iii) blood gas analysis: partial pressure of
           oxygen/fraction of inspired oxygen (PaO2) /FiO2) <- 300 mmHg (millimeters of Mercury),
           or iv) the occurrence of respiratory or another organ failure that require Intensive
           care unit (ICU) monitoring and treatment, or shock

           4. Statistical analysis: Data will be analyzed using STATA version 14.2 (Statistical
           Software: Release 14.2 College Station, TX: Stata Corp LP). Quantitative data will be
           represented as mean, standard deviation, median and range. normally distributed.
           Qualitative data will be presented as numbers and percentages. Chi square test will be
           used for comparison of percentages in different groups. P value will be considered
           significant if it was less than 0.05.
    
  