
    
      Study Design A cluster randomized controlled trial (RCT) was conducted within the Calgary
      Minor Soccer Association (CMSA) in 2019 to evaluate how integration of peer to peer (P2P)
      learning with technology into a soccer NMT warm-up workshop influences coaches' ability and
      confidence to identify exercise errors. Soccer coaches within each recruited club were
      randomly educated with a soccer NMT warm-up workshop with or without peer to peer learning
      technology. Coaches completed a video-based test and self-efficacy scale on their ability to
      recognize NMT exercise errors.

      Participants and Randomization The study population included CMSA youth soccer coaches during
      the 2019/2020 indoor soccer season. The forty soccer clubs of the CMSA received a study
      information flyer by e-mail from the CMSA administration staff. Six of the soccer clubs
      agreed to host soccer NMT warm-up workshops at their club houses for a total of 89 youth
      soccer coaches in attendance.

      Coaches from the recruited clubs were randomized to attend one of two types of workshops; the
      intervention workshop with technology integrated instruction of the soccer NMT warm-up or the
      control workshop with standard in person instruction of the soccer NMT warm-up. A stratified
      by soccer club and block randomized by two (for each type of workshop) computer generated
      randomized allocation sequence was used to determined which workshop the coaches receive
      within each club. The randomized allocation sequence was generated prior to the study
      commencing by the investigator. As clubs were recruited and workshops were scheduled,
      assignment of the interventions were applied by the investigator to workshop facilitators
      prior to workshop delivery.

      Procedures Soccer NMT Warm-up Program The soccer NMT warm-up program is a modified version of
      a NMT warm-up program developed by Finnish researchers for floorball and soccer by Pasanen et
      al. (2008). This program is also a slightly modified version of the presently used SHRed
      Injuries NMT warm-up program. The current soccer NMT program consists of nine, level one
      exercises divided into four categories: aerobic, agility, strength, and balance where most
      exercises have the option to increase the difficultly as shown by the level two options.

      Peer to Peer Learning Tablet Application The P2P learning tablet-based application is an
      application used to facilitate the comprehension and execution of various movement patterns.
      This is the technology that will be used in the intervention workshop. For each movement
      pattern or exercise, the application requires two individuals to partner up where one is the
      subject performing the exercise in the video recorded (video not to be stored on the
      application or device) and the other individual records the video. Prior to recording any
      video, the partners observe a correct exercise demonstration video and a list of key criteria
      or key components for every exercise that has to be met in order for the exercise to be
      performed correctly. One person in the partnership is filmed performing the exercise. The
      subject and their partner are then able to view the video, evaluate it and discuss if the
      subject was able to perform each component correctly, incorrectly or partially correct. The
      partners then switch roles. Application users are then able to improve their execution and
      understanding of the exercise by evaluating themselves and their partner through the
      application.

      Data Collection Two types of soccer NMT workshops were offered. The intervention group
      received the technology integrated instruction workshop which was a two-hour workshop that
      included information on injury risks and NMT, on field exercise instruction with instruction
      on how to use the P2P learning tablet application followed by partnered practice with use of
      the application for all soccer NMT warm-up exercises. The control group received the standard
      in person instruction workshop (without technology). This was a two-hour workshop that
      included information on injury risks and NMT, on field instruction and partnered practice for
      all soccer NMT warm-up exercises. A pilot intervention workshop occurred (n=3) to optimize
      the workshop's delivery. All coaches were provided with copies of the soccer NMT warm-up
      program with pictures of all the exercises with required repetitions and supplementary
      materials.

      Data was collected at the beginning and the end of the soccer NMT warm-up workshops. At the
      beginning, participants consented, provided basic demographic information and completed the
      soccer NMT warm-up exercise self-efficacy questionnaire. Following the completion of the
      workshop, participants completed the soccer NMT warm-up exercise self-efficacy questionnaire
      again, and the soccer NMT warm-up exercise test.

      Measures The outcomes of this study are assessing the change in coaches' self-efficacy and
      ability to identify exercise errors. In addition, basic demographic information was collected
      to allow to describe the sample and use advanced statistical analysis methods.

      Self- Efficacy Scale Soccer NMT warm-up exercise self-efficacy questionnaire was developed as
      a nine item 7 point Likert scale. This scale was developed to assess coaches (in lay terms)
      confidence to recognize incorrect exercise execution for each exercise. Coaches were
      presented with the stem question "How confident are you in your ability to see mistakes when
      as athlete performs the exercise…" followed by the name of each of the evaluated level one
      exercises within the Soccer NMT Warm-up program. The Likert scale ranged from Not Confident
      at All to Somewhat Confident to Completely Confident.

      Coaches were asked to complete the mobile administered scale at the beginning of the workshop
      prior to being introduced to the exercises. To eliminate any confusion about exercises that
      have multiple names for example, coaches watched a short video introducing what the exercises
      are and the names for them being used in the soccer NMT warm-up. Coaches were asked again to
      complete the scale at the end of the workshop after learning the exercises. At both time
      points, the mean of the nine items was taken to score the scale. The change in coaches'
      self-efficacy was calculated by taking the difference between time points for each
      participant.

      Video-based Exercise Test Soccer NMT warm-up exercise test was created to provide an
      objective measure of coaches' ability to recognize incorrect exercise execution of the soccer
      NMT warm-up exercises. 16 multiple choice questions with four response options were
      developed. For each question, participants needed to watch a video of an athlete performing
      one execution error for one of nine level one exercises. The participants were asked to
      identify which component of the exercise is being performed incorrectly by selecting the
      false response option. The response options for these exercises were modified from the
      performance criteria components of the SHRed Basketball Warm-up Observational Tool. The tool
      breaks down an exercise to its essential components to assess fidelity, whether an athlete is
      performing an exercise correctly by all of its components. The responses stem from the tool
      as many of the basketball and soccer NMT warm-up exercises are the same and the tool was also
      used to assess exercise fidelity through video analysis.

      An example of a question is as follows:

      A total of 16 points was allotted for this test, one per correctly identified error. One to
      two points per exercise was allotted for injury prevention focuses (11 points) and one to two
      per exercise (five points) was allotted for the key execution components that are not
      explicitly injury prevention focused.

      Descriptive Statistics Demographic Information Participants who did not complete the
      necessary forms fully or correctly were identified and removed. Demographic participant
      information was screened to identify errors, missing data and/ or outliers. Data that could
      be collected by following up with the participant was added. Missing demographic info was not
      imputed. Soccer NMT warm-up exercise self-efficacy data with missing values were imputed with
      the mean of the remaining items within the scale for when that participant's questionnaire
      had at least half of the items completed. Internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha) was
      calculated for the soccer NMT warm-up exercise self-efficacy questionnaire at both time
      points. Intraclass correlation was calculated to estimate the degree of clustering between
      soccer clubs for all outcomes. Data were analyzed using STATA 15.1 software. Data was
      analyzed and summarized with descriptive statistics based on the workshop the coach attended
      such as sample. Data that could be reported through measures of central tendency underwent
      distribution assessment and were reported appropriately (means and standard deviations or
      medians with ranges) such as soccer NMT warm-up exercise test scores, the change in mean
      soccer NMT warm-up exercise self-efficacy scores, age and number of years coaching. Remaining
      variables were reported as a dichotomous yes or no such as sex, previous injury prevention
      program use, volunteer coach status, and personal training experience.

      Exploratory Objectives Descriptive statistics by proportions were used to depict the
      percentage of correctly identified errors by soccer NMT warm-up exercise test injury
      prevention test focuses.

      Multivariable Analysis Primary Objectives Multiple linear regression analyses were used to
      determine if an association existed between soccer NMT warm-up workshop attended (control vs
      intervention workshop) and outcomes soccer NMT warm-up exercise test scores (score out of 16)
      and the change in mean soccer NMT warm-up exercise self-efficacy scores (within the 7 point
      Likert scale). These outcome variables are being assessed as continuous variables. Other
      covariate variables to be included in both regression analyses were age (years), sex (male/
      female), number of years coaching soccer (years), previous use of any injury prevention
      program (yes/no), being volunteer coach (yes/no), soccer NMT warm-up exercise test scores or
      the change in mean soccer NMT warm-up exercise self-efficacy if they were not the outcome of
      that analysis and, were adjusted for any effects of clustering by club. All covariates in
      these analyses were able to be potential modifiers and/or confounders in the regression
      analyses, which were assessed using a backwards elimination process. Results were reported as
      estimations of mean test scores and change in mean self-efficacy scores for the final models
      from the linear regression analyses.

      Statistical significance level for all analysis was set at 5% (alpha=0.05). The outcomes of
      this study are novel thus sample size is unable to be determined by calculation. However, an
      estimate of 10 participants per beta coefficient included in the model was used to estimate a
      feasible sample size of n=100 (50 per group) as per statistician recommendation. In addition,
      based on previous studies conducted in Calgary through the Sport Injury Prevention Research
      Centre, typically the most amount of coaches to have participated in CMSA soccer related
      studies is 60 coaches.
    
  