
    
      Building on our recent NHLBI-funded publication in JAMA (1) that described the modest
      effectiveness of varenicline pharmacotherapy, this study will use a 2 X 2 factorial design to
      evaluate two different medication use strategies on their ability to markedly enhance
      varenicline effectiveness in a large cohort of current smokers. Smokers (N=1000) will be
      randomly assigned to one of two levels for each of two factors: 1) an Adjuvant factor
      (varenicline + placebo patch versus varenicline + nicotine patch), and 2) a Duration factor
      (12 versus 24 weeks of active medication). Thus, this factorial design yields a "standard"
      varenicline treatment (12 weeks of active varenicline and 12 weeks of placebo varenicline +
      24 weeks of placebo patch), and 3 enhanced treatments: 1) 12 weeks of active varenicline and
      12 weeks of placebo varenicline + 24 weeks of active patch, 2) 24-weeks of active varenicline
      + 24 weeks of placebo patch, and 3) 24 weeks of active varenicline + 24 weeks of active
      patch.

      Both treatment modifications, longer duration therapy and use of a nicotine replacement
      therapy (NRT) adjuvant, have produced some quite promising effects. However, in both cases
      these modifications have been little researched, their effects are not consistently positive,
      and they have not been implemented in a potentially optimal manner. We will implement each
      modification in an innovative manner designed to enhance its effectiveness. In addition, all
      participants will be given counseling that supports adherent medication use and that is
      readily translatable to healthcare settings. The scientific rigor of this work will be
      enhanced by the use of placebo medication, a large sample, and a factorial design. The latter
      will allow us to test both the main and interaction effects of the experimental factors. We
      will also be able to compare each enhanced treatment with standard 12-week varenicline-only
      therapy to determine whether any of these medication use strategies significantly enhances
      treatment effectiveness.

      (1) Baker TB, Piper ME, Stein JH, Smith SS, Bolt DM, Fraser DL, Fiore MC. Effects of Nicotine
      Patch vs Varenicline vs Combination Nicotine Replacement Therapy on Smoking Cessation at 26
      WeeksA Randomized Clinical Trial. JAMA. 2016;315(4):371-379
    
  