
    
      Background:

      Scabies and head lice are both ubiquitous ectoparasitic infections that have been identified
      as common public health problems in the Pacific Island Country Territories. Mass drug
      administration using ivermectin is increasingly recognised as an effective strategy for
      scabies treatment and control, however, its possible impact on prevalence of head lice has
      not been evaluated. Given that oral ivermectin is an effective treatment option for
      pediculosis capitis, we hypothesise that community treatment with ivermectin for scabies
      would also provide benefit by reducing prevalence of head lice infestation in the community.
      We aim to test this hypothesis with a small-scale pilot study in the Solomon Islands.

      Methodology:

      The study would be carried out at the Atoifi Adventist Hospital campus, on the North-Eastern
      coast of the island of Malaita. The campus houses an estimated 180 individuals and all
      residents would be invited to participate in the study and be offered treatment.

      At baseline all individuals would undergo a standardized examination to collect data on the
      presence of scabies, impetigo and head lice. Following examination individuals would be
      weighed and given directly observed standard treatment for scabies.

      Treatment for scabies consists of one oral dose of ivermectin (200 micrograms per kilogram)
      at day 1 and at day 8.

      Individuals with contra-indications (pregnancy, breast feeding, weight under 15kg) would be
      offered the alternative of 5% permethrin cream and malathion shampoo.

      Individuals would be re-examined at 48hours (to assess immediate killing of head lice) and
      again at 2 weeks. Final follow-up will be at 3 months to establish: 1) whether changes in
      head lice prevalence have been sustained 2) what the impact of treatment on scabies and
      impetigo with ivermectin is in this specific community.
    
  