
    
      Hereditary Pancreatitis is a rare, autosomal dominantly inherited condition causing mutations
      in the cationic trypsinogen gene. These mutations lead to excessive activation of trypsinogen
      within the pancreatic acinar cells and subsequent pancreatic inflammation. Clinically, this
      may be observed as recurrent acute pancreatitis, chronic pancreatitis, and eventual
      complications of exocrine and endocrine pancreatic insufficiencies and pancreatic
      adenocarcinoma. Currently, there are no specific treatment or prophylactic measures for this
      condition.

      Calcium is the physiologic switch to activate trypsinogen. It has recently been found that
      the mutation sites affect how tightly calcium binds to trypsinogen, with mutations leading to
      excessive calcium binding and subsequent excessive trypsinogen activation. This study is to
      obtain baseline data on whether the prophylactic use of a long-acting calcium channel
      blocker, amlodipine, would lead to decrease in the inappropriate activation of trypsinogen,
      and thereby decrease the subsequent pancreatic inflammation.

      Up to 15 subjects, aged 6 years and above, with mutations in the cationic trypsinogen gene
      (PRSS1) will be recruited and undergo a 16-week trial. This will include a one-month baseline
      symptoms assessment (daily symptoms diary) and blood pressure measurements (with an automated
      home blood pressure monitor). Subsequently, subjects will be placed on between 2.5 - 10 mg
      amlodipine po qd (with a weaning up and weaning down phase) for approximately 10 weeks. They
      will continue to fill out daily symptoms diary, blood pressure measurements (to ensure there
      are no decreases), fill out periodic quality of life questionnaires, and undergo periodic
      blood testing for routine biochemistry as well as more specialized testing for proteomics and
      other inflammatory cytokines analysis.

      The study has three main purposes: to determine whether the use of amlodipine appears to be
      safe in this patient population, to determine how frequently and how best to follow subjects
      while they are taking the medication, and to determine whether there are any indications of
      potential benefits to the medication (whether by decreased symptoms frequency/ severity or by
      inflammatory cytokines analysis).

      A subsequent larger study would be designed based on the above results.
    
  