
    
      The overarching goals of this research study are to:

        1. enhance our understanding of the relationships between shift work, sleep, and fatigue in
           EMS operations; and

        2. determine whether or not providing education and training to EMS personnel on the
           importance of sleep health and dangers of fatigue impact indicators of sleep and
           fatigue.

      The investigators will recruit EMS nationwide for EMS agencies to participate in this study
      and focus on moderately sized EMS agencies with between 50 and 300 employees (yet we will not
      outright exclude smaller or larger organizations). Agencies that run dual ground-based and
      air-medical EMS services are eligible. Maximum enrollment at the agency-level is n=30 EMS
      agencies. Agencies will be randomized upon enrollment to one of two arms: [1] Intervention
      group; or [2] the Wait-List control group. The intervention group will receive immediate
      access to the intervention materials (the 10 brief Sleep Health Education Modules). The
      wait-list control group will receive access to intervention materials at 3 months post
      enrollment/baseline.

      Within each agency, the investigators will recruit individual EMS clinicians to participate.
      Goal enrollment within each agency is a minimum of 30 and a maximum of 50 EMS clinicians.

      All individual EMS clinician participants will undergo informed consent, answer a baseline
      survey, and be queried via mobile phone text message at regular intervals which will begin
      upon enrollment. These mobile phone text message queries will assess indicators of sleep and
      fatigue. All participants will be asked to answer two follow up surveys at 3 months and 6
      months. The total duration of study participation is 6 months. The primary outcome of
      interest is sleep quality as measured by the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI). The
      secondary outcome of interest is fatigue as measured by the Chalder Fatigue Questionnaire
      (CFQ).
    
  