
    
      Due the limited availability of patient population this study requires together with the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria the study demands, this study will employ both a
      retrospective chart review process as well as prospective enrollment of qualified patients
      who provide consent to participate.

      The two main groups being evaluated are: (1) eligible patients who received thoracic epidural
      within 48 hours of injury and (2) eligible patients who did not receive thoracic epidural
      within 48 hours of injury. In both retrospective and prospective approaches, the
      investigators will identify patients with blunt thoracic trauma who were eligible for
      thoracic epidural placement and received the treatment as well as those patients who were
      eligible but did not receive it. Hospital data such as ventilator days, ICU days, hospital
      days, hospital charges, and complications, etc. will be recorded.

      A retrospective chart review of patients admitted to SFGH suffering from a blunt thoracic
      injury resulting in 3 or more rib fractures during a 5year time period from January 1, 2004
      through January 1, 2009 will be conducted. Patient charts will be reviewed for pain
      management used for blunt thoracic trauma, hospital course, vitals, labs, and outcome
      measures. Similar to the prospective enrollment process, the retrospective chart review will
      screen for patients who had met the inclusion criteria and had not met any exclusion
      criteria.

      Prospective patients admitted to SFGH suffering blunt thoracic injury (rib fractures, sternal
      fractures) requiring IV opioids for pain relief who do not fit exclusion criteria will be
      enrolled. Patients will be asked to give informed signed consent for the study doctor to
      place a thoracic epidural within 48 hours of injury and continued for a maximum of 5 days.
      The consent process will be twofold. For those who have consented to receive thoracic
      epidural and agreed to have their health information (HIPAA form) used for the study no
      additional permission will be required. However, for those patients who do not wish to
      receive epidural, consent will still be sought if their health information can be used to
      analyze that arm of the study that did not receive thoracic epidural.

      Patient data such as vitals, labs and outcome measures will be recorded and analyzed. The
      data gathered both in the retrospective and prospective analyses will be used to assess
      utilization rate of thoracic epidural, and to determine if the use of thoracic epidural is
      associated with lower resource utilization and is cost effective. In both the retrospective
      chart review and prospective enrollment process, subjective pain, improved pulmonary
      function, amount of analgesia and overall clinical outcomes will be measured to determine if
      patients who received epidural catheters have significantly improved clinical outcomes than
      those patients who did not receive epidural catheter.
    
  