
    
      It is a prospective double-blind study done on total 300 patients. Admitted to King Abdulaziz
      specialist hospital in Taif, KSA. Between April 2019 and April 2020 with respiratory failure
      ARDS due to severe lung contusion with these criteria: hypoxic index less than 200, bilateral
      parenchymatous lung infiltrate, no any acute cardiac insult, failed to maintain SPO2 more
      than 90% with Non-Invasive Ventilation (NIV) or need of continuous NIV to maintain the
      previous saturation. This selected ARDS was due to lung contusion which diagnosed by
      Computerized tomography of the chest following chest trauma. All of them selected to be
      ventilated for one week or more and only those who showed full criteria of weaning from the
      ventilator enrolled in our study. Our criteria of weaning include fully conscious patients,
      hemodynamically stable without any inotropic support, hypoxic index(PAO2/FIO2) more than 200
      calculated from the arterial blood gases (ABG), bicarbonate level in arterial blood more than
      20 mmol/l, hemoglobin level more than 10 gm%, chest X ray less than one quadrant
      parenchymatous infiltration in each lung on Murray score of chest Xray, rapid shallow
      breathing index <105. Patients were randomly allocated in one of three groups each group
      contain 100 patients. Randomization sequence was created using Excel 2007 (Microsoft,
      Redmond, WA, USA) with a 1:1 allocation using random block sizes of 2 and 4 by an independent
      doctor. In this way, sequence generation and type of randomization can be expressed at the
      same time. Patients of group A extubated and followed our routine protocol of management post
      extubation which include Nebulization with Ventolin and epinephrine racemic every 8 hours for
      48 hours, chest physical therapy (CPT) every 6 hours for 48 hours include clapping percussion
      with mechanical vibration and suction plus huffing or coughing and postural drainage if there
      was atelectasis seen by our routine chest X ray. Patients of group B reconnected to
      mechanical ventilation before extubation for one hour with sedation with midazolam 3-5
      milligram/hour intravenous infusion to achieve score 0 or -1on Richmond Agitation - Sedation
      Scale (RASS). 20 minutes before the end of this hour midazolam infusion discontinued and
      patients awaked. Patient put on mechanical ventilation (MV) with the following parameters,
      FIO2 40%, pressure SIMV mode, PEEP 8 cmH2O, Pressure support 15 cmH2O, Respiratory rate
      14/min, Peak inspiratory pressure (PIP) of 35 cmH2O. Then patients extubated and followed our
      previous protocol without the use of NIV.
    
  