
    
      Pegloticase is highly efficacious therapy for chronic refractory gout patients (n = > 400K in
      the US alone). It decreases serum urate (sUA) levels to often undetectable levels and reduces
      tophi burden. However, its long-term real world effectiveness is severely limited due to its
      immunogenicity caused by anti-pegloticase antibody formation. REducing Immunogenicity to
      PEgloticase (RECIPE) is a Phase II, double-blind, placebo controlled, proof-of-concept trial
      in 32 subjects initiating pegloticase for treatment of chronic refractory gout. RECIPE will
      investigate the preliminary efficacy and safety of using immune modulating therapy with
      mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) to prevent immunogenicity conferred by pegloticase. Subjects will
      be randomized 3:1 to receive MMF vs. placebo in addition to everyone receiving pegloticase.
      The co-primary aims of the RECIPE trial are to 1) determine if a 12 week course of immune
      modulating therapy with daily MMF can safely and significantly attenuate immunogenicity to
      pegloticase as determined by the proportion of participants achieving and maintaining an sUA
      less than or equal to 6 mg/dL through 12 weeks, compared to concurrent controls, and 2) to
      assess the incidence and types of adverse events and infusion reaction. After 12 weeks of
      co-administration, all participants will continue on pegloticase for an additional 12 weeks
      without combination MMF immune modulating therapy to evaluate the longer term benefits
      (durability) and safety of this approach. The secondary aims are to: 1) Determine the 6 month
      durability of immune modulation after discontinuation of the short course of MMF by: a)
      assessing the absolute change in sUA from baseline to Week 24, and Week 12 to Week 24 and b)
      determining the proportion of participants with sUA ≤ 6 mg/dL through 24 weeks, and Week 12
      to Week 24; 2) Identify and characterize the pegloticase immune response by immunoglobulin
      isotypes (IgG and IgM), specificities, and antibody titer; and 3) Examine patient reported
      outcomes (PROs) using the NIH supported Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information
      System (PROMIS) and Gout Impact Scale (GIS) instruments. The University of Alabama at
      Birmingham (UAB) and the University of Michigan (UM), two large academic gout and immunology
      research centers, which in aggregate see nearly 10,000 gout patients annually, will serve as
      the two lead study sites and are very well-positioned to address the clinical and immunologic
      questions posed.
    
  