
    
      Background and Significance:

      Meta-analyses of TBI studies found prevalence of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) was 12 times
      higher than community-based studies. Yet, sleep apnea in those with TBI is largely
      undiagnosed. Given that sleep is critical for neural repair and disordered sleep may play a
      role in slowing functional recovery and prolonging rehabilitation, early detection of sleep
      apnea is critical (Stakeholder Input). Minimal guidance exists informing TBI and sleep
      medicine physicians regarding assessment of sleep disorders in the acute rehabilitation
      setting. The Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality's (AHRQ) Comparative Effectiveness
      Review highlighted insufficient comparative effectiveness evidence for diagnostic and
      screening tools. This study proposes to leverage the existing TBI Model System research
      consortium (TBIMS), funded by the Departments of Health and Human Services and Veterans
      Affairs, to improve early detection of sleep apnea in patients with TBI undergoing inpatient
      rehabilitation at six study sites. Study aims are focused around components of phased testing
      for sleep apnea. Findings will inform clinician's decisions for screening and diagnostic
      tests to facilitate earlier recognition of sleep apnea (outcome) and subsequently prescribe
      appropriate treatments.

      Study Aims:

      Aim I: (Screening) For individuals with TBI, determine comparative effectiveness of 2
      American Academy of Sleep Medicine (AASM) endorsed screening tools (STOPBang vs. Actigraphy)
      to identify those at high risk of sleep apnea as diagnosed through Level 1 PSG. Long-term
      Objectives: To inform clinician's choices for screening measures to determine presence of
      sleep apnea.

      Exploratory Aim:

      Evaluate alternative screening tools (Berlin, MAPI) to Level 1 PSG in Aim 1.

      Aim II: (Diagnosis) This study will determine the diagnostic accuracy (non-inferiority) of
      Level 3 PSG in determining presence of sleep apnea in patients with acute TBI patients in the
      rehabilitation setting. Level 1 PSG will be used as the criterion standard. Long-term
      Objectives: To inform clinician's choices of diagnostic tests to determine presence of sleep
      apnea and prescribe appropriate treatments. If Level 3 portable PSG is equivalent to the less
      accessible Level 1 PSG, this will increase consumer accessibility.

      Study Design:

      This is a 3-year, multi-center prospective observational cohort study.

      Intervention and Comparators:

      In Aim I, the screening tools STOPBang and ACG will be compared against one another to
      determine their sensitivity and specificity in identifying patients with TBI at risk for
      sleep apnea. In Aim II, the non-inferiority of Level 3 PSG in determining presence and
      severity of sleep apnea in patients with moderate to severe TBI will be compared to Level 1
      PSG.

      Study Population:

      Consecutive participants to neurorehabilitation at an existing National Institute on
      Disability, Independent Living, and Rehabilitation Research (NIDILRR) or VA funded TBIMS
      Center will make up the study population. Patients will be age 16 and older (18 or older at
      VA sites), with moderate to severe TBI, admitted for rehabilitation in a U.S. TBIMS inpatient
      rehabilitation facility, and sleeping > 2 hours/night suggesting habitual sleep duration.
      Based on historical data from the six study sites participating in this study, investigators
      in this study conservatively estimated that 70% of patients admitted for inpatient TBI
      rehabilitation would consent into this study (N=20/month), resulting in a 13-month enrollment
      estimate of 259 patients. Power analyses of each study aim suggest that a sample size of 237
      is the largest sample size needed for sufficient power. The sites participating in this study
      aim to collectively enroll 259 patients to account for possible further attrition. Based on
      TBIMS data acquired over the past 25-years, 44% of the sample is female, 64% are categorized
      as Non-White, median age is 38 years, with predominantly moderate to severe TBI.

      Primary outcomes consist of:

      1) Positive predictive power of screening tools: STOPBang and ACG, 2) Equivalency in
      detection of sleep apnea via Level 1 and Level 3 PSG, with diagnosis of sleep apnea based on
      overall apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) > 5.

      Analytic Methods:

      Aim 1: Investigators expect that STOPBang values > 5 and abnormal ACG total sleep time (< 5
      hours with desaturation) will produce sufficiently high SEs with reasonable tradeoff in SP
      (noting that SE and SP are inversely related). Similarly, for Level 1 PSG, a diagnosis of
      sleep apnea will be made if AHI ≥ 5. Cross-tabulations of STOPBang and ACG screening for high
      risk of sleep apnea (positive/negative) versus Level 1 PSG diagnosis (positive/negative) will
      be constructed and estimates of diagnostic accuracy (i.e., sensitivity, specificity, positive
      and negative predictive values, and diagnostic accuracy) will be estimated along with 95%
      confidence intervals. To address hypothesis 1.1, two-sided McNemar's tests will be used to
      compare the paired SEs and paired SPs between STOPBang and ACG assuming a significance level
      of α = 0.05.

      Aim 2: The sensitivity (SE) and specificity (SP) of Level 3 PSG (compared to Level 1 PSG, the
      reference gold standard) will each be estimated and compared to fixed hypothesized rates of
      SE and SP of 90% and 60%, respectively, considered sufficiently large enough. Level 1 PSG
      (reference) diagnosis of sleep apnea will be made based on AHI ≥ 5. Level 3 PSG (test)
      diagnosis will be made based AHI ≥ 5. A cross-tabulation of Level 3 PSG (positive/negative)
      versus Level 1 PSG (positive/negative) will be constructed and standard measures of
      diagnostic accuracy will be estimated along with 95% confidence intervals (i.e., sensitivity,
      specificity, positive and negative predictive values, and diagnostic accuracy).To test for
      non-inferiority of the SE to 90% and the SP to 60%, a non-inferiority threshold of 0.1 is
      assumed. If the lower bound on the 95% confidence interval for SE is strictly above 80% and
      the lower bound on the confidence interval for SP is strictly above 50% then non-inferiority
      of Level 3 PSG (compared to Level 3 PSG) can be established.
    
  