
    
      The purpose of this proposal is to evaluate efficacy of the recently developed Unified
      Protocol for Transdiagnostic Treatment of Emotional Disorders (UP). This protocol takes
      advantage of recent advances in our understanding of the nature of anxiety disorders, as well
      as emerging knowledge of the process of regulation and change in anxious behavior, in order
      to distill and refine basic principles of successful psychological treatments for anxiety
      disorders. It is expected that this approach will simplify training and dissemination,
      provide better coverage for comorbid conditions, cover "not otherwise specified" (NOS) and
      sub-definitional threshold presentations, possibly improve efficacy particularly in the long
      term, and perhaps also shed further light on the nature of anxiety disorders.

      A heterogeneous sample of 250 patients meeting diagnostic criteria for at least one of four
      anxiety disorders: Social Phobia (SAD), Panic Disorder with or without Agoraphobia (PD/A),
      Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD), or Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) will be randomized
      to one of three treatment cells: (1) the Unified Protocol (UP); (2) a single diagnosis
      psychological treatment protocol (SDP); or (3) Wait List (WL). A minimum of 50 patients from
      each of the 4 principal diagnostic categories will be included in the randomization to ensure
      adequate representation of each anxiety disorder. The study will consist of two phases: (1) a
      12 or 16 week acute treatment phase (or 16 week WL) and (2) a 12-month follow-up phase,
      during which active treatments will be discontinued and patients will be followed to assess
      the long-term effects of treatment (outcome measures are discussed below). Patients
      randomized to the WL condition will not enter the post-treatment period. Rather, they will be
      immediately assigned to their choice of either UP or SDP treatment at the end of the sixteen
      week waiting period.

      All assessment and treatment procedures will be conducted at the Center for Anxiety and
      Related Disorders (CARD) at Boston University, which is one of the largest research clinics
      devoted to anxiety and related emotional disorders in the world. Total duration for
      participation in the study will not exceed 18 months total.

      The major aims of this proposal are to:

      Primary Aims

      Aim 1: Evaluate the efficacy of the UP applied to a group of patients with heterogeneous
      anxiety disorders as compared to a group receiving existing evidence-based single diagnosis
      treatment protocols (SDPs) benchmarked against a wait list control condition (WL) to
      determine the treatment responsiveness of the sample on common measures of outcome.

      Aim 2: Evaluate the efficacy of both the UP and SDPs relative to a benchmark WL condition.

      Aim 3: Determine long-term efficacy of UP relative to SDPs over a 1-year period following
      treatment discontinuation.

      Aim 4: Examine the relative effects of each active treatment approach (UP & SDPs) on comorbid
      anxiety and depressive disorder severity.

      Secondary Aims

      Aim 5: Ascertain the relative effects of each active treatment on higher-order temperamental
      indices.

      Aim 6: Determine if change in higher order temperamental variables mediates long term
      outcome.
    
  