
    
      The natural history of neurocognitive impairment in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-
      infected individuals remains poorly understood. While the advent of highly active
      antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has led to a decreased incidence of the most severe form of
      HIV associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND), HIV-associated dementia, it does not appear
      to have impacted overall prevalence of HAND. Existing evidence suggests that the central
      nervous system (CNS) could be an important reservoir for HIV regardless of cumulative time on
      treatment. This 20 year multi-institute natural history protocol will identify approximately
      300 HIV-infected individuals and 150 healthy volunteers for enrollment in multiple HAND
      studies at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Subjects will undergo a screening and
      evaluation assessment, which will include blood and urine collection, neuropsychological
      testing, Client Diagnostic Questionnaire (CDQ), and brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
      with optional lumbar puncture and ophthalmology exam to repeat yearly for up to ten years.

      The option to have a lumbar drain is only on the first visit and extended to HIV positive
      individuals only. Participants will have the option of doing a positron emission
      tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) imaging if they have previously had a PET/CT scan
      under this study. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) markers of immune activation, chronic monocyte
      activation, cytomegalovirus/Epstein-Barr virus (CMV/EBV) infection/reactivation, and neuronal
      injury will be collected. In addition, HIV viral load and genotype, genetic susceptibility
      factors and CNS penetration-effectiveness score (CPE) and CSF levels of antiretroviral drugs
      may be assessed. A repository of cryopreserved biological samples will be developed and used
      for validation of candidate biomarkers in future studies. Collection and analysis of these
      data will not only enhance understanding of the CNS as a potential HIV reservoir in
      virally-controlled individuals but will further define the association among cortical
      thickness, biomarkers and neurocognitive function in an aging HIV-infected population.
    
  