
    
      Severe pneumonia (SP) is a major complication of respiratory system diseases that is
      associated with high mortality and morbidity. If not treated correctly, it may rapidly lead
      to sepsis and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome. Randomized, controlled trials have
      confirmed that oxygenation is significantly better when patients are in the prone position
      than when they are in the supine position.But whether prone drainage is beneficial for rapid
      infection control on SP treatment has not been researched.The aim of this study is to
      evaluate the anti-infective effectiveness and safety of prone position drainage compared with
      supine position on SP treatment.

      Using a central randomization system, participants will be randomized (1:1) into groups
      receiving either placed in prone position or in supine position (within 24 h of diagnosis of
      SP) for 5-7 days with a 28-day follow-up. Patients assigned to the prone group had to be
      turned within the first hour following randomization. They were placed in prone position for
      at least 16 consecutive hours.

      The patients enrolled in this study should meet the diagnostic and inclusion criteria and
      provide written informed consent.

      Diagnostic criteria The diagnostic criteria we will use for SP are based on the Infectious
      Diseases Society of America/American Thoracic Society guidelines.

      The inclusion criteria are as follows:

      1.Age ≥18 years and ≤75 years, male or female；2.Weight ≥40 kg and ≤100 kg；3.Meet the
      diagnostic criteria for SP；4.Need invasive mechanical ventilation；5.Provide signed informed
      consent

      Non-inclusion criteria:

        1. Contraindication for prone positioning

           a. Intracranial pressure >30 mm Hg or cerebral perfusion pressure <60 mmHg;b. Massive
           hemoptysis requiring an immediate surgical or interventional radiology procedure; c.
           Tracheal surgery or sternotomy during the previous 15 days;d. Serious facial trauma or
           facial surgery during the previous 15 days;e. Deep venous thrombosis treated for less
           than 2 days; f. Cardiac pacemaker inserted in the last 2 days;g. Unstable spine, femur,
           or pelvic fractures;h. Mean arterial pressure lower than 65 mm Hg;i. Pregnant women; j.
           Single anterior chest tube with air leaks.

        2. Respiratory reason

             1. Inhaled nitric oxide (NOi) or almitrine bismesylate use before inclusion;b. Use of
                extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) before inclusion.

        3. Clinical context a. Lung transplantation;b. Burns on more than 20 % of the body
           surface;c. Chronic respiratory failure requiring oxygen therapy or non-invasive
           ventilation(NIV);d. Underlying disease with a life expectancy of less than one year;e.
           NIV delivered for more than 24 hours before inclusion.

        4. Other non-inclusion criteria a. End-of-life decision before inclusion;b. Inclusion in
           another research protocol in the previous 30 days with mortality as the main
           end-point;c. Prone positioning before inclusion;d. Subject deprived of freedom, minor,
           subject under a legal protective measure;e. Opposition from next of kin.

      Suspension criteria

      The criteria for suspension of participation are as follows:

      1.Poor compliance of investigators or patients;2.Occurrence of serious adverse events (AEs),
      complications, or fatal physiological changes;3.Voluntary withdrawal;4.Incomplete data;
      Primary outcome measures：

      a.CURB-65 Score for Pneumonia Severity;b.The changes in inflammation and coagulation
      indicators: C-reactive protein, procalcitonin, and d-dimer;c.Chest x-ray changes;d.Mortality
      rate after 28 days;e.The time of mechanical ventilation, total duration of ICU stay,
      hospitalization, and antibiotic use;f.The time of bacterial cultures becoming
      negative;g.Daily sputum drainage.

      The statistical analysis will be performed using SAS software version 9.4 (SAS Institute,
      Cary, NC, USA). If the lower limit of the 95 % confidence interval is larger than a
      clinically meaningful difference, therapeutic effects of the experimental group are deemed to
      be clinically and statistically better than those of the control group. Two-sided tests will
      be performed for all the other statistical analyses. Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel χ2 tests or
      Fisher's exact tests will be used for comparison of categorical outcomes. Continuous outcomes
      will be analyzed by using Student's t test. p values ˂0.05 are considered to indicate
      statistical significance.
    
  