
    
      Objective: The objective of the present study is to establish, in our laboratory, a published
      model of pharmacologically induced alcohol craving, and carry out an initial evaluation of
      its predictive validity for efficacy in treatment of alcoholism. Two pharmacological
      challenges are tested: 1. The alpha2-adrenergic antagonist yohimbine, which reliably induces
      reinstatement of alcohol seeking in experimental animals, but has produced less clear results
      in humans. 2. The serotonergic compound mCPP, which has been reported to robustly increase
      alcohol craving in human alcoholics, but for which animal data are less clear. Our objective
      study is to evaluate craving responses to infusion of yohimbine or mCPP using optimal
      assessment tools and subject population, and establish their sensitivity to the clinically
      effective alcoholism medication acamprosate.

      Study Population: The study will be carried out in 60 subjects aged 21-65 years, with alcohol
      dependence as their primary complaint, and without other serious medical or psychiatric
      conditions. An additional inclusion criterion will be elevated trait anxiety as measured by
      the Spielberger Trait Anxiety Inventory. Subjects will be admitted to the NIAAA research
      inpatient unit at the NIH Clinical Research Center (CRC) through the platform training and
      natural history protocol (05-AA-0121 Assessment and Treatment of People with Alcohol Drinking
      Problems ), which provides basic assessments and standard withdrawal treatment if needed.
      Patients will enter into the present protocol once such treatment, if needed, is completed.

      Design: Following inclusion, subjects will be randomized to acamprosate (n=25) or placebo
      (n=25), receiving either 3 tablets of 333mg acamprosate three times daily, or receiving
      identically looking placebo. Following a minimum of 2 weeks of treatment, subjects will
      undergo three challenge sessions, a minimum of 5 days apart, with yohimbine, m-CPP or placebo
      infusion, in counterbalanced order.

      Outcome Measures: During the challenge sessions, subjective cravings for alcohol will be
      assessed using the Alcohol Urge Questionnaire. Neuroendocrine and cardiovascular measures
      will be collected for exploratory purposes.
    
  