
    
      If patient agrees to take part in this study, they will be asked to complete 3
      questionnaires, 3 sensory tests, and may be asked to take part in a one-on-one symptom
      interview.

      Symptom Interview:

      Depending on when patient is enrolled in this study, they may take part in a one-on-one
      interview with a study staff member. A total of 15 participants will take part in this
      interview (5 taking platinum agents, 5 taking taxanes, & 5 taking bortezomib). During the
      interview, patient will be asked to describe their symptoms. The interview should take about
      20-30 minutes to complete.

      The interviews will be digitally recorded, transcribed (typed), and used by researchers to
      identify symptoms related to receiving this type of chemotherapy. Researchers will use this
      information to design a study questionnaire that focuses on chemotherapy symptoms in the
      hands and feet. The digital recordings and typed copies of the interview will be destroyed
      after researchers have analyzed the interview data and the study is complete.

      Questionnaires & Sensory Tests:

      All study participants will complete 3 questionnaires that are designed to collect
      information about any pain and/or symptoms patient may have experienced, their general
      well-being, and personal information such as age and marital status. One (1) of them is
      called a symptom assessment questionnaire and patient be will asked to rate their symptoms on
      a scale of 0-10.

      All study participants will also complete 3 tests, called sensory tests, that are designed to
      help researchers learn how sensitive patient is to things such as cold and touch. These tests
      involve feeling cold objects, feeling bumps on a rectangular board, and putting pegs into
      holes on a board. Patient will also be asked to mark on computerized drawings the areas where
      they experience any pain, numbness, and/or cold sensitivity. A study staff member will
      explain how to take the tests and use the computerized drawings in more detail at the time
      these tests are performed.

      It should take about 20-30 minutes to complete all of the questionnaires and tests.

      Additional Sensory Testing:

      Out of the 200 participants on this study, 40 participants will be asked to return to the
      clinic for additional sensory testing to help researchers learn if the tools used for this
      study are working as expected.

      This additional testing is designed to help researchers learn how sensitive patient is to
      things such as touch, cold, warmth, and a pinprick to the finger, hand, or arm. Patient will
      be asked to describe how well they can feel each test, and how much pain they may or may not
      feel. This additional testing should take about 60 minutes to complete.

      Length of Study:

      After patient has completed the interview (if they are asked), 3 questionnaires, and 3
      sensory tests their participation on this study will be over. If patient is selected to take
      part in the additional sensory testing, their participation on this study will be over after
      those tests are complete.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 200 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  