
    
      The brain's reward system has a potent contribution to the regulation of food intake.
      Although animal work has demonstrated a key role of the mesolimbic dopamine system in food
      reward responses, evidence in humans is still sparse and inconsistent. Our research group
      recently used state-of-the-art Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging methods to study in
      vivo dopamine release in response to a combination of anticipatory (viewing high-calorie food
      images) and consummatory (drinking sips of chocolate milkshake) food stimuli in healthy
      women. The investigators demonstrated dopamine release in reward-related regions in the
      prefrontal cortex of the brain in response to these stimuli, correlating with levels of
      gastrointestinal hunger/satiety hormones, and predicting subsequent food intake.

      The current study aims to disentangle the relative contribution of the anticipatory (food
      images) versus consummatory (food administration) component of dopamine release to food
      reward, by performing simultaneous Positron Emission Tomography (PET) and Magnetic Resonance
      (MR) scanning. Healthy females will participate in two PET-MR scan sessions in a fasted
      state: one session with the combination of anticipatory (viewing high-calorie food images)
      and consummatory reward (drinking sips of chocolate milkshake) and one session with purely
      consummatory reward. The order of these sessions will be randomized and counterbalanced.

      Both scan sessions will consist of four blocks with a duration of 45 minutes each and 15
      minute breaks in between. The first three blocks represent the 'control condition' and the
      fourth block the 'food reward condition'. At the end of each scan session, participants will
      take part in an ad libitum drink test in which they will be instructed to drink as much
      chocolate milkshake as preferred, until comfortably full. During both sessions, blood samples
      will be collected at several time points to assess levels of metabolic hormones and their
      relation to food-induced dopamine release. The proposed studies aims to increase our
      understanding of the psycho-biology of appetite and food intake regulation as well as
      identify potential new treatment targets for disorders of food intake, both at the level of
      the gastrointestinal tract and the brain.
    
  