
    
      Acute renal failure (ARF) is an important complication after cardiac surgery that has a
      prevalence ranging between 5 and 30%. In addition, the impact of chronic kidney disease (CKD)
      has been well correlated with poorer outcomes after cardiac surgery. These factors have been
      demonstrated to be associated with increased morbidity, mortality, as well as consuming
      limited health care resources.

      Despite the identification of certain higher risk determinants such as emergency surgery,
      valvular surgery, preoperative creatinine level, diabetes, increasing age, obesity, and
      peripheral vascular disease, interventions to decrease postoperative ARF in these patients
      have been limited. Agents that have been successful in other settings, such as
      N-acetylcysteine and fenoldopam, have shown no difference in clinical outcomes of ARF when
      tested in randomized clinical trials in high-risk cardiac surgery patients. Although
      prophylactic hemodialysis has been shown to be effective for patients with underlying severe
      kidney disease, this is clearly a resource intensive therapy that may not be practical as a
      general prophylaxis strategy.

      The use of sodium bicarbonate has shown efficacy in reducing the incidence of ARF due to
      contrast-induced nephropathy in those patients with moderate, stable renal dysfunction. The
      postulated mechanism of renal protection has been described through the prevention of free
      radical generation and damage. The generation of a higher renal proximal tubule pH with
      bicarbonate therapy may slow down the superoxide-generating Haber-Weiss reaction, limiting
      the formation of free radical oxidants. In addition, sodium bicarbonate may be directly
      scavenging reactive oxygen species generated from nitric oxide, at a physiologic pH.

      If it is presumed that initiation and extension of ischemic renal injury occurs during
      cardiac surgery via oxidant injury, the use of sodium bicarbonate to disrupt this process
      could possibly be an effective therapeutic option to prevent ARF.

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the renal protective effect of near-isotonic
      sodium bicarbonate as compared to sodium chloride when given as prophylaxis to patients with
      chronic kidney disease prior to non-emergent surgery involving the use of cardiopulmonary
      bypass.

      Our hypothesis is that bicarbonate therapy may disrupt ischemia-induced, oxidant-mediated
      injury and this may prevent the propagation of renal damage. These events may be demonstrated
      clinically by a reduced incidence of ARF following surgery, decreased requirements for renal
      replacement therapy after surgery, and improved survival both perioperatively and in a
      longer-term follow up.
    
  