
    
      Military field exercises are characterised by high exercising energy expenditures, restricted
      dietary intake and prolonged periods of load carriage. These exercise and nutritional
      challenges can result in impaired bone turnover, a negative calcium balance and an increased
      risk of stress fracture. Women have increased sensitivity to metabolic and endocrine
      disturbances associated with energy deficit, and have a higher incidence of stress fracture
      during military training compared with men. This randomised trial will investigate the effect
      of low energy availability (energy intake minus exercise energy expenditure), and calcium
      supplementation during low energy availability, on bone and calcium metabolism in women
      during acute load carriage exercise. This randomised controlled trial will randomise women
      into three groups, stratified by aerobic fitness, body mass index and contraception. Each
      participant will complete two 6-day experimental testing sessions before (baseline) and after
      (follow-up) 2 weeks of an experimental diet: Group 1) adequate energy (45 kcal∙kg fat free
      mass [FFM]∙d-1) / adequate calcium (1500 mg∙d-1); Group 2) low energy availability (15
      kcal∙kg FFM∙d-1) / adequate calcium (1500 mg∙d-1), and; Group 3) low energy availability (15
      kcal∙kg FFM∙d-1) / low calcium (250 mg∙d-1). Each 6-day trial will involve three bouts of
      load carriage (9.7 km in 90 minutes carrying 20 kg), separated by 24 to 48 hours recovery
      whilst remaining on the experimental diet. During each experimental trial blood and urine
      will be sampled for markers of bone and calcium metabolism, and endocrine function. Following
      the completion of the second, 6-day experimental trial, participants will return to their
      habitual diet for 2 weeks and then provide a recovery blood and urine sample.

      Primary Outcome: The absolute change in urinary calcium balance (Ca44:Ca42) from Experimental
      Testing 1 to 2 will be compared between groups (Group 1 vs Group 2 and Group 2 vs Group 3)
      using one-way ANCOVAs with calcium balance (either as a ratio, or both the numerator and
      denominator) in Experimental Testing 1 and baseline body mass as the covariates, or a linear
      mixed model with the restricted maximum likelihood estimation to allow incorporation of
      incomplete data.

      Secondary Outcomes: Absolute change for AUC for circulating measures of bone turnover and
      calcium metabolism during load carriage from Experimental Testing 1 to 2 will be compared
      between groups using one-way ANCOVAs (Group 1 vs Group 2 and Group 2 vs Group 3) with AUC in
      Experimental Testing 1 as the covariate, or a linear mixed model with the restricted maximum
      likelihood estimation to allow incorporation of incomplete data. Absolute change for fasting
      circulating measures of bone turnover, calcium metabolism and endocrine function from
      Experimental Testing 1 to 2 will be compared between groups (Group 1 vs Group 2 and Group 2
      vs Group 3) using one-way ANCOVAs with baseline measures in Experimental Testing 1 as the
      covariate, or a linear mixed model with the restricted maximum likelihood estimation to allow
      incorporation of incomplete data. A mixed-design 3 × 3 (Group [Group 1 vs Group 2 vs Group 3]
      × time [Experimental Testing 1 vs Experimental Testing 2 vs Recovery]) ANOVA will be used to
      examine changes in body mass, lean mass, fat mass and aBMD.
    
  