
    
      Background: Even under similar drug use patterns, the risk for drug addiction varies from
      individual to individual. However, the neurobiological mechanisms underlying this variability
      are poorly understood and characterized. Studies suggest that certain traits observed in
      substance dependent individuals may actually precede drug use, and could augur future
      substance dependence. Understanding how the presence of these traits increases vulnerability
      to substance addiction could aid in the development of early intervention, preventative
      measures, as well as better treatment strategies.

      Objective: The primary goal of this protocol is to improve our understanding of increased
      susceptibility to developing substance addiction. We focus here on reward and punishment
      learning, and impulse control, with an emphasis on the underlying role of dopamine and
      serotonin function in these two cognitive functions. Further, given that cortical plasticity
      is enhanced during childhood and adolescence, we begin to address whether early exposure to
      substances enhances neurobiological changes that make an individual vulnerable to subsequent
      substance addiction.

      Subject Population: We focus on adolescents (13-17 years old) with known increased
      vulnerability to substance addiction individuals with early exposure to substances, i.e. ,
      those who have used drugs on multiple occasions before the age of 15, and those diagnosed
      with conduct disorder and who are not as yet substance dependent, along with matched
      controls.

      Experimental Design: This study involves cognitive, pharmacological and functional magnetic
      resonance imaging (fMRI) testing in a mixed, within/between-subject design. Based upon power
      analyses, we estimate needing 30 participants in each of 4 groups early exposure (EE),
      conduct disorder (CD-NE), conduct disorder with early exposure (CD-EE), and controls with no
      early exposure (NE) to complete the experiment. This is a within subjects, placebo
      controlled, crossover design with participants tested before and after 1) cabergoline (D2
      receptor agonist) treatment, 2) acute tryptophan depletion, and 3) placebo.

      Outcome Measures: The primary outcome measures will be BOLD fMRI activation and behavioral
      performance on various cognitive tasks that deal with impulse control and reward learning
      before and after each of the three treatments listed above. Secondary outcome measures
      include gene x environment interactions and stress and novelty-seeking measures.
    
  