
    
      Identifying successful methods for reducing long-term energy intake continues to be a
      challenge in obesity treatment. Basic behavioral research has found that the rate of
      habituation (i.e., rate of reduction in physiological and behavioral responding) to food is
      related to amount of food consumed, and faster habituation rates reduce food intake. The rate
      of habituation to food can be accelerated when variety in foods is limited, producing
      decreased intake. Thus, a dietary prescription that limits variety of high-energy-dense (HED)
      foods may boost ability to reduce long-term energy intake, enhancing long-term weight loss.

      Furthermore, habituation rates to food show large individual variability. For example,
      individuals with overweight habituate slower to food than individuals with a healthy weight,
      and slower habituation rates predict greater increases in child standardized body mass index
      (ZBMI). Thus, slower habituation rates to food may be a behavioral phenotype for increased
      risk of suboptimal weight outcomes. Obesity interventions that accelerate habituation to food
      may then be more beneficial for those with this behavioral phenotype.

      The investigators have been conducting a line of translational research that applies
      habituation theory to obesity treatment involving: 1) studies systematically testing basic
      concepts to better inform intervention development; 2) "proof-of-concept" testing; and 3)
      efficacy trials. The long-term goal of this research is to develop a dietary prescription
      that harnesses habituation as a mechanism for reducing long-term energy intake. This research
      has culminated in piloting a limited variety prescription (variety of both HED snack foods
      and entrees at dinner were limited) within a 6-month family-based behavioral obesity
      treatment (FBT) for children. Twenty-four families, with a child > 85th percentile BMI and
      aged 8 to 12 years, were randomized to FBT that included the Traffic Light Diet (1000-1500
      kcal/day, < 2 servings/day of RED [HED] foods) and a > 60 min/day of moderate- to
      vigorous-intensity physical activity prescription or to FBT that included a limited dietary
      variety prescription (one RED snack food and dinner entrée were chosen; families regularly
      consumed these foods as compared to other RED snack foods and entrees) (FBT+Variety). At
      6-months children in FBT+Variety had a significantly greater reduction in percent overweight
      than those in FBT (-15.4% vs.- 8.9%), and families in FBT+Variety had a lower daily intake of
      kcal from fat (351 kcal vs. 494 kcal). This limited dietary variety prescription shows
      promise for enhancing weight outcomes in FBT. However, research is needed to examine if
      limiting variety improves long-term weight loss, if this improvement is due to enhanced
      habituation, and explore if there is a behavioral phenotype that more greatly benefits from
      this dietary approach.

      The investigators plan to implement a novel limited RED food variety prescription within an
      18-month FBT to examine its effect on 18-month body mass index (BMI). This will be the first
      RCT to examine how habituation rate, assessed via salivary habituation, mediates reduction in
      RED food intake, overall energy intake, and reductions in BMI over time, as well as if
      baseline habituation rate is a behavioral phenotype that moderates BMI outcomes. One hundred
      fifty-six children aged 8 to 12 years at > 85th percentile BMI will be randomized to one of
      two, 18-month interventions compared in our 6-month pilot study: FBT or FBT+Variety. Child
      and adult caregiver assessments will occur at 0, 6, 12, and 18 months on anthropometrics,
      dietary intake (RED food variety, energy, and diet quality), habituation, and physical
      activity. The investigation was designed for all intervention sessions and assessments to be
      conducted in person. Due to COVID-19, modifications have occurred to the trial for health
      safety reasons. Initially, all meetings and assessments were moved to occur remotely via
      Zoom. The trial is currently in a transition stage where, families choose between attending
      assessments in person or remote via Zoom. Intervention sessions remain remote via Zoom.
      Health safety guidelines are in place for all in person contact.

      The primary aims are to determine for children:

        1. Influence of FBT+Variety on long-term weight loss.

        2. Influence of FBT+Variety on long-term habituation to RED foods. The habituation rate
           will mediate differences in dietary intake and BMI between conditions.

      An exploratory aim is to examine in children:

      1) Influence of habituation rate on moderating outcomes in FBT+Variety and FBT (identifying a
      behavioral phenotype that bests benefits from a limited variety prescription).

      Comparisons will also be made between the conditions on all child dietary and activity
      measures. Additionally, adult caregiver measures will be examined, with outcomes anticipated
      to be similar to child outcomes.
    
  