
    
      Dental crowding in children, adolescents or adults is the most common reason to undergo
      orthodontic treatment. This malocclusion, characterized by the overlapping of teeth, is
      caused by a lack of space. In the mandibular anterior region, it is a predisposing factor for
      a periodontal disease. Good oral hygiene is difficult to maintain because the dental crowding
      promotes plaque retention in narrow interdental spaces and complicates the passage of brushes
      and dental floss. The standard orthodontic treatment lasts approximately 18-30 months. If the
      mandibular tooth space is less than 6 mm, it can be generally treated by orthodontics without
      therapeutic extractions.

      Corticotomy has been a proven surgical technique for many years. It involves vertical
      interdental incisions of the gingiva and the bone with a very low thickness. It is mainly
      used to facilitate the movements of teeth. Dental movements associated with corticotomy may
      be twice as fast as those achieved with standard non-surgical treatment.

      The study focuses on the correction of mandibular dental crowding. Its purpose is to compare
      the tooth movement obtained with orthodontic treatment and minimally invasive corticotomy
      surgery with that obtained with standard orthodontic treatment without surgery.

      Patients requesting an orthodontic treatment to correct a dental crowding less than 6 mm are
      randomized to benefit from corticotomy surgery and orthodontic treatment (test group) or from
      only orthodontic treatment (control group). It is planned the inclusion of 22 patients, 11 in
      the test group and 11 in the control group.

      After two visits necessary for the recruitment phase, treatment starts for the test group
      with the surgery and the appliance with brackets and arches, and, for the control group, with
      the appliance with brackets and arches.

      The surgery of corticotomy is performed with a personalized surgical guide just before the
      placement of orthodontic appliance. The initial impressions of the patient's dental arch as
      well as its three-dimensional radiography (CBCT) make it possible to create a perfectly
      adapted guide. The incisions are made with a piezoelectric device between the roots of teeth,
      from the mandibular second premolar to the contralateral second mandibular premolar.

      The study lasts 12 months after the placement of orthodontic material. During this 12 months,
      periodical controls (1 week, 2 weeks and 1-12 months) are carried out. After these 12 months,
      all patients undergo treatment with controls specific to standard orthodontic procedure.
    
  