
    
      Based on positive outcomes from numerous randomized, controlled trials, the current European
      Society of Cardiology (ESC) guidelines and current American guidelines for the management of
      chronic heart failure include the implantable defibrillators as a standard of care in
      selected chronic heart failure patients .

      Heart failure patients with implantable defibrillators often visit the hospital for
      unscheduled examinations, placing a great burden on healthcare providers. Device
      manufacturers offer a technology for remote defibrillator monitoring with the purpose of
      allowing physicians to remotely access patients' data and reducing unnecessary routine and
      interim visits. The Evolution of Management Strategies of Heart Failure Patients With
      Implantable Defibrillators (EVOLVO) study was a multicenter randomized trial designed to
      assess whether remote management can reduce emergency healthcare use in heart failure
      patients implanted with defibrillators endowed with specific diagnostic features compared
      with standard management consisting of scheduled in-office visits and patient response to
      audible alerts. Over 16 months, the rate of emergency department or urgent in-office visits
      for heart failure, arrhythmias, or device-related events decreased by 35% and total
      healthcare visits were 21% less frequent with remote monitoring.

      The study confirmed that remote management of heart failure patients implanted with
      defibrillators allows timely notification of potentially critical situations. Moreover, it
      has the effect of shifting healthcare visits from the emergency department to the clinic and
      increasing the appropriateness of in-office visits, thereby reducing costs and the burden on
      the healthcare system.

      Nonetheless, in the EVOLVO study these findings were obtained with defibrillators equipped
      with specific diagnostic and alerting capabilities, and thus they cannot be fully extended to
      different technologies. In particular, defibrillators were equipped with these alert
      capability for the detection of possible fluid accumulation and decompensation, and these
      alerts accounted for the majority of endpoints recorded during the study.

      That alert was shown to be associated with a relatively high rate of false positive
      detections , and the Diagnostic Outcome Trial in Heart Failure (DOT-HF) recently showed an
      increased number of hospital admissions among patients with the audible alert enabled.

      Alternative systems of RPM (Remote Patient Management) allow recording of the body weight and
      blood pressure for the management of heart failure. Continuous monitoring of these variables
      is a fundamental element of the programs of patient monitoring and patient education
      recommended by the guidelines for the treatment of heart failure.

      Although the daily measure of body weight and pressure is present in most telemedicine
      programs described in the literature , , clinical evidence obtained specifically in the
      population of patients referred to the implantable defibrillator therapy is scarce. The large
      observational study ALTITUDE has suggested the possibility of a better prognosis of patients
      managed via RPM, in particular if provided with sensors for the measurement of weight and
      pressure.
    
  