
    
      The purpose of this study is to examine if regular early Specialist Symptom Control Treatment
      (SSCT) involvement in mesothelioma patients can improve patients' and carers' quality of life
      (QOL) during their illness.

      Mesothelioma is a cancer of the lining around the chest wall which is caused by asbestos
      exposure. The UK has the highest death rate from mesothelioma in the world and mesothelioma
      will soon account for approximately 1 in 170 of all deaths in the UK. At present, there is no
      cure. About a third of patients have chemotherapy, which can prolong how long patients live
      ('survival') by a few months. For many patients, doctors can only offer treatment of symptoms
      from the cancer, rather than treating the cancer itself. For most patients, survival is
      usually between 8-12 months.

      Mesothelioma causes many symptoms including breathlessness, chest pain, weight loss and
      fatigue. Specialist Palliative Care (SPC) medicine doctors and nurses are specialists in
      treating symptoms due to life limiting illness. They also provide emotional support for
      patients and carers. The current practice in the UK is to involve SPC towards the end of a
      patient's life. A recent study from America examining lung cancer patients showed that
      involving SPC early in a patient's treatment improved patients' QOL during their illness, and
      also their survival.

      Until a cure for, or significant advance in the treatment of, MPM becomes available, attempts
      to improve the QOL of patients and carers will remain the primary goal of teams managing
      their care. Recent research examining NSCLC and early SPCT intervention by Temel et al
      demonstrated that such a novel approach is plausible, possible and effective in improving
      patients' QOL. This report demonstrated a survival benefit of 2.7 months; if a new
      chemotherapy drug were to demonstrate such an effect, it would likely be considered a
      significant breakthrough in the treatment of MPM.

      Current practice in the UK is to involve SPC towards the final months, and perhaps weeks, of
      a life-limiting illness. Therefore, the regular early SSCT intervention is well-placed to
      demonstrate any effects from the proposed intervention.

      This comprehensive, randomised, multicentre study will examine both patient and caregiver
      QOL, and the healthcare economic consequences of providing such an intervention. The results
      of such will be widely applicable to many institutions and patients throughout the UK.

      This study will randomly divide patients to either all normal treatment and support ('usual
      care', as is always offered), or usual care and regular SPC consultations from the time of
      diagnosis. No treatments will be withheld; this study is providing additional support to
      patients and their families. Patients will be asked to complete a set of questionnaires at
      the start of the study, and then monthly for up to 6 months. Carers will also complete a set
      of questionnaires at the start of the study and then at 3 and 6 months. Reported QOL and
      survival between the two groups will then be compared.
    
  