
    
      Montelukast (Merck brand name Singulair) is a selective Cys-LT1 receptor antagonist that is
      used to control asthma symptoms in children and adults. Although safe and effective, the
      inter-patient variability in response is substantial (25-60% response rate), which is due in
      part to genetic variability. For example, we recently reported that polymorphisms in
      candidate genes that encode proteins in the LT pathway influence responsiveness to the drug.

      The long-range goal of our studies is to determine the contribution of genetic variability to
      the inter-patient variability in montelukast blood levels and responsiveness. In preliminary
      studies, we found that the plasma concentration vs. time data in single and multiple
      dose-studies vary more than 10-fold, which could contribute to inter-patient variability in
      response.

      Montelukast is about 64% bioavailable, is cleared by CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 in the liver, and is
      nearly completely excreted into the bile. The physical properties of montelukast suggest that
      the drug undergoes transport by solute carrier transporters (SLC family transporters) and/or
      ATP-binding cassette transporters (ABC family transporters). Recent studies support the idea
      that genetic variation in genes encoding SLC and ABC transporters can influence the
      pharmacokinetics of drugs that are substrates for these transporters.

      In the present submission, we propose to determine if montelukast is a substrate for SLC
      and/or ABC transporters. To accomplish this we will coadminister Singulair with citrus juice
      which contains known inhibitors of membrane transport proteins. If transporters are involved
      in the absorption of montelukast, then citrus juice should decrease the absorption of
      montelukast relative to Gatorade. Our working hypothesis for this study is that montelukast
      is a substrate for SLC (OATP1B3, OATP1B1, OATP2B1, OATP1A2) and ABC (MRP1, MRP2, and MRP3,
      BCRP) transporters. If true, then the pharmacokinetics of montelukast will be determined by
      the genetics of the membrane transporters. This highly significant observation will have
      important implications for understanding the disposition of montelukast in patients, and
      ultimately will lead to individualization of montelukast therapy in asthma.
    
  