
    
      Child dental anxiety has been a matter of concern for many years. It is defined as a
      nonspecific feeling of apprehension, worry, uneasiness and the source may be not clear or
      unknown .

      Dental anxiety is considered as a major obstacle for the dental treatment. The dental
      appointment is a stressful situation specially for children which raises their anxiety level.
      Different studies among 6-12 years old children showed that 20%- 43 % exhibited high dental
      fear and anxiety .

      Dental fear and anxiety can have negative implications for children's oral health. There is
      certainty for the negative impact of dental anxiety on the oral health-related quality of
      life of children, and studies have shown that children with dental fear and anxiety have
      worse oral health status than their peers (more untreated carious lesions).

      It is also children with dental fear and anxiety may present with behavioral management
      problems which can disrupt the provision of dental treatment and negatively impact on the
      dental treatment the child receives. The anxiety experienced by children is not only
      distressing for the child, but it can also be a potentially stressful and upsetting
      experience for their parents .

      A good patient-dentist relationship is crucial for the management of anxiety. It is the
      responsibility of pedodontists to make dentistry as child-friendly and pain-free as possible
      to bring about positive changes in the behavior of children during dental treatment .

      Tell-show-do technique is widely used for managing pediatric dental patients. It is useful
      for almost all patients who can communicate, especially those patients who are 'monitors.
      Although widely used, the ability of this technique to prepare, and reduce child anxiety
      remains an area for research, because it's not always appropriate for those patients who are
      'blunters' where detailed information can result in increased levels of anxiety .

      So different modifications of this technique were used one of them is tell play do technique
      with a dental imitation toy and using euphemisms instead of demonstrating on a model or
      observing one. Tell play do technique provides a better explanatory concept of the dental
      procedure and can lead to more cooperation of the children patients which can influence the
      dental treatment in a good and positive way.
    
  