
    
      Heparin is used during open abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) surgery to reduce thrombo-embolic
      complications (TEC): such as myocardial infarction, stroke, peripheral embolic events and the
      related mortality. On the other hand, heparin may increase blood loss, causing harm for the
      patient.

      Heparin has an unpredictable effect in the individual patient. The effect of heparin can be
      measured by using the Activated Clotting Time (ACT). ACT measurement in open AAA repair could
      be introduced to ensure the individual patient of safe, tailor-made anticoagulation with a
      goal ACT of 200-220 seconds. A randomized controlled trial (RCT) has to prove that ACT guided
      heparinization would result in fewer TEC and lower mortality than a standardized bolus of
      heparin of 5 000 international units (IU), the current gold standard. ACT guided
      heparinization results in higher doses of heparin during operation and this should not result
      in significantly more bleeding complications of importance.

      The ACTION-1 study will evaluate the effect of weight dosed heparinization during open
      abdominal aortic aneurysm surgery.The study will be an international multi-centre single
      blind randomized controlled trial. Patients will be randomized using a computerized program
      (CASTOR EDC) with a random block size of a maximum of 8. The randomization will be stratified
      by participating centre. Separate evaluation of results and if complications can be labelled
      as TEC, will be performed by an Independent Central Adjudication Committee. The 3 members of
      this Committee will be blinded with regard to if the patient was randomized for ACT guided
      heparinization or standard bolus of 5 000 IU without ACT measurements.

      In the intervention group, heparin is given to reach an ACT of 200-220 seconds. Based on the
      ACT, an additional dose of heparin will be administered. Five minutes after every
      administration of heparin the ACT is measured. If the ACT is 200 seconds or longer, the next
      ACT measurement is performed every 30 minutes, until the end of the procedure or until new
      heparin administration is required (because of ACT < 200 seconds). Depending on the ACT value
      near the end of surgery, protamine will be given to neutralize the effect of heparin.

      In the comparative group, a single dose of 5 000 IU of heparin will be given 3-5 minutes
      before clamping of the aorta. No ACT measurements will be performed.
    
  