
    
      Hair loss is one of the most common complaints among all patients consulting a dermatologist
      and is usually associated with severe psychological disturbances, distress, and symptoms of
      depression. Most common forms of hair loss (alopecia) are caused by aberrant hair follicle
      cycling and changes in hair follicle morphology. Cells with stem cell properties have
      recently been described in many integument appendages including feathers and teeth, but the
      hair follicle stands out as one of the best model systems for studying adult stem cells. Hair
      follicles are accessible, well defined in terms of their developmental biology, and their
      stem cell populations are located in discrete compartments or niches.

      There are three phases of hair growth, which every hair follicle undergoes. The first phase
      is when follicles undergo extremely rapid epithelial cell division and execute exquisitely
      timed differentiation programs when in the growing (Anagen) phase. The second phase is when
      follicles growth stops during a certain period, the (Catagen) phase. The third phase is when
      most follicles regress into structures that resemble immature developing follicles, after
      which they go into a period of mitotic quiescence, the (Telogen) phase. Stem cells are at the
      core of all hair dynamic events that includes a new burst of activity and further
      morphogenetic remodeling as the follicle grows again at the start of a new Anagen phase.

      The term "Stem Cell" is given to a cell which has the ability to self-renew as well as to
      differentiate into defined cellular subtypes. Multipotent stem cells are present in different
      adult tissues such as bone marrow, dental pulp, adipose tissue, etc. and within the adipose
      tissue the adipose-derived stromal vascular cells (ADSVCs), which are one of the most
      promising stem cell population identified since the human adipose tissue is easily obtained
      in large quantities with little patient discomfort and secretory factors from ADSVCs have
      been considered as a promising therapy for skin aging. Therefore, the use of autologous
      ADSVCs can be promising for hair loss. Since the stromal vascular fraction (SVF) is saturated
      with stem cells among other cells derived from adipose tissue, cells can be called ADSVFC if
      they are used freshly, or ADSC/ADASC or others terms in cases of primary cells placed in
      culture having then the adherent feature, resulting in a set of mesenchymal stem cells
      (MSCs). In fact, contrary to cultured ADSCs, freshly isolated ADSVCs were shown to be highly
      positive for CD34, and positive for CD117 and HLA-DR. MSCs derived from adipose tissue when
      obtained by culture are mostly negative for CD34, and HLA-DR. This indicates clearly that
      primary cells are significantly more promising in cases of need to maintain a certain level
      of CD34 in the graft.

      In the present study, the investigators aimed to use autologous ADSVCs graft for the
      treatment of alopecia and to assess the safety and effectiveness of the transplantation. This
      ADSVCs group will be compared to a group of cultured ADSCs. In fact, the study is divided
      into 2 groups: ADCVCs and ADSCs, where the first group had been started in 2013 and since
      2016, the investigators aimed to add a comparative group by using the cultured ADSCs instead
      of the primary non-cultured ADSVCs. (Note: the investigators started using grafts of PRP
      (Platelets Rich Plasma) in 2013 before using isolated adipose-derived cells, where no
      significant improvement in the hair quality was observed. Then, the investigators aimed to
      use adipose-derived cells firstly without culture and secondly subjected to culture. The
      first group was done in collaboration with Reviva Regenerative Medicine Center at the Middle
      East Institute of Health University Hospital at Bsalim Lebanon. The second group will be
      realized with a collaborator to be defined by the Lebanese University after approval of the
      administration and corresponding committee.

      The process flow is defined as following: (1) the file study: which start by receiving the
      file of the patient, the file will be forwarded to appointed physician coordinator for review
      and submission of medical report (Here Dr. Rami Anderi), then the medical report will be
      evaluated by the cell therapy committee and the patient will be asked for clinical
      examination, and after consultation a reply to the patient with medical decision will follow
      with an approval or not be recruited and if yes, a brief report about the procedure will be
      submitted and explained in details to the patient, a consent form must be signed if the
      patient agrees to be included in the study, (2) the patient admission: which may start by
      completion of the procedure forms and doing the pre-op evaluation (initial work up defined as
      a clinical and biological assessment upon C.A.S), followed by lipoaspiration of the
      subcutaneous adipose tissue to be performed by the plastic surgeon, then sample processing
      for isolation and characterization of the stromal vascular fraction enriched with ADSVCs (the
      quality control assessment will be realized before and after all the steps of the procedure
      starting from the SVF collection to transplantation; (3) the delivery (transplantation). The
      patient will be put on antibiotic/anti-inflammatory for a defined period and followed by the
      team at 1 week, 3 months, and 6 months.
    
  