
    
      In adult kidney transplant recipients, the leading predictor of rejection, kidney loss, and
      death is immunosuppressive medication nonadherence. An estimated one-third of kidney
      transplant recipients reportedly experience medication nonadherence, and even minor
      deviations from the required protocol have been shown to have negative effects. However, due
      to the lack of systematic measurements of adherence, the direct relationship between the
      level of immunosuppressive medication adherence and poor outcomes is not well understood.
      Therefore, the investigators believe that mHealth technologies could be a feasible way to
      allow clinicians and researchers to better understand baseline adherence measurements, and
      increase immunosuppression adherence among kidney transplant recipients.

      We will use a mobile health platform that enables users to track dose-by-dose medication
      adherence through asynchronous, video directly observed therapy (DOT). This helps patients
      take their medication as prescribed and gives providers the assurance that their patients are
      supported and successful in treatment. DOT is the practice of watching a patient take every
      dose of medicine in-person, and has typically only been done in extreme cases because it can
      be both costly and burdensome: DOT is the standard of care for Tuberculosis treatment and has
      proven high-adherence rates. Through mHealth technology, DOT can be used more broadly and
      without added burden; emocha's technology allows this through enabling patients to use their
      mobile application to view their regimen, record themselves taking every dose of their
      medication, report side effects or symptoms, visualize their treatment progress, access
      educational content, and track appointments. This information is encrypted and transmitted to
      a HIPAA-secure web portal for providers to review. The aim of this study is to conduct a
      randomized control trial to compare medication adherence between patients who use the mHealth
      system against controls who do not.
    
  