
    
      1.1 Objective: To investigate the efficacy and safety of HF2 to induce remission in patients
      with active UC.

      1.2 Methods:

      This will be a two-stage study:

      Stage 1 will comprise an open label single arm exploratory study of 10 active UC patients
      investigating HF2 therapy for induction of remission in outpatients with active UC.

      Stage 2: If clinical response is achieved in ≥ 3 patients and no significant safety signals
      will emerge, the investigators will proceed to a prospective pilot randomized
      placebo-controlled study.

      Stage 1: Open label study

      1.7 Primary outcome stage I The primary outcome will be the percentage of patients in
      clinical remission (SCCAI score of ≤2) at week 4 after initiation of therapy

      Secondary outcomes (phase 1):

      1.7.1 The percentage of patients who had a rapid clinical response at day 7 after induction
      of therapy 1.7.2 The percentage of patients who had a clinical response at week 4 after
      initiation of therapy 1.7.3 Improvement in endoscopic score at week 4 compared to baseline
      according to modified endoscopic Mayo score (improvement of ≥ 1 point) 1.7.4 Achievement of
      mucosal healing (endoscopic modified Mayo score of ≤1). 1.7.5 Percentage of patients who
      achieve normalization and/or >50% improvement in C-reactive protein (CRP) and/or calprotectin
      levels (computed out of patients with abnormal values at baseline for these indices).

      1.7.6 Time-to-response defined as number of days to achieve a drop of ≥3 points of the SCCAI
      score.

      1.7.7. Time-to-ceasing of bleeding, defined as number of days for complete absence of blood
      in stools (SCCAI bleeding sub-score of 0), in those patients who has at least some blood in
      stool at entry (SCCAI bleeding sub-score of 1 or more).

      1.7.8 The percentage of patients in clinical remission at day 7 after induction of therapy.

      1.7.9. Improvement in IBD quality of life as gauged by questionnaire (IBDQ). 2 Intervention:
      Patients diagnosed with active UC will receive HF2 therapy for 4 weeks. 3 Procedures: 3.2 At
      inclusion: clinical and endoscopic assessment, blood and stool tests, cardiac echo and liver
      ultrasonography 3.4 clinical and endoscopic assessment, blood and stool tests, cardiac echo
      and liver ultrasonography

      Stage II: A multicenter randomized placebo controlled trial. The study will be performed in
      Sheba Medical Center and up to 2 additional European centers (TBD). For this stage of the
      trial , the patients will received HF2 combintation or similar (as described above) (2:1
      allocation) for 8 weeks. After completion of 8 weeks, all responders previously on active
      drug will receive additional 8 weeks of oral curcumin or placebo as per original arm.

      Primary outcome: a composite outcome of clinical response (reduction in SCCAI of ≤3 OR
      achievement of clinical remiision defined as SCCAI ≤2) coupled with an objective evidence of
      response ( Mayo score improvement of ≥1 or 50% FcAL reduction ) at week 8

      Secondary outcomes:

        -  Percentage of patients in clinical remission (SCCAI≤2) at week 8

        -  The percentage of patients who had a clinical response at week 8 after initiation of
           therapy

        -  Improvement in endoscopic score at week 8 compared to baseline according to endoscopic
           Mayo score (improvement of ≥ 1 point)

        -  Achievement of mucosal healing (endoscopic modified Mayo score of ≤1) at week 8

        -  Percentage of patients who achieve normalization and/or >50% improvement of CRP and/or
           calprotectin levels (computed out of patients with abnormal values at baseline for these
           indices) at week 8.

        -  Percentage of patients in corticosteroid-free clinical remission at week 8

        -  Improvement in IBD quality of life as gauged by questionnaire (IBDQ).

        -  Percentage of patients in clinical remission at week 16

        -  Percentage of patients with clinical response at week 16

        -  Percentage of patients with normalized fecal calprotectin and CRP

      6.2. Intervention: Patients will be randomized into one of two arms: HF2 or placebo
      formulation (2:1 proportion) for 8 weeks. Following the first 8 weeks, responders w ill
      receive an additional 8 weeks of curcumin 1.5 g/d or placebo (as per original arm).

      Patients will undergo clinical, laboratory (CRP, biomarkers, blood chemistry, CBC_biomarker
      (CRP and fecal calprotectin, at week 0,4,8 and 16 , and endoscopic assessment at baseline and
      week 8. Cardiac echo and liver US will be performed at week 0 and 8.

      Corticosteroid tapering will be allowed as per treating physician's discretion after week 8.
    
  