
    
      2.0 BACKGROUND INFORMATION AND RATIONALE

      The European Association of Cardiothoracic Surgeons expert consensus statement for the
      surgical management of empyema groups empyema into three entities. They are Parapneumonic
      (stage I), Fibrinopurulent (Stage II) and Chronic Organizing (Stage III). Fibrinopurulent is
      further characterized by bacterial invasion across the damaged lung epithelium with pH<7.2,
      glucose <2.2mmol/L and LDH >1000IU/L. These criteria along with a positive culture, gram
      stain or observed pus, is defined as an empyema.

      Despite the high incidence of empyemas, there continues to be controversy regarding first
      line management. Conventional thoracostomy has evolved to include the addition of
      intrapleural fibrinolytics for those in the fibrinopurulent phase. Many different agents and
      combinations of fibrinolytics have been described in the literature, as well as optimal
      techniques for chest tube insertion. With respect to fibrinolytics, the most recent MIST 2
      randomized control trial (RCT) examined four separate treatment arms; double placebo, placebo
      combined with intrapleural DNAse (5mg), intrapleural t-PA (10mg) with placebo, and
      intrapleural t-PA (10mg) combined with DNase (5mg) for six doses over three days. This study
      demonstrated a statistically significant difference in the reduction of pleural empyema in
      the t-PA and DNase combined arm (P=0.005) when compared with all the other arms. This RCT has
      established intrapleural fibrinolytic therapy as the gold standard treatment for those with
      empyema. When considering thoracostomy itself, the literature overwhelmingly suggests that
      image-guided thoracostomy decreases the rate of complications (pneumothorax, infection,
      procedure failure, intercostal bleeding), compared with a blind chest tube insertion.

      A Cochrane Systematic Review of eight trials (6 children and 2 adults) examining treatment
      methods for empyema provided moderate quality evidence suggesting there were similar
      complication rates between VATS decortication and chest tube drainage. The review also
      demonstrated VATS decortication potentially decreases hospitalization length of stay. A
      recent study examined 4,095 patients using the New York State database to investigate
      patients undergoing treatment for empyema with chest tube insertion, VATS decortication, or
      open thoracotomy. Patients had a higher mortality during their initial hospital stay when
      they received a chest tube compared with those who underwent a surgical approach (chest
      tube:15.4%, VATS:4.7%, open: 6.0%, p<0.001. Additionally, patients' readmission rate within
      thirty days was significantly higher for the chest tube group (6.1%) compared with the
      surgical group (VATS 1.9% and open: 2.1%, p<0.001) lending support that an initial surgical
      approach for empyema may be warranted.

      Two separate adult RCTs have attempted to compare VATS decortication to thoracostomy with
      fibrinolytics. Wait et al. in 1997 used a small study population of twenty patients in each
      arm, randomizing participants to either bedside thoracostomy with streptokinase or VATS
      decortication. This study demonstrated that in adults with a fibrinopurulent effusion, VATS
      decortication is associated with an increased rate of empyema resolution and a shorter length
      of stay. A review article published by Chambers et al examined twenty-eight studies,
      comparing decortication via thoracotomy to VATS decortication for empyema. The majority of
      studies demonstrated that VATS has a decreased length of hospital stay, decreased
      postoperative morbidity and decreased post-operative pain. Furthermore, there was a higher
      resolution of empyema during the fibrinopurulent phase. Despite these two studies
      demonstrating superior outcomes with VATs decortication, they still do not compare modern day
      standards of treatment for empyema.

      As the above literature suggests, there have been multiple proposed methods for first-line
      treatment of an empyema. However, there have not been any studies that compare modern
      standards of practice. Image-guided chest tube insertion has been shown to be superior to
      bedside chest tube insertion. Fibrinolytics administered as per MIST2 protocol has become the
      standard of practice at many institutions. Furthermore, VATS decortication has shown
      promising outcomes as first-line treatment and is associated with decreased morbidity
      compared with an open thoracotomy approach. Therefore, it is being proposed to compare
      image-guided chest tube insertion with MIST 2 trial fibrinolytics (six treatments of DNAse
      5mg and t-PA 10mg over three days) to VATS decortication for the primary treatment of adults
      presenting with empyema in the fibrinopurulent phase. The investigators will determine the
      rate of re-intervention required within thirty days of treatment.

      3.0 RESEARCH STUDY DESIGN/ METHODOLOGY This is a randomized control trial occurring at the
      Kingston Health Sciences Centre (KHSC). Empyema is a disease that is best managed with the
      expertise at an institution with thoracic surgeons. The standard practice is that once the
      diagnosis is made at another hospital in our LHIN, these patients are transferred to our
      Thoracic Surgery centre.

      Patients will receive a baseline CT Chest to confirm the presence of an empyema. Participants
      will have a diagnostic pleural thoracentesis performed by their primary care team initially
      to determine whether the pleural fluid is an exudate suggestive of an empyema in its
      fibrinopurulent phase (see inclusion criteria). Once this is performed and the diagnosis of
      an empyema is obtained, patients in our LHIN not at KHSC will be transferred as usual to KHSC
      to be managed by the thoracic surgery team. For patients under the care of a different
      service at KHSC, they will be transferred to be under the care of the thoracic surgery team.

      Once admitted under the thoracic surgery service, the study team will be notified and
      information will be provided to the patients. Informed consent will be obtained at this time
      by a member of the study team. Using an online randomization tool, participants will be
      randomized into either the image-guided thoracostomy combined with MIST 2 Trial fibrinolytics
      arm or the VATS decortication arm. Both procedures will be carried out within forty-eight
      hours of participant arrival. Both arms will also receive concurrent IV broad-spectrum
      antibiotics. The image-guided thoracostomy arm will go to the interventional radiology suite
      where a 12-24Fr chest tube will be inserted at the discretion of the interventional
      radiologist based on the specific clinical picture. Data will be collected during their stay.
      The primary outcome of the study will be to determine the rate of reintervention required,
      including additional chest tube insertion or surgery. Secondary outcomes will include
      mortality, duration of hospital stay, and adverse events. Data will be collected 30 days
      after their initial intervention to determine if any re-intervention was necessary.

      A repeat CT Chest will be performed prior to discharge, clinical consideration of chest tube
      removal, or if there is no clinical improvement.
    
  