
    
      Proton beams are designed to deliver a high dose of radiation to the abnormal tissues while
      sparing surrounding normal tissues. Bevacizumab is a biotherapy that is designed to prevent
      or slow down the growth of cancer cells by blocking the growth of blood vessels.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have "screening tests." These tests
      will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this study. You will have a
      complete physical exam. Blood (about 2 tablespoons) and urine will be collected for routine
      tests. You will have chest x-rays and a computed tomography (CT) scan of your abdomen
      (stomach area) and pelvis. Women who are able to have a children must have a negative urine
      pregnancy test.

      You will then have a radiation treatment planning session called a simulation. You will get a
      CT scan of your abdomen, and marks will be placed on your skin to help guide the radiation
      treatments when you return for the actual treatments. At around the same time, you will
      receive your first dose of bevacizumab through a needle in your vein. The infusion will at
      first last 90 minutes. If there are no allergic reactions, fevers, or chills, the infusion
      will be shortened to 60 minutes and then 30 minutes for later infusions. Your second dose of
      bevacizumab will be given with the start of radiation therapy treatments. Your final dose of
      bevacizumab will be given 2 weeks later. You will receive radiation therapy once a day, for 5
      days in a row (Monday-Friday) for 4 weeks (total of 20 treatments).

      During this study, you will have physical exams weekly during treatment, 1 month after the
      last proton beam therapy visit and then every 3 months thereafter. Every week, while
      receiving proton beam therapy, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn to check for any side
      effects. You will be asked about any side effects you may be experiencing.

      You may remain on study for as long as you are benefitting. You will be taken off study if
      the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      After participation in this study is over, you will have follow-up evaluation every 3 months
      for 2 years. During these visits, you will have a physical exam. You will have CT scans.
      Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      This is an investigational study. Bevacizumab is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of metastatic colon cancer. The use of bevacizumab with proton beam therapy is
      investigational. Up to 30 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M.
      D. Anderson.
    
  