
    
      Study approval was obtained from Institutional Review Board (IRB) of Samsung medical center,
      and written informed consent was obtained from all participants.

      The required sample size was determined by power analysis on the basis of a previous study.
      The primary outcome was pain intensity in the posterior neck and upper back after TPI using
      verbal numerical rating scale (VNRS). The standard deviation of VNRS was assumed to be 20.
      Power calculations indicated that detecting 20 points difference in VNRS between the two
      groups (with α = 0.05 and β = 0.1) would require a sample of 29 subjects for each group. To
      account for dropouts, 33 subjects were recruited for each group.

      Group L received TPI with a 3.2 ml of a 1:1 mixture of 1% lidocaine and 0.9% normal saline.
      Group H received TPI with the same volume of solution supplemented with hyaluronidase
      (H-LASE®, 1500 iu, L&H Pharm., Seoul, Korea) 600 iu/ml. The investigators monitored vital
      sign and any signs of complications such as bleeding, hematoma, allergic reactions for 30
      minutes. Treatment efficacy was evaluated by one of the authors (J.W.C.) using VNRS. To
      reduce bias, this evaluator and the participants were not informed of the assigned group.

      Patients' characteristics such as age, height, weight, BMI and pretreatment neck disability
      index (NDI) and brief pain inventory (BPI) were analyzed by independent t-test. The sex
      distribution was analyzed by the chi-square test. P values were corrected by Bonferroni's
      method. Pretreatment VNRS and the duration of pain were evaluated by the Wilcoxon two-sample
      test. Repeated measures ANOVA was used to compare changes in the VNRS over time between the
      two groups. Pre- and post-TPI changes in NDI and BPI were compared between the two groups
      with the Wilcoxon signed rank test and the independent t-test, respectively. All analyses
      were performed with SPSS 18.0 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA) statistical software.
      Significance was assumed for P values of less than 0.05.
    
  