
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  The management of advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) continues to remain a challenge,
           particularly for patients with papillary and non-clear cell variants of RCC, for whom
           there is no standard therapy of proven benefit.

        -  Inactivation of the Krebs cycle enzyme Fumarate Hydratase (FH) in tumors associated with
           hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer (HLRCC) results in a metabolic shift
           characterized by a) reliance on aerobic glycolysis for energy production, b)
           upregulation of hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF 1-) and its downstream targets that
           promote glucose delivery and uptake to fuel aerobic glycolysis, and c) downregulation of
           5' AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), resulting in activation of the mammalian target
           of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway and increased macromolecule synthesis.

        -  Inactivation of another Krebs cycle enzyme, Succinate Dehydrogenase (SDH), is also
           associated with a familial form of kidney cancer which shares some of the above
           metabolic features.

        -  Vandetanib is a dual Vascular endothelial growth-factor receptor (VEGFR)/estimated
           glomerular filtration rate (EGFR) inhibitor that reverses the metabolic phenotype
           associated with fumarate hydratase (FH) (and SDH) inactivation and has potent
           preclinical activity in FH-/- and SDH -/- tumors. Metformin activates AMPK and has
           demonstrated potent synergy when combined with vandetanib, in preclinical models of FH
           -/- tumors.

        -  In this phase 1/2 trial, we first propose to establish the safety and dosing parameters
           of combined vandetanib and metformin therapy. We then propose to test the activity of
           vandetanib in combination with metformin in patients with HLRCC or SDH-associated RCC,
           as well as those with sporadic forms of papillary RCC.

      OBJECTIVE:

      Phase I Component:

      -Establish the safety and maximum tolerated dose of the combination of vandetanib with
      metformin in patients with advanced RCC.

      Phase II Component:

      -Determine the overall response rate (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST
      1.1) following treatment with combine vandetanib/metformin in patients with 1) advanced RCC
      associated with hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell carcinoma (HLRCC) or succinate
      dehydrogenase renal cell carcinoma (SDH-RCC), and 2) advanced sporadic papillary renal cell
      carcinoma.

      ELIGIBILITY:

      Phase I Component:

        -  Diagnosis of advanced RCC

        -  Patients with clear cell RCC must have either declined, be unable to receive, progressed
           on, or be intolerant of high-dose IL-2 or established first and second line VEGF and/or
           mTOR targeted agents

        -  No prior therapy is required in patients with non-clear cell RCC, but prior therapy is
           allowed

      Phase II Component:

        -  Diagnosis of advanced RCC associated with HLRCC or SDH-RCC (cohort 1) or
           sporadic/non-HLRCC papillary RCC (cohort 2)

        -  No more than 2 prior regimens with VEGF-pathway antagonists

      General requirements for both Phase I and II:

        -  Age greater than or equal to18

        -  Brain metastases or spinal cord compression that requires treatment, unless the
           treatment ended at least 4 weeks before starting protocol therapy and the condition has
           been stable without steroid treatment for at least 10 days

        -  No major surgery within four weeks or inadequately healed wounds prior to study
           enrollment

        -  Adequate organ function

      DESIGN:

      Phase I Component:

        -  Combination vandetanib and metformin will be administered at starting doses of 300 mg
           every day (QD) and 250 mg twice a day (BID), respectively.

        -  The study design is based on a single arm, fixed order dose-escalation Phase 1 study
           using a modified Fibronacci schema.

        -  Up to 6 patients may be enrolled in a specific dose combination cohort. Based on the
           assumption that 3 dose levels will be evaluated, the total number of evaluable patients
           will be 18. To allow for a few patients who may be inevaluable, the accrual ceiling for
           this portion of the study will be set at 21. Based on how dose escalation proceeds and
           the adverse events seen, the total number of patients to be accrued may be changed via a
           protocol amendment.

      Phase II Component:

        -  Once the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined, the appropriate combination dose
           will be evaluated in the phase 2 component.

        -  Patients will be accrued into one of two independent, parallel cohorts:

             -  Cohort 1 Patients with advanced HLRCC or SDH associated RCC.

             -  Cohort 2 Patients with advanced sporadic/non-HLRCC papillary kidney cancer.

        -  Patients will be evaluated for response every 8-12 weeks using RECIST 1.1.

        -  The study is based on open label two-stage optimal phase II design.

        -  The accrual ceiling for this portion of the study will be 21 patients for each cohort.
    
  