
    
      This study is a single arm, single center, non randomized, open label study. It is estimated
      that 56 patients with advanced HCC who can not receive radical resection will be enrolled.

      The trial period of subjects includes screening period, treatment period and follow-up
      period.

      The drug treatment was 240 mg of PD-1 monoclonal antibody, intravenous infusion on the first
      day, every 21 days as a treatment cycle; lenvatinib mesylate capsule, 12 mg (body weight ≥ 60
      kg) or 8 mg (body weight < 60 kg), oral once a day, continuous oral; TACE, the blank
      microspheres and lobaplatin (30 mg) + epirubicin (40 mg) were injected into the hepatic
      artery by routine procedure, repeated every 4-6 weeks, and administered for 2-4 cycles.
      Treatment continues until the disease progresses, intolerable toxicity occurs, new anti-tumor
      treatment is started, informed consent is withdrawn, follow-up is lost, death occurs or
      treatment termination is required。

      Screening will be performed between days - 21 and - 4. Informed consent was signed up to 4
      weeks prior to the first day of cycle 1 before any screening procedure or evaluation was
      performed and the trial was fully explained to each subject.

      Baseline evaluation results must be collected prior to the first trial drug administration
      (day 1 of cycle 1). Baseline assessments may be performed between days - 3 and - 1 or on day
      1 of cycle 1. If performed within 3 days before the first day of cycle 1, the screening
      results can be used as baseline results.

      The tumor imaging was evaluated every 8 weeks (± 7 days) since the first administration, and
      every 12 weeks (± 7 days) after 36 weeks. If there are clinical indications for disease
      progression, tumor evaluation is more frequent. In the event of disease progression,
      unacceptable toxicity, the subject's request to discontinue the trial or the subject's
      withdrawal of consent, the subject will discontinue the trial treatment.

      When the trial treatment is stopped, the treatment visit shall be stopped within 7 days after
      the treatment is stopped in order to stop the treatment examination.

      After the end of the treatment period (up to 2 years), subjects who can benefit from the
      study drug will continue to study the treatment of the drug until disease progression,
      intolerable adverse reactions, withdrawal of intensive care facility (ICF), other anti-tumor
      treatment, loss of follow-up, death or termination of the study.

      After the occurrence of a clinical event, if it is judged by the investigators that it should
      be attributed to the progress of the disease and it is unlikely to recover even if the
      patient continues to receive treatment, it can be evaluated as clinical deterioration. It is
      up to the investigator to discuss and decide whether to continue or stop the treatment for
      the subject and record in the study file.

      At the end of the study, subjects who are still under study treatment can continue to receive
      treatment through another extended study or other forms at the discretion of the investigator
      if they are stable or relieved in the efficacy evaluation and can tolerate the adverse
      reactions.
    
  