
    
      Recurrent colitis due to Clostridium difficile results from disruption of the normal gut
      flora, and is very difficult to treat. It is now clear that restoration of the normal gut
      flora is the most effective way to treat recurrent C. difficile colitis. Restoration of the
      normal gut flora is best done by transplanting stool from a healthy donor, and this is
      accepted as a superior therapeutic modality for recurrent C. difficile colitis. This fecal
      microbiota transplantation can be done with direct instillation of the donor stool into the
      GI tract via a naso-duodenal tube or colonoscope. Recently, a non-invasive method of stool
      transplantation has been developed where the donor stool is encapsulated and administered in
      pill form. The investigators would like to use fecal microbiota transplantation with
      encapsulated stool as a non-invasive therapy for patients with recurrent C. difficile
      colitis. To qualify, patients must have a history of, at least, 3 episodes of C difficile
      colitis within the past year or, at least, 2 episodes of C difficile colitis that resulted in
      hospitalization. Stool samples will be obtained from healthy volunteers who have been
      screened for infections that can be transmitted via stool, and the investigators will prepare
      capsules containing processed stool for administration during a single outpatient clinic
      visit. Patients will be followed closely after administration of the fecal transplant with
      serial clinic visits, and the primary endpoint will be prevention of any further episodes of
      C. difficile colitis in the six month period following transplantation. The investigators
      will also obtain and store stool samples from patients before and after fecal microbiota
      transplantation for possible future microbiome analyses. The obvious safety concern is the
      transmission of an infection from the donor. All donors will be carefully screened for
      high-risk exposures and will undergo testing of both blood and stool to ensure that they are
      free of infections due to HIV, acute hepatitis A, acute/chronic hepatitis B, hepatitis C,
      giardiasis, cryptosporidiosis, and Helicobacter pylori.
    
  