
    
      The ASGE and ACG have developed standards for high-quality colonoscopy and ADR. Bowel
      cleansing must be optimal to enhance polyp detection and several studies have demonstrated
      the advantage of split dose or same day preparation as opposed to ingesting the preparation
      the day before. It is recommended that patients undergo split dosing of the bowel preparation
      or even same day bowel preparation for optimal cleansing. This is critical for high quality
      colonoscopy.

      One of the risks associated with colonoscopy is pulmonary aspiration. Part of this risk may
      be related to retained gastric volume and gastric pH at the time of the endoscopic
      procedures. Aspiration pneumonia may be related to the acidity where more acidic aspirate may
      cause more severe respiratory compromise. In a recent article, Huffman supported the safety
      of split dose bowel preparation (4L bowel preparation) for outpatients undergoing
      colonoscopy. In this study it was/found that residual gastric volume in split dose
      preparations was higher than patients undergoing EGD alone but was not different from than in
      patients receiving bowel preparation the evening before. Early morning bowel preps for
      patients undergoing upper and lower endoscopies was not evaluated in this study. To our
      knowledge, the relationship of residual gastric volume in same day bowel preps has not been
      evaluated and has not been compared with the split dose bowel preps. A formal evaluation of
      difference in gastric acidity has not been evaluated in patients undergoing bowel prep for
      colonoscopy.

      The study has a prospective observational design. The patients who have been already
      scheduled for a combined esophagogastroduodenoscopy and colonoscopy for their specific
      indications will be asked to be a part of this study. No additional intervention will be done
      other than the procedure they were already scheduled for. No specific interventions will be
      assigned to the subjects of the study. Outcomes will be assessed in pre-defined groups based
      on the bowel preparation taken by the patient.

      The fluid is going to be collected in a suction container without solidifier material. Once
      the endoscopist enters the stomach all fluid will be suctioned which is part of the customary
      process of endoscopy. Once all fluid is aspirated, the container will be removed to empty the
      fluid into a measuring canister while the endoscopic procedure is continued and a container
      with solidifier material is instead connected to suction. The pH will be measured on the
      gastric fluid that was aspirated using a calibrated catheter pH device.
    
  