
    
      Participants will be patients diagnosed as having idiopathic PD by a neurologist. Patients
      will be recruited from the Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of Neurology, Faculty of
      Medicine Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol University, Thailand. Participants will be classified into
      two groups; the treatment and the control groups. All participants will be asked to sign an
      informed consent form approved by the ethical committee of Mahidol University Institutional
      Review Board, Mahidol University, Thailand. Only patients with PD who meet the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria will be invited to participate in the study. All participants will be
      assessed for daily activity and motor skill using the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating
      Scale (UPDRS). At pre- and post- assessments, eye movement and turning characteristics will
      be assessed using Inertial Measurement Unit sensors and Electroocculography (EOG). The
      treatment group will receive a rehabilitation program by the physiotherapist. The
      rehabilitation sessions will take place at the Faculty of Physical Therapy, Mahidol
      University, Thailand. The control group will receive a diary for recording their daily
      activities during the duration of participation in this study. In addition, the researcher
      will phone participants once per week to remind then to maintain their diary records.

      Data Processing & Analysis: this study will be used the outcome measures and processing data
      in MATLAB.

      Statistical analysis: Kolmogorov Smirnov Goodness of Fit Test will be used to test the data
      distribution. If the data are normal or non-normal distribution, data comparisons will be
      tested as the following;

        -  Normal distribution: Mixed model ANOVA will be used to compare outcome measures between
           pre- and post- and between the treatment and the control groups

        -  Non-normal distribution: The Mann-Whitney U test will be used to compare outcome
           measures between the treatment and control groups. Wilcoxon Signed-Rank test will be
           used to compare outcome measures between pre- and post- assessments within group.
    
  