
    
      Upper gastrointestinal (GI) subepithelial tumors (SETs) are tumors arising from subepithelial
      layers of esophageal, gastric or duodenal wall, mostly from the submucosa and muscular layer.
      The incidence of SETs on routine endoscopy is 0.36% The differential diagnosis of SETs
      include, though are not limited to: lipoma, leiomyoma, aberrant pancreas, varices, carcinoid,
      gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs), and lymphomas . Therefore, a correct diagnosis of
      these tumors is important to guide subsequent management. These lesions are often not
      accurately diagnosed on cross-sectional imaging . Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) aids in
      narrowing the differential diagnosis of the lesion as it is often able to establish the layer
      of origin . However, an accurate diagnosis and targeted therapy is not made solely on the
      morphological features but on histologic type and at times mitotic index. Thus the need for
      techniques to obtain histology is beneficial in guiding management.

      Since standard endoscopy with pinch biopsies of the overlying mucosa often fails to provide
      an adequate sample for analysis, multiple other modalities to sample the lesion have been
      utilized: EUS-guided fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA), EUS-guided core needle biopsy
      (EUS-CNB), bite-on-bite forceps biopsies, EUS-guided single-incision with needle knife (SINK)
      and endoscopic resection.

      EUS-FNA is now considered to be the usual method of sampling; however, the diagnostic yield
      is low: 38% to 82% . Moreover, EUS-FNA often provides insufficient specimens which may not
      allow for immunohistochemistry that is often essential for diagnosis . Thus EUS-CNB has been
      assessed for the purpose of obtaining a core sample which allows for histological assessment.
      Published data reveals a diagnostic (though not histologic) yield using EUS-CNB of 75% In
      2011, the SINK technique for sampling was presented with a reported diagnostic accuracy of
      92.8% [8]. The technique utilizes a conventional needle-knife connected to an electrosurgical
      unit. A 6 to 12-mm mucosal incision is made over the lesion. Then conventional biopsy forceps
      are introduced to obtain 3-5 samples. Subsequently, the incision is closed with 2 to 3
      endoclips.

      The purpose of this study is to prospectively compare the efficacy and safety of EUS-CNB with
      SINK in patients with upper GI SETs. The investigators hypothesis is that the SINK technique
      will be superior to the EUS-CNB in obtaining a histological specimen. The results of the
      study would provide data which may improve the diagnostic ability for SETs. This in turn will
      guide appropriate surveillance or management (surgical or endoscopic) for patients with these
      lesions.
    
  