
    
      Purpose: In this aim, the investigators will test the hypothesis that n-3 PUFAs modify
      aspirin anti-platelet response, by measuring and comparing three different indicators of
      aspirin response in individuals with extremely high and low RBC n-3 PUFA levels, under a
      basal state and after 1-week of once a day aspirin treatment. The three indicators are: 1)
      platelet TXB2 and 20-HETE concentrations; 2) platelet aggregation ex vivo (in response to
      external stimuli); and 3) aspirin covalent adduct of COX-1. The investigators will also test
      whether or not common variants in the CYP4A11, CYP4F2, CYP4F11, PEAR1 and ACTN1 genes are
      associated with basal and aspirin-induced changes in platelet aggregation and, in an
      exploratory analysis, modify the effects of n-3 PUFAs on aspirin response.

      Procedures and Population: Investigators from the University of Montana, Southcentral
      Foundation and Oregon Health & Science University will recruit a total of 150 individuals (50
      at each site) to participate in the study. At each performance site, the participants
      recruited will represent 25 individuals with high and 25 individuals with low RBC n-3 PUFA
      concentrations. After providing written consent, each study participant will be screened for
      medical history and clinical lab testing to ensure good health and good liver, kidney and
      blood test parameters. If found to be eligible, each participant will provide 12-hour fasted
      (overnight) blood samples for isolation of plasma, platelets, lymphocytes, and red blood
      cells. A separate blood sample will be collected into a citrate treated tube for platelet
      aggregation testing using the PFA-100 platform. Isolated blood fractions will be stored at
      -80°C.

      After baseline sampling, each participant will be given six doses of aspirin (80 mg/day for 6
      days) and instructed to take one dose daily at approximately 9 am. On the day after the last
      aspirin dose, the participant will provide blood samples for repeated platelet aggregation
      testing, platelet lipid analysis and measurement of aspirin covalent adduct to COX-1, and a
      spot urine sample to confirm aspirin consumption by testing for salicylate. For 24 hours
      prior to platelet aggregation testing, study participants will be asked to avoid foods that
      could lead to spurious test results (eg, chocolate, tea, coffee, cola, red wine, beer,
      tomato, grapes, grape juice, orange and cranberry juices, as well as traditional wild foods
      that include berries, plant roots, plant greens etc).

      Analytical Methods: Whole blood, point of care, platelet aggregation testing will be
      performed using the automated PFA-100 instrument. Performance by research personnel will be
      compared head-head to clinical testing services at each site, as a quality control measure.
      In each test setting, the investigators will obtain results in duplicate for both
      collagen/epinephrine and collagen/ADP cartridges. The investigators will also measure
      platelet TXB2, 20-HETE and AA concentrations, by LC-MS/MS. In addition, the investigators
      will develop and employ a method to quantify theaspirin covalent adduct of COX-1 in isolated
      platelets from study participants.

      Statistical Methods: For each study population, and subgroups with extreme RBC n-3 PUFA
      phenotypes, the investigators will use linear regression models with robust standard errors
      to identify significant differences in the mean absolute platelet aggregation test results
      under basal and aspirin-treated conditions (primary outcome), as well as the
      post-treatment-to-baseline change in platelet aggregation. Heterogeneity between pairs of
      extreme phenotypes subgroups will be accounted for by including sex, age, BMI and platelet
      count as covariates in the regression model. Sample size calculation for each performance
      site (n = 25 per n-3 PUFA subgroup) was based on having power of at least 0.8 for detecting a
      difference in mean platelet aggregation between the two extreme (0-10 and 90-100 percentiles)
      n-3 PUFA subgroups under basal conditions, at a significance level of 0.05. As a secondary
      level of analysis, for each subgroup of the extreme RBC n-3 PUFA phenotypes, the
      investigators will also compare mean platelet TXB2 and 20-HETE concentrations under basal and
      aspirin-treated conditions, as well as the post-treatment-to-baseline change. Finally, a
      third level of analysis will involve testing each study population for a difference in the
      extent of aspirin adduct to COX-1 between groups with extreme RBC n-3 PUFA phenotypes. The
      investigators will test for associations between platelet aggregation test results and
      biochemical measures of platelet activation, each study population separately and in
      aggregate.

      The investigators will use linear regression models to test for an association between common
      CYP4A11,CYP4F2, CYP4F11, PEAR1 and ACTN1 genotypes and the mean absolute platelet aggregation
      test results under basal and aspirin-treated conditions, as well as the
      post-treatment-to-baseline change in platelet aggregation. In an exploratory analysis, the
      investigators will apply Linear Mixed Effects (LME) models to the combined pre- and
      post-treatment dataset to test for associations with n-3 PUFAs group and drug effects, as
      well as to identify any modifications of those effects by CYP4A11, CYP4F2, CYP4F11, PEAR1 and
      ACTN1 variation by including and testing for significant interaction effects in the models.
      The investigators will include random effects in the LME to account for potential
      heterogeneity in each of the populations.
    
  