
    
      Modern pain neuroscience has advanced our understanding of chronic spinal pain (CSP). Despite
      the scientific progresses with regard to the treatment of chronic spinal pain (CSP), current
      treatments for CSP do not address pain comorbidities like insomnia, an important yet seldom
      addressed issue. Treatment of CSP mostly still relies on monotherapies or on biomedical
      models, as shown by expensive but ineffective treatments like lumbar fusion surgery, ignoring
      important comorbidities such as insomnia.

      Within the current innovative project we propose examining the added value of cognitive
      behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBT-I) to the current best evidence treatment for CSP. The
      innovative nature of this approach to CSP goes well beyond the combination of 2 available and
      effective treatments: combining cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia with the recently
      established modern neuroscience approach (pain neuroscience education followed by
      cognition-targeted exercise therapy) strengthens the content of both individual approaches
      and applies the current understanding regarding insomnia and pain neuroscience to clinical
      practice. This innovative combination will result in a synergistic effect of both treatments.

      The primary scientific objective of the study is to examine if CBT-I combined with a modern
      neuroscience approach (pain neuroscience education followed by cognition-targeted exercise
      therapy) is more effective than the modern neuroscience approach alone for reducing pain in
      CSP patients with insomnia. Secondary objectives of the study are to examine if CBT-I
      combined with the modern neuroscience approach is more effective than the modern neuroscience
      approach alone for improving pain related outcomes, sleep related outcomes and physical
      activity/functionality in CSP patients with insomnia.

      To comply with these scientific objectives, the 120 CSP patients with comorbid insomnia will
      be subjected to the baseline assessment of all outcome measures.

      Follow-up assessments will be performed immediately after 14 weeks of therapy (all tests),
      and 3 months (questionnaires), 6 months (questionnaires) and 12 months (all tests, depending
      on a go/no go decision) after finishing the therapeutic intervention.

      To investigate these objectives, a muli-center triple-blind randomized, controlled trial with
      1 year follow up will be performed.

      Appropriate statistical analyses will be performed to evaluate and compare treatment effects.
      Statistical, as well as clinical significant differences will be defined and the effect size
      will be determined.
    
  