
    
      Radioactive iodine (RAI) is a radioisotope used to ablate thyroid gland remnant after
      thyroidectomy in patients diagnosed with differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC). A whole body
      scan (WBS) is performed to not only evaluate for iodine uptake by the native thyroid tissue
      but also to observe for uptake in other areas of the body, which could be physiological or
      indicative of iodide-avid metastases. Research has shown a correlation between breast cancer
      and thyroid cancer. Patients with DTC have been found to have elevated levels of serum
      prolactin, which could lead to mammary gland dysfunction. As such, this study will evaluate
      for breast uptake on the RAI WBS. Research has shown that patients with DTC may have uptake
      on RAI WBS.

      There is a concern in the molecular imaging community and oncology community that increased
      I-131 retention in breast tissue may increase the risk of future breast malignancy. The
      notion that increased serum prolactin concentration increases iodine uptake in breast tissue
      comes mostly from case series. A correlation between high prolactin as a result of withdrawal
      from thyroid hormone treatment vs stimulation by recombinant human thyrotropin and uptake by
      thyroid tissue is the main research question. This research will not be able to answer the
      question of whether such breast uptake is associated with the future risk breast malignancy.
      The later research question should be undertaken by other researchers in a larger study with
      longer follow up. Metastases to the breast from thyroid cancer are rare. Uptake in a discrete
      lesion in the breast will need to be investigated. It is unclear whether breast
      adenocarcinoma will concentrate iodine.

      In a previous retrospective study of 194 patients with DTC and no breast cancer, it was
      demonstrated that patients prepared by withdrawal from thyroid hormone had 5-fold higher peak
      I-131 uptake in breast tissue on post-therapy scan compared to patients prepared by
      recombinant human thyrotropin (rh-TSH). In other research, DTC patients with
      hyperprolactinemia have been found to have increased uptake by the mammary gland. The
      hypothesis is that patients prepared by withdrawal would have increased serum prolactin
      compared to patients prepared by rh-TSH who are not made hypothyroid. This study plans to
      prospectively evaluate serum prolactin and breast uptake on the RAI WBS and assess the impact
      of pre-scan preparation on those variables. This would be the first prospective study of its
      kind in this set of patients to look at whether the method of pre-RAI scan preparation might
      impact RAI uptake with correlation to prolactin levels.
    
  