
    
      According to the French support and palliative care (RFS) Company, palliative care are active
      in a holistic approach to the person with a serious illness, progressive or terminal. Their
      goal is to relieve physical symptoms and other pain and take into account the psychological,
      social and spiritual suffering.

      He consensus among caregivers to recognize the importance and maintaining good oral hygiene
      for patients treated for cancer at all ages of life, home and in hospital, and consider that
      the oral hygiene is an integral part of nursing, toilet and contributes to the health of
      patients. This is primarily a comfort for the person to have a healthy mouth, healthy with a
      clean mouth, but also a tool that meets all its features.

      The feeding, respiration and communication are three closely related to the proper
      functioning of the oral cavity needs. Furthermore, cancer, various treatments, age are
      possible disturbances oral integrity. The nurse helped the caregiver has upstream of care,
      the role of counseling and prevention. However, a review of the oral and / or the
      establishment of procedures support oral hygiene status are largely neglected despite the
      existence of published recommendations. This is particularly related to lack of information
      provided and continuing education offered to carers and the lack of written procedures.
      Moreover, the limited literature on the subject limit the possibility of initiatives, the
      establishment of a procedure before relying on evidence-based practice. Measure 43 Cancer
      Plan I and the establishment of mobile units or palliative care teams and management of pain
      in Residential Care (especially CHU and Centres for the Fight Against Cancer [PBC] ) is an
      opportunity to implement an audit action.

      This project is part of a research program in several steps. From November 2010 to August
      2011, 260 patients (107 hommes/153 women), median age 64 years (19-88 years) were included.
      J2, a healthy mouth, moderately (dry mouth and / or dirty) or severely (fungal mouth and / or
      painful ulcerated and / or hemorrhagic) was altered respectively observed for 61 (23.5%), 139
      (53.5%) and 60 (23.0%) patients. Traceability of this oral assessment is found in 10% of
      cases. The exit assessment was performed in 184 patients (46 deaths, 30 non-assessed),
      including 129 with a delay ≥ 5 days between J2 and output. The mouth on the output shows a
      healthy mouth, moderately and severely impaired in 33 (26%), 70 (54%) and 26 (20%) of these
      129 patients, respectively. Thus, 27 (21%) patients showed deterioration in their oral
      condition during hospitalization: 13/31 (42%) for patients with a healthy mouth to J2 and
      14/72 (19%) for those with a mouth moderately altered to J2. In contrast, 28/129 (22%)
      patients, including 13/72 (18%) and 15/26 (58%) respectively had a mouth moderately and
      severely impaired the initial assessment have improved access to oral output state .

      Following this audit action, a tool Medical Assessment mouth has been prepared in
      collaboration with health care teams participating as well as recommendations for management
      of each type of mouth (concerning both hygiene as drug and non-drug measures), in agreement
      with those of learned societies, a plan of care by type of mouth care.

      An inter centers presenting the results of the first stage (inventory) and definition of the
      training plan was held in March 2013 in the presence, for each center, doctor, and nurse care
      manager and / or scope of health involved in palliative care and research program. The
      purpose of this meeting was to present the evaluation grid of mouth and recommendations
      developed state care and the plan and tools for training healthcare teams on site.

      From May to September 2013, personnel, formed during this meeting, provide training for
      paramedical and medical teams of their establishment.

      The purpose of this study is to measure the impact of training on the practical assessment
      and management of the oral status of patients hospitalized in palliative situation.

      Expected results We hope that the appropriate training of health care teams allow all
      patients during their hospitalization benefit systematically evaluate the oral condition, the
      implementation of actions consistent with the recommendations and thus an improvement the
      care of their oral condition.

      Ultimately, it is hoped that the management of the oral condition falls within the overall
      care of the patient.
    
  