
    
      Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) is a severe condition among sleep respiratory disorders,
      characterized by intermittent episodes of partial (hypopnea) or total (apnea) obstruction of
      the upper airways during sleep. These obstructive episodes result in hypoxemia and
      hypercapnia, changes in intrathoracic pressure and sleep arousals, consequently leading sleep
      fragmentation and a non-restorative sleep pattern.

      OSA affects 1 to 4% of the world's pediatric population, with a higher incidence between 2 to
      8 years old, negatively affecting the general and oral health of children and adolescents.
      Studies show divergences regarding the prevalence among sexes, either showing similar rates
      for girls and boys, or a predilection of the disease for the male sex. Although scientific
      evidence reports known OSAs risk factors like adenotonsilar hypertrophy and obesity, there is
      still divergence of which associated characteristics are present in children and adolescents.

      Diagnostic criteria of OSA in this population follows the recommendations of American Academy
      of Sleep Medicine (AASM) through the International Classification of Sleep Disorders
      (ICSD-3), which determines full-night PSG as the gold standard test for the diagnosis and
      severity of OSA, as it promotes a quantitative and objective assessment of disturbances in
      breathing and sleep patterns. Although parents' report of child behavior and symptoms is
      essential for establishing the diagnosis of OSA, the factors evaluated in the anamnesis and
      clinical examination, in general, do not present adequate accuracy for the diagnosis of OSA.
      The use of clinical history and physical examination alone is not suitable for a definite
      diagnose of OSA when compared to PSG. Besides, most questionnaires used as alternative
      diagnostic methods do not meet the necessary criteria to be considered as acceptable tools in
      the identification of children and adolescents with OSA.

      There is evidence in the literature regarding OSA's significant morbidity in children and
      adolescents, leading to cardiovascular, metabolic and neurocognitive complications, resulting
      in reduced quality of life. Also, OSA is associated with several craniofacial and dental
      changes, such as retrognathia, class II malocclusion, vertical face growth and sleep bruxism.
      It becomes clear the importance of the dentist in identifying factors associated with OSA in
      children and adolescents, this being the first step towards early and definitive diagnosis,
      followed by adequate treatment, to minimize the health damage in this population. Therefore,
      this study aims to study the risk factors correlated with OSA, the prevalence and severity of
      illness in children and adolescents, considering that the current scientific evidence is
      divergent.

      A retrospective cross-sectional study will be conducted to investigate the prevalence,
      severity and associations between diagnosis by gold-standard PSG examination and the
      sociodemographic, clinical conditions, sleep quality and sleep structure of children and
      adolescents, following the recommended criteria by the AASM. Also, this study aims to
      evaluate the association of sleep bruxism (SB) and OSA. The sample will consist of
      participants, between 1 and 18 years, who were referred to Pelotas Sleep Institute, answered
      the questionnaires (self-reported or parent-reported) and performed PSG for diagnostic
      purposes.
    
  