
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) including complete remission (CR), complete
      remission with hematologic recovery (CRh), complete remission with incomplete blood count
      recovery (CRi), morphologic leukemia-free state (MLFS), and partial remission (PR) of the
      combination of liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine (CPX-351) and ivosidenib in
      IDH1-mutated patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome
      (MDS).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess safety of CPX-351 in combination with ivosidenib. II. To determine time to event
      endpoints including duration of response (DOR), event free survival (EFS) and overall
      survival (OS).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate minimal residual disease (MRD) using multiparameter flow cytometry, cytogenetics
      and molecular evaluation.

      II. To evaluate molecular and cellular biomarkers that may be predictive of antitumor
      activity and/or resistance to treatment including evaluation of 2HG, IDH1 and other
      co-occurring mutations and VAF levels before, during and after treatment.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION: Patients receive CPX-351 intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5,
      and ivosidenib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Patients who do not achieve complete
      remission may receive a second cycle of induction therapy in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving complete remission proceed to
      consolidation.

      CONSOLIDATION: Patients receive CPX-351 IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 3, and ivosidenib PO
      QD on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE: Patients receive ivosidenib PO QD for up to 2 years in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who are experiencing clinical benefit and who
      have not experienced excessive toxicity after completion of 2 years of maintenance may be
      eligible to continue therapy after discussion with the principal investigator.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then monthly for 3
      years.
    
  