
    
      Methods/Design: Design: This is multicentre cross-sectional study, randomized in two parallel
      groups.

      Setting: Two different urban PHC. Study population: 150 caregivers will be included by
      consecutive sampling. They provide mostly all the assistance to care-dependent familiars
      receiving attention in PHC Centers. Of chance form 100 caregivers will be assigned to the
      experimental group and 50 to the group control.

      Measurements: Each caregiver will be evaluated on a personal interview. The caregivers'
      assessment protocol: 1) Assessment of different socio-demographic related to care, and
      caregiver's personal situation. 2)Care-dependent individuals will also be assessed by Barthel
      Index and Pfeiffer Questionnaire (SPMSQ). 3)Change in caregivers will be the principal
      measure: family function (Family APGAR Questionnaire), burden short questionnaire (Short
      Zarit Burden Interview), quality of life (Ruiz & Baca: 1993 Questionnaire), the Duke-UNK
      Functional Social Support Questionnaire, the General Health Questionnaire-12, and changes in
      Dysfunctional Thoughts about caring. 4) Intervention implementation measures will also be
      assessed.

      Intervention: A psychotherapeutic intervention will be 8 sessions of 90 minutes in a pilot
      study groups. This intervention has been initially developed for family caregivers of
      patients with dementia.

      Discussion: Psychotherapeutic interventions have been proved to obtain better results to
      reduce symptomatology and improve emotional state of caregivers. Moreover, this intervention
      has been proved to be effective in a different setting other than PHC, and was developed by
      professionals of Mental Health. If we found that this intervention is effective in PHC and
      with our professionals, it would be an important instrument to offer to caregivers of
      care-dependent patients.
    
  