
    
      During exercise, there is a lag in the rate at which oxygen uptake (VO2) rises to meet energy
      demand. It is uncertain whether this limitation is due to inadequate O2 delivery to working
      muscle, limitations to the rate at which mitochondria can generate ATP to meet demand, or by
      a combination of both. Both of these limitations may be modulated by nitric oxide. Nitric
      oxide (NO) has been implicated in numerous physiological functions, including control of
      skeletal muscle vasodilation and oxidative metabolism. During exercise, NO will both
      vasodilate skeletal muscle and modulate (inhibit) mitochondrial respiration. The latter
      effect could either decrease oxygen extraction by limiting the ability of mitochondria to
      utilize oxygen, or paradoxically increase oxygen utilization by inhibiting mitochondria
      proximal to blood vessels, an effect that facilitates oxygen diffusion to distal tissue and
      mitochondria (NO dependent facilitated oxygen diffusion). Previous studies have demonstrated
      that NO production increases during exercise and regional inhibition of NO production from
      endothelial NO synthase reduces exercise-dependent blood flow by approximately 10%. NOS
      inhibitors such as N(G) -nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) have been shown to decrease
      exercise tolerance, and NO precursors (L-arginine) to increase exercise tolerance.
      Administration of inhaled NO during exercise has not been shown to increase exercise
      tolerance.

      Considering the potential role of nitrite bioconversion to NO during hypoxia, is likely that
      nitrite plays an important role in modulating exercise physiology. We therefore hypothesize
      that during aerobic, and in particular anaerobic exercise, erythrocyte and plasma nitrite
      will be converted to NO and modulate muscle blood flow, mitochondrial respiration, oxygen
      diffusion and ultimately maximal oxygen consumption. While we expect these effects will
      increase maximal oxygen consumption and increase work output, it is also distinctly possible
      that NO production from nitrite during exercise will inhibit mitochondrial respiration and
      decrease maximal oxygen consumption. The purpose of the present study is to investigate the
      effects of aerobic-to-anaerobic exercise on circulating nitrite stores in erythrocytes and
      plasma in the arterial and central venous circulation and the effects of systemic nitrite
      infusion on aerobic and anaerobic exercise capacity. Physiological parameters including
      maximal oxygen consumption (VO2max), maximal CO2 and NO production (VCO2max and VNOmax),
      maximal work, rate of perceived exertion (RPE), anaerobic threshold, and pulmonary gas
      exchange (VO2, VCO2, VE) will be monitored during exercise with and without nitrite
      infusions. Our primary endpoint will be VO2 max with nitrite infusion compared to VO2 max
      with saline placebo infusion.
    
  