
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine time to engraftment absolute neutrophil count (> 0.5 x 10^9/L for 3
      consecutive days), and platelet (> 20X 109^/L for 3 consecutive days).

      2. Incidence and severity of acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) using fludarabine
      (fludarabine phosphate) / busulfan / bortezomib preparative regimen and triple immune
      suppression with tacrolimus, sirolimus and Thymoglobulin (anti-thymocyte globulin).

      3. To determine the safety related to this combination in the first six months post
      transplant, specifically, treatment related mortality and grade III and IV non hematologic
      toxicities, based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4 (v4).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Incidence of myeloma progression in this high risk group of patients.

      II. Incidence of transplant related mortality and morbidity.

      III. Incidence of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) and sinusoidal obstructive
      syndrome (SOS).

      IV. Incidence and severity of chronic GVHD.

      V. Incidence of opportunistic infections including cytomegalovirus (CMV), herpes simplex
      virus (HSV), and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) reactivation.

      I. Overall and progression free survival (PFS) at Day 100, 6 months, 1 & 2 years post
      transplant.

      VII. To determine recovery of T-cell, B cell, and natural killer (NK) cell phenotypes post
      transplant.

      OUTLINE:

      CONDITIONING REGIMEN: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV) on days -7 to
      -3, busulfan IV on days -6 to -3, and bortezomib IV on day -2.

      GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Patients receive anti-thymocyte globulin IV on days -3 to -1, sirolimus
      orally (PO) on day -3, and tacrolimus IV on day -3. Patients undergo allogeneic hematopoietic
      stem cell transplantation (HSCT) on day 0.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 2 years.
    
  