
    
      This is a small prospective feasibility study to be performed over a 12-month period.

      Children booked for a left hand radiograph for bone age assessment (either in isolation or as
      part of a dysplasia skeletal survey) will be recruited. This will require a purposive sample
      of 2 males and 2 females from each of the following 5 age groups (<5; 5 to 7; 8 to 10; 11 to
      13; 14 to 16 years). There will therefore be a total of 20 children (10 males). Because the
      aim of the study is to compare results of DXA with those of radiographs in corresponding
      children, ethnicity of individual children will not be an issue; in other words the
      investigators are assessing the reliability of DXA not the reliability of G&P or TW3.

      Relevant clinicians will identify patients from appropriate clinics at Sheffield Children's
      Hospital. Only patients having a left hand radiograph for bone age assessment on the basis of
      clinical need will be approached. Age appropriate information sheets will be given to them,
      and the study briefly discussed. When they arrive at the Radiology Department for their left
      hand radiograph, an appropriately certified radiographer will seek informed consent and
      provided the left hand radiograph is actually performed, they will then also have DXA of the
      left hand and those over 6 years old will be asked to complete a brief questionnaire.

      Researcher 1 will anonymise hand radiographs and DXA scans, such that corresponding patient
      images are not identifiable. Researcher 1 will also document patient age and sex, ethnicity
      and body weight and height (no other clinical information is required for the purposes of
      this feasibility study).

      Researchers 2, 3 and 4 will independently assess all images using both G&P and TW3. All
      observers will interpret a random selection of half the images (again independently) on a
      second occasion at least 2 months after the first; on both occasions the Images will be
      interpreted in random and varied order. Images will be read in two batches of 10 radiographs
      and 10 (non-corresponding) DXA scans for the first read and 5 radiographs and 5
      (non-corresponding) DXA scans for the second read.

      Statistical analysis is largely irrelevant for this small feasibility study. The
      investigators' main aim is to assess whether or not G&P and TW3 can be reliably assessed from
      hand DXA images.

      The concordance between 1) independent readings of the three observers for radiographs and
      for DXA (i.e. comparing modalities) and 2) individual observers for both occasions (i.e.
      comparing observer reliability for each modality) will be evaluated using interclass and
      intraclass correlation coefficients. The investigators will calculate the mean and standard
      deviation of the differences between DXA and radiographs and between observers.

      Statistical analyses will be performed using the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences,
      version 21 for Mac (SPSS, Chicago, IL).
    
  