
    
      The aim of this study is to evaluate the process experienced by physiotherapists while
      providing rehabilitation services during the epidemic and to investigate the procedures
      adopted by physiotherapists who are currently working.

      In addition, by analyzing the effects of both the pandemic and the clinical and educational
      organizations in the Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation Clinics where physiotherapists were
      working during the COVID-19 epidemic, the needs arising after the pandemic can be reported.

      Assessments will be carried out by researcher physiotherapists through a questionnaire based
      on research and examples in the literature, and scales measuring anxiety, depression and
      stress levels. The measurement tool will be the online survey application.

      Data collection is planned to take place in February-March 2021.

      Surveys will be distributed via WhatsApp, e-mail, social media links. This questionnaire was
      sent to 3 physiotherapists and subjected to a pre-test. This questionnaire is about the
      following situations and contains 37 questions:

      Information on employment status: In this section, physiotherapists' name-surname, gender,
      age, professional practice experience (years), generally applied physiotherapy subgroup (more
      than one can be selected), whether they are self-employed or employees, and the status of
      performing face-to-face clinical practices will be questioned. If so, it will be questioned
      which protection measures have been applied.

      Information about tele-rehabilitation practices: In this section, it will be questioned
      whether physiotherapists start to follow their patients remotely, if they are, in what way
      they do it, whether the number of weekly sessions continues, and whether the amount collected
      is the same as the face-to-face amount.

      General information about COVID 19 rehabilitation: In this section, did the departments where
      physiotherapists work returned to COVID 19 services, did they work in COVID 19 units,
      rehabilitation approaches in COVID 19 patients, protocol and / or guidelines on exercises for
      rehabilitation management and treatment of COVID 19 patients. material development /
      implementation status will be questioned.

      The impact of the pandemic on the health and teaching activities of physiotherapists and the
      sustainability of clinical / thesis studies during this period will be questioned.

      Finally, the CES Depression Scale (Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale, CES-D)
      will be used to determine depression level, the Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7 (GAD-7) Test
      will be used to evaluate generalized anxiety level, Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) will be used
      to determine stress level.
    
  