
    
      One of the deadly properties of GBM is its capacity to diffusely infiltrate the surrounding
      normal brain tissue. Unlikely many malignancies, in GBM local disease progression, rather
      than metastatic disease, is the leading cause of death. Extent of resection plays a key role
      in the treatment of these patients with complete surgical resection improving outcome. In a
      prospective, non- interventional, multi-institutional study of over 140 patients with GBM and
      minimal or no residual tumor on post-operative MRI, Stummer et al.have shown that extent of
      resection is indeed associated with improved survival. However, despite evidence of complete
      resection on post-operative imaging studies, surgery is rarely truly complete. GBMs are
      invasive tumors and, at time of surgery, a clear boundary is not clearly identifiable, either
      on pre- or intra- operative imaging. Even when sophisticated imaging'techniques are used,
      they are unable to detect invasive brain cancer cell for proper pre-operative surgical
      planning to optimally delineate the tumor boundaries for a truly complete resection. Even if
      they were, brain eloquence would preclude a complete resection of most GBMs.

      Despite extensive and complete surgical tumor removal coupled with radiation and
      chemotherapy, even in high doses, 90% of patients still fail at the border or within a few
      centimeters from the surgical cavity. Glioma cell migration outside the original tumor site
      may be responsible for this recurrence pattern. Cell migration is a complex, dynamic process
      and is well-documented in GBM. It involves, at least, 3 independent but coordinated biologic
      processes: 1) cell adhesion to components of the extracellular matrix, 2) cell's own motility
      and 3) invasion. Giese et al.) reported that cell migration is established by several
      independent mechanisms, facilitating the spread of tumor astrocytes, but with cell motility
      being the possible common denominator for this biologic behavior.

      Invasion of tumor glioma cells is a multi-factorial process. To migrate, the cell needs a
      change in morphology and to interact with the extracellular matrix. It is possible that the
      surgical insult at the time of tumor removal may facilitate such an environment. Also,
      Wild-Bode et al.(6) have shown, in animal models, that sub-lethal doses of irradiation
      promote the migration and invasiveness of glioma cells. It is conceivable that the use of
      conventionally fractionated radiation therapy (2 Gy per day), even in doses above 60 Gy,
      leads to only sub-lethal damage potentially promoting cell migration.

      In a recently completed Phase 2 study for patients with newly diagnosed GBM, our group has
      shown that the use of concurrent temozolomide and hypofractionated radiation therapy to a
      dose of 60 Gy given in 20 fractions (daily dose of 3 Gy) preceded by 2 weeks of temozolomide
      given in the post-operative setting was associated with 2-year survival rates of 63% and 29%
      for MGMT methylated and unmethylated tumors, respectively (Dr. G. Shenouda, personal
      information. Manuscript submitted for publication). These promising results may be possibly
      due to a dual effect of the use of neoadjuvant temozolomide (prior to radiation therapy) and
      the use of a hypofractionated radiotherapy regimen. The upfront use of temozolomide may have
      affected tumor control by interfering with the upstream signaling event triggered by the RT
      preventing cell migration and also by promoting inhibition of glioma cell invasion.

      GBMs are one of the most rapidly growing tumors. Primary GBMs typically develop and grow to
      be greater than 3 cm in less than 4 months. Under the current standard treatment approach,
      patients undergo surgery and, rather than starting adjuvant therapy immediately at a moment
      when there is the least amount of residual tumor burden, they wait 3-4 weeks, for practical
      reasons, to start adjuvant treatment with RT and TMZ. In addition, the combined treatment
      takes an additional 6 weeks to complete. Thus it takes 9-10 weeks for patients to complete
      maximum local treatment. In other words, one of the most aggressive tumors has been given
      another 9-10 weeks to proliferate, repopulate and invade. It is conceivable that this delay
      in adjuvant treatment gives the residual brain cancer cells the opportunity to regrow and
      invade prior to completion of RT and TMZ thus contributing to 85% of all failures occurring
      at or within 2 cm of the original resection cavity margin.

      The use of pre-operative RT, either alone or in combination with chemotherapy, has been
      successfully used in other pathologies. In patients with soft tissue sarcoma, localized .
      rectal cancer, locally advanced breast cancer, and esophageal cancer the use of pre-operative
      RT has been associated with improved local control (8-11). Recently, the use of neoadjuvant
      radiosurgery has been explored in patients harboring resectable metastatic brain lesions
      (12). A total of 47 patients underwent radiosurgery prior to the surgical procedure (total of
      51 lesions) and the authors report high rates of local control with limited toxicity. The use
      of pre-operative RT has several theoretical advantages in patients with GBM. Neoadjuvant RT
      is delivered prior to the surgical procedure minimizing, theoretically, the risk of local
      cell migration at the time of the surgical intervention. It has also the advantage of
      treating a target that has an intact blood supply and, most importantly, RT will be delivered
      to a better defined target. It also allows a definitive portion of the treatment paradigm to
      be delivered in a timely manner with no prolonged delay.
    
  