
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Among patients with advanced CKD, cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death,15-30
      times higher than the age-adjusted cardiovascular mortality rate in the general population.
      The projected 4-year mortality is >50% in patients with advanced CKD and is worse than that
      for patients in the general population who have cancers, heart failure, stroke or MI.
      Participants with advanced CKD are 5-10 times more likely to die than to reach end stage
      renal disease (ESRD). Despite this, ~80% of contemporary coronary artery disease (CAD) trials
      exclude participants with advanced CKD. Most of the treatments aimed at reducing
      cardiovascular events in advanced CKD are therefore extrapolated from cohorts without
      advanced CKD. Participants with advanced CKD and cardiovascular disease are undertreated with
      less frequent use of statins and revascularization therapies, and the optimal management
      approach to these patients is unknown. Participants with advanced CKD are notably
      underrepresented in contemporary trials comparing revascularization with medical therapy in
      SIHD patients, such as the Bypass Angioplasty Revascularization Investigation 2 Diabetes
      (BARI 2D) trial or the Clinical Outcomes Utilizing Revascularization and Aggressive Drug
      Evaluation (COURAGE) trial,making any assessment about the efficacy of revascularization plus
      medical therapy vs. initial medical therapy alone in this cohort problematic.

      Participants with advanced CKD are at increased risk for complications of the assigned
      invasive procedure, specifically contrast-induced acute kidney injury (AKI), dialysis, major
      bleeding and short-term risk of death. However, there is controversy in the medical
      literature regarding the incidence (<1% to >30%), effective treatment (saline hydration,
      N-acetyl cysteine, or sodium bicarbonate), and prognosis of contrast induced AKI (<0.5% to
      >5% requiring dialysis). In addition, although contrast induced AKI have been associated with
      increase in short-term mortality, residual confounding in these studies makes interpretation
      difficulty. Moreover, it is unknown if these short-term increased risks are offset by
      long-term benefits. Limited observational studies in the CKD cohort suggest a long-term
      survival benefit of revascularization when compared with medical therapy alone, despite an
      increase in short-term risks. However, the medical therapy in these trials was not optimized,
      drug eluting stents were rarely used and there is undoubtedly inherent selection and
      ascertainment bias with observational studies. The above has resulted in clinical equipoise
      in the management of these patients, with the rates of revascularization only around 10-45%.
      The results of ISCHEMIA-CKD will have profound implications for guidelines, health policy,
      and clinical practice.
    
  