
    
      Radiation quantity used in medicine is expanding year on year with increasing clinical uses
      for medical illnesses and to visualize instruments being used during procedures such as
      cardiac devices including pacemakers. The effects of radiation are not only on the patients
      for their procedure but also a cumulative effect of radiation on the operators. The
      stochastic effects of radiation have been well reported in the literature. Advancing
      technologies such as 3-dimensional(3D) mapping systems have allowed for leads to be
      identified using a 3D matrix and safely deployed to the myocardium. However, there are
      significant costs associated with the use of 3D mapping systems resulting in this approach
      not being widely adopted. Ultrasound use during implantation of cardiac implantable
      electronic devices (CIED) has been utilized in the past to gain vascular access via the
      axillary vein with good safety results. Experimental studies to visualize leads in the heart
      and venous systems using 3D ultrasound showed optimism but has not translated to clinical use
      due to lack of technology to improve the spatial and temporal resolution. The technology in
      imaging resolution has improved over the last 5 years and likely can be used to visualize a
      pacing lead in the heart. Techniques such as intravascular cardiac ultrasound have been used
      to assist in implanting lead via coronary sinus in individuals who can have contrast
      allergies. Therefore, transthoracic echocardiogram and ultrasound should be now of sufficient
      quality to allow for successful pacemaker insertion.

      To date, there has not been a feasibility study to evaluate complete ultrasound and
      echocardiography-assisted pacemaker insertion.

      In this study, the investigators aim to utilize ultrasound and echocardiography to gain
      vascular access and to direct the pacing lead into the right ventricle to allow for safe
      pacemaker implantation. If this is successful, then this will allow for a larger study to be
      conducted for single chamber devices including implantable cardioverter defibrillators.
      Moreover, the investigators will be able to analyze the cost-effectiveness of this new
      technique compared to the conventional technique of pacemaker implantation.
    
  