
    
      This study aims to investigate the potential of TDN as an effective alternative to CI for
      patients with GTPS by directly comparing pain and functional outcomes of patients receiving
      TDN or CI for the treatment of GTPS over a 6 week period. The investigators hypothesize that
      patients treated with TDN will be equally improved in pain and function as those treated with
      CI. If TDN is demonstrated to be equally or more effective than steroid injection in this
      pilot study, then the investigators have the basis to launch larger studies. Ultimately, the
      investigators want to determine if TDN is an effective treatment alternative for GTPS for
      providers and patients who want to avoid the potential detrimental side-effects of steroids.

      Approach: Prospective, randomized, partially-blinded design

      Aim: To determine if administration of TDN is as effective as CI in reducing lateral hip pain
      and improving function in patients diagnosed with greater trochanteric pain syndrome. The
      investigators expect to demonstrate effectiveness of TDN in the treatment of GTPS to a degree
      that is equal to CI. Doing so would prompt further outcomes research for TDN. Supportive
      research and subsequent clinical acceptance of TDN as a primary treatment for this condition
      would offer an alternative to patients who want or need to avoid steroids.

      Based on the literature, this is the first study to investigate the effectiveness of TDN in
      the treatment of GTPS and directly compare pain and functional outcomes of patients receiving
      TDN versus CI for the treatment of GTPS.

      Methods. Fifty patients with GTPS will be randomized into a CI or TDN group. Treatment will
      be administered according to standard of care for up to 6 weeks. Numerical pain and
      functional ratings for each patient will be collected at 0, 1, 3, and 6 weeks of treatment.
      Data analysis will determine if TDN is as effective as cortisone.
    
  