
    
      When a military health care beneficiary presents at a Department of Defense Military
      Treatment Facility with a skin lesion clinically and epidemiologically consistent with
      suspicious Cutaneous Leishmaniasis (CL), routine diagnostic parasitology testing will be
      performed as standard of care, and if there is a positive diagnosis, the patient will be
      offered the option to participate in this treatment program and after providing written
      informed consent/assent., if eligible to participate, the patient will receive treatment with
      Paromomycin Topical Cream.

      Eligible patients will receive Paromomycin Topical Cream applied topically to all CL lesions
      once daily for 20 days. The Day 1 application will be performed by or under the supervision
      of the site PI. The Day 2 application will be performed by the patient while being observed
      by the site PI or a designated medical staff member. The patient will be scheduled to return
      to an Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) weekly during treatment at Days 7 ± 2, 14 ± 2, and Day
      20 + 4 days (the last day of treatment). During these visits, a member of the medical team
      will observe the application of the cream by the patient and will assist the patient, if
      necessary. In addition, the patient will be scheduled to return for a safety evaluation
      approximately 1 week after completing treatment. The patient will be instructed to contact
      the site PI or designee if any unusual adverse events (AEs) occur during treatment or in the
      week after completing treatment. The patient will be scheduled to return to the MTF on Day 90
      (± 14 days) days after starting treatment to determine whether all CL lesions have healed (as
      per CL standard of care). Those patients who cannot return to an MTF will be contacted by
      phone.

      If at any time after completing treatment the lesions get worse or appear to be infected, the
      patient will be instructed to go to an MTF for possible treatment of AEs or alternative
      treatments for CL.
    
  