
    
      People living with HIV (PLHIV) are at increased risk for atherosclerotic cardiovascular
      disease (ASCVD); however, uptake of evidence based therapies to prevent ASCVD is sub-optimal.
      Reasons for under treatment may include low perceived risk, competing priorities for HIV
      specialist providers, and poor trust and communication with non-HIV primary care providers.
      This project proposes a nurse-led intervention to extend the HIV/AIDS treatment cascade-a
      widely adopted framework developed to improve access to high quality HIV care-for CVD
      prevention, specifically to improve control of blood pressure and hyperlipidemia in PLHIV on
      antiretroviral therapy who have suppressed HIV viral load. The study will be conducted in
      three racially and ethnically diverse clinic contexts [University Hospitals (Cleveland, OH),
      MetroHealth (Cleveland, OH) and Duke Health (Durham, NC)] that are broadly representative of
      HIV specialty care in the US. Using a mixed-methods clinical effectiveness trial design, this
      project will test the 12-month efficacy of a multi-component intervention among n=300 HIV+
      adults on suppressive ART with hypertension and hyperlipidemia. Participants will be
      randomized 1:1 to intervention vs. education control. Control participants will receive
      general prevention education. The intervention will consist of four evidence-based components
      derived from prior studies in the general population: (1) nurse-led care coordination, (2)
      nurse-managed medication protocols and adherence support (3) home BP monitoring, and (4)
      electronic medical records (EMR) support tools. These components will be further adapted to
      the HIV specialty clinic context with key stakeholder input and using data from a
      mixed-methods study of current ASCVD preventive care practices at the three HIV clinic sites.
      A process evaluation of the prevention nurse intervention will be conducted, which will
      assess fidelity, dose, recruitment, reach, and context. Two key contextual process measures
      of interest will be changes in perceived ASCVD risk and changes in trust and communication
      between PLHIV participants and their HIV and non-HIV providers. If proven effective to reduce
      both blood pressure and cholesterol as postulated, this nurse-led intervention will have
      substantial clinical impact among high-risk PLHIV, potentially reducing ASCVD events by more
      than a quarter. This model is potentially scalable as an extension of HIV treatment cascade
      initiatives nationwide.
    
  