
    
      Prior to the beginning of the Randomized Control Trial (RCT), a pilot phase will be launched
      to test the workflow and procedures. The investigators plan to recruit up to 20 patients,
      continuing until procedures are smooth and ready for the randomized trial. The investigators
      will follow these same procedures as the trial, other than randomization, to test the
      workflow and tool use programming.

      For the RCT, patients considering mastectomy at academic and community practices (n=340) will
      be randomized over 18 months to use BREASTChoice or a control website.

      After the patient participant consents to be in the study, they will be randomized (using
      computer random assignment) participants to view the clinical decision support tool,
      BREASTChoice or the attention control website, using block randomization (block size of 2 and
      4). Depending on the clinic work-flow, the patients may be sent the link to the tool or
      control website: 1) by email or MyChart message, prior to their visit with the plastic or
      reconstruction surgeon, for them to complete from home or in the waiting room (ideal and
      preferred approach); 2) by email or MyChart, in person or virtually at the time of their
      plastic or reconstruction visit, for patients that have same-day breast surgeon and plastic
      reconstruction surgeon visits, with time to wait in between appointments; or 3) by email or
      MyChart, after the plastic surgery appointment, if they have not yet made a decision about
      reconstruction after mastectomy (e.g., if they are undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy, or
      they want or need more time to decide on their surgery choices). Participants will be sent
      the link via MyChart unless they do not have a MyChart account. In that case, they will be
      sent the link via email. Study staff will be available to answer questions about MyChart via
      phone or email.

      BREASTChoice is interactive with multiple modules. It starts with facts about breast
      reconstruction. Modules describe pros and cons of reconstruction, reconstruction timing, and
      reconstruction types. When discussing reconstruction timing, a risk prediction model pulls
      health data from the EHR (asking patients information in the model that is missing) to
      personalize risk of complications from immediate breast reconstruction. It also shows average
      risks for mastectomy alone and mastectomy plus immediate breast reconstruction so women can
      compare their personalized risk to average risks. Each module contains real patient quotes, a
      section called "Let's review" which checks patients' understanding, and "What matters to
      you", which elicits patients' preferences. Diverse patient photos and outcomes are provided.
      It is written at a 7th grade reading level. Data on patients' risks and a summary of her
      preferences are sent to their plastic/reconstructive surgeon to view in the electronic health
      record. The tool takes the patient about 20minutes to complete.

      Control Website: The investigators chose an attention control, rather than usual care, to
      reduce differences between arms in participant expectation of benefit. Those in the control
      arm will get a link to an NCI website about breast reconstruction. That website includes 10
      sections with information about types of breast reconstruction, timing, recovery, risks,
      cancer surveillance and additional resources. The website provides information, but does not
      include values clarification or tailored risk information. It is not interactive and does not
      include photos..

      (https://www.cancer.gov/types/breast/reconstruction-fact-sheet)
    
  