
    
      Nearly fifty years have passed since Burke et al first demonstrated in animal model the
      reduction of infection rates in contaminated skin incisions with administration of antibiotic
      prophylaxis. Further research in the area confirmed the benefit of prophylactic antibiotics
      in human subjects. Patients who develop surgical infections are 60% more likely to spend time
      in intensive care unit, five times more likely to be readmitted to the hospital, and have
      twice the mortality rate compared to patients without infections. As a result the potential
      health care costs are staggering. Recently, the National Surgical Infection Prevention
      Project endorsed the recommendation that antibiotic prophylaxis should be administered within
      60 minutes before skin incision. This model has been universally accepted in all surgical
      fields with the exception of obstetrics.

      Cesarean delivery has been shown to be the most important risk factor for post-partum
      maternal infection. In fact, women undergoing cesarean delivery have a five to twenty-fold
      greater risk for developing infection compared to those undergoing vaginal delivery. Recent
      review by Cochrane Database found that there is an inconsistent and variable application of
      current recommendations in regard to appropriate timing, administration and choice of drug
      used for antibiotic prophylaxis at the time of cesarean delivery. Cesarean section holds a
      unique position amongst all the surgical procedures as being the only one where prophylactic
      antibiotics are administered after the incision is made. The concern for intrapartum fetal
      exposure of prophylactic antibiotics suppressing microbial growth and thereby masking
      neonatal sepsis led to a tradition of delaying antibiotic administration until umbilical cord
      clamping. While a recent study demonstrated that antibiotic levels do indeed reach
      therapeutic levels within cord blood very quickly after administration to the mother, no
      adverse outcomes to the newborns have ever been documented as a result. To date only four
      studies have looked at the timing of prophylactic administration at the time of cesarean
      section.

      In 1982, Cunningham et al randomized 642 women "at high risk for infection following cesarean
      delivery" to receiving antibiotics before or after cord clamping. The authors demonstrated
      that there was no difference between uterine infection rates between the two groups. While
      significantly more infants exposed to intrapartum maternal antibiotics were evaluated for
      sepsis, there were no cases of neonatal bacteremia in either group. However, it should be
      noted that the pediatricians in this study were fully aware of whether antibiotics had been
      given before or after cord clamping. Wax et al revisited the issue by randomizing 90
      consecutive term women in labor to receiving cefazolin preoperatively or after skin incision.
      While the authors failed to show any statistical significance between two groups, this study
      was clearly underpowered as only four cases achieved primary outcomes. Furthermore, the
      authors failed to demonstrate a significant increase is suspected sepsis in newborns whose
      mothers received cefazolin preoperatively. In 2005, Thigpen et al once again demonstrated
      that there was no disadvantage to the infant in regard to infectious morbidity. In addition,
      there was no difference in maternal infectious morbidity regardless of when antibiotics were
      administered. However, the results are questionable as nearly a quarter of all subjects
      received penicillin for GBS prophylaxis. Finally, Sullivan included 357 women in a well
      designed randomized, double-blinded study that demonstrated a statistically significant
      reduction in maternal infectious morbidity when the antibiotics where administered
      preoperatively. Not only was there no difference between two groups in regard to neonatal
      infection, but there was actually significantly fewer NICU admission days in preoperative
      antibiotic group.

      Despite the evidence that preoperative prophylactic antibiotics pose no harm to the fetus,
      obstetrics has been slow to adopt this practice. It is no wonder that cesarean infection
      rates have been shown to be considerably higher than comparable surgical procedures. While
      the evidence clearly demonstrates the absence of negative impact of preoperative antibiotics
      on neonatal outcomes, a contemporary scientific evaluation of the reduction in maternal
      infectious morbidity is warranted before adopting this practice on universal basis.
    
  