
    
      Melasma is a common, acquired, circumscribed hypermelanosis of the sun-exposed skin, It
      presents as symmetric, hyperpigmented macules having irregular, serrated, and geographic
      borders , The most common locations are the cheeks, upper lips, the chin and the forehead,
      but other sun-exposed areas may also be occasionally involved .

      Studies has indicated the role of several risk factors such as genetics, sunlight, age,
      gender, hormones, pregnancy, thyroid dysfunction, cosmetics and medications .

      Histologic features of melasma include an increase in the content of both epidermal and
      dermal melanin, but the quantity varies with the intensity of hyperpigmentation. In addition,
      most studies show no quantitative increase in melanocytes; however, the cells are enlarged
      with prominent and elongated dendrites and more abundant melanosomes. Additional features of
      the involved skin include solar elastosis and increased mast cells, dermal blood vessels, and
      expression of vascular endothelial growth factor.

      Commonly used topical agents for the treatment of melasma include hydroquinone, azelaic acid,
      kojic acid, glycolic acid, salicylic acid and tretinoin. Of these treatments, hydroquinone
      remains the gold standard .Second-line treatments, such as chemical peels and lasers, are
      efficacious in some patients .

      Chemical peeling is the application of a chemical agent to the skin, which causes the
      controlled destruction of a part or of the entire epidermis with or without the dermis,
      leading to exfoliation and removal of superficial lesions, followed by regeneration of new
      epidermal and dermal tissues [khunger, 2008]. The mechanism of action in melasma is the
      removal of unwanted melanin via controlled chemical burn of the skin .

      Trichloroacetic acid has been used as a peeling agent for a long time and is still the most
      effective and safest agent for medium peeling, Its depth of penetration depends on the TCA
      concentration and on the preparation of the skin, specially the degreasing. Between 10% and
      30% concentration is considered a superficial peel; above 30% provides a medium-depth peel.

      Cryopeeling is a technique that uses cryotherapy in a diffuse manner throughout the skin
      region affected by sun damage in order to promote cell renewal and desquamation, with
      possible benefits in the appearance of new lesions caused by photodamage. Up to the
      investigator's knowledge, few studies were performed evaluating such technique.

      Recently, trans-4-(Aminomethyl) cyclohexanecarboxylic acid, or tranexamic acid (TA), has been
      proposed as a new treatment for melasma.The main mechanism of the hypopigmentant effects of
      TA is due to its antiplasmin activity .In addition, TA is similar to tyrosine in a portion of
      its structure, which can inhibit tyrosinase competitively .Also, Plasmin transforms the
      vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) into a diffusing form, and histological examination
      showed that TA plays an important role in the reduction of erythema and vascularities and the
      number of mast cell in the dermis.Various forms of TA are used orally, topically and as a
      microinjection for the treatment of melasma.
    
  