
    
      Elbow stiffness and reduced motion commonly occur after elbow injury or surgery. With
      traumatic injuries to the elbow, contractures are a common complication. Indeed, they are
      expected in most cases. For patients with these injuries who are otherwise healthy, active
      and require the restoration of full function in order to return to their previous level of
      activity/work, this reduced motion can be especially problematic and even debilitating. The
      investigators have found and published that most patients treated with postoperative
      Continuous Passive Motion following surgical repair of their stiffness have been able to
      recover all or nearly all of their prior elbow mobility and function. Though CPM has been in
      clinical use for decades, a prospective randomized clinical trial has never been published
      proving its effectiveness. The investigators believe and intend to show in this study that
      the rehabilitative benefits of continuous passive motion (CPM) will help preserve/restore the
      joint function and significantly improve the rate of recovery of patients after stiffness is
      surgically repaired. Specific Aim 1: To demonstrate that postoperative use of CPM enhances
      tissue healing and hastens recovery following surgical release of elbow contracture. Specific
      Aim 2: To demonstrate that postoperative use of CPM improves ultimate function following
      surgical release of elbow contracture. Specific Aim 3: To demonstrate that CPM is a
      cost-efficient treatment following surgical release of elbow contracture. Study Design: 50
      patients who require arthroscopic contracture release, will be randomly assigned to one of
      two postoperative treatment groups: Experimental - CPM and Control - Physical Therapy.
      Participants of this study will be followed for 12 months postoperatively. Throughout this 12
      month period the impact/effectiveness of CPM vs Physical Therapy will be evaluated by
      assessing functional status, pain, mobility, general health related quality of life, utility,
      and societal cost-effectiveness. In line with the mission of the National Institute of
      Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases, this study will help anyone with elbow
      injuries that result in stiffness and loss of motion. Such a study has the advantage of being
      highly translational with the potential to have an immediate impact on patient treatment and
      care. The findings from this study will be able to help patients immediately and ensure that
      the principals of Evidence Based Medicine are applied to patients with these types of elbow
      injuries and that they receive the treatment they need for the best possible recovery based
      on hard evidence and scientific facts.
    
  