
    
      The Institute of Medicine in their recent report Relieving Pain in America: A Blueprint for
      Transforming Prevention, Care, Education, and Research states that: "Common chronic pain
      conditions affect at least 116 million U.S. adults at a cost of $560-635 billion annually in
      direct medical treatment costs and lost productivity." (IOM, 2011, p. 1) Pain is defined as
      "an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience associated with actual or potential tissue
      damage, or described in terms of such damage." (IASP, 2011). This widely accepted definition
      suggests that there are multiple components in the experience of pain, namely physiological
      and psychological. Pain has been reported as the most frequently reported symptom in primary
      care, while chronic pain is reported to affect 20-30% of the population in Western Countries.
      (Verhaak et al, 1998). Individuals with chronic pain often report co-morbid depression,
      anxiety, decreased quality of life, activity restriction, and inability to work or engage in
      productive activities. The most frequently used therapies are pharmacotherapy and surgical
      interventions, both of which have limitations in their effectiveness and tolerability.

      A pressing need exists to develop alternative therapeutic modalities for caring for people
      with chronic pain. Mindfulness-based programs have emerged as effective interventions for
      different types of health conditions. Mindfulness is defined as "paying attention ina
      particular way, on purpose, in the present moment, and, non-judgmentally." (Kabat-Zinn, 1990)
      Research studies into mindfulness-based interventions have increased exponentially in the
      last three decades, based on the pioneering work of Jon Kabat-Zinn who developed
      Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) in 1979. MBSR is a structured group based
      psycho-educational intervention that is conducted over a period of 8 weeks, with two hour
      classes occurring weekly. Each class teaches several mindfulness meditation practices such as
      sitting meditation, walking meditation, mindful yoga, and body scan. Participants are asked
      to complete homework assignments 6 out of 7 days following each session; these homework
      assignments provide opportunities to further engage in these practices so that they become
      more habitual. An all-day retreat occurs between weeks 6 and 7, providing further
      opportunities to engage in mindfulness practices.

      Mindfulness-Based Chronic Pain Management (MBCPM) is an intervention developed by Jackie
      Gardner-Nix, MD, adapted from the standard MBSR curriculum for individuals suffering from
      chronic pain. The focus of this intervention is to teach clients skills that will facilitate
      the development of detached observation and reduce the experience of suffering through
      cognitive re-appraisal (Garder-Nix, 2008). The adaptations made in the MBCPM curriculum were
      based on the needs of individuals suffering from chronic pain; they include: increasing
      sessions to a 13 week long curriculum, replacing the mindful yoga with more gentle stretches,
      allowing participants to sit, stand, lie down, or move during sessions, and shortened
      mindfulness meditation practices. Additional therapeutic activities are also introduced
      throughout the program such as guided imagery and visualization, art techniques, and
      information about food and sleep. The length of homework assignments is also shortened from
      the original one hour length in MBSR to just 5-30 minutes a day in MBCPM, and there is no
      all-day Saturday retreat. These adaptations were made based on observations of difficulty
      that participants had with the original MBSR curriculum (Gardner-Nix, 2009b). Each class is
      two hours long with a break in the middle.

      The current literature on chronic pain suggests that existing treatments have limited utility
      for chronic pain sufferers. "Currently available treatments have limited effectiveness for
      most people with severe chronic pain. For many such individuals, pain management on a daily
      basis takes place outside any health care setting." (IOM, 2011, p. 13) This statement from
      the Institute of Medicine report underscores the reasons why people turn to complementary and
      alternative medicine therapies - because they are not getting adequate relief from existing
      more conventional treatments.
    
  