
    
      Over the past seven years in the Cleveland, Ohio area there have been 47 cases of unexplained
      pulmonary hemorrhage in young infants. Sixteen of the infants have died. A CDC case-control
      study found an association with water-damaged homes and the toxigenic fungus, Stachybotrys
      chartarum, which requires water soaked cellulose to grow. The spores of this fungus are not
      infectious in the lung but do contain very potent mycotoxins which appear to be particularly
      toxic to the rapidly developing lungs of young infants. Secondary stresses, e.g.
      environmental tobacco smoke, appear to be important triggers of overt hemorrhage. Concern
      that there may be a larger number of undetected young infants with this disorder led to the
      examination of all infant coroner cases, which revealed six sudden infant death syndrome
      cases with major amounts of pulmonary hemosiderin-laden macrophages, indicating extensive
      hemosiderosis existing prior to death. All of these infants had lived in the eight zip code
      area where all but fifteen of the patients have lived. This disorder may extend beyond
      Cleveland since toxigenic fungi are widespread. We are aware of a total of 138 infants with
      idiopathic pulmonary hemorrhage across the country over the past four years.

      The purpose of this proposal is to establish an infant animal model for this
      stachybotryomycotoxicosis which can be used to understand the developmental pathophysiology
      by which the fungal spores induce hemorrhage and to address practical problems faced in the
      clinical care of these infants and in public health prevention. The model uses tracheal
      instillation of toxic Stachybotrys spores in neonatal to weanling rats to initiate the
      pathological process, followed by stresses to trigger acute hemorrhage. Capillary fragility
      to transmural pressures will be assessed by morphometric analysis of electron micrographs.
      Markers of Stachybotrys exposure which can be applied to clinical cases are being developed
      and tested in the rats.
    
  