
    
      Substance use among youth remains a major public health problem. About half of all 12th
      graders have tried an illicit drug and over 72% of this same age group have used alcohol.
      Rates of abuse of prescription opioids among youth are estimated to have increased about 542%
      in the past decade. Although effective substance abuse treatment programs for youth exist,
      they are currently of limited reach. Only 1 in 10 adolescents who need substance abuse
      treatment receive any care. An interactive, computer-delivered psychosocial (skills-training)
      intervention has the potential to address these challenges, as it allows for complex
      interventions to be delivered at a low cost, without increasing demands on staff time or
      training needs. It may also be highly acceptable to youth and enable widespread dissemination
      of science-based treatment in a manner that ensures fidelity.

      In this project, we plan to develop and evaluate the acceptability and preliminary efficacy
      of a web-based, skills training program for adolescents with substance use disorders. The
      content of this program will be based in a model of psychosocial substance abuse treatment
      for youth that has been shown to be effective in prior scientific research. It will be
      provided via an interactive, delivery system that employs informational technologies that are
      effective in promoting relevant knowledge and skills. Adolescents in substance abuse
      treatment will help shape the development of this program. To our knowledge, the planned
      program will be the first interactive program to provide comprehensive, psychosocial
      substance abuse treatment to adolescents via computer-based technology.

      This research will contribute new information relevant to increasing the delivery of
      science-based psychosocial treatment to adolescents with substance use disorders in a manner
      that is cost-effective and which may promote the adoption of effective treatment.
    
  