
    
      Screening

      Potential participants may be referred to the study by clinical staff, self-refer based on
      seeing study brochures or flyers, or will be invited to participate based on review of
      medical records of patients scheduled for TBI clinics at Harborview Medical Center (HMC) or
      the University of Washington Medical Center (UWMC) Rehabilitation TBI clinics.

      If a potential participant meets initial eligibility criteria of having a diagnosis of TBI
      and reports of chronic pain, a research staff member will contact the patient to confirm
      eligibility through a formalized Institutional Review Board (IRB)-approved screening
      questionnaire. The Six-Item Screener (a brief and reliable instrument for identifying
      cognitive impairment) will be used to determine if the participant is cognitively able to
      provide informed consent.

      Once eligibility is confirmed, research staff will introduce the study using a talking points
      script, and if the potential participant is interested, provide a brochure and a consent
      form. Potential participants will be fully informed of all risks and benefits prior to giving
      their written informed consent and prior to enrollment in the study. They may take time to
      think about participating and render a decision in a subsequent call or visit. Potential
      participants will be asked to repeat back understanding of this material as necessary.

      Research staff will also review a HIPAA authorization form with the participant that permits
      research staff to collect data from the participant's medical records regarding injury and
      medical history.

      The investigators plan to enroll a total of 158 participants with the goal of outcomes
      assessment on 63 subjects in each arm (total of 126).

      Basic Demographic Information

      Basic demographic information including age, sex, and race will be collected via medical
      record review without consent from all patients including those who do not enroll to
      determine differences between enrolled patients participants and those who do not enroll to
      examine potential bias.

      Procedures

      Randomization

      Once enrolled, participants will be randomized into one of two groups: usual care (UC) or
      Collaborative Care (CC). Those randomized to CC treatment group will work with Collaborative
      Care Manager (CCM) for up to 12 contacts over a 16 week treatment period, and complete a 24
      week post randomization check in call with CCM.

      Participants assigned to the UC arm will be informed of the assignment via phone by an
      un-blinded research team member. In addition, participants assigned to the UC arm will
      receive a letter explaining the assignment. Participants assigned to the CC arm will be
      contacted by the CCM to arrange the timing of their first treatment session.

      Data Collection

      Participants may choose to have the interview/s administered by phone or in person at either
      UWMC or HMC by our research staff member.

      Baseline Interview:

      Contact Information - Research staff will collect the following information from
      participants: (1) contact information; (2) best way to reach an individual if they have more
      than one line; best times/days to reach participant; and (3) names and contact information of
      people staff are allowed to contact if participant is lost to follow-up or otherwise cannot
      be contacted (i.e. collateral contacts). The purpose of this is to maximize the likelihood of
      reaching a participant to complete the study procedures. Furthermore, asking permission to
      leave a voicemail on at a specified contact number ensures a greater level of privacy for the
      participant.

      Data Collection - Baseline will take approximately 30 minutes to complete and includes
      demographic variables, TBI variables (date of injury, TBI severity), medications and
      information describing participants' pain history, including pain sites, and pain duration.
      The Brief Pain Intensity measure (BPI), a 4 item pain intensity scale, will be asked 4 times
      over the course of 7 days at each assessment period.

      Follow-up Interviews:

      Follow-up interviews will be collected at 4-months and 8-months post-randomization and will
      each take approximately 45 minutes each.

      Collaborative Care

      Collaborative Care (CC) is a systematic and integrated approach to improving the delivery and
      utilization of effective treatments for chronic pain. The care will be delivered through an
      interdisciplinary team, organized around a CC Manager (CCM) who guides the participant
      through various aspects of care. The team will include a group of experts on pain and TBI.
      The CCM will offer all participants care management, collaborative medical management, and
      psychosocial treatment. If the participant declines to receive any of the components of the
      intervention, they may still choose to participate in the remaining components.

      Usual Care Group

      Participants assigned to usual care will be encouraged to consult with their TBI or primary
      care provider with any concerns around pain treatment. Study personnel will not make any
      attempts to influence usual care participants' pain management.

      Because this is an effectiveness study, treatment decisions for UC participants will be left
      to the primary provider and may or may not include pharmacologic management, counseling, and
      referral to specialty services or other local resources.
    
  