
    
      Background:

        -  Prostate cancer is the most common cancer and the second leading cause of cancer deaths
           among males in most Western countries.

        -  Sipuleucel-T, a recently FDA approved treatment for prostate cancer, is designed to
           induce an immune response targeted against PAP, an antigen expressed in most prostate
           cancers. .

        -  Blockade of PD-1/PD-L1 has been shown to enhance the therapeutic efficacy of peptide
           cancer vaccines in pre-clinical animal models. CT-011 is a humanized IgG1 kappa
           recombinant monoclonal antibody against PD-1 receptor that blocks the interaction of
           PD-L1 with PD-1.

        -  Preclinical studies demonstrated that CT-011 when administered with low dose
           cyclophosphamide led to synergistic antitumor effects when combined with HPV16 E749-57
           peptide vaccine.

        -  Given the role CT-011 plays in down-regulating peripheral tolerance and the synergistic
           relationship it has with cyclophosphamide in doing so, in this study we propose to treat
           patients with advanced, castrate-resistant disease with CT-011 and low-dose
           cyclophosphamide as adjuvants in combination with Provenge(Trademark) activated cell
           vaccine.

      Objectives:

        -  To assess the feasibility of administration of Sipuleucel-T (Provenge(Trademark))
           autologous active cellular immunotherapy in combination with low dose cyclophosphamide
           in men with advanced castrate-resistant (hormone refractory) prostate cancer.

        -  To determine the immune efficacy of Sipuleucel-T (Provenge(Trademark)) autologous active
           cellular immunotherapy alone vs. Sipuleucel-T (Provenge(Trademark)) in combination with
           CT- 011 vs. Sipuleucel-T (Provenge(Trademark)) in combination with low-dose
           cyclophosphamide and CT-011 on the change in PA2024-specific IFN-? ELISPOT responses in
           men with advanced, castrate-resistant prostate cancer.

        -  Secondary objectives will determine the tolerability and toxicities of the combination
           of low-dose cyclophosphamide/CT-011/ Sipuleucel-T (Provenge(Trademark)) and determine in
           a preliminary fashion whether this regimen correlates with increased progression-free
           survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in patients and with growth rate in an
           exploratory fashion.

      Eligibility:

        -  Males greater than or equal to 18 years old with chemotherapy na ve metastatic
           progressive castrate-resistant prostate cancer defined as progressive disease (two
           consecutively rising PSA values at a minimum of 1-week intervals (2.0 ng/mL is the
           minimum starting value for PSA), appearance of one or more new lesions on bone scans,
           progressive disease by Recist 1.1).

        -  Must meet minimum organ safety requirements and length of time since prior therapy.

        -  May not have active infections, autoimmune disease or require immunosuppressive
           therapies.

      Design:

      Part 1: Initially the feasibility generating Sipuleucel-T after administration of low dose
      cyclophosphamide , and will be evaluated using a standard 3 + 3 design for doses of
      cyclophosphamide 250 mg/m2 or 125 mg/m2. Initially 3 patients will receive cyclophosphamide
      on day -1 of the first cycle (one day prior to the first infusion of Sipuleucel-T). All
      patients will receive Sipuleucel-T cell infusion on Day 0. The Sipuleucel-T cell infusion
      will be repeated every two weeks for a total of three cycles. If Sipuleucel-T active cellular
      immunotherapy from an apheresis obtained after infusion of cyclophosphamide, which meets the
      FDA approved Certificate of Analysis (COA) release criteria from Dendreon, cannot be
      generated, a second apheresis will be performed. Failure of two attempts to generate
      Sipuleucel-T product after two aphereses at either the 2nd or 3rd scheduled Sipuleucel-T
      infusion will be considered failure of one patient to meet release criteria .
    
  