
    
      Most patients infected with HIV across the European continent remain undiagnosed; although
      this percentage varies markedly from 15-80% across the continent. Undiagnosed HIV is harmful
      to the person infected as appropriate health interventions are then delayed until the HIV
      infection is diagnosed. It is also detrimental to society as persons unaware of their HIV
      infection may transmit more frequently to others than persons that are aware of their HIV
      status.

      An important public health issue is hence how to diagnose more HIV-infected persons earlier
      in the course of their infection. In the US, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
      (CDC) has introduced testing guidelines where all persons are tested upon entry into the
      hospital system (the "opt-out" testing guidelines).

      At the "HIV in Europe" conference held in November 2007, the general sense was that such an
      approach would not be suitable for Europe. Conversely, the conference recommended further
      development of focused HIV testing in patients presenting with certain clinical conditions
      and/or diseases (i.e. indicator condition guided testing).

      Cost effectiveness analyses suggests cost savings if a population with a HIV prevalence of 1%
      or more are tested although this rate may be as low as 0.1%. However, there is very little -
      if any - evidence on HIV prevalence for various conditions and diseases in specific and easy
      to identify sections of society. This is true in general and particularly across the European
      continent.

      Surveys will be undertaken by the investigators:

      Zangerle, Kitchen, U H Innsbruck, Vassilenko, Minsk Municipal Infectious Diseases Hospital,
      Necsoi, Clumeck, Saint-Pierre U H Hadziosmanovic, U of Sarajevo Begovac, U Hospital of
      Infectious Diseases Pedersen, Mogensen, Abildgaard, Titlestad, Odense U H Dragsted, Roskilde
      H Späth, U of Bonn Sthoeger, Neve-Or AIDS Centre d'Armino Monforte, Mareo, Comi, Centanni,
      San Paolo H Grzeszczuk, Medical U of Bialystok Maltez, H Curry Cabral Castro, HU A
      Coruna-Hospital Juan Canalejo Masia, HU Elche Estrada, HCU San Carlos Iribarren, H. Donostia
      Ortega, CH General de Valencia Ocampo, H Xeral-Cies Vernazza, Kantonsspital St. Gallen Perry,
      Fisher, Elton John Centre, Morris, RIDU Minton, St James's U H Palfreeman, Leicester Royal
      Infirmary Gazzard, Sullivan, ChelseaWestminster H Winston, Walsh, St Mary's H Anderson,
      Millett, Homerton H NHS Trust Farazmand, Huddersfield Royal Infirmary Ong, Krasnov, Kharkov
      Regional Clinic of Infectious Diseases Kutsyna, State Medical U
    
  