
    
      Method:

      The investigation is a case control study where the aim is to test a set off clinical tests
      to see if the diagnose Charcot foot can be made paraclinical. The assumption is, that there
      are other parameter than the clinical observation that differ between the Charcot patient and
      a patient with polyneuropathy.

      The study will consist of a variety of examinations. All patients will undergo a clinical
      examination by the same physician, including a neurological status.

      The paraclinical examinations consist of blood samples, x-ray of the foot (if normal then
      MR-scanning of the foot), skeletal Scintigraphy, DEXA scanning, distal blood pressure, beat
      to beat examination to decide the autonomous neuropathy. If the patient has a positive
      skeletal scintigraphy and ulceration on the foot, or elevated infection parameter in the
      blood sample, then a leukocyte scintigraphy will be performed in order to rule out
      osteomyelitis.

      The population that we will include in the study is divided in 5 groups:

        1. Patients with diabetes and acute Charcot foot.

        2. Patients with diabetes and chronic Charcot foot.

        3. Patients with diabetes and amputation of the first toe.

        4. Patients with diabetes and polyneuropathy.

        5. Patients with diabetes and without polyneuropathy. All patients will undergo the full
           examination program, with the exception of the cases mentioned above.

      Conclusions:

      There is need for a better diagnostic of the condition Charcot foot, due to the severe
      longtime complication in form of disablement. In some cases even amputation of the foot. If
      the diagnosis is made earlier, obviously one can start the intervention earlier, and this
      will improve the "survival" of the foot.

      Another advantage is that agreed criteria for the diagnosis of Charcot would help in allowing
      comparison of different treatments.
    
  