
    
      * Recruitment

      Potential subjects will be identified from i) inpatients referred prior to discharge and ii)
      outpatients to medical social workers from Singapore General Hospital (SGH) and Alexandra
      Hospital (AH). After confirming study eligibility the medical social worker will inform the
      potential subject about the study; after obtaining informed consent, the medical social
      worker will make a telephone call to the Duke - NUS research fellow who will then carry out
      the randomization process, assigning the subject to either the intervention group or the
      control group.

      * Sites

      The SingaPACE program will be located at 298, Tiong Bahru Road, #15-01/06 Central Plaza and
      at NTUC Eldercare, Block 117, Bukit Merah View.

      * Procedures

        -  Randomization will be stratified at each recruitment site by gender, assuring equal
           numbers of men and women in each study arm; and by hospital assuring equal number of
           patients from SGH and AH in each study arm. 20 participants will enter the study (10 per
           arm) each month over a proposed 4-month recruitment period. If the recruitment rate is
           lower than expected, the recruitment period will be extended.

        -  Individuals in the intervention group will have a program of services based on intake
           and ongoing evaluation using interRAI by the SingaPACE assessment team. Services
           included in the integrated available mix are:

             -  Case management across the continuum of care

             -  Medical care by the SingaPACE physician

             -  Home nursing (e.g., for administering parenteral medication, wound care, assessment
                of health status, nutrition)

             -  Home care (e.g., for assistance with ADL)

             -  Physiotherapy

             -  Occupational therapy

             -  Psychosocial care and counseling by social workers

             -  Transportation to care and support services

             -  Emergency housing and beds - public hospital acute bed substitution

                24 hour doctor / nurse phone coverageIf individuals in the intervention group leave
                the SingaPACE program, they will still continue to be tracked as a part of
                intention-to-treat analysis. Patients who die over the 36 months will be counted as
                drop outs. While the program can have new replacements for patients who have died,
                new participants will not be counted as a part of the intervention group in this
                research study.

        -  Individuals randomized to the control arm will be referred to the medical social worker
           for referral to community services as usual. The control group will be interviewed on
           their medical history, healthcare utilization and expenditure data. The data collected
           will be complemented by data that may be made available by the VWO providing home and
           community care to the control group. Such VWO data may possibly include assessments
           using RAF.

      If participants from the control group switch from a VWO community care program to another
      VWO community care program, they will still continue to be tracked and included in the
      intention-to-treat analysis. For participants who die over the period of study, they will be
      counted as loss to follow-up.

      The control group will receive community care services referred by the SGH MSW:

        -  VWO community care

        -  GPs

        -  Polyclinics

        -  Specialist Outpatient Clinics

        -  Traditional Chinese Medicine or herbal treatments

        -  Supportive care arrangements of the family, relatives and friends

             -  All participants will be tracked over a 36-month period starting August 2011.
                Following the US PACE impact evaluation from 1998 observations of all patients will
                be made at the beginning of the intervention and follow up at 6 month intervals
                (Chatterji et al. 1998; Irvin, Massey and Dorsey 1997; White, Abel and Kidder,
                2000).

      Analysis The main outcome measure is number of EMT events, A&E events and acute care events
      over the 36 month period. This is the primary endpoint.

      The secondary endpoints to be studied are time to first admission to nursing home over the 36
      month period, LOS in A&E; LOS in acute care; patient QOL and satisfaction with care; monthly
      utilization and costs; healthcare expenditure (out-of-pocket) and financing; and caregiver
      satisfaction / well being. There will be both unadjusted and adjusted measures. For time to
      first admission to nursing home, survival analysis specifically Cox Proportional Hazards
      regressions and intention-to-treat analysis will be carried out.

      Since our study tracks participants over a period of 36 months, the first potential concern
      is participants in the control group who may be lost to follow-up 6 months after discharge
      which is when the MSW will close the care management files for patients. After the 6 months,
      the control group may for various reasons cease to receive community care unless they are in
      a VWO program that has care management. To minimize this difficulty, the available
      coordinated care management VWOs in the Bukit Merah catchment area will be provided with the
      list of names of the control group for oversight. Should any of the participants drop out of
      a community care program, the care coordinators can assist in enrolling the older adult in
      another care program should the participant decide that s / he would like to continue in a
      care program.

      Statistical justification and the means by which data will be analyzed and interpreted

      For the hypothesis to be tested, H03: Frail elderly in SingaPACE will have delayed first
      admission to institutionalized residential care nursing home relative to the frail elderly
      who are not in SingaPACE, survival analysis will be carried out. Shoenfeld's formula gives
      the total number of first nursing home admissions necessary to achieve 80% power as a
      function of the hazard ratio 32/(log HR)2. Assuming a hazard ratio of 0.35, along with first
      admission probabilities of 20% and 50% in SingaPACE and non-SingaPACE groups respectively,
      approximately 28 total admissions and therefore total participants (40 in each group) will be
      needed.

      For the hypotheses H01: The elderly in SingaPACE will tend to have fewer admissions to
      accident & emergency (A&E) hospitalization than the elderly who are not in SingaPACE; H02:
      The elderly in SingaPACE will have fewer admissions to acute care hospitalization than the
      elderly who are not in SingaPACE; H04: The elderly in SingaPACE clients will have an enhanced
      QOL and satisfaction compared to the elderly who are not in SingaPACE; and H05: Caregivers of
      the elderly in SingaPACE will have a lower care-giving burden compared to caregivers of the
      elderly who are not in SingaPACE, Wilcoxon rank sum tests will be carried out. Assuming that
      observations from one group will exceed observations from the other group at least 55% of the
      time, each of these tests will have greater than 80% power for detecting a difference between
      the groups.

      The analytical strategy will consist of hypothesis testing for each of the five individual
      hypotheses and intention-to-treat analysis. Also there will be an examination of the
      distributions of the main outcomes across all participants in each arm over 36 months. This
      will be complemented by a meta-analysis of the effectiveness of PACE programs in the US and
      Singapore.
    
  