
    
      Aim To use registry-based data and long-term quality of life follow up after anti-reflux
      surgery to quantify efficacy of treatment and to propose a clinically applicable tool to
      improve patient selection for surgery.

      Background Treatment of GERD consists of anti-secretory drugs, mainly proton pump inhibitors,
      or anti-reflux surgery. Laparoscopic anti-reflux surgery is considered standard of care in
      surgical treatment of gastro-esophageal reflux disease and with careful patient selection
      based on thorough preoperative workup; symptom control and patient satisfaction are high
      compared to medical therapy).

      Despite a tailored approach, laparoscopic anti-reflux surgery is not without risks of adverse
      effects, most notably disruption of the fundoplication, post-fundoplication dysphagia and
      gas-bloat-syndrome, in some cases leading to reoperation. Furthermore non-surgical factors
      such as pre-existing anxiety or depression disorders can influence postoperative satisfaction
      and symptom relief when compared to patients without concomitant psychological disorders.

      Although few studies conclude that medical and surgical treatment of GERD have similar
      effectiveness, disease-specific quality of life generally improves after anti-reflux surgery
      and patient satisfaction is high. Depending on surgical procedure, the postoperative quality
      of life, ranges from significantly increased compared to preoperative measurements, to
      "normal" values as found in subjects devoid of GERD. 73-98% are satisfied with their
      condition after surgery and would choose surgery again.

      Follow-up of randomized clinical trials have demonstrated, that anti-reflux surgery patients
      use acid suppressing drugs, primarily proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy at postoperative
      follow-up. Use have been considered minimal with <20% using PPI-therapy and 27-44% using PPI
      at five-year follow-up. A recent register-based study, demonstrated a greater number of
      redeemed prescriptions of proton pump inhibitor after primary anti-reflux surgery, than
      previously known. Five-, 10- and 15-year risks of long-term PPI use were 29.4%, 41.1% and
      56.6%. However, this register-based study could not examine whether patients had objective
      recurrence of reflux disease and also did not examine indication for treatment as well as
      prescribing physician. From 2001 to 2011, 94,4% of PPI where prescribed in primary care and
      it is unknown why post-fundoplication patients are prescribed PPI. It has previously been
      demonstrated, that the use of acid suppressing drugs after anti-reflux surgery does not
      necessarily correlate with abnormal acid exposure to the esophagus . In general, the use of
      PPI has increased rapidly in Denmark, rising 243% from 2001 to 2011 despite more restrictive
      guidelines and changes in reimbursement . It must also be taken under consideration that
      although PPIs are a safe group of drugs, there are possible side effects such as increased
      risk of fractures, interaction with platelet inhibitor Clopidogrel, increased risk of kidney
      failure, pneumonia and hypomagnesaemia. As the majority of proton pump inhibitors are
      prescribed by general practitioners and not by the surgical centers, surgeons have very
      little knowledge of this aspect of life following anti-reflux surgery.

      Laparoscopic anti-reflux surgery is more effective than medical management with regard to
      short to medium length follow-up. Few studies provide long-term follow-up. After ten years,
      the benefits of surgery seem to decrease, but there is still a significant improvement in
      quality of life compared to preoperative measurements . Known causes of dissatisfaction are
      postoperative complication, redo-fundoplication and developing new bothersome symptoms such
      as gas-bloat and dysphagia combined with inadequate symptom relief.

      Hypothesis Long-term follow-up of anti-reflux surgery in combination with preoperative
      evaluation can be used to evaluate treatment success for a large cohort of patients and to
      create a clinically applicable tool for selecting patients for anti-reflux surgery predicting
      success of treatment.

      Methods and materials Included in the study will be patients in the period 2002-2013 that had
      anti-reflux surgery at Department of Surgery, Kolding Hospital (n=557). Primary indication
      for surgery must be GERD (Nomesco: KJBC00-02).

      Using patient records preoperative evaluation, including comorbidity and perioperative data
      will be registered. Postoperative complications within 30 days will be evaluated. Data on
      redo-surgery will be extracted from the National Patient Registry. 30-day mortality (National
      Civic Registry), data on socioeconomic status at primary surgery (The Integrated Database for
      Labour Market), preoperative use of PPI 2 years before primary surgery (Danish National
      Prescription Register) and information on psychiatric comorbidity (The Danish Psychiatric
      Central Research Register) will be extracted. All patients in the cohort will be contacted
      and included in follow-up evaluating specific quality of life (GERD-HRQL(59)) as well as
      dysphagia. They will also be asked whether they use any acid suppressing drugs, which
      physician prescribed them and the primary reason for use.

      Statistical analysis Multiple logistic regression will be performed and used to establish
      significant preoperative and perioperative predictors for success of treatment. Failure of
      surgical treatment will be defined as any redo-surgery, consistent use of PPI
      postoperatively, significantly reduced quality of life or low patient satisfaction. Variables
      considered will be: demographics (age, sex, smoking, body mass index, employment status,
      educational level and income), endoscopic findings (esophagitis, hiatal hernia), symptoms of
      reflux (typical/atypical), comorbidity (ASA, Charlson Index, psychiatric comorbidity,
      previous abdominal surgery), pH-measurement (acid/non-acid reflux), esophageal manometry
      (normal, hyper- or hypomotility), preoperative quality of life and preoperative
      PPI-consumption as well as operative data (duration of surgery, length of stay, type of
      fundoplication, postoperative complications) respectively. Patients in the cohort having
      redo-surgery performed at any point since primary surgery will be selected for separate
      analysis examining comparing quality of life, patient satisfaction and predictive factors for
      redo-surgery. Survival analysis of fundoplication clinical durability will also be performed.
      The results will be used to create a clinically applicable scoring system facilitating
      successful preoperative evaluation before anti-reflux surgery.

      Assuming 90% follow-up rate in the entire cohort, 501 patients will be included in the
      cohort. Retrospective data are available for all 557 patients. Reoperation, use of PPI and
      mortality will be extracted from registries yielding 100% follow-up under the assumption that
      no patient emigrated since surgery.
    
  