
    
      Collaborative Problem Solving (CPS) is an evidence-based approach for treating children with
      behavioral challenges. Unlike traditional models of discipline that use power, control and
      incentives to facilitate compliance, CPS does not assume that a challenging child lacks
      motivation for compliance, but instead that the child is motivated to behave well, but simply
      cannot consistently do so, due to lagging skills in one or more critical neurocognitive
      domains, such as those related to language and communication skills, attention and working
      memory skills, emotion- and self-regulation skills, cognitive flexibility skills, and/or
      social thinking skills. The goal of the intervention is to improve these lagging
      neurocognitive skills by helping adults and children work toward mutually satisfactory
      solutions to problems, thereby enhancing flexibility and frustration tolerance in both
      interaction partners. Any caregiver can use CPS with any child, and CPS can be taught to
      mental health providers (e.g., therapists, direct care staff), educators (e.g., teachers,
      administrators), or parents. Common ways to teach CPS to parents include family therapy (one
      provider teaching one family) or in parent group training (one provider teaching six to ten
      parents).

      Although preschool-aged children have been included in past CPS-related research, they have
      not been studied separately, and research has not assessed the appropriateness of the current
      CPS approach for very young children. To address this gap in research, this study will
      support the development of a parent group curriculum specifically targeting guardians of
      preschool-aged children, as well as a randomized efficacy trial to evaluate the feasibility,
      acceptability, and effects of a CPS parent group. Outcome measures from the CPS group will be
      compared with those from a group that promotes operant behavioral parenting.

      Approximately sixty participating guardians will be randomly assigned to attend one of two
      types of weekly 2-hour groups, each lasting six weeks: either a Collaborative Problem Solving
      group (N=30; 3 groups) or a Positive Solutions for Families group, a group routinely offered
      at Head Start programs (N=30; 3 groups). Participants will complete surveys prior to
      beginning the groups (baseline), upon completion of the group sessions (discharge), and six
      months after the conclusion of the groups (follow up). Results from these surveys will be
      compared between groups.
    
  