
    
      Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) is curative for lesions with superficial submucosal
      invasive carcinoma (s-SMIC) and favourable histological features. The procedure is performed
      mainly for laterally spreading lesions (LSLs) and is the reference treatment for these
      neoplasms in Asian countries nowadays. LSLs can be granular (G) or non-granular (NG). Most
      LSLs-G homogenous type are superficial and can be resected by EMR because SMIC is often
      lacking. On the other hand, since LSLs-G mixed type > 20 - 30 mm have a higher prevalence of
      SMIC when compared with the homogenous subtype, Asian experts now recommend ESD for this kind
      of tumors. However, some years ago, EMR had been suggested for LSLs-G mixed type if the
      largest nodule was resected first and the histological assessment was done separately. The
      rationale for the latter approach is that the invasive component is usually found within the
      large nodule.

      Conversely, the prevalence of SMIC is higher in LSLs-NG PD type, therefore, ESD is the
      preferred therapeutic intervention. In addition, LSLs-NG FE type have been associated with
      multifocal invasion in Japanese studies. However, in Western countries, the percentage of
      SMIC in LSLs-NG FE type > 20 mm seems much lower than previously described in Asian series.
      Thus, the investigators do not know if EMR might be enough to remove these tumours.

      Furthermore, if the risk of s-SMIC is low, the recurrence rates for ESD in these kind of
      lesions (LSL-G mixed type > 30 mm and LSL-NG FE type > 20 mm) might be comparable to that of
      piecemeal EMR, in terms of curative resection (avoiding the need for surgery) in the
      mid-term. When performing an EMR, recurrences are more frequent, but they are largely
      inconsequential because it is usually unifocal, diminutive and easily can be managed
      endoscopically on subsequent sessions.

      In order to clarify the controversial issue of performing colorectal ESD in Western
      countries, the investigators aim to assess if piecemeal EMR (the older technique) for LSLs-G
      mixed type > 30 mm and LSLs-NG FE type > 20 mm is not inferior to ESD (the new treatment) for
      the need of additional surgery in the mid-term.
    
  