
    
      Few studies are specifically designed to address health concerns relevant during pregnancy.
      The consequence is a lack of evidence on best clinical practice. This includes mothers and
      their babies when pregnancy is complicated by an abnormally fast heart rate up to 300 beats
      per minute due to supraventricular tachyarrhythmia (SVA) in the unborn baby (fetus). Although
      fetal SVA, including AF and other forms of SVT, is the most common cause of intended in-utero
      fetal therapy, our knowledge of drug effects on the baby and the co-treated mother is still
      limited. The Fetal Atrial Flutter and Supraventricular Tachycardia (FAST) Therapy Trial is a
      prospective multi-center trial to address this knowledge gap in order to guide future patient
      management to the best of care.

      FAST Trial components include:

        1. A prospective Registry (FAST Registry; see this document) as well as

        2. Three prospective Randomized Clinical Trials (FAST RCTs; see ClinicalTrials.gov
           #NCT02624765).

      The FAST Registry is a prospective observational cohort study to determine the impact of
      different prenatal treatment strategies on patients diagnosed with fetal AF without hydrops,
      AF with hydrops, SVT without hydrops, and SVT with hydrops. All management decisions
      including the choice of antiarrhythmic medication or the decision to observe without
      treatment are at the discretion of the treating physician. The primary outcome measure will
      be the proportion of term deliveries of live-born children with a normal cardiac rhythm.
      Secondary outcome measures include the efficacy of 1st line, 2nd line, 3rd line, and
      maintenance drug therapy in controlling the different arrhythmias prior to birth and patient
      safety.

      Participation of a site in the FAST Registry requires experience with the perinatal
      management of fetal AF and SVT, local REB/IRB approval and an executed legal contract with
      the Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto.

      Participation of a patient in the FAST Registry requires that all inclusion and none of the
      exclusion criteria are fulfilled (see below). Enrollment is possible within 2 days of the
      arrhythmia diagnosis and the initial management decision.
    
  