
    
      The investigators have established a national (UK-wide) active surveillance study using the
      standard British Paediatric Surveillance Unit (BPSU) approach.

      Since the 1st April 2020 case notifications are being collected using the BPSU 'orange eCard'
      approach. Eligible babies are: neonatal COVID-19 in babies (<29 days old) in neonatal units,
      paediatric intensive care units and other in-patient locations and where neonates are born to
      COVID-19 mothers and require neonatal care. Notification cards are being sent weekly rather
      than the usual monthly pattern, this is so we are able to monitor case returns in
      'real-time'. When paediatricians notify a case they are sent a data collection sheet which is
      returned complete to the BPSU-COVID-19 team at the NPEU.

      The primary data collected in the study will also be cross-linking with data from: a parallel
      NIHR funded study of COVID-19 mothers being carried out using the UK Obstetric Surveillance
      System (UKOSS); MBRRACE-UK, the national surveillance of perinatal deaths; the Paediatric
      Intensive Care Audit Network (PICANet); and PHE England, PHS Scotland, PHS Wales and the HSC
      Public Health Agency Northern Ireland. This is to ensure complete case ascertainment. A later
      linkage will be carried out with the National Neonatal Research Database (NNRD) in order to
      collect more detailed clinical information.

      As data are weekly reports of the findings will be generated to inform the development of
      policy and practice. The findings will be sent together with the UKOSS findings to: the
      decision makers responsible for the COVID-19 control policy at NHSE, DHSC, the Scottish,
      Welsh and NI governments, as well as the Royal Colleges of Paediatrics and Child Health and
      Obstetricians and Gynaecologists (RCPCH & RCOG respectively), and the British Association of
      Perinatal Medicine (BAPM). This will ensure that policy, advice to pregnant women and parents
      and guidance for practice benefits from the most up to date information.

      Follow-up at 3 months post-notification will be carried out in order to collect the final
      outcomes for each baby as the first data collection will be completed when a substantial
      proportion of babies will still be in-patients.

      Data will also be shared (subject to appropriate approvals and data sharing agreements) with
      the COVID-19 registries that are being developed in the UK and across Europe.
    
  