
    
      Study population:

      See Points 4.1 und 4.2 Inclusion/Exclusion criteria of the entire protocol

      Operation:

        -  Lumpectomy / segmentectomy / tumorectomy with sufficient safety margins (see above).
           Lymph node assessment must follow a sentinel node concept.

        -  Perioperative antibiotic prophylaxis is mandatory

        -  After IORT, radio-opaque clips have to be fixed at the tumor bed.

      Histology: R0-Resection is mandatory

      Chemotherapy:

      neoadjuvant:allowed adjuvant: allowed.

      There are no limitations towards special chemotherapeutic schemes and schedules.

      Radiotherapy:

      IOERT

        -  IOERT is performed on mobile or fixed linacs

        -  Reference dose: 11 Gy specified as maximum dose, with a minimum target volume dose of
           90% encompassing the PTV (i.e. 10 Gy).

      WBRT

        -  must start within day 36- 56 postoperatively (week 6 - 8 p.o.) in case of adjuvant
           hormonal treatment (or no further tumor specific medication)

        -  In case of adjuvant chemotherapy, a time - gap between IOERT and WBRT up to 9 months is
           allowed.

        -  Single reference dose per fraction: 2,7 Gy (ICRU)

        -  Number of fractions: 15, Number of fractions per week: 5

        -  Total WBRT dose: 40,5 Gy

      RT of regional lymphatics: exclusion criterion

      Diagnostics of Local recurrence:

        -  yearly mammographies,

        -  optional breast sonography, MRI

        -  LR has to be histologically confirmed

      Follow-up screening for detection of metastases (minimum requirements):

        -  Chest X-Ray, optional

        -  abdominal sonography, optional

        -  lab tests incl. tumor markers, optional

      Assessment of acute toxicity of WBRT according to CTC-toxicity Scoring-systems:

      Assessment of late toxicity according to LENT-SOMA scoring-systems

      Assessment of cosmetic outcome according to 5-point- Scoring System (vanLimbergen) starting
      before WBRT, including photo documentation in standardized positions
    
  