
    
      Atrial fibrillation is the most commonly diagnosed arrhythmia in the United States. A
      systematic review of worldwide population-based studies estimated that approximately 33
      million people were diagnosed with atrial fibrillation in 2010. The prevalence of atrial
      fibrillation in the United States increases with advancing age. Approximately 1% of patients
      with atrial fibrillation are under 60 years of age whereas more than one-third are over 80
      years of age.

      Although atrial fibrillation is commonly diagnosed and continues to have increased incidence
      in the country, patients continue to be admitted to the hospital for worsening symptoms of
      chest pain, shortness of breath, and palpitations. Long-term complications of atrial
      fibrillation include cardiomyopathy, cerebrovascular events, thromboembolic events, and
      death.

      Many medications have been established to convert patients from atrial fibrillation to normal
      sinus rhythm; however procedures of cardioversion and ablation have also proven to be
      effective. A study, the AFFIRM trial, published in the New England Journal of Medicine in
      2002 discussed the benefit of converting patients to sinus rhythm versus keeping patients in
      atrial fibrillation, however making sure their heart rates were well-controlled. This study
      did not demonstrate a significant difference in death, ischemic stroke, or major bleeding in
      both treatment arms suggesting there is no benefit of converting patients from atrial
      fibrillation to normal sinus rhythm. However, with increasing health costs occurring around
      the country, every effort should be made to help improve patient symptoms and avoid
      unnecessary hospitalizations. A study published in the Journal of American College of
      Cardiology in 2004, "Effect of rate or rhythm control on quality of life in persistent atrial
      fibrillation: Results from the Rate Control Versus Electrical Cardioversion (RACE) study,"
      concluded that the quality of life was impaired in patients with atrial fibrillation. Another
      study published in 2012, "Economic Burden of Atrial Fibrillation: Implications for
      Intervention," reported total costs of atrial fibrillation care in the United States to be
      estimated to be $6.65 billion per year.

      Our study is designed to look at patients with atrial fibrillation who underwent electrical
      cardioversion to restore sinus rhythm and create a prediction model to identify specific risk
      factors, which may contribute to persistent atrial fibrillation.

      Prediction models have been established in regards to maintaining sinus rhythm, including the
      Hatch Score, which examined risk factors of hypertension, history of TIA or stroke, chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease, and heart failure that predisposed patients to persistent
      atrial fibrillation. Another score established was the LADS score, which observed risk
      factors of left atrial diameter, age, history of stroke, and smoking status as predictors of
      persistent atrial fibrillation. The purpose of our study is to create a new prediction model
      using clinical and echocardiographic parameters to determine if these factors will predict
      persistent atrial fibrillation after electrical cardioversion. Transesophageal
      echocardiographic parameters include imaging of the left atrial appendage (LAA) and
      calculating the LAA ejection fraction (LAAEF) by 3D or biplane Simpson method (based on image
      quality), and using pulse-wave Doppler to calculate the LAA exit velocity and S/D ratio
      across the pulmonic vein. Transthoracic echocardiographic parameters include estimated
      pulmonary arterial pressure (PASP) using tricuspid regurgitation (TR) jet velocity, left
      atrial volume index (LAVi), left ventricular (LV) size, LV hypertrophy (LVH) and left
      ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF).
    
  