
    
      Background:

      Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a genetic tumor predisposition syndrome (incidence of
      1:3000), which results in the development of progressive tumor and non-tumor manifestations,
      the majority of which have no effective medical therapies. 25-50% of individuals with
      neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) develop histologically benign plexiform neurofibromas (PN),
      which can cause substantial morbidity. Recently, the POB identified that MEK inhibitors cause
      shrinkage of the majority of PN and that PN shrinkage is associated with clinical benefit.

      A natural history study of NF1 at the NCI has gathered comprehensive imaging information
      using longitudinal whole-body MRI with volumetric measurements. By this approach, distinct
      nodular lesions (DNL) were identified, many of which are atypical neurofibromas (ANF) based
      on pathology review.

      The NCI POB and others have described ANF as precursor lesions for aggressive soft tissue
      sarcomas called malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors (MPNST), which show poor response to
      chemotherapy and have poor survival. Of note, ANF appear to be less responsive to treatment
      with MEK inhibitors indicating a different biology.

      Exome sequencing of 16 ANF resected at the National Cancer Institute, Pediatric Oncology
      Branch (NCI POB) and Belgium revealed that 90% of the cases had heterozygous loss of CDKN2A/B
      as the only new somatic change in addition to biallelic NF1 deletion, consistent with prior
      reports. These results demonstrate that transformation of NF1 nerve tumors may genetically
      proceed through the premalignant ANF by a common mechanism that might be a point of
      intervention.

      CDKN2A is the primary inhibitory brake on CDK4/6 driven signaling and is commonly deleted in
      glioblastoma, pancreas, bladder, breast and prostate cancer. The specific CDK4/6 inhibitor,
      abemaciclib, has FDA approval for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer.

      ANF is a prototypic premalignant lesion for testing experimental intervention, as these
      lesions are at risk for transformation, and share a common potentially druggable genomic
      alteration (CDKN2A/B deletion). We propose a clinical trial of abemaciclib in children and
      adults with NF1 and unresectable ANF.

      Objectives:

      Phase I: To determine the recommended Phase II dose (RP2D) of abemaciclib in patients with
      NF1 and a measurable ANF.

      Phase II: To determine the objective response rate (ORR) in the target ANF; complete and
      partial response (CR + PR), response determined by volumetric MRI analysis (^3 20% volume
      reduction) compared to baseline.

      Eligibility:

      Patients must be at least 12 years of age with a diagnosis of NF1 with associated age-related
      requirements as follows:

      Willingness of patients >= 12 years old and <18 years old to undergo pre-treatment
      percutaneous biopsy of ANF if deemed feasible with minimal morbidity

      Willingness of patients >=18 years old to undergo pre-treatment and on-treatment percutaneous
      biopsy of ANF if deemed feasible with minimal morbidity

      Presence of >= 1 measurable ANF (biopsy confirmed) for which surgical removal could cause
      significant morbidity OR for which patient is unwilling to undergo surgical resection OR the
      presence of more than one distinct nodular lesion (DNL) including at least 1 biopsy proven
      ANF

      For patients of all ages with ANF who cannot be safely biopsied with minimal morbidity,
      biopsy requirement to be performed at NIH Clinical Center will be waived from eligibility
      criteria. In this case, review of available archival tissue by NIH Pathology will be
      necessary to confirm diagnosis of ANF, which is mandatory for eligibility.

      Design:

      This is a Phase I/II non-randomized, open label, single institution study of the CDK4/6
      inhibitor, abemaciclib, in children and adults with NF1 and a measurable ANF or with multiple
      ANF/DNL.

      Primarily because the tolerability of investigational agents may differ between the NF1
      population and non-NF1 population and secondarily because abemaciclib has not been evaluated
      in children to date, there will be a limited dose finding phase.

      During the Phase 1 portion of the trial, the first 6 subjects enrolled will be treated at 75%
      of the adult recommended Phase II dose (ARP2D; 150mg PO BID) of abemaciclib used in patients
      with malignancies, in a 28-day cycle. For patients < 18 years of age, dosing will be based on
      body surface area (BSA).

      Cohorts of up to 6 subjects will be enrolled, with dose adjustment depending on dose-limiting
      toxicities (DLT) until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)/ recommended Phase II dose (RP2D) is
      established.

      The Phase II trial is a Simon minimax two-stage trial design. A response rate of
      approximately 30% or greater would be considered desirable. The first stage of the Phase II
      portion of the trial will enroll 15 evaluable subjects; if 0 to 2 of the 15 have a PR or CR,
      then no further subjects will be accrued. If 3 or more of the 15 subjects have a PR or CR,
      then accrual would continue until a total of 21 evaluable subjects have been enrolled in
      phase II.

      The accrual ceiling will be set at 50 eligible subjects (to include patients who are screened
      but found to not be eligible to undergo treatment).

      All patients will undergo careful toxicity monitoring. Restaging MRI for response will be
      performed pre-cycles 3 and 5, and then every 4 cycles for remainder of the first year.
    
  