
    
      The purpose of this pilot project is to evaluate the effectiveness of a behavioral economic
      intervention to increase use of continuous glucose monitors (CGM) in adolescents and young
      adults with T1D. This study will be done in conjunction with Nancy Petry, PhD and her
      research team at University of Connecticut School of Medicine (UConn Health). The
      intervention will reinforce patients for wearing CGM and for uploading it and reviewing its
      data. A 6-month pilot trial will be conducted with up to 20 patients receiving the
      intervention. The specific aims are:

        1. To estimate how well a reinforcement intervention increases usage of CGM. The proportion
           of days on which participants wear the CGM will be determined as well as the number of
           weeks during which CGM is worn at least 5 days. We will compare usage rates in the pilot
           trial to historical control data of patients initiating CGM.

        2. To evaluate the association between CGM usage and A1c. We expect A1c will decrease over
           time in patients who receive the reinforcement intervention. Patients who continue using
           the CGM are expected to have greater decreases in A1c than patients who discontinue its
           usage.

      Evaluations will be conducted at time of CGM initiation, and 6, 13, 19, 26, and 39 weeks
      after treatment initiation to assess effects of the intervention and estimate effect sizes.

      In addition to the primary aims, secondary outcomes will also be evaluated. Continued use of
      CGM is expected to improve aspects of diabetes management and daily functioning. Predictors
      of continued CGM usage and improvements in A1c will also be evaluated.

      Results from this pilot study will be instrumental for guiding a subsequent, larger and
      longer term randomized study for evaluating reinforcement interventions for improving uptake
      of CGM, other diabetes-related adherence behaviors, and long-term outcomes.
    
  