
    
      Rationale Approximately 75% of patients with lung cancer present with advanced disease. For
      those with stage 1 disease, the chance of cure is up to 70%. Therefore, diagnostics which may
      aid identification of those with early stage lung cancer will play an important role in
      future screening programs. Because all cancer cells are characterized by a change in their
      metabolism related to their uncontrolled growth, detection of the resulting metabolites may
      be a novel diagnostic tool for early stage lung cancer. Subsets of these metabolites are
      volatile and are exhaled as so-called volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Analysis of exhaled
      VOCs suggests they differ between patients with advanced lung cancer and healthy controls.
      The Lung Cancer Indicator Detection (LuCID) study aims to validate the use of a
      high-throughput breath analysis technique in a population of patients whom are clinically
      suspected of having lung cancer.

      Methods LuCID is an international, multi-center case-control study. Patients referred by
      their GP or treating specialist for a diagnostic work-up for lung cancer will be invited to
      participate in the study. A maximum of two thousand five hundred patients whom consent to
      partake in this study will be asked to provide a breath sample prior to any diagnostic
      procedures. This is a non-invasive procedure that will require the patient to breath normally
      into a facemask to collect 2.5L of breath amounting to approximately 10 minutes of breathing.
      The resulting samples will be analyzed for VOCs by Gas Chromatography coupled to Mass
      Spectrometry and Gas Chromotography coupled to Field Assymetrical Ion Mobility Spectrometry.
      The resulting VOC profiles will be used to generate a diagnostic algorithm in order to try to
      differentiate between patients with and without lung cancer in the intention to diagnose
      population. This study will not interfere in any with the standard care offered at the
      clinical sites.

      Outcomes The results of this study will provide detailed insights into the accuracy of the
      test for the detection of lung cancer in the intention to diagnose population. This will form
      the foundation for a subsequent study in a population at risk for the development of lung
      cancer. If sufficiently accurate for early stage disease, analysis of breath VOCs could help
      implement large-scale screening for lung cancer, significantly decreasing the morbidity and
      mortality of the disease.
    
  