
    
      Rationale. Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a major complication often encountered in oncology
      and onco-hematology, and difficult to handle. It involves the activation of coagulation with
      the generation of fibrin and plasmin and angiogenesis activation. Low molecular weight
      heparins (LMWH) are used to treat cancer associated thrombosis. Furthermore, they could have
      an inhibitory effect on tumor progression.

      International recommendations on the treatment and prophylaxis of the disease allow a better
      management of VTE in patients with cancer. Its prevalence is high, occurring in 15-20% of the
      patients. It remains the second leading cause of death after cancer. LMWH at therapeutic
      dosage for at least three months and preferably six months without oral bridging is the
      reference treatment for VTE, which showed a 50% reduction in the risk of recurrent
      thromboembolism without increasing the hemorrhagic risk. In case of VTE recurrence under LMWH
      treatment, the dose can be increased by 10%. Preliminary results suggest that the fibrin
      structure marker would predict the hemorrhagic or thromboembolic risk, and show that LMWH has
      a dose-dependent effect on fibrin structure. This marker is evaluated as a tool to guide the
      treatment of VTE by LMWH in patients with cancer.

      Main objective. To assess the fibrin structure marker in the plasma of cancer patients,
      treated or not treated with LMWH at prophylactic doses at enrollment or therapeutic doses, to
      determine the venous thromboembolic risk. The occurrence of thromboembolic events in patients
      without treatment or of recurrent thromboembolic events in patients under LMWH treatment will
      be studied, depending on the location and type of cancer, metastases, and treatment of
      cancer.

      Patients. At least 300 adult patients over 18 years with all types of malignancies documented
      before or during therapeutic treatment with LMWH for thromboembolic event. They will be
      monitored every month in consultation or during hospitalization in the Internal Medicine
      Department. The patients under prophylaxis with LMWH at enrollment will also be included and
      classified in the group of prophylactic patients. The patients who receive prophylactic
      treatment during will be included and classified in the group of untreated patients.

      Will not be included: patients with sepsis, severe infections, pneumonia, surgery, suspected
      thromboembolic event related to catheter implantation, vitamin K antagonists (VKA) in
      progress, and those with impossible follow-up.

      The study is conducted in compliance with French regulation after ethics approval, the
      authorization for processing personal data (Commission Nationale de l'Informatique et des
      Libertés, 8, rue Vivienne CS 30223 75083 Paris Cedex 02) receipt number 1867686 v 0, date 18
      June 2015.

      Reference algorithm. Patients will be supported for the diagnosis and specific treatment of
      cancer (with or without metastases), according to the daily practice. The baseline risk score
      is the Khorana score of clinical probability, based on clinical criteria. A thromboembolic
      event has to be diagnosed according to standard imaging criteria (spiral computed tomography
      CT, proximal lower limb venous compression ultrasonography US) by clinicians who will not
      have knowledge of the result of the fibrin structure marker.

      Biological parameters to be studied. The following tests will be carried out on frozen
      citrated plasma or serum, without knowledge of the clinical data and the conclusion of a
      diagnostic of thromboembolic event:

        -  Structure of the fibrin using coag-lysis method, measured at baseline and every month
           for all patients, by one site, using prototype assays

        -  Anti-FXa activity measured at baseline and every month only for patients treated with
           LMWH at therapeutic doses,

        -  FVIII:C and TFPI for coagulation activation, DDimers and PAI-1 for fibrinolysis
           resistance, Fibrin assay for inflammation and hypercoagulation evaluation, all measured
           at baseline and every 3 months for all patients.
    
  