
    
      Nivolumab (OpdivoTM, BMS), a human IgG-4 mAb that blocks the Programmed cell death protein 1
      (PD-1, CD279) has demonstrated anti-tumor activity in patients with various solid- and
      hematological neoplasms. Nivolumab has been registered by EMA and/or FDA for the treatment of
      patients with advanced melanoma, renal cell carcinoma (RCC), non-small cell lung cancer
      (NSCLC), and Hodgkin lymphoma. In a phase I dose escalation clinical trial, receptor blockade
      of PD-1 by nivolumab on circulating lymphocytes was maximal at a dose of 0,3 mg/kg. In
      patients with advanced melanoma nivolumab had a comparable tumor response rate at a dose
      range of 0.1 to 10 mg/kg q2wks. Nivolumab was further developed at a dose of 3 mg/kg q2wks
      and improved the overall survival of patients with advanced melanoma, NSCL, RCC and HNSCC.

      Ipilimumab (YervoyTM, BMS), a human IgG-1 anti-CTLA-4 monoclonal antibody improves the
      overall survival of patients with advanced melanoma; and the relapse-free survival after
      complete resection of high-risk stage III melanoma. Animal models have established the safety
      and efficacy of intra-tumoral administration of ipilimumab. An intratumoral dose of CTLA-4
      blocking mAb administered at a ratio of [1:100] compared to intravenous dosing was found to
      result in equivalent anti-tumor effect and was associated with less systemic toxicity.

      Combined treatment with ipilimumab (3 mg/kg q3wks x4) plus nivolumab (1 mg/kg q3 wks x4
      followed by 3 mg/kg q2 wks) further increases the tumor response rate and progression-free
      survival of patients with advanced melanoma and has been registered by EMA and FDA; this
      combination therapy is associated with a higher incidence of immune related adverse events.
      Nivolumab and ipilimumab have distinct immunological mechanisms that can be revealed by
      analyzing TCR usage in blood lymphocytes.

      Preliminary safety and activity of nivolumab and its combination with ipilimumab in recurrent
      glioblastoma (CHECKMATE-143) were presented at the 2015 and 2016 ASCO Annual meetings (20 pts
      were treated, 10 in each arm). [15] All nivolumab related AEs were grade 1 or 2. Eight (80%)
      nivolumab plus ipilimumab treated patients experienced grade 3/4 AEs. Drug-related AEs
      leading to discontinuation occurred only in nivolumab plus ipilimumab patients (n = 5; 50%),
      including colitis, cholecystitis, diabetic ketoacidosis, confusion, and increased lipase.
      There were no drug-related deaths. Based on these experiences, the sponsor (BMS) decided to
      further investigate nivolumab as a mono-therapy in patients with recurrent- and newly
      diagnosed glioblastoma (CA209-143; CA209-498 and CA209-548). Antitumor activity of nivolumab
      has recently been established in children with recurrent glioblastoma that is characterized
      by biallelic mismatch repair deficiency.
    
  