
    
      Rationale: It is common for male and female adults of all races with a chief complaint of
      epiphora (excessive tearing) to express discomfort either verbally or through body language
      while undergoing tear duct (canalicular) probing and irrigation even when no pathology is
      detected. Use of a topical anesthetic during canalicular probing and irrigation is seen in
      children but has yet to be formally investigated in adults to date. The goal of this study is
      to identify whether or not instillation of a drop of Proparacaine hydrochloride 0.5%
      ophthalmic solution into a participant's eye prior to performance of probing and irrigation
      will improve participant comfort during the procedure and is therefore recommended.

      Hypothesis: Administration of a drop of Proparacaine hydrochloride 0.5% ophthalmic solution
      into the eye prior to probing and irrigation of the lower lid canalicular system will
      decrease discomfort as compared to a control drop of BSS ophthalmic solution into the
      opposite eye prior to the same procedure.

      Null hypothesis: Administration of a drop of Proparacaine hydrochloride 0.5% ophthalmic
      solution does not have an effect on discomfort during canalicular probing and irrigation.

      Medication: Proparacaine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution, United States Pharmacopeia (USP)
      0.5% is a local anesthetic drug intended for topical ophthalmic use. Proparacaine
      Hydrochloride ophthalmic solution is a fast-acting anesthetic lasting 10-20 minutes.
      Proparacaine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution, USP 0.5% is FDA approved for this indication.

      Probing and irrigation: A common in-office ophthalmic procedure performed with a small gauge,
      blunt tube on a syringe filled with BSS. The cannula is placed into the canaliculus (tear
      duct) of one eyelid, and the BSS is used to irrigate the lacrimal system. This procedure
      identifies whether or not obstruction of the lacrimal system is present. A participant with
      an open (patent) system will taste the salty BSS solution in the nose. A participant with a
      nasolacrimal duct obstruction (NLDO) or a more proximal canalicular obstruction will have
      reflux of the irrigant out of the opposite lid (on the same side) canaliculus, the probed
      canaliculus, or both and will usually not detect any irrigant within the nasopharynx.

      Definitions:

      Nasolacrimal drainage system: The physiologic apparatus which drains tears from the surface
      of the eye into the nose (i.e. the tear drain). It consists of (from eye to nose) the punctum
      (opening of the tube), the canaliculus (a thin tube within the eyelid), the lacrimal sac (a
      sac that hold the tears that lies within the bone of the nose) and finally the nasolacrimal
      duct (a duct that connects the lacrimal sac (-lacrimal) into the nose (naso-). A blockage
      anywhere along this pathway can cause epiphora.

      Epiphora: The pathological process of tears overflowing from the ocular surface and rolling
      down the face. Commonly caused by obstructions of the lacrimal drainage system. Can cause
      significant irritation and loss of vision.
    
  