
    
      Periodontitis is a destructive chronic infection of the gums, ligaments, and bone,
      predominantly caused by Gram-negative bacteria residing in biofilm surrounding the teeth.
      Biofilm is an aggregate of microbes with a distinct architecture. This biofilm contains
      clusters of bacterial species that are found commonly below the gingiva and are associated
      reproducibly with periodontal disease. These bacteria involved in periodontitis causes
      destruction of tissues which leads to formation of a periodontal pocket. This space becomes a
      site for further bacterial colonization and possible entry route of bacteria in blood stream.

      It is evident from the data that periodontal health of the Pakistani nation is very poor with
      only 28% of the 12 year old having healthy gums and more than 93% of the 65 year old have
      some gum or periodontal disease . These results indicate that periodontal disease including
      inflammation of gums and calculus is endemic in Pakistan . Like caries, the level of gingival
      and periodontal disease is higher in the rural population of the Pakistan.

      There is an increasing evidence that individuals with periodontal disease are at increased
      risk of cardiovascular disease, preterm delivery of low birth weight infants, pulmonary
      diseases, diabetes, osteoporosis, rheumatoid arthritis, alzheimer's disease & kidney
      diseases. The factors predisposing to periodontal disease and accelerating its progression
      are clearly evident in chronic renal failure. They encompass hyposalivation and xerostomia,
      impaired immunity and wound healing, alveolar bone destruction due to renal osteodystrophy,
      bleeding diathesis, diabetes mellitus, malnutrition and a state of general disability
      impairing oral hygiene. There is evidence for increased prevalence of periodontal disease in
      patients with renal disease, especially in dialysis patients.

      Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is the progressive loss of kidney function over time. Normal
      renal functions are normally evaluated by glomerular filtration rate (GFR). Normal results
      range from 90 - 120 mL/min/1.73 m2.

      The loss of kidney function usually takes months or years to occur. The final stage of
      chronic kidney disease is called end-stage renal disease (ESRD) after which kidneys no longer
      function and the patient needs dialysis or a kidney transplant .

      Chronic kidney disease changes the serum levels of Albumin, Potassium, Calcium, Phosphorus,
      Sodium, Cholesterol and electrolytes. Among all these, albumin is of prime importance because
      it plays an important role in keeping the fluid from the blood from leaking out into the
      tissues. The normal range is 3.4 - 5.4 grams per deciliter (g/dL).

      Lower-than-normal levels of serum albumin may be a sign of kidney diseases or liver disease
      (for example, hepatitis, cirrhosis). Decreased albumin may occur when body does not get or
      absorb enough nutrients, such as after Crohn's disease, Low-protein diets, Sprue, Whipple's
      disease . Other conditions under which the albumin levels are need to be measured are
      widespread burns and Wilson,s disease.

      Hypoalbuminemia has been demonstrated to be a strong predictor of death in chronic renal
      failure . Some studies have however suggested that hypoalbuminemia may be more indicative of
      underlying inflammation, rather than nutritional status, especially in patients with kidney
      disease. In a study it was observed that on dialysis initiation in the US pediatric
      population, hypoalbuminemic patients were at higher risk of dying as compared to patients in
      whom dialysis was initiated with normal albumin levels . It was also assessed that
      hypoalbuminemia, is highly prevalent in kidney failure and is associated with an increased
      mortality risk in this population. Serum albumin level may reflect both the nutritional
      status and chronic inflammation.

      A proposed mechanism for the effect of periodontitis on the development of kidney disease is
      systemic inflammation . Periodontal pathogens have been shown to have the ability to adhere
      to, invade, and proliferate in coronary endothelial cells leading to atheroma formation and
      impaired vasculature relaxation. Cardiovascular diseases and CKD share many risk factors, so
      it is it can be assumed that periodontal disease exerts similar effects within the
      vasculature of the kidney. Both periodontitis and kidney diseases are associated with
      inflammatory markers such as C-reactive protein and chronic low level inflammation associated
      with periodontitis may lead to endothelial dysfunction which plays a role in the pathogenesis
      of kidney disease in edentulous patients. The deleterious effects of systemic inflammation on
      kidney function could occur during the period of active periodontal infection and accumulate
      during the life time of the individual. Inflammation is an important predictor of low serum
      albumin levels among dialysis patients, independent of nutritional status. Low albumin is
      often indicative of malnutrition, but chronic inflammation appears to be the culprit in half
      of the patients with low levels of albumin. This may explain why nutritional therapy does not
      increase serum albumin levels in some patients suggesting chronic inflammation. High CRP
      levels correlates with increased mortality, regardless of nutritional status suggesting an
      independent role for chronic inflammation in causing hypoalbuminemia .

      Abhijit V. Kshirsagar et al. observed an association of severe periodontal disease and
      hypoalbuminemia in a group of patients who were receiving long-term outpatient hemodialysis.
      In study subjects, patients with periodontal disease were more than three times more likely
      to have low serum albumin than patients without periodontal disease. Increased levels of
      plaque have been reported for hemodialysis (HD) populations from several countries including
      Brazil. It has to be noted, however, that HD patients are also repeatedly exposed to systemic
      anticoagulation with high-dose heparin during blood purification procedures. This predisposes
      them further to gingival bleeding and, in consequence, facilitates bacterial colonization and
      growth, and may propagate periodontal disease. Recently, an impressive 3-fold decrease in
      C-reactive protein and a rise in hemoglobin (Hb) levels in HD patients were reported to occur
      already after 4-6 weeks following traditional periodontal therapy . Thus, the issue of poor
      oral health status in CKD patients apparently deserves a higher awareness of the problem, and
      increased attention, and indicates the need for a closer collaboration between primary care
      physicians, nephrologists and dentists.

      There is evidence supporting the contribution of periodontitis to systemic inflammation.
      Several possible mechanisms have been suggested, including the locally produced inflammatory
      mediators and bacterial by-products that invade the blood stream, interact with host cells
      and trigger inflammatory response.

      A study from Turkey of End Stage Renal disease (ESRD) patients on HD therapy found increased
      periodontitis as measured by the Community Periodontal Index of Treatment Needs (CPITN). In a
      study of renal patients receiving HD, Chaung et al, 2005 in Taiwan, reported increased rates
      of periodontitis when compared with national data on periodontal disease for the Taiwanese
      population. Studies focusing on the periodontal health of End Stage Renal disease (ESRD)
      patients on HD maintenance therapy have reported the presence of poor oral hygiene and
      attendant gingival inflammation.

      Bots CP, Poortermann JHG, Brand HS et al (2006) in a study from Netherlands of ESRD patients,
      some of whom were receiving HD, did not find an increased loss of attachment when compared
      with some healthy case-matched controls. Periodontal status of End stage Renal Disease (ESRD)
      patients receiving HD showed no increase in periodontal indices when compared with
      case-matched controls. The authors did note that the HD group had greater numbers of
      periodontopathic bacterial species than the control group.

      The results of studies conducted so far to establish association between severe periodontitis
      and hypoalbuminemia are variable and are not conclusive. Only one clinical trial has been
      conducted regarding that, therefore aim of the study is to observe the effect of non surgical
      periodontal therapy on changes of albumin levels in maintenance dialysis patients.
    
  