
    
      Over 320,000 individuals have received cochlear implants (CIs) to restore hearing to the
      hearing impaired. Commercially available CIs have 12, 16, or 22 independent electrodes (the
      number is dependent on the manufacturer of the CI) which cover the entire frequency spectrum
      of the cochlea from 20,000 Hertz (Hz) at the base of to 200Hz at the apex. After
      implantation, an audiologist individually adjusts stimulation levels of each electrode
      following which all electrodes are turned on such that the whole frequency spectrum of speech
      can be appreciated. This is known as "standard of care" (SOC) programming. While
      postoperative speech understanding is significantly better than preoperative levels, even the
      best performers complain that the fidelity of natural hearing is not reproduced.
      Additionally, a significant minority achieves poor outcomes despite normally functioning
      equipment for reasons that are unknown but likely relate to poor neural survival; however,
      this cannot be confirmed as postmortem histopathology is required to accurately document
      spiral ganglion cell count. In recent years much attention has focused on the interface
      between the cochlear implant electrodes and the auditory neurons they are stimulating.
      Technological improvements at Vanderbilt in imaging processing have made it possible to
      determine the location of each electrode array in relationship to the frequency spectrum of
      the cochlea. Using this information, the investigators have developed a new method of CI
      programming which they call image-guided cochlear implant programming, or IGCIP in which
      sub-optimally placed electrodes are turned-off or deactivated. Sub-optimally placed
      electrodes are defined as ones for which their neighboring electrodes are in closer proximity
      to the site of their neural stimulation. By deactivating sub-optimally positioned electrodes,
      channel interaction is reduced allowing a cleaner signal to be presented to the auditory
      nerve. The purpose of the study is to prospectively collect audiological outcomes on patients
      undergoing IGCIP. The investigators hypothesize that CI recipients will perform better with
      IGCIP as compared to SOC.

      Cochlear implant recipients who have reached asymptotic improvement in performance with SOC
      will be offered enrollment. They will undergo post-operative CT scanning to determine the
      relationship between the cochlear implant electrodes and the neural interface.
      Recommendations regarding deactivation of sub-optimally placed electrodes will be
      communicated to the audiology team who, if in their clinical judgement deems deactivation of
      these electrodes reasonable, will implement the changes for a 1 month trial. The participant
      will return at 1 month to have audiological assessment as per the clinical standard of care.
      Based on these results, which will be shared with the patient, the patient can choose to use
      IGCIP or SOC for long term cochlear implant programming.
    
  