
    
      The CTV to PTV margin will be determined by the individual institutes according to the
      treatment technique and treatment modality. For all treatment plans, modified ICRU 50 will be
      applied. The ICRU 50 recommendation is that 100% of the target volume (PTV) receives at least
      95% of the prescribed dose. In this work, participants agree that D98 > = 95%, D2 < = 107%,
      cold (< 95%) and hot (> 107%) spots should be avoided in general, and that no hot spots will
      be allowed outside the PTV. The same overall treatment time (OTT) and an equal number of
      fractions will be used for all treatment modalities.

      Treatment plans will be carried out using either photons, protons and C-ions for dose
      calculation for the indication H&N re-irradiation. A multicentric patient dataset, which can
      be found on a secured website5,6, will be used. The output databases with matrices including
      3D delineation, the deliverable physical dose, RBE map, and BED/ EQD2 will be made available.
      To guarantee a similar set-up between the three treatments, similar dose distributions will
      be used. For C-ion treatment planning, a 20% uncertainty in the RBE values will be taken into
      account.

      All treatment plans will be performed in centers that are already operating and have
      experience in treatment planning. Photon treatment plans will be carried out in Nijmegen en
      Maastricht, proton treatment plans at the University of Pennsylvania (UPENN) and the C-ion
      treatment plans at the University Hospital Marburg (UHM). For photons, all primary treatment
      plans were performed according to the planning procedure of each individual participating
      center by selecting the best available technique. The secondary photon treatment plan will be
      performed according predefined fractionation schedule and tumor dose. The proton treatment
      plans for H&N tumors will be planned with active beam delivery using IMPT and/or passive 4D
      beam delivery (PSPT). The C-ion treatment plans will be planned using a raster-scanning
      technique (IMIT).

      All relevant OAR are delineated in the primary and secondary study set. GTV/CTV will be used
      accordingly to the actual treatment. New DVH's will be calculated for the added OAR. The
      secondary plan (i.e. re-irradiation plan) will be calculated again for the best currently
      available options for Photon, proton and C-ions. Between primary and secondary treatment
      there is a period of 1 to 5 years for all patients. To be on the save site a 30 % recovery of
      brainstem and spinal cord is assumed. There will not be a correction for fraction size. For
      practical reasons the location of the Dmax in the brainstem or spinal cord will not be taken
      into account. A maximal cumulative dose of 120 Gy will be accepted in the mandibular.

      If the mandibular is part of the CTV in the first as well as in the second treatment, a
      higher dose will be accepted. A cumulative dose of max 120 Gy will also be accepted for the
      larynx , for the arytenoid is this 100Gy, unless the larynx is within the CTV for the first
      and second treatment than a higher dose will be accepted.

      This means that for a total study population of 25 patients per tumor site and group at least
      100 treatment plans will be carried out. All dose maps will be saved on the secure website as
      part of the database mentioned above.

      Photon, proton and C-ion treatments will be compared based on dosimetric parameters on normal
      tissues such as mean parotic dose, etc. In addition, the NTCP for a fixed tumor dose or the
      same expected TCP will be determined. Cobalt Gy equivalent doses will be used when reporting
      the proton and C-ion dose. In the case of protons, a constant RBE value of 1.1 will be used
      for both the tumor and the normal tissues. The RBE of C-ions will be calculated based on the
      models used by the participating centers. The GSI in-house treatment planning system uses RBE
      values calculated on the basis of the local effect model (LEM). The LEM I (alpha/beta=2) is
      based on the radial dose distribution of each charged particle crossing into a cell nucleus,
      as well as on the radiosensitivity and repair capacity of the tissue. The TPSs used by UHM is
      also based on the LEM model. The model used at NIRS utilizes fixed RBE values that are
      dependent on the depth in the body, but independent of dose level or tumor type.
    
  