
    
      Previous mega trials have demonstrated that lipid lowering therapy with HMG-CoA reductase
      inhibitors (statins) reduces the incidence of major cardiovascular events by one-third, thus,
      the benefit of lipid lowering therapy has been substantiated. Such a benefit is significant
      especially for patients with coronary heart disease (CHD). The third report of the National
      Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel (NCEP ATP-III) has suggested the
      advantage of more intensive lipid lowering therapy with a goal of reducing LDL-C below 70
      mg/dL for such patients categorized as very high risk. In Japan, Japan Atherosclerosis
      Society (JAS) Guidelines for Diagnosis and Treatment of Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular
      Diseases 2002 have recommended that an LDL-C goal for patients with coronary heart disease
      should be below 100 mg/dL. However, there is no satisfactory evidence yet for the need to
      lower LDL-C level less than the goal prescribed in Japan.

      Recently, research on diagnosis of coronary plaque has shown significant advances. The
      REVERSAL study in patients with a history of CHD, by diagnosis with intravascular ultrasound,
      suggested that intensive lipid lowering therapy with atorvastatin (80 mg/day) was associated
      with no growth of plaque (-0.4% compared to baseline), versus therapy with pravastatin (40
      mg/day) which showed a slight increase (2.7%) in plaque volume over 18 months. In Japan, the
      ESTABLISH study, a single center study, indicated that early intensive lipid lowering therapy
      with atorvastatin (20 mg/day) could induce a significant reduction in plaque volume in
      patients with acute coronary syndrome. However, this benefit has not been verified in
      multicenter trials in Japan. Further, no comparative investigation into the effect of various
      concomitant drugs on coronary plaque has been done.

      Pitavastatin is a chemically synthesized statin in Japan which has been marketed since late
      2003. Pitavastatin has an LDL-C lowering effect as strong as atorvastatin and also has a
      superior HDL-C elevating effect; meanwhile, the effect of pitavastatin on coronary plaque has
      not been reported.
    
  