
    
      The patients were randomized into two groups using enclosed envelope. Group (A) with drain
      included 50 patients, and group (B) without drain included 50 patients.

      Under general anesthesia, and same antibiotics (3rd generation cephalosporin) Surgery was
      performed using conventional four ports umbilical port, port below xiphoid and two ports
      below right costal margin. Pneumoperitonum at pressure 12 mmHg. In group A nelton catheter
      (no 20) was inserted at the end of operation.

      The Intraoperative parameter observed included duration of the operation, amount of CO2 used
      in the operation, bile escape, saline irrigation during operation and volume of blood loss
      were recorded.

      The patients started oral feeding 8 hours (h) postoperatively; abdominal ultrasound was done
      for all patients in both groups on day of discharge to show any collection or free fluid in
      the abdomen. The patients were usually discharged after removal of drain, and when the
      patient surgically free.

      Postoperative pain was evaluated at 6 h, 24 h, 48, 1 week after operation using a visual
      analog scale (VAS) with which each patients noted the severity of pain at each evaluated time
      using a linear between zero (no pain) and 10 (severe pain). Postoperative analgesia in the
      form of non steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) was administered intramuscularly when
      required. If the patients still complained of pain and required strong analgesic, (1 mg/kg
      pethidine intramuscularly) was administered. The total dose of these medications were
      recorded.

      Postoperative maximum body temperatures were recorded at (6 h, 24 h, and 48 h) for all
      patients.

      PONV were assessed postoperative after 6 h, 24 h and after 48 h. Metocloprpamide was given if
      the patients required reduction of nausea and the total dose of this medication was recorded.
      The frequency of vomiting was recorded.
    
  