
    
      A critical problem facing aging adults is muscle weakness. Whereas scientists have
      traditionally attributed the loss of muscle strength with aging to atrophic effects, emerging
      evidence suggests that impairments in the neuromuscular system's ability to voluntarily
      generate force plays a more central role than previously appreciated. One area that has not
      yet been investigated includes the role that observing another's actions - thereby activating
      mirror neurons - plays in muscle force generation. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to
      examine the acute effects of action observation on muscular strength, voluntary activation,
      and cortical excitability and inhibition in older adults. Following a thorough
      familiarization visit, twenty-five men and women ≥60 years of age will complete three action
      observation sessions in a randomized, counterbalanced manner: 1) observation of very strong
      hand/wrist contractions, 2) observation of very weak hand/wrist contractions, and 3) a
      control condition. Maximal voluntary contractions (MVCs) of the wrist flexors will be
      performed before and after observation sessions. Percent voluntary activation will be
      determined via the interpolated twitch technique. Single-pulse transcranial magnetic
      stimulation (TMS) and electromyographic (EMG) recordings from the flexor carpi radialis and
      first dorsal interosseous will be used to quantify cortical excitability and inhibition, via
      motor evoked potential amplitude and silent period duration, respectively. The hypothesis of
      this study is that observation of strong muscle contractions will acutely increase muscle
      strength, and such changes will be facilitated by enhanced corticospinal excitability and
      decreased inhibition. In contrast, it is hypothesized that observation of very weak
      contractions will cause no such efforts or even acute muscle weakness. Collectively, we
      propose that manipulation of mirror neurons is a worthwhile strategy for clinicians hoping to
      induce neuromuscular adaptations in older adults, particularly in settings where movement of
      a joint is painful or infeasible (e.g., bedrest or immobilization).
    
  