
    
      900 children and adolescents benefit from radiation each year in France. The mean age at
      diagnosis is 5 years; life expectancy for the 80% of them who could cure is long, and the
      incidence of radiation-related acute and mainly late complications - not evaluated to date -
      could exceed that of adults. Dysfunction of irradiated organs and growth disorders are
      specific to the pediatric subpopulation. Individual radiosensitivity of children and
      adolescents is unknown at this time, probably with large variability depending on the age
      when considering the changes in metabolic functions throughout growth. These complications
      are largely attributable to inter individual constitutional variations of cellular response
      to DNA damage.

      Subject to radiation-induced DNA damages such as double-strand breaks (DSB), cells reacts by
      triggering a whole series of phosphorylation events coordinated within multi protein
      complexes whose interplay is still misknown (DNA damage response i.e. DDR). Indirect
      Immunofluorescence cell scanning has revolutionized radiation biology research by permitting
      the detection of individual DSB in each cell nucleus in a dose range from 1 mGy to 10 Gy.
      This technique has notably confirmed that yield of unrepaired DSB is correlated with cell RS.
      From a broad spectrum of human radiosensitive skin fibroblast cell lines, the Inserm CRU 1052
      team proposed a general model of DSB signaling and repair and a molecular assay to stratify
      patients according to their individual RS.

      ARPEGE biomarqueurs is a prospective multicenter study to prospectively evaluate with this
      assay the RS of children and adolescents treated over a year in all pediatric oncology
      departments of the Region Grand Est and set thresholds in this population. 150 children are
      thus potentially includable in different centers. The assay will be performed on primary
      fibroblasts cultured from a skin biopsy taken at diagnosis. The RS of patients will be
      measured in blind. Confusion factors such as irradiated volume, skin phototype, previous
      chemotherapy regimen, smoking, comorbities (diabetes, immunodeficiency, chronic inflammatory
      disease ...) will be reported. In parallel the RT-acute toxicity will be reported according
      to NCI-CTCAE v4.0 reference scale three months of the completion of RT then periodically
      during 15 years.

      Screening hypersensitive patients would be a major step forward in the management of cancers,
      opening a view to personalized medicine.
    
  