
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with extensive-stage small
           cell lung cancer treated with Seneca Valley virus-001 (NTX-010) vs placebo.

      Secondary

        -  To compare the overall survival (OS) of patients treated with NTX-010 vs placebo.

        -  To describe the adverse events profile and safety of NTX-010 in this patient population.

        -  To determine the antitumor response rate, as assessed by RECIST criteria, and duration
           of tumor response in this patient population.

        -  To assess the quality of life of this patient population.

      Exploratory

        -  To determine the relationship between the presence of neutralizing antibodies and PFS.

        -  To assess whether or not a slow viral clearance is associated with better response as
           determined by PFS.

        -  To determine any potential impact of the presence of one or several neuroendocrine
           markers in the tumor sample (synaptophysin, chromogranin, or CD56) on PFS and OS.

        -  To determine any potential relationship between presence of cell surface determinants of
           NTX-010 tropism in the tumor tissue and clinical outcomes such as improved PFS and OS.

        -  To determine any potential relationship between the loss of integrity of IFN signaling
           in the tumor tissue and clinical outcomes such as improved PFS and OS.

        -  To assess whether or not the presence of circulating tumor cells permissive to NTX-010
           is associated with better clinical outcomes as determined by PFS and OS.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to ECOG performance
      status (0 vs 1), tumor response to standard chemotherapy (partial response vs stable disease
      vs complete response), and time between completion of chemotherapy to randomization 1 month
      (≤1 month) vs 2 months (>1 month but ≤ 2 months) vs 3 months (> 2 months but ≤ 3 months).
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive a single dose of Seneca Valley virus-001 (NTX-010) IV over 1
           hour on day 1.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive a single dose of placebo IV over 1 hour on day 1. In both arms,
           patients may also undergo prophylactic cranial irradiation (PCI) daily on days 22-35 if
           they have not previously undergone PCI or whole-brain radiotherapy.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and then periodically during the study.

      Blood samples are collected periodically for viral clearance and antiviral neutralizing
      antibody levels, circulating tumor cells, and other biomarker laboratory studies.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up periodically for up to 5 years.
    
  