
    
      Disease relapse is a major cause of mortality following allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation (HSCT) for hematologic malignancies. When allogeneic transplant fails the
      most common therapeutic strategy is to increase the anti-tumor activity of donor immune
      system through infusion of donor lymphocytes (DLI). Use of DLI can effectively treat limited
      relapses, but can induce graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) in the range of 40-60% of the
      patients. With the advances in HSCT procedure, the use of HLA-mismatched (haplo) family
      donors became feasible and extended the opportunity for HSCT to almost all patients lacking
      an HLA-matched donor. Due to the promising results of the procedure and the easier access to
      the donor, the number of haplo-HSCT transplant is steeply increasing. However, strategies
      aiming at eliciting the immune control of the relapse after haplo-HSCT are hampered by
      absence of prospective data that guide treatment and the fear of inducing GvHD in this
      setting of profound HLA disparity between donor and recipient.

        -  Despite the use of DLI in haplo-HSCT is not a standard practice, DLI are occasionally
           empirically used, mainly due to the lack of alternative treatment.

        -  Cytokine Induced Killer (CIK) cells are T lymphocytes expressing the CD56 marker, i.e.
           CIK are CD3/CD56 double positive cells. CIK cells are produced in vitro by incubating
           blood leukocytes according to a specific expansion protocol which includes initial
           stimulation with Interferon-gamma and anti-CD3 antibody, followed by expansion with
           (Interleukin-2) IL-2. CIK cells are non MHC restricted, cytotoxic, anti-tumoral cells
           which share characteristics of both T and NK cells and show in vivo a very strong
           cytolytic activity against leukemia, graft versus leukemia, while being essentially
           devoid of graft versus host reactivity. They show a natural non-MHC restricted (T Cell
           Receptor)TCR independent cytotoxicity against malignant targets cells, involving
           perforin and granzyme release and NKG2D, as well as CD56 and other small target
           molecules. In the past 15 years the investigators have extensively studied the use of
           cytokine-induced killer (CIK) cells as alternative cellular therapy to treat disease
           relapse after HSCT. The key feature of CIK cell therapy in the context of haplo- HSCT is
           the lower risk of inducing GvHD compared to DLI, that could permit to avoid the
           devastating effect of acute and chronic GvHD in terms of decreased survival, quality of
           life, disability and need of additional care. Indeed, beyond the dramatic impact in the
           quality and quantity of life of patients, costs for the health system of the management
           of acute and chronic GvHD are exceedingly high. At this regard, CIK cells have been
           regarded as the cellular therapy that is associated with a more favourable therapeutic
           index compared to DLI.

        -  In an early Phase I study the investigators observed remissions in 3 of 11 patients who
           were treated with infusion of CIK cells at a time when malignant cells were detectable.
           In each of these 3 cases, the patient had been previously treated unsuccessfully with
           conventional DLI. Successful remission induction by infusion of CIK cells after
           unsuccessful DLI suggests that the (Graft Versus Leukemia) GVL activity of CIK cells was
           attributable to NK-T cells. In a subsequent phase I clinical trial was assessed the
           feasibility of using CIK cells from HLA-matched sibling donors. Using a dose escalation
           design, the investigators showed that CIK cells could be given at doses as high as
           1x10^8 per kg recipient body weight without causing acute infusion-related toxicity. The
           investigators recently reported the final results of a phase II multicenter pilot study,
           showing that CIK cell treatment for the relapse after HSCT is effective with a low
           toxicity in terms of GvHD compared to DLI. Importantly for the present proposal, in this
           study, 5 patients were treated in the context of haplo- HSCT. These did not show any
           different response or safety concern compared to other patients, suggesting the
           feasibility of this approach in a haploidentical context. Similarly, another study of
           CIK cellular therapy in HSCT including also patients with haploidentical donors
           confirmed the feasibility and safety of this approach. Considering that infused T cells
           are associated with risk of GvHD induction, especially in the haploidentical
           transplantation setting, novel cellular therapies manipulated to minimize GvHD while
           enhancing the graft-versus leukemia efficacy need to be tested in early phase clinical
           trials. Thus, the aim of the present proposal is to use CIK cells as a platform for a
           safe and effective cellular therapy in the context of haploidentical transplantation. As
           no dose limiting toxicity has been reached in phase I/II studies and no clear
           relationship among dose and both toxicity and response emerged so far, in the present
           study the investigators planned to use the final standard dose of our previous phase II
           study of 5x106 cells/kg, 5x10^6 and 10x10^6 cells/kg with no schedule modification .
           Three infusion of CIK cells will be administered every 3 weeks.
    
  