
    
      Primary Objective:

      o To measure and characterize the memory and effector T-cell responses, as well as the
      humoral response in young patients with acute scrub typhus and to compare theseThese acute
      responses will be compared to responses in the convalescent phase of the same individuals at
      2, 12 and 52 weeks later, as well as to scrub typhus-exposed controls and to healthy
      controls.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To establish ELISpot and flow cytometer based immunology assays using human samples
           collected in rural areas of high scrub typhus endemicity.

        -  To set up a prospective cohort study of paediatric scrub typhus in a region of high
           endemicity

      Description of the Study Sites and Population Chiangrai Prachanukroh Hospital in Chiangrai
      province, N-Thailand is ideally suited for this study. We have a well-established
      collaboration, due to a previously completed multi-year fever study and an excellent
      relationship with local senior doctors, staff and the hospital-based laboratory. There is a
      very high rate of scrub typhus cases admitted to the infectious diseases ward and the recent
      establishment of a MORU (Mahidol Oxford Tropical Medicine Research Unit) satellite laboratory
      within the hospital facilities, make this study site unique and highly suited for performing
      this research project. This study will contribute significantly towards the long-term aim of
      developing the Chiangrai study site towards an immunogenicity monitoring field site for
      vaccine trials.

      The 'scrub typhus' patients (STP) are febrile children recruited from the ID and/or pediatric
      wards at Prachanukroh hospital during an acute hospitalization due to scrub typhus, and
      followed up as described above.

      The scrub typhus 'exposed' cohort (STE) will consist of children and adults recruited from
      two villages in an area where scrub typhus is reported as a common disease. This cohort has a
      high risk of previous contact with scrub typhus, and it is unknown if they had an
      asymptomatic or sub-clinical infection in the past, but we expect the presence of some form
      of immune memory regarding cellular and/or humoral immunity in a large proportion of these
      subjects.

      The healthy scrub typhus naïve control group (STH) does not necessarily need to include
      children, as the principle is to compare a non-exposed immune response to previously exposed
      and/or acute cellular responses. Thus, the 'Healthy Cohort' will be recruited from the staff
      at MORU and/or the Faculty of Tropical Medicine in Bangkok.
    
  