
    
      Chronic heart failure (CHF) is a common disease in general western population with high
      levels of morbidity and mortality. Prospective risk factors need to be identified and
      investigated. The prevalence for sleep disordered breathing (SDB) in patients with CHF is
      higher compared to general population. Especially the occurence of CSA with its special
      breathing pattern of Cheyne-Stokes-Respiration (CSR) is frequent in CHF patients.The
      pathophysiology and relation inbetween sleep apnea (SA) and CHF isn´t completely identified
      yet. Multiple theories with different strategies try to explain the pathophysics and
      development of SA. Following one of these theories, patients with CHF often develop edema in
      lower body compartments. The idea is a possible influence of retrograde nocturnal LFS from
      lower body to upper body compartments which could induce pulmonal congestion. Therefore, an
      increased pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) could irritate special pulmonal receptors
      resulting in CSR with periods of hyperventilation, related hypocapnia and central apnea
      events. OSA could be induced by fluid accumulation in the upper airway by retrograde fluid
      shift.

      Patients with known CHF receive fluid measurements by b multi frequency bioimpedance analysis
      (mfBIA) the evening before and the morning after sleep is recorded using polygraphy (PG) or
      polysomnography (PSG) in hospital. Sleep results are analyzed by physicians using current
      guidelines of the American Academy of Sleep Medicine (AASM).

      Capillary blood gas (CBG) samples are taken before and after sleep to examine the relation of
      fluid shift and blood gas changes.

      A subgroup of the study group undergo additional investigation. Hemodynamic effects (e.g.
      reduced cardiac output (CO)) as a cause of a potential fluid shift is measured during
      wakefulness by using a tilting table. Hemodynamically relevant parameters are recorded
      non-invasively.
    
  