
    
      More than 40% of children enrolled in federally funded programs are overweight or obese by
      age 5. Unfortunately, extant obesity efforts have had a limited impact among low-income
      underserved children, in part because of limitations inherent to existing programs: 1) short
      duration and low intensity; 2) late timing of implementation, when children are already
      overweight or obese; 3) delivery methods limiting their accessibility and sustainability; and
      4) failure to address barriers such as a lack of culturally competent services, poverty,
      housing instability, and access to care, which interfere with healthy lifestyle changes. To
      address these gaps, we have integrated simple, evidence-based nutrition and physical activity
      components as part of the services already delivered by our home visitation partner, Healthy
      Families America, with the long-term goal to deploy these efforts to Home Visitation Programs
      (HVPs) nationwide. Annually, over 500 publicly and privately funded HVPs provide nationwide
      services to more than 650,000 low-income, underserved infants and their families. The home
      visiting structure is not only an unparalleled model for scalable and sustainable childhood
      obesity prevention, but it also provides a unique opportunity to understand factors related
      to the intergenerational transmission of obesity in families who are most at risk.

      Over the last four years, our transdisciplinary team of researchers, home visiting
      stakeholders, families, and community stakeholders has integrated evidence-based nutrition
      and physical activity components into an engaging obesity prevention curriculum delivered in
      English and Spanish as an enhancement module to the services of our HVP partner. Our pilot
      work supports the successful integration, feasibility, and preliminary efficacy of
      integrating obesity prevention as part of HVP services. The proposed study tests the
      large-scale and sustained impact of home-based obesity prevention on infant's and mothers'
      obesity outcomes, and studies key mechanisms of maternal and social transmission on infants'
      obesity risk.

      Specifically, 300 low-income mothers/infants enrolled in Healthy Families America's HVP will
      be recruited and enrolled in the study. Based on standard HVP procedures, mothers/infants
      will be matched to highly trained home visitors based on their ethnicity/race and language
      preferences. Home visitors, in turn, will be randomly assigned to deliver the standard HVP
      curriculum only or the standard HVP curriculum + obesity prevention as part of their weekly
      home visits, for the first 18 months of HVP services. Comprehensive assessments of
      mothers/infants will be conducted at enrollment and after 6 and 18 months of intervention.

      Aim 1 (maternal and infant outcomes). Test the direct effects of obesity prevention on
      infants and mothers' weight, metabolic risks, diet/energy intake, and physical activity. This
      will be accomplished by comparing changes in body weight, metabolic markers, and eating and
      activity-related behaviors between infants/mothers across study arms (HVP only vs.
      HVP+obesity prevention). These results will indicate whether HVP is an effective
      infrastructure for primary and secondary obesity prevention.

      Aim 2 (maternal transmission). Test whether breastfeeding and maternal diet and activity,
      feeding practices, and food insecurity mediate the effect of obesity prevention on infants'
      outcomes. This aim will test mechanisms of maternal transmission on infants' obesity risks.

      Aim 3 (social transmission). Aim 3 is two-pronged. Aim 3a tests the direct effect of
      HVP+obesity prevention (vs. HVP only) on the characteristics of the social and community
      networks that surround mothers and infants (i.e., the density, composition, and quality of
      health support networks). Aim 3b tests whether the characteristics of social networks mediate
      the effects of obesity prevention on maternal and infant outcomes. These findings will
      indicate if the delivery of in-home obesity prevention efforts can alter and/or activate
      social network mechanisms.

      Secondary Aim. Conduct a real-life economic analysis (costs, cost-savings, and non-monetary
      benefits) of integrating obesity prevention into existing HVPs.

      This proposal addresses the impetus to develop interventions targeting at-risk infants before
      obesity is established. Although maternal-infant interventions are much-needed, they present
      implementation and dissemination challenges, including limitations on compliance and
      retention, and limited potential for scalability and sustainability. Our proposed strategy
      overcomes these challenges through an innovative solution that merges evidence-based
      nutrition and activity components into an existing, ongoing federally-funded infrastructure.
      The proposed research is timely as the Institute of Medicine, the United States Department of
      Agriculture, and Health and Human Services (DHHS) extend their recommendations to address key
      factors influencing obesity risk in children from birth to 24 months of age.
    
  