
    
      Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) is the common term for cancer that originate from the surface
      of the ovary, lining of the fallopian tube and the peritoneum. There are different
      histopathological subtypes with high grade serous adenocarcinomas being the most prevalent
      (70%) followed by endometrioid (10%), clear cell (10%), low-grade serous (5%) and mucinous
      adenocarcinomas (3%).The pattern of dissemination is foremost through early exfoliation or
      seeding of tumour-cells in the peritoneum (carcinomatosis) and the majority of women have
      advanced stage disease at presentation, why ovarian cancer is the gynecologic malignancy with
      highest mortality.

      Ovarian cancer affects 295 000 women every year globally and causes 185 000 cancer-related
      deaths annually . The highest incidence is seen in Northern Europe and North America and the
      lowest in South East Asia and parts of Africa. In the Nordic countries 2300 women are
      diagnosed annually and the corresponding number in Sweden is 700. Ovarian cancer constitutes
      3% of all female cancers in Sweden and the risk of developing disease before the age of 75 is
      1.1%. A decline in incidence is evident since the 1970s most probably due to increase in use
      of contraceptive pills but also change in criteria for diagnosis (an adnexal biopsy is
      mandatory for diagnosis today). The median age at diagnosis is 63 years.

      Risk-factors include genetic mutations, family history, hormone replacement therapy and
      endometriosis. Pregnancy, lactation, contraceptive pills, sterilization, salpingectomy,
      hysterectomy and salpingoophorectomy are all factors associated with decreased risk of
      developing EOC.

      Staging of ovarian cancer is surgical and according to the International Federation of
      Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO), latest revised in 2014 (7). In stage III and IV, advanced
      ovarian cancer, extra-pelvic dissemination is evident. Stage of disease is a strong
      prognostic factor for survival. The total 5-year relative survival in Sweden is 50% but
      ranges from 90% for stage I to 20% for stage IV. However, treatment is also an important
      prognostic factor and may increase survival even in advanced stage.

      Surgical treatment of advanced EOC is often accompanied by a severe inflammatory and
      immuno-compromised perioperative course associated with early morbidity, delayed
      rehabilitation and, sometimes, delayed start of chemotherapy. Early start of chemotherapy has
      been repeatedly associated with improved survival. For this reason, perioperative factors
      such as choice of anaesthesia and analgesia and fluid replacement may be important.

      Tumorigenesis and the perioperative environment Surgery, perioperative stress and anaesthesia
      may all modulate the immuno-surveillance mechanisms and compromise host defences that
      normally maintain a balance between immunity & tumorigenesis. There is increasing evidence
      that surgery itself may promote the recurrence and metastases of cancer, which depends
      largely on the tumour's ability to metastasise, combined with the host immunity and
      inflammatory response. Natural killer (NK) cells act as a primary defence against
      perioperative cancer metastases. Negative effects of anaesthetics and analgesics on NK-cell
      activity may promote pro-inflammatory effects and may also activate cancer cell survival
      pathways. Additionally, concentrations of tumour-related anti-angiogenic factors are
      decreased while angiogenic factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) are
      increased. Hypoxia inducing factor (HIF-1) is a transcriptional factor that has also been
      shown to play an important role for tumour survival. Hypoxia in solid tumours leads to
      activation of HIF-1, which in turn increases cancer cell survival . Similarly, hyperoxia may,
      paradoxically, lead to activation of HIF-1 and potentially worsen long-term survival.
      Inhalational anaesthetics but not propofol have been shown to affect VEGF as well as
      transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) in patients undergoing breast surgery that may affect
      long-term survival. VEGF and TGF-β play a significant role in establishing tumour blood
      supply and cell proliferation. Other factors such as surgical stress, blood transfusions,
      hypothermia, hyperglycaemia, and postoperative pain may also affect immunity and the tumour
      microenvironment.

      Role of anaesthetics and analgesics in cancer metastases Preventing a major systemic
      inflammatory response and preserving immuno-surveillance in the perioperative period are
      fundamental in promoting improved postoperative outcome in cancer surgery. The severity of
      injury correlates with the magnitude of inflammation. In vitro studies have shown that amide
      local anaesthetics have cytotoxic activity, which could prove to be beneficial in preventing
      cancer recurrence. These potential cytotoxic effects of LA may effectively reduce
      postoperative morbidity and promote early start of chemotherapy. Anaesthetic drugs,
      specifically inhalation anaesthetics, impair numerous immune functions, including those of
      neutrophils, macrophages, dendritic cells, T-cell, and natural killer (NK) cells.
      Upregulation of hypoxia-inducible-factors (HIF) in tumour cells by volatile anaesthetics may
      contribute to a tumour's recurrence by stimulating cytoprotective or pro-tumorigenic
      behaviour in residual cells. However, propofol may not depress the immune function and does
      not upregulate synthesis of HIF. Opioid analgesics inhibit both cellular and humoral immune
      function, increase angiogenesis, and promote breast tumour growth in rodents. Opioids
      interfere with immune function by depressing NK cell activity . The use of epidural
      anaesthesia and analgesia thus prevents the stress response to surgery, reduces the need for
      opiates and may prolong survival.

      Fluid dynamics and early recovery Fluid optimization remains a challenge because of several
      factors: preoperative fluid shifts and accumulation of ascitic fluid, low preoperative
      albumin from malnutrition, as well as perioperative fluid and blood loss. Both hypo- and
      hypervolemia have been shown to have adverse effects and may delay recovery and start of
      chemotherapy and a large prospective, randomised study concluded that hypovolemia may even
      lead to renal insufficiency.

      The primary objective of this Phase 3 double blind placebo controlled trial is to investigate
      if local anesthetics administered intraperitoneally perioperatively at time of upfront
      surgery for advanced ovarian cancer reduces the time-interval between surgery and adjuvant
      chemotherapy.

      Secondary objectives are to investigate, postoperative morbidity, complications and long term
      survival.

      The trial entails a translational part with the following specific aims:

      I. To examine if surgical peritoneal stress evolves during the course of surgery, as measured
      by pro-inflammatory cytokines and biomarkers in the mesothelium, tumour tissues and blood,
      coupled to analysis of the circulating tumour DNA II. To test if intraperitoneally
      administered anti-inflammatory analgesics may reduce the (mesothelial) inflammation.

      III. To use functional ex vivo assays for exploring how the above identified surgical tissue
      responses and induced or inhibited pathways affect the aggressive EOC cell functions and
      properties including tumour invasion and chemo-resistance.
    
  