
    
      With increasing age and health issues associated with aging, many systemic cellular and
      structural changes are known to occur. The intent of this trial is to determine the safety
      and efficacy of delivery of autologous cellular stromal vascular fraction (cSVF) to improve
      the quality of life and functional health.

      Isolation and concentration of cSVF will be documented.

      To acquire autologous cSVF, a 10+ teaspoon volume of subdermal adipose (fat) tissue and
      stroma is removed from the trunk or upper thigh area. Using a closed system with enzymatic
      digestion to isolate and concentrate these cells, is followed with returning these cSVF
      elements only via 500 cc Normal Saline delivered via peripheral vein (IV).

      Documentation of cellular numbers and flow cytometer viability testing is to be correlated
      with clinical outcomes as reported by patients and standardized Quality of Life (QoL) form
      tracking.

      Safety of use of certain allogeneic human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSC) has been tested and
      established along with the effectiveness of use. Autologous stem-stromal cells have been
      proven safe and effective in many applications and in clinical trials currently underway.
      These cells are easily obtained and isolated/concentrated in a closed system from patient's
      adipose derived stromal vascular fraction (cSVF). This is important as such tissues are
      uniquely the patient's cells, without the need for culture expansion of non-self human
      tissues, therefore potentially increasing availability to obtain non-allergenic, autologous
      cells known to be multipotent (can form a variety of specialized cell populations from the
      body) cell group within the cellular stromal vascular fraction (cSVF) present in essentially
      all tissues throughout the body (muscle, brain, bone, cartilage, nerve, skin, cardiac muscle,
      etc.).

      This study seeks to determine the safety, efficiency, and in subsequent studies (phase III
      type) to determine optimal dosages that are needed. Delivery of the cSVF will be returned to
      the patient's via a standard Normal Saline intravenous infusion (IV).
    
  