
    
      Advanced Multiple Sclerosis (MS), defined as a non-medication responsive MS, which is a
      demyelination disease which features damage to insulating covers of nerve cells in the brain
      and spinal cord. This damage or degenerative changes disrupts the ability of parts of the
      nervous system to communicate, resulting in range of signs and symptoms which include
      physical and mental changes.

      Symptoms are variable and often include visual changes, sensory irregularities, and motor
      coordination. MS has several forms which result in new symptoms in either isolated attacks
      (relapsing forms) or gradual increasing symptoms (progressive forms). In most cases, severe
      side effects or non-responsive cases to traditional MS medications on the market, have not
      proven to be acceptable, totally safe (without severe side effects) or clinically
      efficacious.

      While cause is not clear, mechanisms have been suggested association with loss of the immune
      system or failure to produce myelin-producing cells. Some suggest a genetic predisposition or
      environmental factor, but the exact causation in all cases have not been elucidated.

      Medications have been developed, but remain modestly effective and possessing major side
      effects and poorly tolerated. Alternative treatments, including physical therapy and some
      stem/stromal therapies have become more common.

      Three main characteristics of MS are: 1). Lesion formations in the central nervous system
      (called Plaques); 2). Inflammation; 3). Destruction of myelin sheaths of neurons. This
      demyelination is thought to stimulate the inflammatory processes due to action of a
      lymphocyte group known at T-cell which seems to recognize patient's own myelin as foreign and
      proceeds to attack it (known as "autoreactive lymphocytes").

      Traditionally, exacerbation's are often treated with high dose intravenous steroids which may
      be of short term reduction of symptoms, not addressing the underlying causation. Current
      medications available for treatment are expensive and fraught with major side effects, making
      their use very difficult and producing limited measured value.

      With the advent of convenient adipose harvesting and processing in closed systems, the
      ability to easily and safely acquire significant of stem/stromal cells, studies are underway
      to utilize autologous stem/stromal cells. This study is aimed at evaluation of the safety
      profile (adverse reactions & severe adverse reaction) of the closed syringe, microcannula
      harvesting of subdermal fat deposits. This autologous cell group obtained with isolation and
      concentration of cells within the stromal vascular fraction (SVF) via enzymatic digestion,
      and deployed via intravascular routes. As these cells are very small, there is belief that
      they are able to pass into the cerebral fluids in defects of the blood brain barrier (BBB) or
      are small enough to pass into the fluids of the CNS (central nervous system).

      Recent availability of a highly complex analytic program will be used to assess changes in
      the location, numbers, volumes, demyelination of brain lesions examined by MRI (with and
      without contrast). This is done as a comparative analysis at intervals of baseline to 6 month
      minimum, and annually as available for tracking of central nervous system (CNS) changes over
      time and correlated with clinical progressions.
    
  