
    
      The GenePOC CDiff test performed on the GenePOC™ instrument is a qualitative in vitro
      diagnostic (IVD) test that utilizes automated sample preparation and real-time polymerase
      chain reaction (rtPCR) to detect the toxin B (tcdB) gene of toxigenic Clostridium difficile
      (C. difficile) in unformed (liquid or soft) stool specimens obtained from patients suspected
      of having C. difficile infection (CDI).

      The GenePOC CDiff system comprises the GenePOC instrument and the GenePOC CDiff test, which
      consists of:

        1. Transfer Loop (TL)

        2. CDiff disposable microfluidic cartridges (PIE) (described in this document as PIEs
           because of the shape of the cartridge)

        3. CDiff Sample Buffer Tube (SBT)

        4. Disposable Transfer Tool (DTT).

      The GenePOC Instrument is fully automated and integrates sample lysis, dilution,
      amplification and detection of the target sequence in complex samples using real-time
      Polymerase chain reaction (rtPCR). User intervention is only required for discharging the
      patient sample into the SBT (sample Buffer Tube), transferring the sample into the PIE and
      for loading/unloading the PIEs into the instrument. The GenePOC instrument consists of a
      rotor to spin the PIEs, temperature control, fluorescence detection, a tactile user-friendly
      interface, two barcode readers, and integrated firmware and software to deliver results to
      the user. The PIE is a closed system that prevents the risk of contamination.

      An unformed (soft or liquid) stool specimen is collected using standard stool collection
      device. Using a disposable 5µL inoculating loop (transfer loop) dipped into the homogenized
      stool specimen, stool material is transferred into SBT and vortexed. Sample is then
      transferred to the GenePOC CDiff PIE. The GenePOC CDiff PIE is then automatically processed
      by the GenePOC Instrument. On completion of a run, the user removes the processed PIEs from
      the instrument and discards them according to local biological waste management procedures.

      One GenePOC instrument per site will be allocated. The purpose of the clinical investigation
      is to enroll sufficient specimens from up to 7 Clinical Centers to obtain a total of 150
      specimens positive for CDiff based on the Reference Method final result.

      Subject Informed consent is not required for this clinical trial as the testing will be
      performed on excess de-identified specimens only.
    
  