
    
      Vitamin D has been shown as an important marker of prognosis in a variety of clinical
      settings, including overall mortality, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS),
      infection/sepsis, asthma, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and pediatric/medical/surgical
      intensive care unit outcomes. Vitamin D not only plays a role in bone maintenance, but also a
      variety of extra-axial functions including immune-dysregulation and systemic inflammation. In
      addition, a number of randomized clinical trials support the supplementation of vitamin D as
      improving outcome in critical care patients. While the evaluation of vitamin D levels remains
      a standard-of-care at our institution, the widespread use of vitamin D monitoring and impact
      on neurocritical care patients remains limited. The investigators' recent prospective
      observational study of vitamin D levels in neurocritical patients showed that deficiency
      (<20ng/dL) was highly associated with prolonged hospital stay and increased in-hospital
      mortality for emergent patients. Moreover, a number of limitations arise from this study due
      to its observational nature. This study proposes a randomized, double-blinded,
      placebo-controlled, single center evaluation of vitamin D supplementation in the
      neurocritical care patient population. Patients admitted to the neurocritical care unit for
      emergent cases and with vitamin D deficiency (<20ng/dL) will undergo vitamin D serum draw on
      admission and be randomized to receive cholecalciferol/vitamin D3 supplementation (540,000 IU
      once orally) or placebo. The primary outcome measured will be hospital length-of-stay.
      Secondary outcomes will include length of ICU course, complications, medication adverse
      events, discharge Glasgow Outcome Score, in-hospital and 30-day mortality, as well as
      quality-of-life. Power analysis estimates 198 patients will be needed for each subgroup to
      determine a 2 day difference in length-of-stay, and the study plans to recruit 218 patients
      per treatment arm to account for dropout, which will take approximately 6-9 months to
      recruit. Interim analysis and safety monitoring will be performed. The investigators
      hypothesize that vitamin D supplementation may make a significant impact on reducing
      morbidity and mortality in the neurocritical care population. The possibility of reducing
      hospital length of stay and mortality from a simple, safe, and cost-effective intervention
      such as vitamin D supplementation may be a useful adjuvant treatment in the neurocritical
      care population.
    
  