
    
      Device/System Any commercial BSC RM product (Cardiac Rhythm Management/ Electrophysiology)
      greater than class I is generally in scope for SOCRATES. Design SOCRATES is a non-randomized,
      multisite, single-arm, open-label, global post-market observational data collection per
      standard of care. While generally of prospective design, a limited retrospective element is
      allowed for the inclusion of patients for a short period of 10 days after their index
      procedure. Planned Number of Subjects SOCRATES intends to enroll a number of subjects that
      will support the analysis of all the individual PMCF Plans. An average of approximately 100
      subjects per year and site on a continuous basis is expected but may vary depending on the
      needs of individual PMCF Plans. As long as SOCRATES is active, there is no upper limit to the
      total number of subjects that may be enrolled, and enrollment will be driven by the need to
      support sample sizes of individual PMCF plans for given products/product groupings1 supported
      by SOCRATES. Planned Number of Sites/ Countries Sites will be chosen from geographies where
      there is frequent usage of the approved BSC Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM) and
      Electropysiology (EP) product portfolio such as, but not limited to, leads, pulse generators,
      accessories, programmers for RM; ablation, diagnostic catheters, cables, consoles and
      workstations for EP. The number of participating sites and geographic locations selected will
      be reviewed periodically to determine if the sample size is sufficient and to ensure there is
      adequate representation of BSC product use. As long as SOCRATES is active, there is no upper
      limit to the total number of sites that may participate. Follow-up Schedule Depending on when
      a subject is enrolled, data may be collected at the index procedure and subsequently at
      planned and unplanned follow-up visits. There are no mandated visits at specific timepoints
      in SOCRATES. The timepoints for visits will be determined by the site solely based on their
      local standard of care process. Duration SOCRATES is designed to be a continuous effort after
      the data collection commences without a predefined closure timepoint. Data collection and
      enrollment may be stopped, restarted or finalized per Sponsor discretion. Participant
      Duration The expected duration of SOCRATES participation for a subject is dependent on

        -  the specific lifetime of the device (e.g. the battery usage for pulse generators or
           continued active use of leads for CRM devices) or

        -  the necessary timeframe to adequately assess safety and performance of the device based
           on the residual risk assessed for each device in the associated PMCF plan. Timeframes
           might e.g. spread from 7 days to one year post procedure for EP. The maximum duration
           per enrolled subject will consequently vary. Standard duration for follow-up (FU) for
           each CRM implantable devices and disposable EP devices is detailed in the specific
           modules referred in Document #92538061, Reference Document Statistical Information. For
           BSC implantable devices subjects are intended to be followed for the entire time of
           being implanted with a BSC device to allow data collection over the lifetime of the
           device(s) as required by applicable regulations. A maximum duration per enrolled subject
           is not defined, unless locally required. In case a local maximum duration is enforced
           subjects may be consented again and re-enrolled for continued participation if they are
           still in scope for SOCRATES. Sites shall ensure continuous data collection without any
           gaps in case a re-enrollment becomes applicable. Data sets for re-enrolled subjects will
           be handled as if the subject was continuously enrolled. This process will ensure to meet
           the requirement of MDR for device manufacturers to collect data over the lifetime of the
           devices Inclusion Criteria

             1. Subject is willing and capable of providing informed consent and/or to give
                approval to collect/store/process personal health information by the sponsor or
                such consent/approval is provided by a legally designated representative, if
                required by local law or regulation.

             2. Subject is (one criterion must be fulfilled) a. prospectively scheduled for a
                procedure involving i. use of a BSC EP Ablation product or BSC Capital Equipment
                product or ii. a BSC CRM product implant or b. retrospectively enrolled no more
                than 10 days after the index procedure and and all data necessary for appropriate
                reporting of all past visits is available and complete including i. the procedure
                where being diagnosed or treated with at least 3 separate BSC EP Ablation
                products/components or BSC Capital Equipment products/components or ii. the BSC CRM
                product implant. Released Exclusion Criteria

             1. Subject is foreseen not to be followed at the enrolling center for at least 1 year
                after an implant procedure (CRM) or at least 1 month (EP).

             2. Subject is receiving diagnosis or therapy by means of any product, that is not
                approved for commercial use at the time of implant/procedure.
    
  