
    
      According to the data of the French Health Insurance, near 40% of French people aged 65 years
      and over and suffering from Alzheimer disease and associated disorders (ADAD) are exposed to
      antidepressants (AD) versus 13% of those without ADAD. This confirms the international data
      on the prevalence of antidepressant prescription in people with ADAD ranging from 26% to
      56.4% but always superior to those of the population with the same age.

      If depression and anxiety disorders are comorbidities frequently associated with dementia,
      such level of AD exposure suggests an overuse of AD in this population. This overuse has been
      described in people living in nursing home (among those, a majority suffers from ADAD) and
      would reach 62%. To assess this overuse in demented people whatever their place of living is
      necessary to further implement risk minimization actions.

      Hypothesis : Overuse of AD is frequent in patients with ADAD. It is possible to assess
      overuse associated with off label prescriptions (no validated indication and excess in the
      prescription duration) through a transversal study.

      Main objective : To assess the prevalence of AD overuse associated with off label
      prescriptions (no validated indication and excess in the prescription duration) in patients
      aged 70 years and over with ADAD.

      Secondary objectives :

        1. To assess the prevalence of AD prescribed for a non validated indication

        2. To assess the prevalence of AD prescribed with an excess in prescription duration

        3. To assess the prevalence of psychotropic coprescription and notably the prevalence of
           the neurologic iatrogenic alerts as defined by the French National Authority for Health:

             -  Any prescription of a long half-life benzodiazepine;

             -  Of neuroleptics in Alzheimer patients; or

             -  Of 3 or more psychotropic drugs)

        4. To assess factors associated to AD overuse

      Measurements : AD overuse with off label prescriptions, ie no validated indication or excess
      in prescription duration :

        -  Drug will be defined as AD if they are included in the list of AD designed by a national
           French Task Force including experts from over 30 associations and scientific societies
           (N06AA02 Imipramine, N06AA04 Clomipramine, N06AA06 Trimipramine, N06AA09 Amitriptyline,
           N06AA10 Nortriptyline, N06AA17 Amoxapine, N06AA21 Maprotiline, N06AB03 Fluoxetine,
           N06AB04 Citalopram, N06AB05 Paroxetine, N06AB06 Sertraline, N06AB08 Fluvoxamine, N06AB10
           Escitalopram, N06AF03 Phenelzine, N06AF04 Tranylcypromine, N06AF05 Iproniazide, N06AG02
           Moclobemide, N06AX03 Mianserine, N06AX11 Mirtazapine, N06AX14 Tianeptine, N06AX16
           Venlafaxine, N06AX17 Milnacipran, N06AX21 Duloxetine, N06AX22 Agomelatine)

        -  Indication for AD will be the one declared by the prescriber of AD. This data will be
           collected through direct contact with prescriber or medical report or record or
           interview of patient's caregiver.

        -  Off label prescription will be defined by prescription for indication not listed in the
           Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC).

        -  Prescription duration will be considered as exceeded if superior to that recommended in
           market authorization:

        -  Duration>14 months in major depressive disorder and in patient with remission

        -  Exceeded duration according to the geriatrician in charge according to the
           multidisciplinary evaluation performed during the geriatric day hospital . If the
           geriatrician could not conclude, an expert committee (including a psycho-geriatrician
           and a geriatrician expert in drug) will adjudicate to the overuse or not of the AD.

      Method : A transversal monocentric study in the geriatric day Bretonneau unit will be
      performed. Study will be proposed to all eligible patients (with non-opposition of the
      patient or of his legal representative to the collection of his personal data). Included
      people will have no supplementary clinical or complementary investigations.

      Data collected routinely in geriatric day hospital include :

      Data collected by nurse: socio-demographic data/ functional abilities (ADL IADL)/
      professional caregiver at home/ weight,pulse, blood pressure, orthostatic hypotension/ Zarit
      scale/ NeuroPsychiatric Inventory Data collected by geriatrician : medical history,
      medication conciliation, clinical exam, screening for depression (miniGDS or Cornell scale
      according to theMiniMental Status MMS score > or <18), MMSif latest score>one year, Frontal
      assessment battery at bedside (FAB) Psychologic or psychiatric assessment as
      neuropsychometric assessment are performed according to the indication for the cause of the
      assessment in the geriatric day hospital .

      The geriatrician in charge will have to systematically collect the indication and the history
      of the AD treatment.

      At the end of the evaluation performed in the geriatric day unit, the geriatrician will have
      to conclude to the AD overuse or not associated with off label prescription. Doubtful case
      will be examined by a validation committee ( psychogeriatrician and geriatrician expert in
      drug).

      Inclusion criteria : age ≥70 years / dementia according to DSMIV criteria, whatever its
      level/ Antidepressant prescription Non inclusion criteria: opposition of the patient or of
      his legal representative to the collection of his personal data/ Mild Cognitive Impairment
      Sample size Considering that 40% of people suffering from ADAD are prescribed antidepressant
      (data from French Health Insurance), the number of eligible patients consulting in the
      geriatric day swill be 65 in 6 months. If 10% of them are opposed to the collection of their
      personal data and if the overuse of AD is near 50% , precision of the result will be 12.8%
      (95%CI bilateral).

      Duration of inclusion : 6 months. Duration of patient's participation : one day.
    
  