
    
      Despite increased public awareness, there has been little progress over the past 2 decades in
      stemming the tide of childhood obesity in the U.S. Recent projections indicate that by 2030,
      at least 42% of American adults will be obese and 11% will be categorized as severely
      obese.Unfortunately, high rates of obesity begin in early childhood. According to the most
      recent estimates of obesity prevalence in U.S. children, 26.7% of 2-5 year-olds were
      overweight (>85th BMI percentile) and 12.1% were considered obese (>95th BMI percentile).
      Epidemiological data show that overweight and obesity during early childhood tracks into
      later childhood, adolescence, and adulthood.The persistence of unhealthy weight from early
      childhood into later years is multi factorial involving biological and behavioral facets,
      which may explain, in part, the relatively poor success of weight loss programs for children
      and adolescents.

      The Synergistic Theory and Research on Obesity and Nutrition Group (STRONG) Kids Program
      (SKP) at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign is a well-established interdisciplinary
      research and education program aimed at identifying the multiple factors that contribute to
      unhealthy weight gain in preschool age (2-5 year-old) children. The team incorporates a
      "cells-to-society" approach, recognizing that biological and socio-environmental factors
      interact to affect eating and physical activity behaviors. The purpose of this project is to
      expand the STRONG Kids Program and launch a birth cohort study to examine the impact of food,
      milk,and dairy product consumption on weight trajectory from birth to five years of age. Due
      to the multidisciplinary expertise of our research team we will also examine the
      contributions of biological and environmental factors to the development of dietary habits,
      diet quality and the child's growth trajectory. The research team capitalize on emerging
      scientific findings that demonstrate that variability in individual biology(genetics), child
      self-regulation (e.g., inhibitory control), and family household characteristics (e.g.,
      routines) make significant contributions to the development of satiety and food preferences
      during early childhood. This innovative longitudinal study will be the first of its kind to
      evaluate the composition of the gut microbiota over time and its potential impact on the
      self-regulatory personality characteristics in young children known to affect food
      preferences. Further, the research team will use well-established protocols to assess
      maternal and household characteristics known to promote healthy eating patterns to determine
      the intersection of child biological functioning and the introduction of solid foods,
      including milk and dairy foods, during the weaning period and their effects on weight
      trajectory up to three years of age.

      The STRONG Kids Program 2 (SKP2), will recruit a cohort sample of 400 infants and their
      families into a comprehensive five-year longitudinal study that will be unique by its
      theory-driven integration of genetics, nutrition, child development and family science. This
      comprehensive approach will allow for a greater understanding of how dietary habits are
      established during the first five years of life and contribute to healthy weight. The team
      will collect biological samples (saliva and stool specimens) and height,weight from infants
      and toddlers at 1 and 6 weeks and 3 months, after the introduction of solid foods, 12, 18,
      24, 36 months, 4 and 5 years postpartum.

      Concordantly we will survey mothers about weaning, dietary habits, household routines, child
      self-regulation, feeding practices and styles, and maternal height and weight. This
      comprehensive approach is based on our first phase of STRONG Kids research (SKP1) with
      preschool age children, which has documented the relationship among child and family factors
      in predicting BMI and dietary habits.To date, there is scant evidence-based information on
      how parents make decisions to introduce new foods during the weaning period and the effects
      of different food types on child weight from birth to the early years. Specifically, there is
      a glaring absence of scientific information on the contribution that individual biology plays
      in positively interacting with milk and cultured dairy products(e.g, cheese, yogurt) as
      initial foods introduced during the weaning period and their contribution to sustaining
      healthy weight during the preschool years. This is likely to be a complex interaction among
      the child's biological make-up, temperament and response to satiety, the parent's feeding
      practices and styles, availability of food resources, and the feeding policies in place once
      the child is enrolled in child care. The STRONG Kids team has the expertise to address these
      multiple influences and can provide a fresh comprehensive approach to the study of food
      consumption and weight gain during the early years.
    
  