
    
      Objectives:

      The primary objective of this study is to show that the individual CYP3A4 and
      CYP1A2-phenotype as assessed by probe drugs predicts drug exposure to sunitinib and
      erlotinib. Secondary objectives of the study are to define the correlation between the
      individual CYP-phenotype and treatment-related toxicity, testing the feasibility of drug
      bioanalysis from patient's dry blood spots (DBS), build an integrated covariate model on
      sunitinib and erlotinib pharmacokinetics and define a dosing algorithm for both sunitinib and
      erlotinib based on the individual CYP-phenotype.

      Study endpoints:

      Primary endpoint:

      • To show that individual drug clearance of sunitinib or erlotinib is significantly higher in
      patients with a high-activity CYP3A4/1A2-phenotype.

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  To specify the correlation between the CYP-phenotype and treatment-related toxicity.

        -  To assess the feasibility of drug bioanalysis from patient's dry blood spots (DBS).

        -  To build an integrated covariate model of sunitinib and erlotinib pharmacokinetics to
           define the quantitative relationship between the CYP-phenotype activity and drug
           exposure.

        -  To define a dosing algorithm for both sunitinib and erlotinib based on the individual
           CYP-phenotype using data simulations on the previously defined population covariate
           model.

      Trial Design:

      Prospective, nonrandomized, pharmacological cohort study.

      Main selection criteria

        -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed renal-cell cancer (sunitinib),
           gastrointestinal stromal tumor (sunitinib) or non small-cell lung cancer (erlotinib)

        -  Both early or advanced tumor stage

        -  Indication for the therapeutic use of either sunitinib or erlotinib

        -  Written informed consent and willing to undergo PK-sampling

        -  Adequate organ function

        -  No concurrent radiotherapy or systemic anticancer treatment with another drug

      Trial Duration The present study is projected to start in June 2011, with the inclusion of a
      total of 60 patients (at least 25 patients for each sunitinib and erlotinib). The study is
      expected to finalize patient accrual in December 2013.

      Statistical considerations The trial is designed to show a linear inverse relationship
      between the individual CYP-phenotype and total drug steady-state AUC (sunitinib plus SU12662
      and erlotinib plus OSI-420, respectively), whereat CYP1A2 only accounts for the metabolism of
      erlotinib. With the inclusion of 60 patients, the study has a power of 90% to detect a
      relevant relationship between the CYP-phenotype activity and sunitinib/erlotinib steady-state
      AUC, with a regression coefficient of >0.4 for the H1-hypothesis (and accepting a regression
      coefficient of >0.1 for the H0-hypothesis) at the 5% significance level.

      Trial Treatment Sunitinib: 50 mg p.o. daily for 4 out of 6 weeks, or 37.5 mg daily continuous
      until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or withdrawal of informed consent.

      Erlotinib: 150 mg p.o. daily until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or withdrawal
      of informed consent.

      Potential study outcome This study makes a significant contribution to global efforts for
      more individualized anticancer treatment. If successful, we will be able to make dosing
      recommendations for sunitinib and erlotinib based on a simple probe drug assay.
    
  