
    
      A strong correlation has been established between CTC and the progression of breast, colon
      and prostate cancers. The number of CTC appears to act as a prognostic marker for relapse and
      survival in a number of epithelial cancers. Unfortunately, current CTC assays are not
      effective in reliably detecting circulating melanoma cells and the assay procedures damage
      cells prohibiting further study.

      This study is designed to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of the TrueCells assay, a
      novel approach to isolate and preserve cells for further research.

      Primary Objectives:

        -  Evaluate feasibility and reproducibility of isolation of CTC using TrueCells technology.

        -  Optimize quantitative CTC recovery

        -  Provide preliminary data concerning correlation of these measurements with other methods
           of CTC recovery such as immunofluorescence, lipid-based staining.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  Explore correlation of immunofluorescent CTC assay and TrueCells CTC cultures with
           response to treatment by objective and immune response criteria, progression free
           survival, 1 and 2-year survival landmarks, and overall survival in cancer patients.

        -  Attempt to isolate long-term tumor cell lines for evaluation of somatic gene mutations,
           and gene and protein expression patterns related to individual tumors (not intended to
           identify familial or inherited mutations), and to test drug and biologic sensitivity.

        -  Isolate plasma RNA and DNA to assess expression tumor-specific markers (e.g.,
           tyrosinase, B-FRAF, V600E, etc.) and metastasis-associated genes (e.g., MSH-1,
           thymidylate synthase, etc.).

        -  Perform ongoing developmental testing to continue to develop and optimize novel
           technical approaches to facilitate isolation of intact CTC.

      Methods:

      Blood samples will be collected from patients with melanoma (200), prostate cancer (200),
      other solid tumor cancers (up to 400), benign hematologic conditions (100), and healthy
      volunteers (up to 100). Sequential samples will be obtained from selected patients during
      disease progression or treatment response to allow exploration of potential correlation of
      CTC with response to treatment, progression-free survival and overall survival. Samples will
      be immediately de-identified and assigned a numerical code, dated and sent to TrueCells, LLC.
      Once donated, sample ownership passes to TrueCells, LLC.

      Research studies include:

        -  CTC independently counted using immunofluorescent staining of thick smear prepared from
           entire buffy coat of two tubes of blood (tubes 1 & 2), stained with appropriate primary
           pan-tumor monoclonal antibody or lipid markers with confirmatory secondary antibodies to
           exclude inadvertent inclusion of leukocyte and endothelial subsets and verify
           recognition of the patient's cancer.

        -  Leukocytes (containing CTC) isolated by density gradient centrifugation. The buffy coat
           is plated into TrueCells proprietary cell culture medium and tumor cells grown and
           propagated (tubes 3 & 4). Cell colonies enumerated and compared to number of colonies
           identified by immunofluorescent staining.

        -  In some cases CTC may be able to be grown as long-term cell lines. These cells may be
           subject to further analysis such as evaluation of somatic gene mutations as well as gene
           and protein expression patterns to identify characteristics of individual tumors as well
           as drug and biologic agent sensitivity. There may be additional future in vitro
           experimental applications for these de-identified early-passage cell lines that have not
           yet been identified or anticipated in this application.

        -  Plasma (byproduct of leukocyte isolation process from tubes 3 & 4) will be collected and
           temporarily frozen for DNA and RNA isolation for molecular assays of melanoma molecular
           markers and metastatic gene expression. These samples are consumed in the assay
           procedure.

      Clinical information will be abstracted from medical records and de-identified and stored in
      a password-protected spreadsheet. Information to be collected includes age, gender, T, N, M
      status, other health conditions, serum LDH, any specific tumor markers (e.g. PSA),
      circulating tumor cells (if analyzed by commercial assay), somatic genetic mutations present
      in cancer (e.g. B-RAF V600E in melanoma patients) mitotic rate of tumor, date of tumor
      diagnosis, treatment history, date of regional and metastatic progression and date of death
      (if applicable).
    
  