
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To estimate progression-free survival (PFS) at 3 years in patients with previously
      untreated stage I or II non-bulky Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) who received doxorubicin,
      vinblastine, dacarbazine (AVD) plus brentuximab vedotin (BV) induction therapy followed by
      nivolumab (N)VB consolidation therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the overall survival (OS) rate at 3 years in patients with previously
      untreated stage I or II non-bulky HL who received AVD plus BV induction therapy followed by
      NVB consolidation therapy.

      II. To estimate the percentage of patients with untreated stage I or II non-bulky HL who are
      positron emission tomography (PET) positive versus PET negative after 3 cycles of AVD plus BV
      induction therapy.

      III. To estimate PFS and OS at 3 and 5 years separately for patients who are PET negative
      versus PET positive after 3 cycles of AVD plus BV induction followed by NVB consolidation
      therapy.

      IV. To estimate time to progression (TTP) in patients with previously untreated stage I or II
      non-bulky HL who received AVD plus BV induction therapy followed by NVB consolidation
      therapy.

      V. To estimate the overall response rate and the number of patients who convert to complete
      response (CMR) after NVB in patients with partial response (PMR) at the end of AVD plus BV
      induction therapy.

      VI. To estimate the duration of response in patients with previously untreated stage I or II
      non-bulky Hodgkin's lymphoma who received AVD plus BV induction therapy followed by NVB
      consolidation therapy.

      VII. To evaluate the toxicity and tolerability of AVD plus BV induction followed by NVB
      consolidation therapy as assessed via the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE version [v]4).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Optional biopsy tissue samples will be collected for future analysis. II. Optional blood
      sample will be collected for future analysis. III. Cost-benefit analysis of AVD plus BV
      followed by NVB consolidation, compared to the current standard therapy with adriamycin,
      bleomycin, vinblastine plus dacarbazine (ABVD) with or without radiation therapy.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive doxorubicin intravenously (IV) over 3-5 minutes, vinblastine IV over 3-5
      minutes, and dacarbazine IV over >= 30 minutes, and brentuximab vedotin IV over 30 minutes on
      days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 3 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with PET-positive then receive brentuximab
      vedotin IV over 30 minutes and nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every
      2 weeks for 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      PET-positive patients then receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats
      every 2 weeks for 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      PET-negative patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 starting after AVD and BV
      treatment. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 and 8 weeks, every 3 or 6
      months for 2 years, and then once a year for 3 years.
    
  