
    
      Fifty patients with scleroderma and 30 healthy , aged matched controls will participate in
      the study.

      After signing informed consent, all subjects will be vaccinated with the inactivated split
      virion vaccine which recommended by the WHO this fall.

      Patients will be evaluated at weel 0 and 6 weeks later. Clinical evaluation will be based on
      the modified Rodnan score, number of digital ischemic ulcers, presence of gastrointestinal
      and respiratory symptoms, number of swollen and tender joints, visual global evaluation of
      the physician , ESR and CRP Blood with be collected on the day of vaccination and 6 weeks
      later.

      The immunogenicity of the vaccine will be tested by Haemagglutination inhibition (HI) test.

      Influenza virus has two important surface glycoproteins: the haemagglutinin (HA) and the
      neuraminidase (NA). Antigenic classification and subtyping of influenza viruses is based on
      these two glycoproteins. HA plays a key role in virus cell entry by binding to cell surface
      receptors, which are found also on red blood cells of certain species. Binding to red cells
      results in haemagglutination, which can be observed as a carpet of agglutinated red cells at
      the bottom of a tube or microtitre well. In the HI test, antibody directed against the viral
      haemagglutinins block the virus from binding to the blood cells and thus inhibits the
      haemagglutination reaction.

      The pre- and post immunization HI antibodies were tested at the Central Virology Laboratory
      of the Israeli Ministry of Health using the HI test according to a standard WHO procedure 16.
      Sera were separated, code labeled, and stored at -20°C until tested. Sera were treated with
      receptor destroying enzyme cholera filtrate to remove non-specific inhibitors, and with
      Turkey red blood cells to remove non-specific agglutinins. The treated sera were tested by HI
      test against the three antigens included in the vaccine: A/California (CAL), A/Wisconsin and
      B/Malaysia. The working dilution (test dose) of each antigen contained four haemagglutinin
      units in 25 µl of antigen. Test doses were diluted in phosphate buffered saline (PBS) and
      added to serial dilution of antiserum. The haemagglutinin inhibition titer was determined as
      the highest dilution of serum that completely inhibits haemagglutination of red blood cells.

      The titer of an antiserum not showing any inhibition will be recorded as <10. Humoral
      response will be defined as either a fourfold or more rise in titer, or a rise from a
      non-protective baseline level of <1/40 to 1/40 in HI antibodies four weeks after vaccination
      17,18. Geometric mean titers of antibody will be calculated to assess the immunity of the
      whole group.

      Primary Endpoint of the study : the proportion of patients who achieve a titer of antibodies
      above 1/40, against each of the antigens included in the vaccine Secondary Endpoint: Safety
      of the vaccine
    
  