
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the toxicity of peritumoral IL13-PE38QQR after surgical resection in pediatric
           patients with recurrent malignant gliomas. (Phase I)

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated flow rate and maximum tolerated infusion concentration
           (MTiC) of this drug in these patients. (Phase I)

        -  Estimate the rate of survival after initial progression in patients treated at the
           maximum safe flow rate and MTiC with this drug. (Phase II)

      Secondary

        -  Describe the overall safety and tolerability of this regimen in these patients from the
           start of infusion through disease progression or initiation of alternative treatment.

        -  Determine the IL13 receptor α2 chain expression status and distribution in pediatric
           recurrent or progressive malignant gliomas

        -  Estimate the progression-free survival of patients treated with this drug. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study.

        -  Phase I: Patients undergo surgical resection of the tumor. Within 2-7 days later,
           patients undergo placement of 2-4 peritumoral catheters. One to 2 days later, patients
           receive peritumoral IL13-PE38QQR continuously over 96 hours. Catheters are removed after
           completion of the infusion.

      Cohorts of 3 patients receive IL13-PE38QQR at escalating flow rates and a fixed concentration
      until the maximum safe flow rate is determined. The maximum safe flow rate is defined as the
      rate prior to the one at which 2 of 3 or more patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Following determination of the maximum safe flow rate, cohorts of 2-3 patients receive
      IL13-PE38QQR at escalating concentrations at the maximum safe flow rate until the maximum
      tolerated infusion concentration (MTiC) is determined. The MTiC is defined as the
      concentration prior to the one at which 2 of 3 or more patients experience dose-limiting
      toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive IL13-PE38QQR as above at the maximum safe flow rate and MTiC
           determined in the phase I of the study.

      Patients are followed at week 18 after catheter placement and then every 8 weeks thereafter
      until death, disease progression, or completion of six months (phase I) or 12 months (phase
      II) of follow-up after the end of IL13-PE38QQR infusion. Phase II patients who complete one
      year of follow-up without disease progression are followed every 12 weeks thereafter until
      death.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 2-50 patients (2-24 for phase I and approximately 26 for
      phase II) will be accrued for this study.
    
  