
    
      This study was conducted to determine the effect of the ITDP on the innovative approaches,
      critical thinking and perceived competence of nursing students.The non randomized clinical
      trial was based on the guidelines proposed by the Consolidated standard of Reporting Trials-
      CONSORT 2010. The data of the research were collected in Giresun and Ordu University Health
      Science Faculty between April 2020- October 2020.

      In this study, there is a non-randomized experimental group and two control groups (total 164
      nursing students). Experimental and control groups were determined by lots. Data collected
      through online forms.

      The developed educational program was implemented to students in the experimental group
      through an online platform. The trainings lasted 6 weeks and different applications were made
      with themes appropriate to the content. In addition, a whatsapp group was opened and posts
      about innovation thinking exercises were made.

      The research data were collected a 'Personal Information Form', 'Individual Innovativeness
      Scale', 'Marmara Critical Thinking Trends Scale' and 'Self-Efficacy Scale' in pre test and
      post tests.The efficiency of the program was determined by applying an 'Success Test' to the
      experimental group.

      Personal Information Form: The twenty-one question 'Personal Information Form' consists of
      sociodemographic questions and questions related to innovation.

      Individual Innovation Scale (IIS): The scale was developed in 1977. The scale was adapted to
      Turkish in 2014. The scale adapted to nursing is 5-point Likert type. It consists of three
      sub-dimensions and a total of 18 questions. These sub dimensions are; resistance to change
      sub-dimension, opinion leadership sub-dimension and risk-taking sub-dimension. According to
      the score obtained from the scale; Scores of 57 and below are classified as 'traditionalist',
      those who score between 58-65 as 'skeptical', those who score between 66 and 74 as
      'questioning', those who score between 75 and 82 as 'pioneer', and those who score 82 and
      above as 'innovative'. Scale Cronbach Alpha value is 0.82. The Cronbach Alpha value of the
      scale for this study is 0.94.

      Marmara Critical Thinking Trends Scale (MCTTS): The scale was developed in 2018. The scale
      consists of 28 items and 6 sub-dimensions. The scale is in 5-point Likert type. Scale
      sub-dimensions; reasoning, reaching judgment, searching for evidence, searching for truth,
      open-mindedness and systematicity. The high score obtained from each sub-dimension of the
      scale indicates that the individual has the feature in the relevant sub-dimension. Scale
      Cronbach Alpha value is 0.91. The Cronbach Alpha value of the scale for this study is 0.93.

      Self-Efficacy Scale (SES):The scale was developed in 1983.The scale was adapted to Turkish in
      1999. It is a 5-point Likert type consisting of 23 items. The 4 sub-dimensions of the scale
      are starting behavior, maintaining behavior, completing behavior and struggling with
      obstacles. The high total score obtained from the scale indicates that the general efficacy
      perception is high, and the low general efficacy perception is low. Scale Cronbach Alpha
      value is 0.81. The Cronbach Alpha value of the scale for this study is 0.88.

      Evaluation of Data SPSS 23.0 statistical package program was used for statistical analysis
      and evaluation of the data. Whether the data showed normal distribution was checked with the
      Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Independent samples t test and Mann Whitney U test were used to
      compare data between groups according to normality test. Paired samples t test and Wilcoxon
      test were used to compare the pre-test and post-test values within the group. The Chi-square
      test and two ratio tests were used to analyze categorical data. Significance level was taken
      as p <0.05.

      Information:

      No budget was received from any institution for the research. Ethics committee approval was
      obtained and verbal consent was obtained from the participants.

      There is no conflict of interest.
    
  