
    
      PPAWI (post partum abdominal wall insufficiency) is an acronym first introduced during
      Congress of the European Hernia Society in 2013. It is a pathological condition induced by
      abdominal distension during pregnancy. General laxity of the anterior abdominal wall develops
      because of diastasis of the rectus abdominis muscles and excess of skin and panniculus. This
      has important repercussion on abdominal wall function and its aesthetics. This diastasis is
      induced by abdominal distension and hormonal influences.

      To evaluate diastasis of the rectus abdominis the inter-recti distance (IRD) is measured by
      ultrasound. When it is 3cm or more, it is defined as diastasis of recti abdominis.

      An operation is indicated when there is an aesthetic problem and/or the abdominal wall
      function is impaired e.g. by loss of integrity of myofascial system and altered angle of
      attachment, which results in loss of abdominal muscle strength and endurance and loss of
      pelvic stabilization.

      Since September 2013, 11 patients underwent an one-step procedure in which a panniculectomy/
      abdominoplasty performed by a plastic surgeon was combined by a mesh augmentation of the
      abdominal wall with a Parietex Progrip Self Fixating Mesh performed by a general surgeon in
      the Maria Middelares hospital, Ghent, Belgium.

      The study will be conducted in the department of surgery in the Maria Middelares hospital,
      Ghent, Belgium. Dr. Filip Muysoms (general surgeon) selected all patient that have previous
      been operated together with Dr. Rudolf Vertriest (plastic surgeon) with PPAWI technique.
      Ultrasound will be performed by Dr. Beckers subsequently pre- and postoperative. Pictures to
      evaluate the esthetic result will be taken by Dr. Vertriest pre- and postoperative.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate this multidisciplinary surgical approach of PPAWI at
      least one year post-operatively by clinical and radiological examination.
    
  