
    
      One of the physiological factors regulating the food intake pattern is satiety. Satiety is
      defined as the absence of ingestive motivation, which ends when the next meal is initiated
      (Blundell et al., 1996). Food intake affects a number of physiological objective parameters
      in blood known to be involved in signaling satiety, such as glucose (Melanson et al, 1999;
      Chapman et al, 1999; Campfield et al, 1996), insulin (Speechly et al, 2000) and
      cholecystokinin (CCK) (Gutzwiller et al., 2000; Beglinger et al., 2001; French et al., 2000;
      Degen et al., 2001; Burton-Freemanet al., 2002, 2004). More recently, the gastric hormone
      ghrelin was identified as a marker for hunger and meal initiation (De Graaf et al, 2004).
      Ghrelin concentrations in blood were highly correlated with subjective measures of appetite.
      PYY, a gut hormone produced postprandially, will be measured in this study because it has
      been mentioned that this hormone inhibits food intake (Batterham et al., 2003). The baseline
      level of PYY is lower in obese subjects than in lean subjects. The two groups different in
      body weight will therefore show different baseline levels, and perhaps different curves as
      well.

      Humans do not only eat in response to a metabolic or physiological need. Humans also respond
      to a significant extend to other internal subjective and emotional signals (cues). The exact
      relations between the physiological internal signals and subjective and emotional internal
      signals are not known. Besides also external and social factors modulate
      physiological-derived hunger and satiety signals.

      In the present clinical trial, the effect of fatty acid composition of a fat supplement will
      be studied on hunger and satiety. In the supplement a mixture of fatty acids known for their
      satiating effect will be tested and will be compared with a control supplement containing
      fatty acids normally consumed with breakfast.
    
  