
    
      The amplification of sounds with a hearing aid is the most common treatment for hearing loss.
      Benefits of amplification and accessories used with it outweigh any risks in mild to profound
      hearing-impaired subjects. Hearing aids provide a benefit for people with only a mild
      sensorineural hearing loss. However, often people are counselled to wait to purchase hearing
      aids until their hearing loss becomes more significant. The benefits are obtainable for both
      unilateral and bilateral fittings and are both short term and durable on long term.

      Acoustic feedback is a critical problem to all hearing aids. The acoustic coupling between
      the hearing aid receiver and the microphone occurs when an endless loop is formed so that the
      microphone is re-amplifying sound from its own receiver. The higher the amplification of the
      system, the more unstable it becomes and the more likely an acoustic feedback will occur.
      When this happens the hearing aid user and those around them hear a loud whistling noise. A
      common method used to combat this problem is feedback cancellation, more specifically
      adaptive feedback cancellation. The goal of feedback cancellation is to quickly identify
      feedback path changes and make adjustments to preserve the stability of the system while
      maintaining a high sound quality and still providing a high stable gain compared to the gain
      achieved without an active feedback reduction.

      For this study, the Sponsor will carry out testing with participants who have hearing loss to
      validate the performance of the new feedback cancelling algorithm. Studies have investigated
      the advantages and disadvantages of different feedback cancellation techniques. However, it
      is accepted by professionals that having a feedback system is better than not using feedback
      cancellation. The Sponsor has used an adaptive feedback cancellation algorithm since 2010.
      For the current study the new adaptive algorithm will be compared to the current algorithm
      implemented in the hearing aids that are certified by the European Conformity and sold on the
      market. The aim is to determine if less feedback is experienced using the new system in
      comparison to the old system.
    
  