
    
      Initial safety and feasibility human studies demonstrated that intermittent high MI aimed at
      the myocardial microcirculation could improve capillary blood flow within the risk area and
      epicardial recanalization rates. In light of this, the investigators published the first
      prospective randomized human study showing the added value of sonothrombolysis to
      percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Sonothrombolysis improved recanalization rates and
      reduced infarct size, leading to sustained improvements in systolic function after STEMI.
      Since both diagnostic ultrasound and intravenous infusions of microbubbles are Class I
      indication to assess regional and global left ventricular function and risk area in patients
      with STEMI, the purpose of this study is to 1) demonstrate the clinical effectiveness of
      sonothrombolysis in multiple centers and in a wide scenario of acute coronary syndromes
      including pre-hospital care setting; and 2) develop a portable non-imaging ultrasound device
      prototype, simple-to-handle and capable of generating intermittent ultrasound pulses for
      sonothrombolysis.

      A total of 540 subjects will be included in this study. Subjects will be randomized to either
      receive DUS guided high MI impulses within and outside the risk area during a continuous
      infusion of intravenous 3% Definity® or placebo. Comparisons between the two groups will be
      made on door to dilation times, survival, angiographic recanalization rates at initial
      angiography and reduction in microvascular obstruction and in infarct size determined by the
      salvageability index at cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) post-STEMI and using
      myocardial perfusion imaging. The effect of high-energy ultrasound therapy and microbubbles
      on the outcome of sympathetic hyperactivation and autonomic imbalance after MI will be also
      evaluated. Cardiac remodeling assessed by left atrial and ventricular volumes indexes and
      myocardial strain imaging will also be measured. Overall survival defined as the time from
      the start of treatment to death from any cause as well as new MIs events will be assessed.

      The study will be divided into 6 subprojects: subproject 1 (n=70 in each group) - safety and
      efficacy of the therapeutic use of intermittent high-energy ultrasound and microbubbles in
      the recanalization of acute STEMI treated with primary PCI. Additionally, the investigators
      will assess the effect of sonothrombolysis on autonomic function, cardiac function and
      intracellular signaling. All patients will receive conventional PCI approach, including
      aspirin 325 milligram, clopidogrel 600 milligrams and heparin bolus (5000 units), followed by
      primary PCI using glycoprotein 2b/3a inhibitors as anti-thrombotic agents using established
      protocols. Besides angiographic recanalization rates at the time of presentation to the
      catheterization laboratory, participants will have a fully echocardiography study including
      myocardial perfusion imaging and strain imaging, serum microRNAS for detecting endothelial
      cells shear-stress and autonomic control assessment (heart rate and systolic blood pressure
      variability) at the baseline, 72-96 hours, 30 days and 6 months of follow up. A iodine-123
      meta-iodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) cardiac scintigraphy will be carried out at 30 days and 6
      months follow up, and exercise echocardiogram at 6 months. Subproject 2 (n=70 in each group)
      - safety and efficacy of the therapeutic use of intermittent high-energy ultrasound and
      microbubbles in the recanalization of acute STEMI in patients initially treated in a primary
      hospital with fibrinolytic therapy within 12 hours. Angiographic recanalization rates at
      initial angiography and in infarct size determined by the salvageability index at cardiac MRI
      post-STEMI, and cardiac death and a new MI episode are the main objectives. Participants will
      receive STEMI/PCI treatment as per current guidelines using standard protocols similar to
      subproject 1. In addition, both groups will undergo elective PCI after fibrinolytic therapy.
      Besides angiographic recanalization rates at the time of presentation to the catheterization
      laboratory, a comprehensive echocardiography study including myocardial perfusion and strain
      imaging, MRI and exercise echocardiogram will be performed at the time of presentation and
      during 72-96 hours, 30 days, 3 months and 6 months of follow up. Subproject 3 (n=70 in each
      group) - safety and efficacy of the therapeutic use of intermittent high-energy ultrasound
      and microbubbles in the recanalization of acute myocardial infarction without segment
      elevation or with high-risk unstable angina (NSTEMI). Subjects presenting without persistent
      ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes undergoing early invasive strategy within 24
      hours will be randomized to either receive diagnostic ultrasound guided high MI impulses
      during a continuous infusion of intravenous 3% Definity® or placebo. Participants will
      receive conventional medical treatment, including aspirin 325 milligram, clopidogrel 600
      milligrams and unfractionated heparin weight-adjusted iv. bolus or in combination with
      glycoprotein 2b/3a inhibitors followed by primary PCI using established protocols as per
      current guidelines. A comprehensive echocardiography study including myocardial perfusion
      echocardiography and exercise echocardiogram will be carried out at the baseline, 72-96
      hours, 30 days- and 6 months of follow up. Subproject 4 (n=30 in each group): safety and
      efficacy of the therapeutic use of intermittent high-energy ultrasound and microbubbles in
      reducing microvascular obstruction and myocardial infarction size after primary PCI in
      patients with anterior wall myocardial infarction. Participants will receive STEMI/PCI
      approach as per guidelines likewise subprojects 1 and 2. In order to assess microvascular
      obstruction and no reflow phenomenon, a comprehensive echocardiography study, including
      myocardial perfusion imaging and myocardial strain will be performed at baseline, 2 months
      and 6 months of follow up. MRI will be performed at 3 days and 3 months of follow up.
      Subproject 5: this subproject will be dedicated to the development of an automated hands-free
      portable prototype emitting ultrasound waves of intermittent high-energy capable of promoting
      sonothrombolysis. Subproject 6 (n=30 in each group): a pilot study on the therapeutic use of
      intermittent high-energy ultrasound and microbubbles in the recanalization of acute STEMI in
      the pre-hospital setting (ambulances). Subjects with acute STEMI will be randomized to either
      receive diagnostic ultrasound guided high MI impulses during a continuous infusion of
      intravenous 3% Definity® or placebo while routing from the ambulance to the emergency
      department. At the admission hospital, all patients will receive conventional PCI approach,
      including aspirin 325 milligram, clopidogrel 600 milligrams and heparin bolus (5000 units),
      followed by primary PCI using glycoprotein 2b/3a inhibitors as anti-thrombotic agents using
      established protocols as per aforementioned subprojects. A complete echocardiography study
      including myocardial perfusion and strain, and exercise echocardiogram will be carried out at
      baseline, 72-96 hours, 30 days- and 6 months of follow up.
    
  