
    
      The proposed study is a randomized, controlled, double-masked trial comparing the effect of
      postpartum acetaminophen and ibuprofen on blood pressure among women with preeclampsia. Study
      participants will be randomized to receive either acetaminophen or ibuprofen for mild
      postpartum pain control. Study participants, study personnel and providers will be blinded to
      randomization status of study participants.

      Potential study participants will be enrolled when they are diagnosed with a severe
      hypertensive disorder of pregnancy. This will usually occur prior to delivery, but may occur
      up to 6 hours after delivery. Patients diagnosed with preeclampsia without severe features
      will also be approached and enrolled at the time of diagnosis in anticipation for possible
      progression to preeclampsia with severe features. Once enrolled, study participants will not
      be randomized until delivery, at which time they will be randomized to receive either
      acetaminophen or ibuprofen for mild postpartum pain. Both groups will have available
      oxycodone for moderate to severe pain, per our routine. Study group allocation will only be
      known by the investigational pharmacy. The ibuprofen and acetaminophen will be made to appear
      identical to each other and will be unmarked through encapsulation. Block randomization will
      be used to ensure equal allocation to the two study arms.

      For the duration of study participation, study participants will undergo postpartum
      monitoring with vital sign measurements (including blood pressure) every 4 hours, pain
      assessment with each administration of study medication, as well as daily evaluation of
      laboratory studies until they have normalized to the satisfaction of their provider. Study
      participants will receive the study drug every 6 hours from the time of delivery until
      hospital discharge, unless they refuse. Study participation will be complete upon hospital
      discharge. Study participants will be contacted by a study team member 6 weeks after delivery
      to ask about any additional complications or symptoms requiring visits to the emergency
      department or hospital readmission. Descriptive factors and clinical outcomes will be
      extracted from the medical record and de-identified by study personnel during each day of
      study participation.
    
  