
    
      BACKGROUND

      Hypoxic ischaemic encephalopathy (HIE) is the single most common cause of death and lifelong
      neurodisability in term babies. Although cooling treatment improves outcomes for these
      babies, early identification (within six hours of birth) of 'at risk infants' remains
      challenging. Consequently, not all babies who need treatment will receive it and other babies
      receive treatment unnecessarily. Furthermore, neuroprotection from cooling may be lost if
      baby remains stressed during treatment, but accurate methods of measuring stress in babies
      are lacking.

      AIMS

      Primary aim:

      To examine the accuracy of heartbeat variability (HRV), within six hours of birth, to predict
      adverse neurodevelopmental outcome at 18 to 22 months in encephalopathic babies.

      Secondary aims:

        -  To examine the relation between heartbeat variability and stress in encephalopathic
           babies.

        -  To identify clinical interventions associated with reduced heartbeat variability in
           encephalopathic babies.

        -  To describe the trajectory of normal heartbeat variability changes in healthy term
           babies during the first 24 hours after birth.

      METHODS

      A total 140 term babies with hypoxic ischaemic encephalopathy will be recruited. The
      investigators will collect continuous electrocardiography (ECG) data, hourly Neonatal Pain
      Agitation and Sedation Scale (NPASS) and 12 hourly salivary cortisol, for the first five days
      after birth. Various clinical interventions, and noise and light levels that the baby is
      exposed to, for the first 5 days after birth will be be recorded.

      The investigators will analyse the raw ECG using Matlab® with in-house algorithms to quantify
      specific linear and non-linear measures of HRV. All recruited encephalopathic babies will
      have brain magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and spectroscopy using harmonised protocols and
      neurodevelopmental assessment, as a part of clinical care, or as a part of MR biomarker
      studies. This data will be collected and used for the Heartbeat study to examine the
      association between heart rate variability with brain injury and neurodevelopmental outcome.

      In addition, the investigators will collect the ECG data from 100 healthy term babies for the
      first 24 hours after birth, to describe the trajectory of normal heartbeat variability in
      healthy term babies.

      DATA ANALYSIS AND OUTCOME MEASURES

      The prognostic accuracy (sensitivity, specificity, 95% confidence intervals) of early
      heartbeat variability using optimal cut-off values will be reported for the primary outcome.
      Logistic regression models adjusted for potential confounders will be used to report
      secondary outcomes.

      POTENTIAL BENEFIT TO PATIENTS

      Once the most accurate HRV indices and thresholds are identified, this data can be readily
      incorporated into a bed side real-time monitoring device. This device may have several
      clinical implications, including (i) improving access to treatment and the number of babies
      who benefit from being offered cooling; (ii) avoiding cooling therapy to low risk infants
      with hypoxic ischaemic encephalopathy (iii) maximising the therapeutic effect of cooling by
      reducing stress; (iv) enabling tailored neonatal nursing care based on real-time monitoring
      of neonatal stress and thus improving the long-term outcomes of babies with hypoxic ischaemic
      encephalopathy.
    
  