
    
      Background

      Several studies have shown that about 30% of transplanted kidneys with stable function
      present with tubule-interstitial mononuclear cell infiltration in protocol biopsies and
      therefore meet criteria for acute rejection (1). This subclinical rejection (SCR) has also
      been correlated with subsequent chronic allograft nephropathy and allograft dysfunction
      (2,3).

      The Banff 97 working classification of renal allograft pathology was introduced to
      standardize the histological definition of acute allograft rejection and to guide treatment
      of renal transplant recipients (4,5). The Banff scheme defines the minimal threshold for
      acute T-cell mediated rejection as infiltration of 25% or more of the renal cortex with five
      or more mononuclear cells in a focus of tubulitis or intimal arteritis (histological indices
      i2t2 or v1) and refers to borderline changes as those with insufficient for a diagnosis of
      acute T-cell mediated rejection, including mild to moderate (<50%) cortical infiltration and
      one to four mononuclear cells per tubule in cross section (i1t1 or i2t1) (6).

      The averaged prevalence of borderline SCR at 1-2 week is 24% (range 12-38%), at 1-2 months is
      23% (range 21-27%), at 2-3 months is 23% (range 11-41%) and 1 year is 17% (range 7-44%) from
      selected studies (7). However, the pathogenic role of such limited cortical mononuclear
      infiltration is not well established and no consensus for the treating patients with
      borderline changes has been reached. In practice, borderline changes with graft dysfunction
      are occasionally routinely treated with steroid pulse and, whereas subclinical borderline
      changes are simply 'ignored'. Particularly, a previous study demonstrated that most cases
      designated borderline by histopathology are found to be non-rejection by molecular
      phenotyping (8). Furthermore, some previous studies have shown that the risk of infection is
      higher in patients receiving high dose steroid (9-12), and a previous study suggested that
      the infection risk was increased, up to as 1.5-fold, in patients receiving steroid pulse
      therapy (SPT) for acute rejection (13).

      Some previous studies revealed that the graft survival rates with treated borderline SCR was
      99.1% at 1-year, 95.1% at 5-years, and 93.7% at 10-years (14) and the graft survival rates
      with untreated borderline SCR was 90.9% at 1-year (15). However, there was no randomized
      controlled study on the effect of steroid pulse therapy in stable renal transplant recipients
      with subclinical borderline changes.

      Purpose

        -  The reduction in risk of graft failure is the pivotal measure of effectiveness for
           evaluating immunosuppressive regimens for renal transplantation. However, because of the
           long follow-up periods and large sample size required for such an endpoint, randomized
           controlled trials of immunosuppressive therapies have mostly relied on the surrogate
           endpoints.

        -  In our institution, since routine protocol biopsies are performed at 2 weeks, 1 year,
           and 2 years after renal transplantation, it is practically difficult that graft survival
           is used as an endpoint for randomized controlled trials.

        -  From a meta-analysis for 31 observational studies (16), acute rejection was associated
           with an increased risk of graft loss risk ratios ranged from 1.2 - 10.5. Furthermore,
           chronic allograft nephropathy and graft survival is strongly correlated with acute
           rejection episode during the first year after renal transplantation (17,18).

        -  Therefore, the aim of this study is to investigate the effect of early steroid pulse
           therapy for the reduction of acute rejection episode during the first year after renal
           transplantation in the patients who will show subclinical borderline changes at 2-week
           protocol biopsy.

        -  To evaluate the benefit over the risk, this study also investigates the effect of early
           steroid pulse therapy on the opportunistic infection including bacterial, fungal, and
           viral infections.
    
  