
    
      Hypertrophic cardiomyopathies (HCM) secondary to sarcomeric gene mutation or to
      Anderson-Fabry disease can be complicated by left ventricular (LV) outflow-tract obstruction
      responsible of disabling exercise symptoms. LV outflow-tract obstruction is a complex,
      multifactorial and dynamical phenomenon influenced by the degree of LV hypertrophy but also
      by mitral valve elongation and hemodynamical components including venous return (LV preload).
      The clinical and research team of Dr Réant, responsible of the Bordeaux Competence Center in
      hereditary or rare Cardiomyopathies, has recently demonstrated that LV outflow-tract
      obstruction can also be influenced by the conditions of realization of exercise
      echocardiography tests (position: upright versus supine, type: bicycle versus treadmill), and
      by an abnormal venous return capacity. In parallel, it has also been demonstrated, by other
      research teams, that HCM can be associated to endothelial and microvascular peripheral
      dysfunctions. However, to date, the relation between these two elements, and with sudden
      cardiac death risk, have not been previously studied.

      The tests which will be performed during normal recommended follow-up of the HCM patients
      will be: Brain Natriuretic Peptide (BNP) blood sample test, electrocardiogram (ECG), Holter
      ECG, echocardiography at rest and during exercise.

      The tests realized in addition will be:

        -  air venous plethysmography: non invasive, and non painful test evaluating different
           parameters of venous filling by inflation of an armband around the leg, upright
           positioning, flexion-extension of the leg. Total duration estimated at 30-45 minutes.

        -  upper member arterial Doppler echography with analysis of Flow Mediated Dilatation (FMD)
           : measurement of the evolution of brachial artery diameter before and after inflation of
           a armband during 5 minutes. Non invasive and non painful test, duration 30 minutes..

        -  endothelial function biomarkers: blood sample test, 5 minutes. No follow-up is required
           for this study.
    
  