
    
      Physicians and pharmacists have long been aware of subtle differences between patients in
      their responses to medications, but until recently did not have the tools to predict a
      patient's response to a drug before prescribing it. Many commonly prescribed medications are
      either ineffective or cause significant side effects for some patients. Individual variation
      in response to prescription drugs due to genetic factors (pharmacogenetics) is a substantial
      part of this serious clinical issue. Such variation in patient response ranges from failure
      to benefit from a drug, to adverse drug reactions, and drug-drug interactions when several
      drugs are taken at the same time. After years of uncertainty over the value of personalized
      medicine, recent studies show promising approaches for incorporating pharmacogenetics (PGx)
      data into routine patient care in order to reduce medication issues due to genetic factors.

      Over the last decades, clinical PGx research has made significant progress in defining which
      genetic variations are important for influencing inter-patient variability in drug response.
      Evidence-based consensus therapeutic guidelines for multiple drug-gene pairs are available
      and promoted by the Clinical Pharmacogenetic Implementation Consortium (CPIC). Although the
      primary focus of PGx testing has been on improving drug selection and dosing, a secondary
      benefit of testing is the improvement of medication adherence.

      GeneYouIn has developed the Pillcheck® drug response test that provides personalized insights
      on a patient's predicted response to medications. To implement the Pillcheck test, GeneYouIn
      is working with pharmacists who are adept in understanding pharmacogenetic terminology and
      can consult with prescribing physicians and patients within current scope of practice.
      GeneYouIn will provide educational seminars on the latest advances in pharmacogenetics and
      using the Pillcheck report.

      This demonstration project will provide critical education to clinical pharmacists to enable
      utilization of patients' pharmacogenetic data for evidence-base treatment optimization. The
      Pillcheck report has been carefully designed to make it easy to interpret and integrate in
      the clinical pharmacy setting. The study will provide insights on the impact of
      pharmacogenetics testing on solving Drug Therapy Problems.

      The Pillcheck test assesses variations in 14 genes responsible for drug transport and
      metabolism for over 140 commonly prescribed medications. The Pillcheck report can enable
      pharmacists to effectively identify Drug Therapy Problems and advise physicians on
      personalized treatment options thus allowing for more rational medication choices and/or
      dosing.
    
  