
    
      The investigators will perform a retrospective cohort analysis using USRDS data from 2014
      through 2018 and a descriptive serial cross-sectional analysis using USRDS data from 2009
      through 2018 to evaluate the investigators' aims. USRDS data will be utilized to address all
      the research aims.

      Primary Objective To compare rates of major bleeding attributable to initiation of treatment
      with apixaban relative to warfarin among patients with ESRD and acute VTE The primary safety
      outcome will be rates of major bleeding within 6 months of VTE diagnosis as defined by
      Cunningham, which is a standardized definition of major bleeding that can be derived from
      administrative data and is based on clinical bleeding definitions from a number of clinical
      trials. A secondary safety outcome will be gastrointestinal bleeding within 6 months of VTE
      diagnosis.

      Secondary Objectives To describe contemporary anticoagulation strategies to treat acute VTE
      in ESRD patients and changes over the last decade The investigators will report rates of use
      of anticoagulation strategies [warfarin, low molecular weight heparin (LMWH), and DOACs
      (apixaban, edoxaban, rivaroxaban, and dabigatran)] in this ESRD population. The investigators
      will examine rates of these strategies by year to examine changes in adoption of various
      strategies over time as DOACs have become available for VTE treatment.

      To compare rates of recurrent VTE attributable to initiation of treatment with apixaban
      relative to warfarin among patients with ESRD and acute VTE The primary outcome will be
      recurrent VTE within 6 months of VTE diagnosis. All-cause mortality within 6 months of VTE
      diagnosis will be evaluated as an exploratory endpoint.

      To compare healthcare resource utilization from 15 days before to 90 days after first
      prescription date attributable to initiation of treatment with apixaban relative to warfarin
      among patients with ESRD and acute VTE The primary outcome will be total inpatient days from
      15 days before to 90 days after first prescription date. In addition to total inpatient days,
      the investigators will also compare emergency department (ED) utilization after initiation of
      anticoagulation across treatment strategies. By incorporating 15 days prior to first
      prescription date, the investigators will capture hospitalization days that were associated
      with the index VTE diagnosis, given that the first anticoagulation prescription would likely
      be written at the time of hospital discharge for those patients who are hospitalized.
    
  