
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the effect of multiple daily dosing with nutritional-grade, absorption-enhanced
      diindolylmethane (BR-DIM) on the disposition of probe drugs metabolized by cytochrome P4501A2
      (CYP1A2) and CYP3A4 in healthy volunteers.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the effect of multiple daily doses of BR-DIM on estrogen metabolites in urine
      and on activities of CYP2C9, CYP2D6, and P-glycoprotein/OATP.

      II. Determine the effect of a single dose of BR-DIM on the disposition of probe drugs that
      are metabolized or transported by CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, and P-glycoprotein (P-go).

      III. Determine the safety and tolerability of single and multiple daily doses of BR-DIM.

      IV. Determine the pharmacokinetics of a single dose of BR-DIM and of the same dose after
      chronic daily dosing.

      V. Determine the pharmacokinetics of a single dose of BR-DIM and of the same dose after
      chronic daily dosing.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine effects of BR-DIM on activities of glutathione-S-transferase (GST), a phase 2
      enzyme, in lymphocytes.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind study. Participants are stratified according to
      gender. Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 intervention arms.

      Arm I: Participants receive low-dose oral diindolylmethane (BR-DIM) twice daily for 4 weeks.

      Arm II: Participants receive high-dose oral BR-DIM twice daily for 4 weeks.

      In both arms, participants receive an oral probe-drug cocktail comprising caffeine (CYP1A2),
      dextromethorphan (CYP2D6), buspirone (CYP3A4), losartan (CYP2C9), and fexofenadine
      (P-glycoprotein) before randomization and after the first and last dose of BR-DIM.

      Blood and urine are collected periodically for pharmacokinetic profiles of BR-DIM and probe
      drugs.

      After completion of study intervention, participants are followed at 1 week.
    
  