
    
      1. Subjects. We will recruit 20 established Crohn patients from our gastroenterology (GI)
           referral practice at Nationwide Children's Hospital in Columbus, Ohio. Each will have
           previously undergone a complete diagnostic workup and classification of disease.
           Information on disease activity, location and behavior are routinely recorded at each
           follow up visit. Medical records will be assessed for this information. These patients
           will be followed every three months. All of these patients will be assigned to receive
           rhIGF therapy for 12 months and results will be compared to medical record data. We will
           recruit 10 per year.

        2. Assessment of growth and IGF-1 generation. Each subject will undergo IGF-1 generation
           testing using standard published "high-dose: protocol and interpreted according to
           guidelines of Blum. Briefly, GH will be given as a one time per day subcutaneous
           injection in a dose of 0.05mg/kg/dy. IGF-1 will be measured at baseline and again after
           7 days. Inadequate generation will be interpreted by an IGF-1 increase < 15 ng/dl after
           7 days of GH. We will also measure baseline random GH and IGFBP-3 levels. The IGF-1, GH
           and IGFBP-3 levels will be measured by Esoterix laboratory (Calabasas Hills, CA). IGF-1
           levels will also be measured every six months and with disease exacerbation. All
           patients will have a single radiological film of the left hand and wrist to determine
           bone age by Greulich and Pyle standards, and routine examination by the PI to determine
           Tanner staging.

        3. Anthropometric measures. Patients will be seen every three months. At every visit, we
           will evaluate linear growth using a calibrated stadiometer and weight with a
           standardized scale. Longitudinal data will be used to calculate height and weight
           velocity. Height velocity will be annualized for each visit compared to baseline data.
           All growth information, including velocity will be converted to standard deviation
           scores (SDS, Z score) using GenenCalc (Genentech, San Francisco, CA).

        4. Nutrition. To assess for low nutritional intake as the cause for poor growth (and low
           IGF-1 levels), each patient will complete a 3 day food journal at every visit and
           results will be assessed by Nutrition Pro software. We will evaluate our findings in
           both pubertal and prepubertal children. For this reason we will carefully measure Tanner
           stage as breast in girls and testicular volume in boys. We will measure testosterone
           levels in boys and estradiol in girls (Esoterix). Sex steroid levels will be correlated
           with Tanner staging and tempo of pubertal progression.

        5. Treatment with rhIGF (Increlex, Tercica). Patients will be followed as above for 12
           months while on Increlex therapy. Increlex (rhIGF) will be administered per the
           following schema: First 2 weeks: 40 mcg/kg BID; Weeks 3 and 4: 80 mcg/kg BID; Subsequent
           weeks: 120 mcg/kg BID. Each parent and patient will be carefully trained in injection
           technique by the same skilled personnel. Compliance will be assessed by having subjects
           return empty vials to the study site.

        6. Bone mineral content and bone turnover. All subjects will undergo DXA scan (Lunar
           Prodigy) at baseline and every six months. Measurements will be compared to age- and
           gender- matched normals and converted to Z scores (www.bcm.edu/bodycomplab). To
           determine bone turnover, blood and urine will be collected at baseline and every six
           months. These labs will be run by Esoterix according to their methods: N-Telopeptides
           (reverse transcriptase PCR, urine), osteocalcin (double antibody RIA, blood), bone
           specific alkaline phosphatase activity (ICMA, blood), and deoxypyridinoline (ELISA,
           urine). Although the typical patient treated with GH demonstrates initial bone loss
           during the first six months, our group has documented improvement in bone mineral
           content within six months of starting GH therapy.

        7. Cytokines. We will measure the cytokines TNF-α, IL-1, and IL-6 at the initiation of the
           study, at 6 months and 12 months. This will better help us understand the role of
           cytokines on disease course, activity, and the growth hormone axis.

        8. Biomarkers for rhIGF-1 dosing efficacy. We will draw BL, 6 mos and 12 mos levels of
           IGF-1, IGFBP3 and ALS levels. The baseline level will be collected prior to the 1st dose
           of Increlex. At six months patients will be instructed to take their Increlex the
           morning of their visit and the sample will be drawn within 2 hours of dosing which will
           represent peak biomarker levels. The 12 month level will be obtained in the morning the
           day after the patient completes his/her final dose and will represent a trough level.

        9. Measures of Disease Activity. At each protein turnover measure we will ask subjects to
           bring stool samples which will be evaluated for fecal calprotectin. We will complete the
           Pediatric Crohn Disease Activity Index (PCDAI), a reliable and valid index for disease
           activity in clinical research. Subjects will complete the IMPACT-III, a valid and
           reliable measure of quality of life in pediatric Crohn disease.
    
  