
    
      Globally, one third of patients presenting for surgery will be anaemic, according to the WHO
      criteria. Preoperative anaemia is considered an independent risk factor for poorer patient
      outcomes, with increases in morbidity and mortality as well as prolonged length of hospital
      stay. However, the importance of this finding in the preoperative period is often overlooked
      and not corrected prior to surgery. The leading cause of preoperative anaemia is iron
      deficiency. Iron deficiency anaemia is common in developing countries and results mostly from
      nutritional deficiency. Poorly controlled Diabetes Mellitus (DM) is known to have an adverse
      effect on perioperative clinical outcomes, with an extended length of hospital stay and
      increased morbidity and mortality. Preoperative identification of patients with DM, provides
      a potential opportunity to reduce the risk of adverse surgical outcomes. Early identification
      of such patients could facilitate timely intervention and arrangement of appropriate
      perioperative and long-term follow-up. Studies have demonstrated that an elevated HbA1c
      (indicative of poor glycaemic control in the months preceding surgery) correlates with
      increased perioperative risk in known diabetics. On the day of surgery, before induction of
      anaesthesia, all patients will have a finger prick blood glucose level done by point of care
      glucometry, if there is no documented fasting blood glucose value in their ward file. In
      patients of unknown diabetic status, should the preoperative value be >7 mmol/l, blood will
      be drawn when IV access is established, for HbA1C measurement. In known diabetics, a sample
      will be taken for HbA1C, regardless of the preoperative fasting blood glucose level, unless
      there is an HbA1C measurement in the previous 3 months. However, should the patient
      management have been modified based on the HbA1C result, a repeat HbA1C measurement would be
      performed

      All patients will be assessed as part of the routine preoperative evaluation. Informed
      consent will be obtained by the anaesthetist from eligible patients who agree to participate
      in the study. On the day of surgery, prior to induction of anaesthesia the patients will
      receive a finger prick Hemoglobin (Hb) if they have not had a Hb result documented within the
      last 3 months. If the results meet the WHO criteria for anemia, a blood specimen will be
      collected when inserting the IV line. The blood specimen will be sent for Haemoglobin, mean
      cell volume, ferritin and transferrin saturation (TSAT) testing. All patients diagnosed with
      anemia will receive a patient information leaflet. They will also be referred to their local
      clinics or general practitioner for further evaluation and appropriate management.
    
  