
    
      Globally, the number of annual envenomings is estimated to be between 420,000 and 1,800,000.
      In sub-Saharan Africa, the annual number of envenomings is estimated at 315,000, leading to
      more than 9,000 amputations and about 7,000 deaths.

      Snake bites are recognized by many authors as a neglected disease, whose incidence is
      underestimated or even unknown in several countries of sub-Saharan Africa. Few data are
      currently available on the morbidity, mortality and economic impact of snake bites.

      In Cameroon and particularly in the northern part of the country, where the density of snakes
      is high, a few studies have been carried out. In 2002, the annual incidence of envenomings
      was estimated at 200/100 000 inhabitants, of which 85% was due to Echis ocellatus, and the
      lethality was 23.9% in some centers. The Ministry of Public Health introduced snake bites in
      2015 as a priority health problem in the list of diseases being monitored. Thus, a national
      epidemiological surveillance system, with a weekly count of snake bites, has been
      implemented. In the first year, the incidence of annual snake bites was 11.4/100,000
      inhabitants, representing more than 2,500 bites per year, including 43 deaths and a case
      fatality rate of up to 6% in some areas. The northern region (Adamaoua, North and Far North
      regions) (savanna and mixed zone) accounts for 40% of the country's burden and 77% of the
      deadly burden, while the forest zone accounts for 32% of the burden Morbid disease and 16% of
      the fatal burden (ministerial source). The monitoring is based on paper registers for bite
      reporting, supplemented by the sending of pharmacovigilance data by text messages, but this
      is very little used in current practice. The data collection system in Cameroon could
      therefore be improved in terms of both completeness and speed of centralizing data.

      These estimates are likely to be well below the reality given the non-exhaustive nature of
      the data collection and the frequent use of traditional practitioners without referral in a
      hospital structure.

      In recent years, FAV-Afrique® produced by Sanofi-Pasteur was the treatment of reference for
      venomous snake bites in West and Central Africa. It was the most evaluated and the most
      effective, reducing by a factor 5 to 10 the mortality. This anti-venom serum was
      polyspecific, containing an antivenom against ten species of snakes: Naja melanoleuca,
      nigricollis & haje; Dendroaspis polylepis, viridis & jamesoni, Bitis gabonica & arietans;
      Echis leucogaster & ocellatus.

      However, Sanofi-Pasteur stopped production (last batch produced in January 2014 and expired
      in June 2016), making it necessary to use other snake antivenoms. Since the end of 2015, two
      new antivenoms are available in Cameroon where they are granted a provisional marketing
      authorization. Few clinical trials have evaluated the antivenoms currently available in
      Africa.

      Some clinical efficacy and safety data have been published for Inoserp Pan-Africa®. However,
      the number of subjects was limited and assessment was limited to the period of
      hospitalization.

      The lack of sufficient data on incidence and mortality associated with snake bites, the
      current weakness of the epidemiological data collection system and the presence on the market
      of antivenoms that are very little evaluated in terms of tolerance, effectiveness make action
      necessary.

      The main objective of the study is therefore to assess the tolerance and the efficacy of the
      antivenom Inoserp Pan-Africa® from Inosan laboratory currently available in Cameroon.This
      study will be conducted under routine conditions in order to avoid bias in the results
      through the implementation of dedicated logistics which would not be representative of the
      usual conditions.
    
  