
    
      Transdermal drug delivery (by way of patches that adhere to the skin and deliver drug in a
      time-dependent fashion) allows for systemic drug delivery through the skin, while avoiding
      many of the side effects and challenges associated with oral or intravenous drug delivery.
      One significant challenge limiting the number of drug compounds that can be transdermally
      delivered is the hydrophobic nature of the skin, which provides a highly efficient barrier
      against the absorption of drug molecules. Microneedles are a minimally invasive means of
      allowing drug molecules to cross the skin by creating micron-sized channels (also called
      micropores) in the skin, thereby increasing its permeability. Microneedles have been safely
      used in hundreds of patients for administration of drugs and vaccines through the skin.
      Studies have demonstrated that microneedle treatment is relatively painless and
      well-tolerated by most patients.

      Following microneedle treatment, the skin must heal the micropores in order to restore
      barrier function. In young healthy individuals this process takes approximately 48 to 72
      hours when the skin is covered by an occlusive patch. The timeframe for micropore closure is
      longer in elderly individuals (>65 years of age), taking several days longer to restore the
      skin barrier. As evidenced by the differences in micropore closure rate observed with
      advancing age, biological variation can have a significant effect on the skin's healing
      properties. There are almost no data available regarding how race and ethnicity affect skin
      response to microneedle insertion. It is crucial to better understand how the rates of
      micropore closure vary in different racial/ethnic populations because the potential for
      variability in drug delivery is high if the recovery timeframes are poorly understood.

      In this study we will measure hydration and color to characterize the epidermal properties of
      individuals of different self-identified race and ethnicity. Measurements of trans-epidermal
      water loss and electrical impedance will be used to evaluate the formation of micropores in
      the skin; the electrical impedance measurements will be used to calculate the rate of
      micropore closure. All of these skin characteristics can be measured using noninvasive
      methods that are quick and painless.
    
  