
    
      Periodontitis (PA) and Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) both rely on an over-regulated immune
      response, leading to inflammation in joints and periodontium. It is known, that both diseases
      have a reciprocal influence and that therapy of one disease may have beneficial effects on
      the course of the other.

      This study evaluates the influence of dental prophylaxis on disease activity of Rheumatoid
      Arthritis, in addition to standard antirheumatic therapy. Patients are being recruited from
      the Department of Rheumatology at the Heidelberg University Hospital. Patients being
      diagnosed with an active Rheumatoid Arthritis (DAS28-Score > 3.2) will be included into the
      current study.

      The study follows a prospective, randomized, controlled study design with the participating
      dental and rheumatologic investigators being both blinded. The first visit (T0) includes the
      assessment of demographic and disease-related parameters, such as quality of life (HAQ -
      Health Assessment Questionnaire) and disease activity (DAS28 - Disease Activity Score 28) by
      a rheumatologist. Afterwards a dental investigator will determine the status of oral health
      with standard parameters (periodontal status (pocket depth, attachment level, Bleeding on
      Probing (BPI)) and dental status (DMFT - Decayed Missing Filled Teeth)). Subsequently
      patients are being randomized 1:1. The dental intervention is defined as a standardized
      dental prophylaxis according to the Heidelberg Therapeutic Scheme for Hygienization of the
      Oral Condition by means of professional teeth cleaning and motivational and demonstrational
      measures for implementing a sufficient oral hygiene.

      Group 1 (Test) contains patients being randomized for the dental intervention at first visit.
      Accordingly Group 2 (Control) contains patients not being randomized for the dental
      intervention. After 14 days (T1) patients in Group 1 undergo once again dental prophylaxis
      according the Heidelberg Therapeutic Scheme. The next follow-up is being executed after 3
      months (T2) by rheumatologic and dental investigators again. The primary outcome consists of
      the evaluation of the disease activity of the Rheumatoid Arthritis measured by the
      DAS28-Score between first visit (T0) and after 3 months (T2). Patients of Group 2 receive
      dental prophylaxis after 3 months due to ethical reasons ("Wait & Control Study Design"). The
      final visit takes place after an additional 3 months (T3), in order to evaluate a possible
      long-term effect of the dental intervention.

      Furthermore the development of the bacterial microflora and inflammatory cytokine profile is
      being investigated. For this purpose, samples of supra- and subgingival plaque, gingival
      crevicular fluid and saliva at visits T0, T2 and T3 as well as stool samples at T0 and T2 are
      being collected. These will be analyzed qualitatively and quantitatively by molecular genetic
      methods.
    
  