
    
      The lifetime prevalence of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is approximately 30% among
      Vietnam Veterans and 11-17% among Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans. PTSD is associated with
      enormous health care costs, increased suicidality, depression, poorer quality of life and
      functioning, physical health, and increased substance use. Prolonged exposure (PE) is an
      efficacious treatment for Veterans with PTSD that decreases avoidance of feared, but safe,
      cues. Despite PE being one of the best available treatments for PTSD, 25 to 45% of PTSD
      patients still meet diagnostic criteria following treatment. High rates of comorbid
      disorders, such as insomnia, may interfere with the efficacy of PE and limit long-term
      rehabilitation outcomes.

      Among Veterans with PTSD, sleep disturbances are nearly universal with 70 - 87% reporting
      comorbid insomnia. Untreated insomnia can persist for years, is independently associated with
      impaired health-related quality of life, does not resolve following PTSD treatment, and can
      exacerbate daytime PTSD symptoms.

      Importantly, insomnia may interfere with the mechanisms of PE through safety learning,
      habituation to feared stimuli, emotional coping, emotional processing, and cognitive
      abilities necessary for successful treatment.

      Despite this, insomnia is not a primary intervention for Veterans with PTSD. Given these
      factors, it is critical to evaluate whether treating insomnia prior to PTSD will improve PTSD
      symptoms and quality of life outcomes. Cognitive behavioral treatment for insomnia (CBT-I) is
      the first line treatment of chronic and severe insomnia, which produces lasting improvements
      in sleep. By using CBT-I prior to, and integrated with, PE offers several novel advantages
      that will: 1) increase client-centered treatment by addressing the number one subjective
      complaint among Veterans with PTSD; 2) enhance PTSD outcomes and non-response rates by
      addressing insomnia-related factors that interfere with PTSD treatment; 3) act as a stepping
      stone and help to engage patients who are not initially willing to engage in trauma-focused
      PE; 4) increase rehabilitation outcomes by addressing the two leading disorders that
      independently affect quality of life for Veterans; 5) allow patients to address both symptoms
      of insomnia and PTSD within a shortened timeframe; 6) increase continuity by allowing
      patients to work with a single provider; and 7) decrease the risk of attrition between
      referral clinics and waitlists. To date, no studies have capitalized on available
      evidence-based CBT-I prior to PE to improve insomnia, PTSD, and quality of life outcomes.
    
  