
    
      Hypothesis:

      In a Mediterranean population, the investigators hypothesized that the CIMT and the presence
      of carotid plaque (CP):

        1. Are higher in patients with newly diagnosed T2DM than in a control population before and
           after adjusting for cardiovascular risk factors,

        2. Can identify subjects with T2DM with increased cardiovascular risk at the beginning of
           the disease, and,

        3. Can identify subjects in whom subclinical cardiovascular disease progresses despite
           treatment of T2DM according to clinical practice.

      Aims:

      Primary objectives:

        1. To investigate differences in CIMT and the presence of CP in subjects with NEWDM and a
           control population. Cross-sectional study.

        2. To identify and characterize the subset of NEWDM subjects presenting an increased CIMT
           (greater than the mean + 1SD or ≥ P75th) or carotid plaque presence. Cross-sectional
           study

        3. To early characterize individuals in whom subclinical CVD worsens (CIMT progression ≥
           mean + 1SD o ≥ P75th) even after multifactorial treatment of diabetes according to
           guidelines. Longitudinal study design with repeated measures.

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To study the main determinants of CIMT and the CP presence in NEWDM subjects and a
           control population. In addition to the cardiovascular risk factors will be studied:

             1. association with Mediterranean diet biomarkers (serum and urine) and diet adherence
                (semiquantitative food frequency questionnaire)

             2. genetic determinants of CVD

        2. To investigate the main determinants of progression of CIMT in subjects treated
           according to clinical practice guidelines

        3. To investigate the association of baseline CIMT, its progression, and the presence of CP
           with clinical scores used to estimate cardiovascular risk. These scores are: REGICOR
           (Registre Gironí del Cor: the Gerona Heart Register), a calibrated Framingham Score for
           a Mediterranean population, low risk SCORE (Systematic Coronary Risk Evaluation), and
           the UKPDS (United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study) score (specific for T2DM).

        4. To identify carotid plaque biomarkers by a metabolomic approach
    
  