
    
      TTP™ system, which is composed of 2 parts:

        -  SU - a disposable Sensor Unit patch

        -  MCU - e reusable Monitor Connecting Unit

      The communication between the two units can be wired or wireless. The system to be used in
      this study is wired and the two units were connected via a Sensor Unit Cable (SCU).

      The SU is attached to the temple area by a biocompatible disposable adhesive. It measures
      skin temperature across the temporal artery using several sensors, translates it to
      electrical signals and transmits those signals to the MCU. The MCU translates the electrical
      signals to core temperature using a special mathematical algorithm which overcomes the effect
      of the ambient temperature as well as the thermal properties of a specific patient. The core
      temperature as well as any concurrent error in the measurement process is displayed on the
      screen of the MCU or transmitted to the hospital VSM. The MCU has a wired connection to the
      hospital's VSM using Standard YSI400.

      Study Objectives

      The objectives of this clinical study are:

        -  A first objective of the clinical study is to verify the findings of a previously
           published study, relating to temperature pattern changes within patients who were
           diagnosed having sepsis , prior to its occurrence.

        -  A second objective is to examine the efficacy and safety of the TTP - a novel
           non-invasive core temperature measurement system , as a measure for continues core
           temperature monitoring.

        -  A third objective of the study, is to examine the effectiveness of the TTP as a measure
           for detection of temperature changes pattern and to correlate such changes with fever
           related to infections such as sepsis.

      It is estimated that the study with take 18 months to complete.

      Type of Study

        -  A Retrospective phase.

        -  A prospective phase

      Temperature measurements Measurements will be made from the forehead using the TTP's
      biocompatible sensor Unit that will be attached to the skin The SU will transfer data to the
      MCU. The TTPTM system will be disinfected before use an alcohol-chlorhexidine solution.

        1. The Retrospective Phase, screening temperature data logs of patients who had sepsis or
           other fever related infection. Screening period shall be at least 72 hours prior to
           sepsis or infection detection. This part shall include 50 sepsis cases and 30 non-sepsis
           cases as a control.

        2. The Prospective Phase, measuring core temperature with the TTP and comparing it with
           existing technology such as rectal, esophageal or catheter or skin (by the case). The
           temperature data taken from each patient who will have a sepsis or other fever related
           infection will be analyzed to find any relation between the temperature pattern change
           Any medical care decision (such as microbiology cultures, additional testing, etc) will
           be made entirely according to existing reference standard of care. The TTP device will
           not influence in any way on ICU physician' decision. The TTP device purpose is only to
           record medical data for later evaluation and not to intertwine in medical care given to
           participants.

      This part shall include up to 600 patients who will be monitored and analyzed during their
      stay in the ICU in order to get at least 30 sepsis cases.
    
  