
    
      The feasibility of a tailored community-based intervention, entitled Early Childhood Obesity
      Risk-Reduction Program in Hispanics (ECOR-H), was tested. The ECOR-H provided mothers with
      culturally tailored, self-management risk-reduction modules, and with continued peer
      counselor (PC) and professional lactation consultant support to develop personal skill-set to
      "take control" of modifiable behaviors and help participants to exclusively breastfeed for a
      longer time and delay the introduction of solid food to the infants. The study was conducted
      in the University of Kentucky (UK) Polk Dalton Clinic and in the Birthing Center of UK Albert
      B. Chandler Hospital. A convenient sample of 39 self-identified Hispanic pregnant women were
      recruited and randomly assigned to intervention and standard care groups (Intervention n = 20
      ; Control n=19).

      Trained Research Personnel (RP) approached and screened women for eligibility in the waiting
      prenatal area, which was exclusively used by pregnant women--while waiting for prenatal care
      appointments. Screening for eligibility was accomplished using a checklist that contains
      eligibility criteria. If the woman satisfied the eligibility criteria, the potential
      participant was invited to go to a private room in the clinic available for this purpose and
      the research staff provided a review and explanation of the study with an invitation to
      participate. If the person stated that was not interested, the research staff asked if can
      share the reason(s) why of the decision and collected the information in the log track of
      potential recruitment contacted. Then the research staff thanked the time and ended the
      conversation. Women who agreed to participate were scheduled for an appointment at another
      convenient time at the participant's home or clinic to provide informed consent and signed a
      HIPAA authorization. Since the potential participants included English/Spanish speaking
      participants, the informed consent, HIPPA authorization, and interview materials and
      intervention sessions were provided in the language in which the subject was most proficient.
      The parental permission for the infant was included in the informed consent that the mother
      signed when agreed to participate in the study. The consent form explains that this study
      would collect information on the infant from the medical record. The type of information that
      would be collected about the infant was also described in the HIPAA authorization form. The
      informed consent form provided the overall goal of the research; a brief description of the
      research; the type of survey that would be conducted in each encounter; the infant assessment
      for the anthropometric measurements of weight, length, and head circumference, and the
      mother's BMI. The explanation also described the minimal risks to participants and the
      potential benefits, procedures to assure confidentiality, and the voluntary nature of
      participation and how the confidentiality of the information that participants provide during
      the study would be maintained. It was also necessary to collect the name and a telephone
      number for contact information and follow-up encounters. The research staff explained that
      this information would be used only for research purposes and to send reminding of time,
      date, and place of the follow-up interviews, and it will be destroyed by the end of the
      study.

      All identifiers such as name, address, date of birth, telephone number, medical record
      number, and a code number were included in a private list and saved in a Microsoft Excel
      program with password protection to which only the PI and research staff had access. The
      Microsoft Excel file was opened only in encrypted computers located in the office of the PI
      and research staff in the University of Kentucky College of Nursing. Only staff certified in
      human subjects research and who were listed as study personnel with the University of
      Kentucky Institutional Review Board (UK IRB) were allowed access to participant data. When
      the study was completed, the data was de-identified prior to data sharing.

      After providing informed consent, the participant completed a baseline study survey.
      Following the baseline interview, the research staff informed the PI weekly of the new number
      of participants recruited. The PI randomly assigned participants to intervention and standard
      care groups following randomization procedures. Data collection was similar for both groups
      (standard care and intervention) and was obtained independently by research staff at 30 weeks
      of pregnancy (T-1), at 37 or more weeks of pregnancy (T-2), chart review of mother/infant
      medical record at birth (T-3), between 2-4 weeks after birth (T-4), and at three (T-5) and
      six (T-6) months after the birth. Randomization: After the baseline interview (T-1), the
      participant was randomly assigned to the standard of care group or standard care plus ECOR-H
      intervention group. The random assignment schedule was stratified according to whether the
      woman was a first-time mother or has other children; this allowed equal numbers within each
      of these two strata to be assigned to each of the two treatment conditions. The
      biostatistician prepared envelopes that contain the treatment assignments, one set for each
      stratum. Within each stratum, the treatment assignments were set in blocks of 10 (i.e., 5
      assignments to each of the treatment conditions). Though the total recruitment target was 39
      women, it was not known what percentage will be first-time mothers, so the investigators
      created at least 3 blocks of 10 mothers for each of the two strata. The blocks in the
      randomization schedule ensured that investigators have approximately equivalent numbers of
      mothers in each of the treatment and standard care groups at all stages of data collection
      for both strata. The PI opened the sealed envelope based in the parity of the participant;
      each envelope contained a card with "Standard care" or "Intervention." The PI informed the PC
      the participants that have been assigned to initiate the intervention. The PC initiated
      contact with the participant in a time frame not longer than a week. The research personnel
      who collected data was blinded to the treatment condition of the participants. A script was
      read in each data collection session to request the participant to avoid sharing with the
      research staff if she was or not receiving the visit of the PC or professional lactation
      consultant.

      Data Analysis: Given the descriptive nature of this feasibility study, no power analysis was
      warranted. However, the feasibility study informed effect sizes that will be used to estimate
      statistical power for future studies, including a planned R01 submission. Descriptive
      analysis will be accomplished using means and standard deviations or frequency distributions.
      Differences in baseline demographic and personal characteristics between the intervention and
      usual care groups will be assessed using two-sample t-tests, Mann-Whitney U tests, or
      chi-square tests of association to verify that the randomization yielded comparable groups
      from this population. Measures of feasibility (including number of participants completing
      the intervention sessions and entire study) will be examined. Logistic regression with
      demographics and personal characteristics as covariates will be used to discern whether there
      is a difference in the likelihood of breastfeeding initiation, duration and exclusivity
      between the intervention and usual care group. Qualitative methods will be used to assess
      factors impacting recruitment, adherence, and acceptability of the intervention.
    
  