
    
      This is a Phase III, randomized, double blind, dummy controlled safety and efficacy study of
      ThermoDox plus sRFA compared to sRFA plus dummy infusion using standardized treatment dwell
      time for solitary HCC lesions ≥ 3.0 cm to ≤ 7.0 cm. An sRFA treatment for this protocol is
      defined as the dwell time of ≥ 45 minutes measured from the first activation of the RFA probe
      through removal of the RFA probe after the final ablation cycle or deployment.

      The 50 mg/m2 ThermoDox or dummy infusion will be administered IV over 30 minutes. As part of
      blinded pre-medication ThermoDox treated subjects will receive 20 mg of dexamethasone orally
      24 hours prior to the drug infusion for infusion reaction prophylaxis. Subjects on the
      control arm will receive a matching dummy pre-medication pill orally at 24 hours prior to
      infusion of the study treatment. Thirty minutes prior to receiving the ThermoDox infusion,
      subjects will receive a blinded dose of 20 mg of IV dexamethasone, 50 mg IV diphenhydramine
      and either 50 mg of IV ranitidine or 20 mg of IV famotidine. Subjects on the control arm will
      receive a masked dummy pre-medication pill orally at 24 hours prior to infusion of the study
      medication, and a dummy infusion 30 minutes prior to dummy infusion of Sodium Chloride 0.9%
      or 5% Dextrose (D5W). RFA will be initiated approximately at a minimum of 15 minutes after
      the initiation of study drug infusion and should be completed no later than 3 hours after
      study drug infusion initiation. The goal is to reach a > 45 minute dwell time which can be
      achieved by employing at least four ablation cycles or deployments in order to ablate the
      tumor as well as a 360º 1.0 cm tumor-free margin surrounding the tumor.with an estimated
      overall procedure time of less than 3 hours.

      A subject who has an incomplete ablation is eligible for 1 retreatment procedure within 21
      days after the radiological imaging exam showing residual disease at Day 28. Subjects will be
      retreated only once with the same RFA equipment and treatment assigned at randomization.
      Subjects with a complete ablation after retreatment will be followed both for PFS and for OS.

      If after 2 ablations the subject has local, distant intrahepatic, or extrahepatic HCC, then
      the subject will be considered a treatment failure and will have met the PFS endpoint. The
      subject will be followed for OS every 3 months. Among subjects who are not treatment
      failures, five repeat treatments are permitted to treat a recurrent lesion or to treat
      newly-identified local or distant intrahepatic lesions at the Investigator's discretion after
      the PFS endpoint is reported and with agreement from the Sponsor. The subject must be
      eligible for retreatment consistent with the safety eligibility criteria and will be
      retreated with the same randomized treatment.

      CT or MRI imaging will be used to assess the effectiveness of the ablation therapy. The blind
      will be maintained at the level of the imaging reads. Investigator determined radiological
      progression must be observed and recorded prior to beginning alternate treatments for HCC.
      Posttreatment imaging will be obtained at months 1, 5, 9, 13, 17, 21, 25, then every 6 months
      (+/- 2 weeks) until radiological progression is seen. Adverse event assessments and
      laboratory examinations will occur at each visit. All subjects will be monitored throughout
      the investigational period.

      Patients that meet inclusion/exclusion criteria may be at risk for contrast-induced
      nephropathy (CIN) when undergoing the required CT with contrast procedures. The investigators
      must be mindful of the risk factors associated with CIN and employ strategies to reduce the
      risk of CIN. In subjects with diabetes or borderline renal function (creatinine greater than
      1.5 mg/dL) special precautions (e.g. hydration, contrast dose reduction, follow up creatinine
      determination) should be employed. An accepted procedure is adequate intravenous volume
      expansion with isotonic saline (1.0 - 1.5 mL/kg per hour) for 3-12 hours before the procedure
      and continued for 6-24 hours if clinically indicated and based on the treating physician's
      medical judgment.

      All randomized subjects will be followed for safety and overall survival.
    
  