
    
      This phase III study represents a prospective randomized open label multicenter trial to
      evaluate whether the combination of VELCADE, Melphalan, Prednisone and Thalidomide (V-MPT),
      as induction treatment for newly diagnosed elderly MM patients, improves outcomes compared to
      the combination VELCADE-MP.

      Subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 allocation between:

      Arm A: 250 patients: V-MPT treatment Arm B: 250 patients: V-MP treatment Patients excluded
      from randomization are to be registered in Arm C. Patients randomized in arm A (Thalidomide
      based) will be further enrolled in the sub-study about the DVT prophylaxis.

      Patients will be evaluated at scheduled visits in up to 3 study periods: pre-treatment,
      treatment and long-term follow-up (LTFU).

        1. Pre-treatment period:

           Screening visits, performed at study entry. After providing written informed consent to
           participate in the study, patients will be evaluated for study eligibility After
           registration subjects will be randomized.

        2. Treatment period:

           Subjects in Arm A will receive:

             1. Induction therapy:

                nine 5-week courses of VELCADE/Melphalan/Prednisone/Thalidomide (V-MPT)

             2. Maintenance therapy:

           Thalidomide in combination with VELCADE

           Subjects in Arm B will receive:

             1. Induction therapy:

                nine 5-week courses of VELCADE/Melphalan/Prednisone (V-MP)

             2. No maintenance therapy is scheduled At the end of induction treatment or at the
                time of discontinuation of all study drugs, all patients are to attend study center
                visits on an every 6 to 8-week basis, until development of confirmed Progressive
                Disease (PD)

        3. LTFU period:

      After development of confirmed PD all patients are to be followed for survival every 3 months
      via telephone or office visit.
    
  