
    
      Diabetic patients suffering diabetic foot disease regularly have sever co-morbidities, they
      are more liable to hypertension, ischemic heart disease, autonomic neuropathy, infections and
      gastric reflux all of which contribute to a high risk profile for anesthesia according to
      American society of anesthesiologists patients classification.

      Anesthetic management for diabetic foot disease surgery is a frequent challenge and should be
      undertaken with a careful consideration of the anesthetic techniques available.

      Hazards of general anesthesia is more likely in diabetic patients as they have low reserves
      to preserve against additional straining factors during general anesthesia consequently,
      avoiding general anesthesia in this population may be a central concern to ensure optimal
      peri-operative management following lower limb surgery. Neuraxial anesthesia is complicated
      by urinary retention, hypotension and postdural puncture headache and backache. In chronic
      ischemic legs, with multiple and diffuse stenosis in the leg segmental vessels, hypotension
      can precipitate thrombosis easily. In addition fluid loading and vasopressor administration
      may not be ideal methods to treat hypotension since end stage renal disease and coronary
      artery occlusive disease are common in these patients.

      Relative to central nerve block, peripheral limb blocks are more discriminatory in their
      action and consequently result in less interference of bladder function and motor
      impairments. Also with peripheral nerve block, patients do not require postoperative fasting
      that help in preserving patient glycemic control. Moreover. Nerve block anesthesia has the
      advantages of improved postoperative pain control and it is more economical reducing hospital
      and associated expenses.

      Ankle block alone has high failure rate and require more than usual dose to get effective. In
      popliteal block larger dose is needed than ankle and there is more time delay. The
      investigators thought to get the advantages of using local than general anesthesia with
      combined ankle and popliteal blocks to increase potentiation and decrease doses in diabetic
      foot surgery.

      Aim of the study is to compare between single ankle, single popliteal and combined ankle
      popliteal block in diabetic patients undergoing elective foot surgery to determine block
      success rate, safety and efficacy to find the method of better outcome and lesser side
      effects.
    
  