
    
      Before the research starts (screening): After signing this consent form, you will be asked to
      undergo some screening tests or procedures to find out if you can be in the research study.
      Many of these tests and procedures are likely to be part of regular cancer care and may be
      done even if it turns out that you do not take part in the research study. If you have had
      some of these tests or procedures recently, they may or may not have to be repeated.

        -  A medical history, which includes questions about your health, current medications, any
           allergies and evaluation for whether you can safely have an MRI and biopsy

        -  Performance status, which evaluates how you are able to carry on with your usual
           activities.

        -  Review of the initial diagnostic biopsy, which you had when you were diagnosed with
           prostate cancer.

        -  Routine Blood Tests ( PSA is a protein that is produced by the prostate gland. The PSA
           test has been widely used to screen men for prostate cancer. It is also used to monitor
           men who have been diagnosed with prostate cancer to see if their cancer is responding to
           therapy)

        -  Physical Exam

        -  Health State Questionnaires

        -  These questionnaires review: Your feelings about your cancer diagnosis, your
           satisfaction with the cancer care you received, your health and symptoms over the past
           four weeks, and your overall urinary function

      If these tests show that you are eligible to participate in the research study, you will
      begin the study treatment. If you do not meet the eligibility criteria, you will not be able
      to participate in this research study.

      After the screening procedures confirm that you are eligible to participate in the research
      study:

        -  You will be scheduled for a MRI between 2 to 14 months after your initial biopsy, which
           showed prostate cancer, to assess the grade and extent of your prostate cancer since
           your initial diagnosis.

        -  You will be scheduled for a repeat prostate biopsy 0-3 months after your MRI is
           reviewed.

      Based on the findings from the MRI, this biopsy will be performed either in the urologist's
      office with an ultrasound (a medical imaging technique that uses high frequency sound waves
      and their echoes) or using anesthesia and an MRI to guide where the biopsy is taken within
      the prostate.

      If the MRI does not show anything of concern, you will have another ultrasound-guided biopsy
      similar to the one you had when you were initially diagnosed with prostate cancer. In this
      procedure twelve biopsy samples are taken from the prostate. Each biopsy is about the length
      of a dime and as narrow as a toothpick.

      If the MRI has findings which need further evaluation, you will have a guided biopsy. In this
      procedure, you will have twelve samples taken from the prostate similar to the biopsy you had
      when you were diagnosed with prostate cancer. Additionally, several biopsies will be taken of
      the area or areas of concern noted on the MRI. This procedure will require anesthesia, which
      may be general anesthesia or another type. You will meet with the study physician prior to
      the biopsy procedure. The type of anesthesia to be used will be decided by the study
      physician in discussion with you. When undergoing a study in the MRI system, you will lie
      motionless inside this device Occasionally the machine will produce a loud banging noise, as
      if it were being pounded from the outside with a hammer. Earplugs are available to reduce
      this sound level.

      While you are in the magnet, under the anesthetic, the investigators will do the biopsy. To
      do this the investigators will use 2 ways to help us reach the correct part of your prostate,
      one is a robotic needle holder, which will show us where to put the needle, by lining up the
      correct place outside on the skin or rectal wall and the study physician will push in the
      needle with his/her hand. Second the investigators will use a model of the best location(s),
      taken from images. The biopsy is done with a needle put in through the skin, under your
      scrotum or through the rectal wall by the doctor.

      The entire length of the procedure will be approximately 3 hours. The results of the
      procedure and biopsy will be communicated by your doctor as soon as they are available. The
      results will also be shared with the research co-investigators. This will be done by sharing
      the pathology results for each biopsy as matched with the location/place it came from in your
      gland. The study doctor will share the results of your biopsy with you at your end of study
      visit.

      Medical Information The investigators will collect your medical information when you come to
      the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and link this information to your specimens so that the
      investigators may better understand how these tests affect how participants do over time. It
      is important to note the following: all blood, tissue, and data collected from participants
      will be used for research only and when the research is performed on your samples, the
      investigators conducting this research will not have access to participant identification
      information, such as medical record numbers.

      End of study visit:

      You will have an end of study visit approximately 30 days after your final biopsy is
      performed. At this visit, the study staff will:

        -  Review your current PSA lab values

        -  Review the results of your biopsy and discuss options for future treatment.

        -  Ask you to complete several "Health- State" questionnaires if you have not already done
           so

        -  Review any side effects that you may have experienced as a result of your recent biopsy.
    
  