
    
      Objective: To compare the bioavailability of iron in fonio porridge fortified with
      isotopically enriched [57Fe] or [58Fe]-ferrous sulfate with and without reducing phytic acid
      by native phytase in wheat flour.

      Study population: Sixteen apparently healthy young women aged 18-30 years recruited at the
      University based on their willingness to participate and according to inclusion criteria.

      Study design: Fonio porridges fortified with isotopically labelled [57Fe] or [58Fe] ferrous
      sulfate, with (test meal) and without wheat flour (control meal) are administered to fasting
      subjects on two consecutive days using a randomised crossover design. Half the subjects
      received the test meal on the first day and the control on the second day and vice versa. No
      food or drink was allowed within the 3 hours after consumption. All meals were administered
      under close supervision. Venous blood sample were collected (day 1 and day 16) for iron
      status and iron absorption measurement. Iron absorption measurement is calculated based on
      iron isotope-dilution in erythrocyte 14 days after intake of the labelled meals.

      Study parameters: Fourteen days before the test, height and weight were measured for
      nutritional status and subjects were screened for pregnancy and malaria. They were also
      treated with antihelminth (albendazole tablet). The day before meals test (day 0), whole
      blood sample was collected for hemoglobin (Hb), serum ferritin (SF), serum Transferrin
      Receptor (sTfR) and C-reactive protein (CRP). Anemia and iron deficiency was defined as Hb <
      120 g/L, and SF < 12 µg/L respectively. Pregnancy test and malaria tests were repeated on
      that day. On day 1 and day 2, the fonio porridges were randomly given to the subjects on a
      cross-over designed. Fourteen days after the meal test (day 16) whole blood sample was
      collected for iron absorption measurement.
    
  