
    
      Introduction: Crohn's disease is a well-characterized disease, and treatment is carried out
      according to international guidelines. Despite this, the disease often show an individual,
      unpredictable course, and more than half of patients experience significant complications of
      the disease. Endoscopy is important for the assessment of disease dissemination and severity
      of Crohn's disease, which is complemented by biochemical and clinical indices, including CDAI
      or Simple Index (SI) (Harwey-Bradshaw), which is internationally recognized. By CDAI, there
      is shown a good correlation with the biochemical activity markers such as CRP, and serum
      albumin, and in practice the simplified version (SI). Is often used.

      Knowledge about the use of CLE in Crohn's disease is very low. We will on the basis of
      parameters suggested in smaller studies and our personal CLE experience determine which
      parameters are useful for a precise estimation of the severity of Crohn's disease. Since the
      disease is most commonly seen in the terminal ileum, the parameters should apply to both the
      ileum and colon.

      A group Crohn patients have long been in prolonged biochemical and conventional endoscopic
      remission, including patients treated with the biologic drug infliximab. These patients are
      also included in the study as a particularly interesting subgroup as CLE in a small study has
      suggested to contribute to the safe discontinuation of immunosuppressive therapy. The degree
      of healing of the mucous membrane including an intact barrier function is one of the most
      important prognostic factors for patients to develop a recurrence. Thus it will be of great
      clinical importance to clarify whether CLE can help to distinguish those patients who have an
      apparently normal endoscopy, yet unrealized discrete activity and defective barrier function
      from patients where there is no activity evaluated endoscopically and by CLE. Furthermore, a
      small number of patients will be included as a control group.

      Hypothesis: CLE can characterize Crohn's disease and activity precisely in the ileum and
      colon compared with conventional ileocolonoscopy, including detecting slight degrees and
      wider dissemination of inflammation that would otherwise not be recognized.

      Design: A blinded prospective observation and method study of patients with subsequent
      calculation of intra-and inter-observer variability.

      Method: The patients enrolled including the control group, will be investigated respectively,
      by conventional colonoscopy and CLE in both the terminal ileum as colon. The degree and
      extent of Crohn's disease are assessed by conventional ileocolonoscopy (SI), CLE (selected
      parameters) and histology biopsies. Terminal ileum and each colonic segment (caecum,
      ascending colon, transversal colon, descending colon, colon sigmoid and rectum) are assessed
      as described above. Then, the correlation between histology (gold standard), SI and CLE is
      calculated. An intra-and inter-observer study follows on CLE parameters, where 3 observers
      are blinded with respect to each other. The pathologist is blinded to conventional and CLE
      parameters. CLE results are stratified in order to identify which of the recorded CLE
      parameters that correlate best with the two other methods, and thus are most suitable for the
      characterization and activity of Crohn's disease.

      Statistical method: To calculate the CLE-finding in relation to respectively, SI and
      histology we use Spearman correlation analysis. At the inter-and intra-observer study used
      weighted Kappa.

      Patient: A complete sample-size calculation has been made for the inter-and intra-observer
      study of the individual CLE parameters by 3 observers. For, if possible, to achieve a kappa
      value of 0.9 with a confidence interval of 0.05, there must be 122 observations. If we
      succeed in registering SI score, CLE parameters and taking tissue samples for pathology in
      all the above intestinal segments, there will be 7 observations for each patient who
      subsequently are assessed in relation to each of the parameters used in the study. If all
      ileocolonoscopy are completed and all CLE observations are possible to analyze just 18
      patients need to be enrolled in the study. It is assumed, however, that there will only be
      50% of the expected observations as some CLE observations will be unsatisfactory and some
      procedures will be interrupted. Thus, 36 patients shall be included in the study to achieve
      the desired strength, 10 of which are in the control group.
    
  