
    
      The proposed is a randomized controlled trial design with intent-to-treat analysis in
      hospitalized preterm infants between 32 and 36 weeks post-menstrual age. Both the control and
      intervention groups will receive routine neonatal intensive care unit care (i.e.,
      skin-to-skin care by parent when available and daily sessions of exposure to recorded
      parent's voice). In addition to routine care, the parent-supported multisensory intervention
      consists of 10 sessions of standardized, therapist-administered, auditory-tactile stimulation
      that combines contingent recorded mother's voice delivered using a pacifier-activated system,
      during holding with supportive tactile containment against the therapist's chest, covered by
      cloth imprinted with mother's scent. Possible covariates, multi- and uni- sensory processing,
      will be measured at entry into the study and immediately after the treatment phase. Sensory
      reactivity will be measured at 1 year of age and language and motor outcomes will be assessed
      at 2 years. Except for parent reports, all measures will be administered by masked examiners.

      Secondary Study: Contingent speech sound learning in infants-We will conduct a randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) of standardized environmental practices vs. pacifier-activated player
      with female voice audio recording in either English (passive listening controls), French, or
      Chinese (active). The standard practice will include Sounds of Love program (standard
      approved clinical protocol: therapist voice audio recording in English played for the infant
      several times per day). The experimental conditions will include delivery of an audio
      recording in French or Chinese containing female voice readings and lullaby singing via a
      Pacifier Activated Lullaby system, an FDA approved sound player that provides the sound
      contingent on the infant sucking on their pacifier. Group 1 will be passive listening to the
      recording in English, Group 2 will be contingent listening to the audio recording in French,
      and Group 3 will be contingent listening to the recording in Chinese. With a sample size of
      20 infants per group, we estimate a power of 86.9% with an alpha level of 0.05. Hypothesis:
      Infants exposed to a specific language will have better speech sound discrimination for that
      language, but not for the other two languages. In addition, exposure to foreign language
      contingently will not decrease discrimination of speech sounds in English as compared to the
      control group.
    
  