
    
      Inflammatory bowel diseases ("IBD") are a group of chronic immune-mediated diseases with
      typical onset during young adulthood and a lifelong course characterized by periods of
      remission and relapse. IBDs involving two main clinical forms- Crohn's disease ("CD") and
      ulcerative colitis (UC). CD can affect any part of the gastrointestinal tract with the
      frequent presentation of abdominal pain, fever, weight loss, and clinical signs of bowel
      obstruction or diarrhea. In comparison,ulcerative colitis ("UC), in which Inflammation is
      restricted to the mucosal surface of the colon, manifesting as continuous areas of
      inflammation, ulceration, edema and hemorrhage. Usually both conditions are chronic, though
      ulcerative colitis is curable by surgical removal of the colon. Apart from this, there is no
      cure for IBD. both CD and UC can be treated with medications that induce and maintain
      remission. Pharmaceutical treatment includes five major categories, namely anti-inflammatory
      drugs, immune suppressants, biologic agents, antibiotics, and drugs for symptomatic relief.
      Choice of therapy depends largely on the severity of disease, and may also be influenced by
      such factors as disease location, side effects and adverse events, as well as cost. The
      etiology of IBD has been extensively studied in the past few decades however, the
      pathogenesis is not well understood. several factors that make a major contribution to
      disease pathogenesis have been identified and distinct to three categories: genetic factors,
      environmental factors including breast feeding, diet, smoking, drugs etc and microbial
      factors, producing sustained inflammation supported by altered mucosal barrier and defects in
      immune system. This combination of features has made IBD both an appropriate and a
      high-priority platform for translatable research in host-microbiome interactions.

      Studies demonstrated that fungi have a complex, multifaceted role in the gastrointestinal
      tract and are active participants in directly influencing health and disease through
      fungal-bacterial, fungal-fungal and fungal-host interactions.

      Fungi have been linked with a number of gastrointestinal diseases including IBD, However, the
      exact role of fungal colonization in the pathophysiology of IBD is not precisely defined.
      study have shown that the diversity and composition of the fungal communities varies in IBD.

      A study that characterized the fungal microbiota in the intestinal mucosa and feces in
      patients with CD found that the fungal richness significantly elevated in the inflamed mucosa
      compared with the noninflamed mucosa.

      This suggests that in IBD, the mycobiome and microbiome have a mutual influence on each
      other. Pointing to the role of the bacteria and microbial dysbiosis in IBD.

      Aims

      To evaluate the impact of "Mycodigest" supplementation to inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)
      patients on:

        1. Clinical response and remission rates

        2. Quality of life

        3. Inflammatory markers

        4. Fecal microbiome composition and diversity
    
  