
    
      Loop diuretics are generally first line therapy in patients hospitalized with acute heart
      failure syndrome (AHFS). Their use far exceeds that of vasoactive agents. Tubuloglomerular
      feedback (TGF) is the body's compensatory response to avoid excess fluid loss, and it is
      activated when elevated sodium concentrations in the distal tubule are detected. TGF is
      proposed as a contributing factor for the observed diuretic resistance that occurs in
      patients with heart failure. Higher doses of diuretics are required to overcome the decreased
      natriuresis and reduced RBF induced by TGF. Ultimately, this action creates a vicious cycle
      of worsening renal function and diminished diuretic effectiveness.

      The primary pharmacologic rationale for the use of KW-3902 in subjects with AHFS is its
      mechanism of action as an adenosine A1 receptor antagonist. TGF promotes release of
      adenosine, and adenosine binding to A1 receptors causes vasoconstriction of the afferent
      arteriole, decreased RBF, and enhanced sodium reabsorption by the proximal tubule. This
      action results in a decrease in GFR, diminished renal function, and sodium and water
      retention. Blocking adenosine A1 receptors via a selective adenosine receptor antagonist may
      limit sodium reabsorption by the proximal tubules without triggering TGF. It promotes
      vasodilation of the afferent arteriole of the glomerulus, and thus, this strategy offers the
      potential to overcome diuretic resistance or enhance diuretic responsiveness. It may also
      reduce the need for increasing diuretic doses that have been associated with worse outcomes.

      The objectives of this study are to evaluate the effect of KW-3902IV in addition to
      intravenous (IV) loop diuretics (such as furosemide) on heart failure signs and symptoms,
      renal function, and safety in subjects hospitalized with AHFS, volume overload, and renal
      impairment, and to estimate and compare within-trial medical resource utilization and direct
      medical costs between patients treated with KW-3902IV versus placebo.
    
  