
    
      Major depression, plus other chronic illness such as diabetes, coronary heart disease and
      heart failure is common among low-income, culturally diverse safety net care patients.
      Unfortunately, many of these patients are uncomfortable about either asking their doctor
      questions about their illness and treatment options and their illness self-care or informing
      their doctors about their treatment preferences. Lack of strong engagement with medical
      providers occurs because patients believe they lack the knowledge to ask questions or to
      understand and follow recommended self-care and their concern that their medical provider
      lacks understanding of their treatment preferences. These factors often result in patient
      worry, poor adherence to prescribed treatment, and worsening illness status and even early
      death. The study will be conducted by a university, the Los Angeles County Department of
      Health Services (DHS) and a community health worker organization research team. The study
      will be conducted within two DHS Patient-Centered Medical Home clinics, with each patient
      having a designated primary care team of physician, nurse, social worker and medical
      assistant. Study patients with major depression and other illnesses face numerous self-care
      management barriers: managing concurrent symptoms (depression, pain, anxiety etc.) and
      cultural influences (depression stigma, diet), difficulty in navigating primary and specialty
      doctor and treatment plans, while at the same time experiencing daily social and economic
      stress. The randomized comparative effectiveness study plans to recruit 350 patients with
      major depression and a concurrent chronic illness (i.e., diabetes, heart failure, coronary
      heart disease) from two DHS PCMH community health centers. To enhance patient-centered
      research community partnerships, patients will be provided A Helping Hand (AHH) in which a
      community organization- based promotora aims to activate patient-centered depression
      self-care training and practical assistance to: a) improve and personalize major depression
      self-care (e.g., medication or psychotherapy preference, treatment adherence, fatigue, pain,
      diet, activity, stress management, family/caregiver communication); b) activate
      patient-provider communication, clinic appointment keeping and treatment coordination; and c)
      and facilitate patient navigation and receipt of needed community resources. AHH aims to
      improve patient self-care management and patient-provider care management relationships among
      underserved low-income patients, who must simultaneously cope with major depression and
      chronic co-morbid physical illness. Study objectives aim to determine: 1) whether community
      health worker promotora care management training improves patient-centered outcomes, such as
      self-care need and management, treatment adherence, symptom improvement, and care
      satisfaction over the usual team care; 2) depression symptom improvement; and 3) patient
      hospitalizations and ER visits frequency.
    
  