
    
      Study Design: Prospective RCT

      Study Question- Does a surgeon administered intra-operative adductor canal block ("Low-ACB")
      provide non-inferior post-operative pain relief relative to anesthesia administered,
      ultrasound guided adductor canal block ("High-ACB").

      Hypothesis- Surgeon administered Low-ACB provides non-inferior pain relief relative to
      anesthesia administered High-ACB.

      Study Groups-

        1. US Guided, Anesthesia Administered Adductor Canal Block ("High ACB")

        2. Intra-Operative, Surgeon Administered Adductor Canal Block ("Low ACB")

      Randomization- Cluster Randomization There will be two surgeons collecting data for this
      study; Surgeon A (principal investigator) & Surgeon B. Each surgeon will begin collecting
      data on opposite arms of the study. Surgeon A will perform 35 consecutive High-ACB knees
      while Surgeon B performs 35 Low-ACB knees. After performing 35 knees under either the
      High-ACB or Low-ACB protocol, Surgeon A and Surgeon B will switch arms and perform an
      additional 35 consecutive knees in the opposite arm. At trial's end, each surgeon will have
      performed 35 TKAs using the High-ACB and Low-ACB protocol yielding a total of 70 patients in
      each arm.

      Participant Timeline:

      The investigators will interact with patients and collect specific data at a limited number
      of office visits as outlined below. All office appointments will take place at the Carilion
      Clinic Institute for Orthopaedics and Neurosciences.

        1. Pre-Op Appointment- Thorough informed consent will be obtained at this visit. Patient
           will be sent home with consent form to review further and discuss with family.

        2. Day of Surgery- Prior to surgery, operative team will go over consent one final time and
           obtain signature if patient consents.

        3. Post-Op Admission- Standard post-op protocol will be followed. Data will be collected
           from this admission from the Epic EMR as above.

        4. Discharge Home- Patient will keep pill journal for opioid narcotics taken each day as
           well as a recording their daily pain score prior to bed.

        5. 2 Week F/U Appointment- PROMIS, KOOS Jr. and VAS scores as well as physical exam data
           recorded. This requires no additional time as this is part of routine post TKA follow
           up.

        6. Home 2-6 Weeks- Patient will keep pill journal for opioid narcotics taken each day as
           well as a recording their daily pain score prior to bed.

        7. 6 Week F/U Appointment- PROMIS, KOOS Jr. and VAS scores as well as physical exam data
           recorded. This requires no additional time as this is part of routine post TKA follow
           up.

      At this point, the patient has completed their participation in the study and will continue
      follow up as scheduled without further data collection.

      Technical Details:

      Surgeon Administered Group In the intra-operative cohort, the block will be administered
      after the final components are in place and cement debris is removed. The knee joint is
      irrigated with dilute hibiclens or betadine followed by pulsatile lavage per institutional
      protocol. A A blunt tip 1.5in 18ga needle was then used to administer 15cc of 0.5%
      ropivocaine.. The location of the saphenous nerve as it exits the adductor canal will be
      estimated to be 1.5x the TEA proximal to the medial epicondyle in men and 1.3x the TEA
      proximal in women as described by Kavolus et al.[3] The 60cc of the anesthetic will then
      injected through the vastus medialis musculature in a field extending from 1cm proximal to
      one cm distal to the assumed location of the nerve with the needle directed in from 20° to
      45° medial. The wound is then irrigated pulsatile lavage one final time and closed in layered
      fashion.

      Anesthesia Administered Group In the pre-operative cohort, the adductor canal block is
      administered by anesthesia staff immediately prior to patient transport to the operating
      room. The thigh is prepped with cholorhexidine at the midpoint between the anterior superior
      iliac spine and the patella and sterile drapes are applied. An ultrasound probe is then used
      to localize the adductor canal and confirm that the femoral artery, femoral vein and
      saphenous nerve can be visualized deep to the sartorious. The probe is moved proximally or
      distally until the neurovascular bundle is centered under the sartorius. A 20cc syringe with
      a blunt tip 1.5in 18ga needle is then used to inject 15cc of 0.5% ropivocaine. Following
      this, the wound is prepped and draped in usual sterile fashion for the arthroplasty
      procedure.
    
  