
    
      Lipid disorders associated with HIV infection and antiretroviral therapy are of growing
      concern. There is little information available on the safety and efficacy of statins or
      fibrates in the treatment of HIV-associated hyperlipidemias. Fenofibrate and pravastatin both
      are able to reduce low-density lipoproteins (LDL) and triglycerides (TG), but it is unclear
      whether one therapy will be more effective than the other, or if combination therapy will be
      needed to achieve desirable reductions in both LDL and TG. [AS PER AMENDMENT 12/13/01: The
      NIAID HIV Therapeutic Trials Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) met June 26, 2001 to
      review the interim results. The interim monitoring plan for this study states that accrual
      into either single-agent therapy arm should stop if the response rate failed to meet a
      pre-specified minimum at the time of interim review. The DSMB found that this stopping
      criterion was met for each single-therapy arm. The DSMB recommended that patients currently
      on single-agent therapy be offered the opportunity to initiate dual-agent therapy, regardless
      of time on study. There were no safety concerns.]

      Patients are randomized to either Arm A or Arm B and stratified by gender, TG level, and
      number of cardiovascular risk factors. Patients add daily fenofibrate (Arm A) or pravastatin
      (Arm B) to their antiretroviral therapy for 48 weeks. Evaluations at Week 12 determine LDL,
      TG, and high-density lipid (HDL) levels. Patients who achieve clinical goals for these levels
      stay on the drug for the rest of the study. Patients who do not achieve the goals by Week 12
      receive a combination of pravastatin and fenofibrate for the rest of the study. At regular
      clinic visits, patients have physical exams and are questioned about their medications, diet,
      and exercise. Blood samples are drawn for clinical evaluations, including lipid profiles and
      HIV-1 RNA monitoring. [AS PER AMENDMENT 12/13/01: On June 26, 2001, the DSMB reviewed interim
      results and determined that the response rates for both arms met the stopping rule for
      futility. As a result, all patients who were currently on single-agent therapy were offered
      the opportunity to initiate dual-agent therapy regardless of time on study. No additional
      accrual was sought; however, exceptions were made for patients who were in screening at the
      time of the DSMB review. These patients were given the option of starting single- or
      dual-agent therapy. The DSMB recommended that all patients on dual-agent therapy be followed
      for 32 weeks to obtain additional safety and efficacy data. Further endpoints will be
      analyzed after Week 12 of single-agent therapy or Week 32 of dual-agent therapy.]
    
  