
    
      Introduction:

      Normoglycemia is important for the outcome of acute surgical and medical conditions.
      Different insulin infusions have been studied to achieve normoglycemia and have proved to be
      useful. Insulin given by subcutaneous injections has duration between 3- 36 hours depending
      on the insulin brand and injection site compared to 10 minutes for intravenous given insulin.
      Different insulin infusions have been studied to achieve normoglycemia but the biological and
      chemical effects of insulin infusions have not been studied in routine operative care of
      patients with diabetes. Therefore, we aim to investigate the importance of normoglycemia for
      the optimal treatment of ulcer infection and/ or during routine cardio- vascular surgery care
      among diabetics.

      Hypothesis:

      Target controlled insulin infusion is more effective in reducing hyperglycemia, improve
      healing of inflammation and infection in diabetics compared to conventional antidiabetic
      therapy.

      The infusion starts when patients who met the eligibility criteria has signed the informed
      consent. The intervention group continues for tree full days with insulin infusion. After the
      transition day (the fourth day) multiple doses of mixinsulin continues until the study ends 4
      weeks after the randomization.

      Study Design:

      This is a randomized prospective, open controlled trial of target controlled insulin infusion
      vs conventional antidiabetic therapy in diabetic patients. Diabetics planned treated for
      ulcer infection and/ or after elective cardio- vascular surgery, who met inclusion, not
      exclusion criteria and choose to participate will be included and randomized.

      Duration of study:

      The infusion starts when patients who met the eligibility criteria have signed the informed
      consent and for the surgery group prior the surgery the operation day for all patients and
      stops during the postoperative care in the control group (conventional therapy). The
      intervention group continues for three full days with insulin infusion. After the transition
      day (the fourth day) multiple doses of mixinsulin continues until the study ends 4 weeks
      after the randomization.

      Selection of patients:

      Patients with diabetic ulcer infection and/or planned cardio-vascular intervention will be
      enrolled.

      Treatment:

      Eligible patients will be randomized to insulin infusion (group 1) for 3 days or therapy
      according to clinical practise (group 2).

      Group 1 (intervention group):

      The insulin infusion starts when the patients full fill the eligibility criteria, has signed
      the informed consent and for the surgery group prior the start of the operation. It controls
      by regular capillary plasma glucose tests and continues for three days. The infusion stop on
      the fourth day, the insulin demand is estimated from the last 24 infusion hours by a specific
      algorithm and divided to 2-4 equal mealtime doses of mixinsulin. The first mealtime dose is
      given to the breakfast on the fourth day and the infusion continues for another 2 hours where
      after it is stopped. After the transition day (the fourth day) multiple doses of mixinsulin
      continues until the study ends 4 weeks after the randomization.

      All patients will have a stop visit at the study end.
    
  