
    
      Research has identified a gap in the knowledge of how fractional ablative carbon dioxide
      laser works on hypertrophic (thickened) scars. At present there is no accurate measure of how
      effective the benefit is objectively (medically), subjectively (to the patient) and
      histologically (on a microscopic level). Recent systematic review has shown an improvement in
      scars following laser therapy, however it found the quality of the data to be poor,
      confounded by multiple bias, identifying the lack of evidence to prove the worth and
      effectiveness of lasers. It concluded the need for more robust studies.

      The study plans to observe a group of patients with hypertrophic burn and/or trauma scars
      (over 1 year old) and see what happens to their scars using the fractionated carbon dioxide
      laser therapy. Two similar scars will be identified per patient volunteer and will randomly
      allocate to receive either fractionated carbon dioxide laser therapy or standard care. An
      independent assessor will be blinded to the intervention and control scar sites.

      The trial will aim to identify any biological markers found in participants blood and scar
      tissue and if they change through the course of and following laser therapy. This will help
      with understanding the mechanism of how the carbon dioxide laser works on scars.

      As part of the evaluation of the impact of laser treatment on patients' quality of life, a
      patient reported outcome measures (PROMS) validation study will be carried out. PROMs
      describe how the patient is functioning or feeling without input from clinical staff
      providing a unique perspective of patients' lived experience of the disease as not all
      symptoms or impacts are obvious to clinicians. In order for PROMs to be effective in clinical
      trials and practice, they have to capture information on domains that matter to the patient.
      These include: scarring, movement and function, scar sensation, psychological distress, body
      image and confidence, engagement in activities, treatment burden and impact on relationships.

      The scars will be assessed in a number of different ways; scar assessment
      tools/questionnaires, clinical inspection, photography, use of ultrasound, probes with
      suction to test the elasticity and pliability of the scars and the colour, microscopic
      evaluation and the identification of biomarkers from blood samples and scar and normal tissue
      biopsy.
    
  