
    
      In the recent years several biomarkers have been investigated to be used for diagnostic and
      risk stratification in patients with symptoms of acute coronary syndrome. Troponins are
      preferred markers for myocardial injury due to its high specificity and sensitivity what
      makes them superior than traditional cardiac enzymes as CK or CK-MB. Elevated level of
      NT-proBNP is a marker of heart failure strongly associated with increased mortality rate.
      This study is invented for searching new sensitive indicators of myocardial injury and
      predictors of bad outcome in patients with symptoms of ACS especially useful in difficult
      diagnostic and therapeutic situations.

      The study is performed in patients with first episode of ACS in their life who are eligible
      for coronary angiography and eventually for PCI. All subjects who agree to participate in the
      study are informed of its nature and purpose. Patients, only due to the symptoms and
      according to ESC guidelines are referred for coronary angiography, primary PCI, surgery
      revascularisation and pharmacological treatment. Inclusion into the study does not influence
      on the type of the treatment. The measurements of VEGF, HGF, PDGF, troponin I, hsCRP, CK-MB
      and NT-proBNP are assessed twice i.e. as soon as possible after admission to hospital and 24h
      after the first measurements. For estimation of changes in concentration of growth factors in
      time in some patients the multiple assessments will be performed (9 measurements during first
      24h and 1 before discharge from hospital). In healthy volunteers (10 to 20 subjects) one,
      control measurement of HGF will be performed. Three days after ACS symptoms appeared, left
      ventricular function is determined by echocardiography. Scheduled control visits are
      performed after 3 months follow up. The demographic and clinical data, duration of chest
      pain, results of 12 leads ECG, angiographic findings, haemodynamic description of cardiac
      function (parameters from echocardiography and ventriculography), type of invasive
      revascularisation and results of performed measurements and examinations will undergo single
      and multivariable statistical analysis. Additionally, according to a few clinical and
      angiographic findings for statistic analysis will be specified either:

      subgroup of patients with "major myocardial injury" which will comprise patients with
      anterior or antero-lateral myocardial infarction (MI) with occlusion or significant left
      anterior descending (LAD) branch stenosis and/or multivessel disease,

      subgroup of patients with "moderate myocardial injury" which will consist of patients with
      inferior and/or posterior MI and with singlevessel disease but not LAD,

      subgroup of patients with "minor myocardial injury" which will include patients with NSTE-ACS
      (Non-ST-Segment Elevation ACS) and without a significant increase of myocardial injury
      markers.
    
  