
    
      Smoking is the leading cause of preventable deaths in the world. Tobacco use causes more than
      5 million deaths per year worldwide.

      Among interventions methods that have been found to be effective, the medications are the
      most promising, using drugs such as Varenicline and Bupropion. Nicotine replacement therapy
      (NRT) shows results in combination to these drugs.

      Alternative approaches to smoking cessation such as acupuncture, hypnosis, smokeless tobacco,
      electronic cigarettes are not legitimated smoking cessation tools; given that scientific
      studies showed no difference between these methods and placebo, or yet no rigorous
      peer-reviewed studies have been conducted.

      On the neuromodulation field, Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) appears as
      a new possibility to treat this serious condition.

      The rTMS is a non-invasive method of stimulating cortical neurons. Repetitive TMS has been
      tested as a treatment of various neuropsychiatric disorders associated with cortical
      excitability disfunctions.

      Several lines of evidence suggest that rTMS over the prefrontal cortex (PFC) can affect
      processes involved in nicotine addiction. First, animal studies demonstrated that rTMS to the
      frontal regions of rats enhanced release of dopamine in the hippocampus and NAc . Moreover,
      high-frequency rTMS of the human prefrontal cortex (PFC) has been shown to induce dopamine
      release in the caudate nucleus. Hence, it has been suggested that high-frequency rTMS may be
      useful in disorders associated with subcortical dopamine dysfunction, such as addiction.

      Several human studies have begun to evaluate the effects of rTMS protocols applied to the PFC
      on drug craving and consumption in nicotine. Johann and colleagues reported decreased levels
      of tobacco craving after single rTMS session over the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex
      (DLPFC). In addition, a single session of rTMS over the right DLPFC can reduce cocaine
      craving. Eichhammer and colleagues in a cross-over, double-blind, placebo-controlled study
      demonstrated a reduction in cigarette consumption (measured 6 hours following the treatment)
      but craving levels remained unchanged after two rTMS sessions over the left DLPFC. Amiaz and
      collegues found that 10 days of high-frequency rTMS over the DLPFC reduced cigarette
      consumption and nicotine dependence. In addition, the rTMS blocked craving induced by smoking
      cues. However, the effect tended to dissipate after the 10 daily sessions and the reduction
      in cigarette consumption was not significant 6 months after treatment termination. Moreover,
      only 10% among those who responded to the treatment had totally quit smoking. Li et al
      treated subjects with real high-frequency rTMS or sham TMS over the DLPFC in two visits with
      1 week between visits. The participants received cue exposure before and after rTMS.
      Stimulation of the left DLFPC with real rTMS reduced craving significantly from baseline.
      When compared with neutral cue craving, the effect of real TMS on cue craving was
      significantly greater than the effect of sham TMS. Rudction in subjective craving induced by
      TMS correlated positively with higher Fagerström Test for Nicotine Dependence score and more
      cigarettes smoked per day. These four studies demonstrate that high-frequency rTMS of the
      DLPFC can attenuate nicotine consumption and craving. However, the significance and duration
      of these effects are limited and further investigation is required to identify the
      appropriate stimulation parameters and targets needed to enhance the effectiveness of such
      treatment.

      One possible reason for these partial effects on nicotine consumption might be the
      superficial magnetic stimulation induced by the figure-8 coil, which does not reach into the
      deep layers of the cortex. It is known that nicotine addiction involves various areas of the
      brain reward system. Most of them are deeper than the superficial layers of the cortex, like
      the anterior cingulated, orbitofrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, and amygdala.

      Another area of interest which was not stimulated using the superficial rTMS is the insula. A
      recent study explored the role of insula damage in addiction. In a retrospective design,
      assessing changes in cigarette smoking after brain damage, results revealed that smokers with
      brain damage involving the insula were significantly more likely to undergo a disruption of
      smoking addiction than smokers with brain damage not involving the insula. This finding is
      consistent with the crucial role of the insula in cravings for food, cocaine and cigarettes,
      as reported by neuroimaging studies, and with the role of the insula in processes related to
      decision-making. Therefore stimulating the insula and the deeper layers of the lateral PFC
      could be substantially more effective in treating nicotine addiction.

      Deep Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (dTMS) is a new form of rTMS which allows direct
      stimulation of deeper neuronal pathways than standard rTMS using the Brainsway's new H-coils.
      In this study we will apply the dTMS using the H-ADD, which is designed to reach deeper brain
      areas related to the control of motivation, reward and pleasure, specifically, fibers
      connecting the DLPFC and the insula.

      Given these theoretical, animal and preliminary human data, we hypothesized that a course of
      deep high-frequency, using a specific coil for deep stimulation (H-ADD) over the right and
      left lateral PFC and insula, may reduce impulsivity, nicotine dependence and craving for
      cigarettes in response to smoking-related cues.
    
  