
    
      Junctional epidermolysis bullosa (JEB) is a rare genetic skin disease where genetic defects
      in skin proteins result in extensive blistering in response to mild mechanical stress.
      Patients are often affected at birth or from early childhood, and suffer from varying degrees
      of severity depending on the specific mutations that they have and the proteins that are
      affected. This ranges from severe widespread blistering and death within the first few years
      of life, to minimal localised blistering and survival to adulthood. Diagnosis is confirmed by
      genetic testing, and this is often used to predict the likely clinical course. However, it is
      not always straightforward to make accurate predictions from genetic information, as our
      understanding of these proteins and mutations at the molecular level is currently incomplete.

      The main aim of this pilot database study is to create a central repository to allow data
      sharing of JEB genetic and clinical information for the clinical and scientific EB community.
      This will help in establishing relationships between genetic defects and clinical
      characteristics, which is essential for accurate prognostication, genetic counselling and
      prenatal diagnosis.

      This study will also aim to develop pipelines for analysis of how mutations may affect
      corresponding protein structure and function using computer prediction tools. This will
      improve our understanding of how these proteins function, and could partly explain the
      variation in disease severity of patients with this condition. It could also lead to
      identification of important regions of the protein, which could be investigated further in
      subsequent studies.

      Once completed, this pilot database could be expanded to multiple centres both nationally and
      internationally, and also include data for the other types of EB. It may also serve as a
      model central repository for other rare genetic skin diseases.
    
  