
    
      Evaluations and procedures performed by the participants in:

      Aim 1 Subjects were newly enrolled normal elderly or normal elderly recruited from
      R01HL118624-01 and evaluated according to the studies protocol.

      Visit 1: During this visit, participants will undergo a complete physical exam, neurological
      examination, psychiatric interview, sleep interview, neuropsychological testing, Heart
      testing (EKG), laboratory analysis of blood. (90cc)

      Visit 2: During this visit, participants will undergo an MRI scan and be educated on
      completing home monitoring of sleep wake cycle with actigraphy.

      Visit 3: Patients will receive one FBB PET/MR scan to establish amyloid status.

      Visit 4: Patients will undergo one night of NPSG with maze task prior to the subjects'
      scheduled morning LP with collection of CSF (15 cc).

      Aim 2 All subjects will receive a complete evaluation (outlined below). Visit 1 and visit 2
      will be used to screen subjects for inclusion.

      Visit 1: During this visit participant will undergo a complete physical exam, neurological
      examination, psychiatric interview, sleep interview, psychometric testing, heart testing
      (EKG), laboratory analysis of blood. (90cc)

      Visit 2: During this visit patient will undergo an MRI scan and be educated on completing
      home monitoring of sleep wake cycle with actigraphy.

      Visit 3: Patients will undergo one night of NPSG at MSSM with either consistent use of CPAP
      or use of Sham CPAP to model discontinuation. Approximately, 10 hours after sleep onset
      participant will have a LP with collection of CSF. They will also complete 3D Visual Maze
      task the night of in lab assessment and the morning after, right before the LP (15 cc).

      Visit 4: Patients will undergo one night of NSPG at MSSM with either consistent use of CPAP
      or use of Sham CPAP to model discontinuation. Approximately, 10 hours after sleep onset
      participant will have a LP with collection of CSF. They will also complete 3D Visual Maze
      task the night of in lab assessment and the morning after, right before the LP (15 cc)

      Incidental findings from study procedures (except for CSF analyses and ApoE genotyping) will
      be communicated to study subjects by the Study Physician.
    
  