
    
      Background and Rationale:

      High-dose chemotherapy with melphalan and autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) remains
      an integral component of the myeloma treatment algorithm for patients considered eligible for
      the procedure, nowadays performed in myeloma patients up to the age of 75 years. Despite
      remarkable progress using novel agents both for induction before ASCT as well for maintenance
      after ASCT, definite cure in myeloma patients remains exceptional due to residual disease
      escaping intensive treatment. Martino et al. recently reported data on the feasibility and
      efficacy of the combination of bendamustine and melphalan (BenMel) as a conditioning regimen
      to second ASCT in patients with myeloma. In addition, extensive experience is available on
      the use of bendamustine (200mg/m2/day given on days -7 and -6) together with melphalan
      (140mg/m2/day day -1) and two additional drugs, cytarabine and etoposide (each on days -5 to
      -2) in the BeEAM conditioning regimen which is increasingly used as the standard conditioning
      regimen in lymphoma patients, also in the investigators' clinic, with an acceptable
      tolerability and safety profile. In summary, these data suggest that combinations of
      melphalan and bendamustine are usually well tolerated and that the maximum tolerated dose of
      bendamustine is not reached with the doses of 200mg/m2/day given on two days added to
      melphalan,etoposide and cytarabine (BeEAM regimen). The investigators therefore suggest in
      this study to directly compare bendamustine 200 mg/m2/day (on days -4 and -3) plus melphalan
      100mg/m2/day (on days -2 and -1) with melphalan 100mg/m2/day (days -2 and -1) in a randomized
      trial.

      Objectives:

      Primary objective To show a clinically meaningful improvement by 15% of the rate of complete
      remission (CR1) 60 days after ASCT in myeloma patients from 50% with melphalan alone to 65%
      with the combination of bendamustine and melphalan.

      Secondary objectives To assess acute and late toxicities/adverse events (CTCAE 4.0) during
      the study period in patients treated with the combination of bendamustine and melphalan as
      compared to melphalan alone.

      To assess the hematologic engraftment in patients treated with the combination of
      bendamustine and melphalan as compared to melphalan alone.

      To particularly assess early renal toxicity in patients treated with the combination of
      bendamustine and melphalan as compared to melphalan alone.

      To assess differences in overall survival and progression free survival in patients treated
      with the combination of bendamustine and melphalan as compared to melphalan alone after one
      year.

      To assess the quality of life prior to ASCT and at day 60 assessment thereafter

      Outcome:

      To assess the rate of complete remission (CR1) 60 days after ASCT in myeloma patients treated
      with the combination of bendamustine and melphalan as compared to melphalan alone by routine
      laboratory myeloma parameters (serum M-gradient and light chain ratio) and bone marrow
      assessments in patients with CR1.

      Number of Participants with Rationale: Applying a statistical power of 80% and a one-sided
      significance level of 20%, 60 evaluable patients will be needed in each group to show a
      clinically meaningful improvement by 15% of the rate of complete remission (CR1) 60 days
      after ASCT in myeloma patients, from 50% with melphalan alone to 65% with the combination of
      bendamustine and melphalan.

      Study Duration: The total study duration is 36 months. Study design: Randomized two-arm
      open-label prospective phase II trial. Monitoring will be performed by the Clinical Trial
      Unit (CTU) of the University of Berne, Switzerland.

      This study will be conducted in compliance with the protocol, the current version of the
      Declaration of Helsinki, the ICH-GCP as well as all national legal and regulatory
      requirements.
    
  