
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare disease-free survival in women with node-positive breast cancer treated with 3
           different adjuvant chemotherapy regimens comprising dose-dense doxorubicin,
           cyclophosphamide, paclitaxel, and gemcitabine vs docetaxel, doxorubicin, and
           cyclophosphamide vs dose-dense doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and paclitaxel.

      Secondary

        -  Compare overall survival, recurrence-free interval, and distant recurrence-free
           interval, in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to number
      of positive lymph nodes (1-3 vs 4-9 vs ≥ 10), hormone receptor status (estrogen receptor
      [ER]- and progesterone receptor [PgR]- negative vs ER- and/or PgR-positive), type of prior
      surgery and planned radiotherapy (lumpectomy and local radiotherapy [RT] without regional RT
      vs lumpectomy and local RT with regional RT vs mastectomy without RT vs mastectomy with local
      or regional RT). Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

        -  Group 1: Patients receive doxorubicin IV over 15 minutes, cyclophosphamide IV over 30
           minutes, and docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6
           courses.

        -  Group 2: Patients receive AC chemotherapy comprising doxorubicin IV over 15 minutes and
           cyclophosphamide IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 4
           courses. Beginning 14 days after the last dose of AC, patients receive paclitaxel IV
           over 3 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 4 courses.

        -  Group 3: Patients receive AC chemotherapy as in Group 2. Beginning 14 days after the
           last dose of AC, patients receive paclitaxel as in Group 2 and gemcitabine IV over 30-60
           minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 4 courses.

      In all arms, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Beginning 3-12 weeks after the last dose of chemotherapy, patients with ER-positive and/or
      PgR-positive tumors receive hormonal therapy.

      Beginning no sooner than 3 weeks after the last dose of chemotherapy, patients treated with
      lumpectomy undergo whole-breast radiotherapy. Patients treated with mastectomy may undergo
      chest wall and/or regional nodal radiotherapy.

      Patients are followed every 6 months for 5 years and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 4,800 patients will be accrued for this study within 4 years.
    
  