
    
      Background The implantation of the placenta in the lower uterine segment ( placenta previa)
      complicates 0.3% to 0.5% of pregnancies. The incidence has risen dramatically across the
      globe in the last decade not only within but across the countries, the rising trend of repeat
      cesarean sections being the major contributor. The major complications associated with
      placenta previa include life-threatening hemorrhage, peripartum hysterectomy, increased need
      for multiple blood transfusions, intensive care admissions, injury to the urinary bladder,
      and maternal mortality.

      At present, peripartum hysterectomy is used as a surgical venture for the arrest of
      life-threatening hemorrhage from the placental bed which is usually unresponsive to
      uterotonic drugs, despite the promising hold of conservative pharmacological interventions
      (uterotonics, prostaglandins) and different conservative surgical management options like
      uterine artery ligation or internal iliac ligation, bleeding from placental bed remained a
      major problem faced by the obstetrician during cesarean section. Although the literature
      describes several suturing techniques to conserve the uterus including circular isthmic
      cervical suture, cervical inversion suture, and Nausicaa suture for control of hemorrhage
      from the placental bed but still a development of new conservative surgical techniques with
      even better efficacy and low morbidity profile is the need of the hour.

      A. Chohan Continuous Squeezing Suture (ACCSS) was applied in placenta previa to prevent
      hysterectomy. This innovative conservative surgical technique can be used to arrest
      hemorrhage from the placental bed after the removal of the placenta thus, improving maternal
      outcome in women who wish to conserve the uterus.

      Surgical Procedure:

      After opening the abdomen, a transverse incision was given in the lower uterine segment (LUS)
      after ascertaining the site of easy fetal access avoiding the placenta as far as possible.
      After the delivery of the baby, the uterus was exteriorized and routine uterotonics were
      given. The placenta was left in-situ and incision margins were held with Green-Armytage
      forceps to minimize bleeding.

      The urinary bladder was dissected away to allow suturing on the inner side of the LUS.
      Uterine arteries were ligated on both sides and any blood vessels on the way were secured
      immediately. The placenta was then removed completely.

      Within the puddle of blood, the ring of internal os was identified with the index and middle
      finger of one hand and held with Babcock forceps with the other hand. On the exposed inner
      surface of the LUS, suturing was started from the left corner of uterine incision, using half
      circle 40mm round body polyglactin 910 suture #1 (Vicryl plus by Ethicon®) taking multiple
      half cm bites through half-thickness of the tissue at half cm intervals to reach the outer
      half of ring of the internal os. The suture was then tied and knot secured causing squeezing
      of uterine tissue. From here onwards similar sutures were placed continuously at 1 cm
      distance till the right corner was reached, where the knot was secured. During suturing it
      was ensured that internal os remains patent. The continued pull on the suture caused the
      squeezing of the LUS and arrested bleeding from all sinuses present at the placental site. If
      the bleeding was seen on the posterior uterine wall, a similar suture was applied. It was
      started from the outer half of the posterior lip of the ring of the internal os and going up
      to the highest bleeding point on the posterior wall of the uterus, extending from the left to
      right end of the uterine incision.

      Any leftover bleeding points were secured with separate hemostatic sutures, and where needed
      uterine packing was placed at the suturing site for 24 hours. Routine closure of the uterus
      was performed in two layers as in the lower segment cesarean section.

      The postoperative duration of hospital admission varied from 3 to 7 days. This includes the
      days of admission in the intensive care unit where needed. The patients were reviewed after 7
      days for removal of stitches and then at 6 weeks postpartum for assessment of postoperative
      recovery and complications.
    
  