
    
      The prevalence of childhood obesity and overweight has become a major health concern
      worldwide. Prevention of overweight and obesity in children is a high priority because they
      are at high risk of becoming obese adults and obesity is predictive of the development of
      coronary heart disease, hypertension and diabetes. Thus, there is a need for food-based
      solutions to increase satiety and subsequently reduce energy intake.

      Over the past 40 years, the consumption of potatoes has decreased by 41% which may be a
      consequence of movements aimed at decreasing serving sizes, or the outright banning, of
      potato foods from cafeterias and quick service restaurants such as French fries due to the
      observational studies showing they are linked with increased risk of obesity. Alternate
      energy dense starches such as rice and pasta have increased in consumption as a result for
      meal accompaniments with no discernible decrease in the upward trajectory of the number of
      overweight and obese individuals. These recent trends may be a consequence of individuals
      ignoring vital information such as the substantial nutrient content as well as the overall
      balance and low energy density to nutrient density ratio of the potato in addition to other
      beneficial components.

      Compounding this, research has also indicated that the GI of potatoes is high relative to
      other starches, in spite of recent evidence suggesting a high variability in these
      measurements or little consideration taken for the preparation method of the potato (potato
      chips vs. baked potato, for example). Additionally, potatoes are commonly consumed with other
      foods which in turn often significantly lower the GI of the meal when compared to consumption
      of the potato alone. For example, Estima potatoes ingested with 62 g of cheddar cheese
      reduced the GI from 93 to 39 and mashed potatoes served with oil, chicken breast and salad
      (representing a meal) reduced the GI of the potato from 108 to 54. The GI is based on the
      consumption of a fixed amount of available carbohydrate, which may not be representative of
      the glycaemic effect of the amount of carbohydrate usually consumed in a serving of a food
      within a meal, such as the case with potatoes.

      We have extensive experience in conducting experimental studies especially with children.
      Previously in our laboratory, we investigated and published numerous studies focused on
      assessing food intake (FI) regulation and appetite in children aged 9 to 13 years.

      Thus, the purpose of the current study is to determine effects of commonly consumed
      carbohydrate sources such as potatoes, pasta and rice along with a fixed portion of meat on
      blood glucose, satiety and insulin levels among healthy body weight children (aged 11 to 13
      years) over a 2 hour period.
    
  