
    
      Study Title: - To evaluate the efficacy of guided tissue regeneration in the healing of
      periapical defects with periodontal communication: A randomized controlled trial with 3D
      analysis using CBCT.

      Rationale: - Healing of lesions with apicomarginal defects is often less satisfactory.
      Various studies and case reports have reported high success rate with the use of guided
      tissue regeneration technique. Only few clinical trials have evaluated the effect of guided
      tissue regeneration on the healing of apicomarginal defects. To best of our knowledge only
      two studies have conducted randomized controlled trial. However, no study has used CBCT for
      the assessment of healing in such type of lesions. So, this is the first randomized
      controlled trial studying the effect of guided tissue regeneration in the healing of
      periapical defects with periodontal communication using 3D radiological evaluation using
      CBCT.

      Aim & Objectives: - 1. To evaluate the difference in the healing outcome of periapical
      defects with periodontal communication with or without the use of guided tissue regeneration
      technique 2. To evaluate the difference in the healing outcome derived from the assessment of
      2D periapical radiographs and 3 D CBCT imaging.

      Setting: - Study will be conducted in Post Graduate Institute of Dental Sciences, Rohtak in
      the department of Conservative Dentistry & Endodontics.

      Study Design: - A randomized controlled trial Time Frame: - 12 to 18 months Population /
      Participants: - Patients of age 16 years (male/female) and above will be enrolled in the
      study.

      Inclusion criteria: - Patients of age 16 years and above, Patients with no general medical
      contraindications for oral surgical procedures (ASA-I and ASA-II according to the
      classification of the American Society of Anesthesiologist's, periapical defect with
      periodontal communication, periodontal pocket >6mm with apicomarginal communication confined
      to buccal aspect of interproximal space or mid buccal aspect of the root ., -ve response to
      vitality test, failed previous root canal treatment with purulent discharge or failed
      previous surgery or recurrent episode of purulent discharge.

      Exclusion criteria: -Presence of buccal bone on flap elevation, Unrestorable tooth, fractured
      /perforated roots, smokers, pregnant females and lactating mothers.

      Sample size: - 30 patients (15 patients in each group) Methods: - Diagnosis of the lesion
      will be made clinically and radiographically, vitality will be checked by EPT, preoperative
      clinical evaluation will include, clinical attachment level, gingival marginal position and
      pocket depth. Marginal bone loss, width of bony crypt, height of the bony crypt, depth of the
      crypt and height of the buccal bone plate (if present) will be measured radiographically and
      at the time of surgery. Surgical procedures will be carried out under operating microscope
      with 8 × 16 magnification by the standardized treatment methods.

      Outcome measures: - Follow up of patients will be carried out at 3, 6, 9 & 12 months and
      outcome measures will be assessed clinically by absence of signs and symptoms and 2
      dimensionally using radiographs by Rud and Molven criteria for periapical healing and 3
      dimensionaly using CBCT by modified PENN criteria at 12 months follow up for periapical
      healing and buccal bone level.

      Statistical method: - The data will be entered into Microsoft Excel and analysed using SPSS
      (Statistical Package for Social Science) package for relevant statistical comparison.
      Distribution of data into normal and non-normal will be done by Kolmogorov-Smir-Nov test. If
      the data will be normal then student T test and paired T test will be applied for unpaired
      and paired data respectively. For categorical data Chi - square test will be applied. The
      interobserver analysis will be done by cohen kappa analysis.

      If the data will be non-normal then Mann - Whitney and Wilcoxon rank sum test will be applied
      for unpaired and paired data respectively. For categorical data Chi - square test will be
      applied. The interobserver analysis will be done by cohen kappa analysis.
    
  