
    
      Excessive bleeding after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) operations remains to be a persistent
      problem. Antiplatelet therapy (APT) is an integral component of perioperative management in
      patients undergoing cardiac surgery. The impact of drug induced platelet inhibition on early
      postoperative bleeding extent and transfusion requirements remains difficult to predict.

      In addition to, resistance to antiplatelet drugs as well as perioperative increase in
      platelet reactivity following CPB has been reported but this phenomenon has to be
      comprehensively investigated.

      The best point-of-care platelet function test to predict bleeding complications/transfusion
      requirements remains unclear. In addition to, the best test platelet function test to monitor
      resistance to antiplatelet therapy and its impact on clinical outcomes remains elusive.

      The aim of this study is:

        1. to compare two point-of-care platelet function analyzers (Multiplate and ROTEM Platelet)
           in regard to prediction of bleeding complications/trasfusion requirements.

           Three different tests will be performed on each device simultaneously at three time
           points:

           T1) Preoperative testing will include ASPI test, ADP test and TRAP test for Multiplate
           device and ARATEM, ADPTEM and TRAPTEM for ROTEM Platelet device, respectively.

           T2) After declamping of the aorta: ASPI test, ADP test and TRAP test for Multiplate
           device and ARATEM, ADPTEM and TRAPTEM for ROTEM Platelet device will be performed.

           T3) 5-10 minutes after protamine administration: ASPI test, ADP test and TRAP test for
           Multiplate device and ARATEM, ADPTEM and TRAPTEM for ROTEM Platelet device will be
           performed.

           Results obtained with this two platelet function point-of-care devices at the first
           three timepoints will be tested for correlations with postoperative bleeding amount and
           intra/postoperative transfusion requirements. Predictibalility of bleeding complications
           as well as transfusion requirements will be compared between Multiplate tests and ROTEM
           Platelet tests.

        2. to compare two point-of-care platelet function analyzers (Multiplate and ROTEM Platelet)
           in regard to detection of high "on-treatment" platelet reactivity both pre- and
           postoperatively.

      To compare Multiplate and ROTEM Platelet for assessment of high on treatment platelet
      reactivity we will use tests being performed preoperatively (T1) and tests performed at
      fourth postoperative day (T4).

      ASPI test (Multiplate) and ARATEM test (ROTEM Platelet) are sensitive to the platelet
      inhibitory effect of acetylsalicylic acid. Thus, the incidence of resistance to
      acetylsalicylic acid , measured by Multiplate ASPI test and ROTEM Platelet ARATEM will be
      compared between device measurements performed at T1 and T4, respectively. Specific
      subanalysis will be performed for ARATEM test with aim to make laboratory based definition of
      resistance to acetylsalicylic acid. Specific cut-of value for acetylsalicylic acid resistance
      has already been defined by our working group for Multiplate ASPI test.

      ADP test (Multiplate) and ADPTEM test (ROTEM Platelet) are sensitive to the effect of
      thienopyridines. For patients being preoperatively exposed to thienopyridines, measurements
      of Multiplate ADP test and ROTEM Platelet ADPTEM test will be performed at T1 with aim to
      compare the incidence of high on-treatment platelet reactivity.

      Preoperative (T1) and postoperative (T4) measurements obtained with Multiplate and ROTEM
      Platelet will be compared. Perioperative increase in platelet reactivity will be evaluated.
    
  