
    
      Twenty-five adults between the ages of 18 to 50 years with DSM-5 defined MDD or BDI/II, in a
      depressive episode will be enrolled. Enrollment into the study is voluntary. Eligible
      participants will provide written informed consent. Participants will be enrolled from the
      outpatient Mood Disorders Psychopharmacology Unit (MDPU), University Health Network (UHN),
      University of Toronto.

      The MDPU case report form will gather information on the participant's course of illness
      variables. Conventional pharmacological treatments for MDD and BD will be permitted.

      Participants will be excluded if they are receiving insulin and/or oral hypoglycemiants; have
      been diagnosed with possible or probable Alzheimer's Disease, Mild Cognitive Impairment, or
      any other dementia; have a history of neurological disorder, or evidence of neurologic or
      other physical illness that could produce cognitive deterioration; have substance use
      disorder within 3 months before screening or a positive baseline toxicology screen; have a
      clinically unstable general medical illness; are pregnant or breastfeeding; have MRI
      contraindications.

      The ongoing provision of care is not contingent on enrollment and/or completion of the study
      protocol. Furthermore, there will be ongoing communication with the participant's primary
      care provider in regards to their participation in this study.

      This is a randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study. The initial visit
      entails the provision of detailed study information to the patient and obtainment of written
      informed consent from the participant. The participant will then meet a research team member
      at a later date for a screening visit. This study requires a total of 2 visits.

      Screening and Baseline Assessment: Subjects will first meet with a staff psychiatrist for a
      clinical consultation. After obtaining consent and if inclusion criteria are met, a medical
      comorbidity questionnaire will be administered to screen for concurrent and lifetime medical
      conditions. Participant's demographic characteristics and current medications, as well as
      lifetime psychotropic medications received will be recorded. The investigators will also
      assess dietary intake with the short food frequency questionnaire (SFFQ); smoking, by
      questioning number of cigarettes smoked per day, age when smoking stated, and quit date, if
      applicable, to calculate a smoking pack-year history; physical activity using the
      International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ); and alcohol and/or substance abuse with
      the Addiction Severity Index (ASI). In addition, the investigators will assess demographics,
      socioeconomic status, medical history, and family psychiatric history; childhood trauma
      history with the Childhood Trauma Questionnaire (CTQ) will also be assessed. Participants
      will also be asked to complete an MRI screening questionnaire to ensure that they have no
      contraindications. The following self-reported measures will be carried out: Perceived
      Deficits Questionnaire-Depression (PDQ-D), Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS), UCLA life Stress
      (Episodic), DeJong Gierveld Loneliness Scale, Pittsburg Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), Social
      and Occupational Functioning Assessment Scale (SOFAS). Participants will be required to
      complete a urine drug screen. Female participants will be asked to do blood work to confirm
      they are not pregnant.

      Physiological Assessment: Anthropometric (i.e. BMI, waist-hip ratio) and metabolic
      measurements (i.e. fasting glucose, fasting insulin, glycated hemoglobin, lipids and HOMA-IR)
      will be completed at each study visit.

      Behavioral assessment: These tasks are simple, user-friendly tools that provide an
      opportunity, when used in conjunction with the most widely used questionnaires, to gain novel
      insights on reward behaviors in mood disorders.

        1. The primary behavioral measurement will be effort-based decision-making, assessed using
           the Effort-Expenditure for Rewards Task (EEfRT), which will be done in a fMRI paradigm.

        2. Assessments will include the validated anhedonia scale Snaith-Hamilton Pleasure Scale
           (SHPS), and the mood questionnaires Montgomery-Åsberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS),
           and Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS) during each study visit.

      Neural Circuits Assessment: A promising tool to study the effect of insulin on CNS is
      intranasal insulin, which is delivered directly into the brain, without relevant effects on
      peripheral glucose. A single dose of intranasal insulin has been shown to influence brain
      activation, increasing regional perfusion and functional connectivity between the hippocampus
      and the PFC. Acute administration of intranasal in randomized, placebo-controlled, cross-over
      designs has been previously used to determine regional responses to insulin in the
      resting-state or during tasks.

      After screening and baseline assessment, participants will receive a crossover treatment
      assignment of either insulin or diluent followed by an MRI scan, with a washout period of 1
      week. Therefore, participants will receive a total of 2 MRI scans throughout the course of
      the study- one following the first treatment, and one following the second treatment. The
      subsample will be enriched for the presence of self-reported anhedonia, using a score of
      greater than 2 on the SHPS as a cut-off, which provides the best discrimination between
      "normal" and "abnormal" level of hedonic tone. This subsample will also have equal
      representation of normal weight and obese participants. Imaging procedures will be done in
      collaboration with the Toronto Neuroimaging Facility (ToNI). ToNI is a shared research
      center, dedicated to research and teaching in human neuroimaging at the University of
      Toronto, run by the Department of Psychology.

      To proxy insulin activity within pre-selected brain regions, the investigators will use a
      provocation paradigm, involving the administration of exogenous intranasal insulin, based on
      the published work of other research groups. Activation of brain regions will be assessed
      during the resting state and task-based reward paradigm (i.e. EEfRT), following an intranasal
      administration of either 160 units of intranasal insulin or diluent (insulin and placebo will
      be prepared as nasal sprays), in a randomized, double-blinded, cross-over design. A
      hypothesis-driven region of interest approach will be used to investigate initially the
      striatum and the medial PFC (mPFC). Willingness to make effort for rewards will be measured
      with the EEfRT.

      Imaging procedures will be started with a safety monitoring for glucose and cardiovascular
      vital signs. An insulin/placebo spray will be administered intranasally and, within 30 min,
      fMRI measurement will be performed. Venous blood samples, for determination of plasma glucose
      and insulin concentrations, will be obtained at the time of the insulin/placebo spray
      administration and immediately after the scan. The 2 scans for each individuals will be
      acquired on the same scanner. Subjects will be scanned using a 3.0-Tesla Signa HDx scanner
      with an 8-channel phased-array receiver coil (GE Healthcare, Milwaukee, Wisconsin) consisting
      of a structural and functional neuroimaging, comprising:

        1. Whole-brain 3-D T1-weighted Inversion-Recovery prepared Fast Spoiled Gradient-Echo
           (IR-FSPGR) anatomical scan with the following parameters: (TI/TR/TE = 450/8/3 ms, matrix
           size 256 × 256, field of view 22 × 22 cm, slice thickness = 1 mm, and flip angle = 15°)

        2. Whole-brain, T2*-weighted BOLD echo planar imaging (EPI) during awake resting state with
           the following parameters: (TR/TE = 2000/30 ms, 3.5 x 3.5 x 3.5 mm voxel size, field of
           view 24x24 cm, 39 slices, slice thickness 3.5 mm, matrix size 64x64, number of frames =
           405, flip angle = 70°)),

        3. Three runs of whole-brain, T2*-weighted BOLD EPI series during task-based reward
           paradigm with the same parameters as in ii.
    
  