
    
      The prognosis of HCC with portal vein tumor thrombosis (PVTT) is dismal, with a median
      survival of 2.7-4.0 months compared to that of 10.0-24.0 months without PVTT. Therefore, the
      presence of PVTT is regarded as a hallmark of advanced HCC and has a high incidence of
      39-63%.

      PVTT can accompany intrahepatic tumor spread, liver function deterioration, and portal vein
      hypertension, and can lead to intractable ascites, variceal rupture, hepatic encephalopathy
      and/or death. As recommended by the Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) group, the current
      standard treatment of HCC with PVTT is sorafenib only. However, sorafenib monotherapy does
      not achieve satisfactory outcomes, yielding a median survival time of 5.6 to 8.1 months. To
      improve the prognosis, transarterial chemoembolization (TACE), surgical resection,
      radiotherapy, ablations, and radioembolization have been applied to treat patients with HCC
      and PVTT, with improved outcomes reported.

      Portal vein stent placement is regarded as a safe and effective technique in relieving portal
      hypertension, extending treatment options, and prolonging survival in patients with HCC and
      PVTT. However, the reported stent patency period of 3.7 months and survival time of 2.2 to
      6.1 months may not be interpreted as satisfactory outcomes, mainly limited by rapid tumor
      infiltration and/or subsequent thrombosis formation.

      An irradiation stent has been developed and confirmed to be safe and effective in treating
      unresectable esophageal cancer. A modified irradiation stent designed for biliary tract
      obstruction was subsequently developed and resulted in significantly improved outcomes in a
      single-institute randomized, controlled study of patients with malignant biliary obstruction.
      This study aims to demonstrate that overall survival on portal irradiation stent placement
      plus TACE is superior to overall survival on sorafenib plus TACE in patients with advanced
      hepatocellular carcinoma accompanied by portal vein tumor thrombosis. Secondary Objectives
      includes 1. To compare time to progression between both treatment groups; 2. To compare
      hepatic function between both treatment groups; 3.To compare the disease control rate of the
      intrahepatic lesions between both treatment groups; 4.To evaluate and compare the safety and
      tolerability of both treatment groups; 5. To compare portal patency both treatment groups.
    
  