
    
      The incidence of esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) has increased six-fold over the last three
      decades, making it the most rapidly rising cancer in the Western world. The main histologic
      risk factor for development of EAC is the presence of Barrett's esophagus (BE). BE can
      develop from non-dysplastic BE, to low (LGD) and high grade dysplasia (HGD) and, eventually,
      EAC.

      The past two decades minimally invasive endoscopic resection (ER) has replaced surgical
      esophagectomy as first-choice therapy for the treatment of early neoplastic lesions in
      Barrett's esophagus. ER provides adequate tissue specimens, allowing for accurate
      histopathological staging of a lesion, by assessment of invasion depth, differentiation
      grade, presence of lympho-vascular invasion (LVI), and radicality of the resection.
      Endoscopic resection thus similarly fulfils a diagnostic and therapeutic role in the
      management of Barrett's neoplasia.

      However, ER offers local treatment and does not include lymph node dissection as is still
      standard of care during esophagectomy. Therefore, the choice to perform endoscopic follow-up
      after a radical ER of an early EAC, or to refer a patient for additional surgery, is guided
      by the assumed risk of lymph node metastasis (LNM).

      Data from previous studies show that the risk of LNM is only 1% in patients with low risk
      mucosal EAC after endoscopic treatment (i.e., infiltration depth limited to the mucosa,
      G1-G2, without LVI), and <2% in low risk submucosal EAC (i.e., infiltration depth <500μm,
      good to moderate differentiation grade (G1-G2), without LVI). In high risk submucosal EAC
      (i.e., infiltration depth ≥500 μm, and/or G3-G4, and/or LVI), the LNM risk is estimated to be
      much higher (16-44%). Nevertheless, these numbers are mainly based on old surgical series.

      Current data is limited in terms of small and heterogeneous patient cohorts, and data for
      patients with high risk T1a EAC is not available at all. Therefore, we would like to conduct
      an international multicenter retrospective cohort study in >10 centers to evaluate the safety
      and efficacy of endoscopic treatment and follow-up of patients with high risk mucosal and
      submucosal EAC. Our main focus will be the presence of lymph node metastasis and EAC related
      death.

      Aim of this registration study is to collect data of the above-mentioned group of patients
      and thereby assess lymph node metastasis rate, disease-specific mortality, and overall
      mortality.

      This study will be conducted according to the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and
      in accordance with the Medical Research Involving Human Subjects Act (WMO), the Medical
      Treatment Contracts Act (WGBO) and the Dutch Personal Data Protection Act (WBP). The
      investigators will perform the study in accordance with this protocol and will make sure that
      participants do not object to using their data. Collection, recording, and reporting of data
      will be accurate and will ensure the privacy, health, and welfare of research subjects during
      and after the study.
    
  