
    
      PEARL is a prospective, interventional, non-randomised, phase II feasibility study for
      patients with good prognosis Human Papillomavirus (HPV)-associated oropharyngeal squamous
      cell cancer (OPSCC) who are suitable for treatment with concurrent chemo-radiotherapy (CCRT).

      The incidence of oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (OPSCC) caused by Human Papillomavirus
      (HPV) infection (HPV-positive OPSCC) is increasing in the United Kingdom. It tends to affect
      younger patients and has a better outcome than most other head and neck cancers.

      A large proportion of patients diagnosed with HPV-positive OPSCC will undergo non-surgical
      treatment. This usually involves 6 to 7 weeks of chemo-radiotherapy, with chemotherapy being
      given weekly or during the first and fourth week of the radiotherapy course (CCRT). Many
      patients with HPV-positive OPSCC are cured of their disease but often have to live for
      several decades with the side effects of their treatment. Side effects from radiotherapy are
      usually caused because normal tissues surrounding the cancer receive radiation whilst the
      cancer itself is being treated.

      Positron emission tomography-computed tomography (PET-CT) scans are able to look at the
      metabolic (or biological) activity of cells and are currently recommended in the UK for
      response assessment after a patient has completed radiotherapy for a head and neck cancer
      but, as far as we know, have not yet been used routinely to adapt radiotherapy according to
      the individual patient's response during radiotherapy.

      PEARL will explore the feasibility of individually adapting the radiotherapy plan for each
      patient after 2 weeks of radical CCRT, based on biological changes in tumour activity seen on
      an interim FDG-PET-CT scan, carried out early on during a course of treatment. The aim is to
      reduce the dose of radiotherapy received by surrounding normal tissues to ultimately reduce
      toxicity.

      The study will establish the progression free survival rate (PFS) in patients who receive
      biologically adapted radiotherapy. Furthermore, it will also explore whether changes seen on
      PET-CT scan during treatment correlate with outcome and with changes in potential blood-based
      biomarkers of response. Toxicity rates will be assessed, particularly the effect of treatment
      on swallowing function.
    
  