
    
      Spine surgery patients experience high levels of pain and report poor pain management in
      patient satisfaction surveys. Data examined from Allina HCAHPS (Hospital Consumer Assessment
      of Healthcare Providers and Systems) pain management questions indicate that spine surgery
      patients report poor pain management. In July, August, and September 2010 patients on the
      Abbott Northwestern (ANW) spine surgery unit reported 62% on the composite pain score
      compared to 69% to 71% for ANW overall. During these same three months, the proportion of
      patients on this unit reporting their pain was always well controlled ranged from 49% to 57%
      compared to 59% to 64% for the hospital overall. Since ANW serves a high number of spine
      surgery patients, this poor pain management reporting is a concern for patient care and
      possibly for future Medicare/Medicaid funding formulas.

      Opioid-tolerant patients pose a particular challenge to pain management. The intervention to
      be tested specifically targets patients who are determined to be opioid-tolerant patients.
      Opioid-tolerant patients are generally patients who have severe chronic pain, and, thus, are
      taking pain medication regularly. Tolerance occurs when chronic exposure to a drug diminishes
      its analgesic effect or creates the need for a higher dose to maintain this effect. Given the
      severe chronic pain conditions of many patients who are presenting for spine surgery, there
      is a high level of opioid tolerance among these patients.

      While there is no agreed upon definition in the literature about a fixed opioid amount that
      constitutes "opioid tolerance," Abbott Northwestern Hospital has a working definition of
      opioid tolerant patients as those who are receiving ≥ 20 mg of oxycodone (or equivalent)/day
      for > 7 days. This definition is slightly more aggressive than the Institute of Safe
      Medication Practices definition which set the standard at "at least 30 mg oxycodone/day for
      greater than a week."

      While higher postoperative pain status has been documented in opioid-tolerant patients, very
      little has been done to examine customizing perioperative opioid dosing to improve pain
      management in this population. The proposed intervention is designed specifically to test if
      post-operative pain management can be improved in opioid-tolerant patients using
      perioperative goal-directed parenteral opioid dosing based on 150% of the patient's baseline
      oral morphine equivalent (OME). It is important to note this method of perioperative
      goal-directed parenteral opioid dosing has been used at ANW on spine surgery patients, based
      on clinical decision of the anesthesiologist. However, this strategy has not been tested
      compared to standard care.

      For this study our research questions are:

        1. Does the intervention improve immediate (4 hours) post-operative pain over the
           comparison group?

        2. Does the intervention improve management during the 24 hours (or at discharge) after the
           recovery period over the comparison group?

        3. Is the clinical intervention associated with selected improved post-operative status
           measures compared to the control group?

        4. Is the clinical intervention associated with long-term differences in reported pain
           scores or medication levels as measured by a phone call at 4 weeks after surgery?
    
  