
    
      This study aims to examine the optimal anticoagulation/antiplatelet regimen in low risk
      patients undergoing TAVR. The prospective randomized controlled arm of this study will assess
      the utility of short-term oral anticoagulation with warfarin compared to antiplatelet therapy
      alone after TAVR in low risk patients to reduce the incidence of structural valve
      deterioration manifest as clinical events, increased aortic valve gradients or transvalvular
      regurgitation, or subclinical leaflet thrombosis. Low risk subjects with symptomatic severe
      aortic stenosis will be enrolled to undergo TAVR. Following TAVR, subjects will be randomized
      to receive warfarin plus low dose Aspirin or low dose Aspirin monotherapy for 30-45 days.
      Subjects with other indications for anticoagulation (e.g. AF, DVT or PE) will not be
      randomized and instead will be followed in a separate registry arm. Baseline demographic,
      clinical, non-invasive imaging (echocardiography and CT), TAVR procedural details, clinical
      follow up data will be prospectively collected for all subjects. Echocardiography and
      contrast-enhanced 4D cardiac CT will be performed in all subjects between 30-45 days after
      TAVR to evaluate for evidence of structural valve deterioration.

      This multicenter prospective randomized study will enroll 200 consecutive low risk subjects
      with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis into the treatment arms of the study. Up to 100
      additional subjects with a pre-existing indication for anticoagulation (e.g. atrial
      fibrillation, deep venous thrombosis or pulmonary embolism) or who are not eligible for
      randomization after TAVR due to development of a new indication for anticoagulation will be
      enrolled into the registry arm of the study.

      Inclusion of this registry arm will ensure that the secondary objective pooled analysis of
      patient level data from this study and the Low Risk TAVR (LRT) study, truly represents an
      all-comers cohort of low risk patients undergoing TAVR, and does not exclude a significant
      subgroup.
    
  