
    
      We planned an intra-individual study, where 20 adult patients with CHD (e.g. Fallot
      Tetralogy, s/p corrective surgery, single ventricle s/p Fontan operation, aortic and
      pulmonary artery stenosis) will undergo two examinations. Both scans are aimed to assess
      different diagnostic parameter like angiography, cardiac anatomy, ventricular volume and
      flow.

      The first clinically indicated scan in our clinically established imaging protocol is
      performed using a standard contrast agent. The second scan is performed using a new protocol
      with Vasovist within the next seven days. Informed consent for the additional second scan
      will be obtained. In order to optimise the scan protocol for Vasovist we plan a pilot phase
      using three patients. Dosage of the two contrast agents will be within the approved dose. Any
      adverse events will be immediately reported. The following diagnostic parameters will be
      assessed and compared between standard Gadolinium (Gd) agent and Vasovist.

        1. MR-Angiography (MRA): assessment of the MRA quality of the large systemic and the
           pulmonary vessel (arterial and venous) by measuring the Contrast-to-Noise Ratio (CNR)
           and the vessel sharpness. In addition, the overall image-quality will be scored by three
           independent readers (scale: excellent, good, ok, bad).

        2. Cardiac Anatomy: assessment of image quality of the cardiac anatomy from 3D single/dual
           phase MRI by measuring Signal-to-Noise Ratio (SNR) and CNR as well as assessing the
           overall image quality by three independent readers (scale: excellent, good, ok, bad).

        3. Ventricular Volumes: comparison of systolic and diastolic volumes measured from
           multi-slice 2D short axis cine MRI, two single phases 3D whole heart MRI (diastole and
           systole).

        4. Flow: the different flow values will be measured in the large vessels using the Phase
           Contrast Angio (PCA) data. Furthermore, the flow reproducibility will be determined by
           using two scans. The overall scan-time to assess all these parameter will be
           approximately 40 minutes. The intra-individual study allows a direct comparison of the
           different parameters in a number of vascular territories.
    
  