
    
      Singers are over-represented in phoniatric consultation; they present increased risk of
      developing voice disorders whether they are amateurs or professionals. They represent a
      specific population among phoniatric patients because of their increased sensitivity to the
      slightest voice change that makes them consult earlier than non-. In addition, their
      complaints are specific to singing voice. The most common lesion found in singers is
      vocal-fold nodule. It comes from a vocal straining characterized by the use of a pressed
      phonation mode, resulting in an increased subglottal pressure and a decreased flow rate.

      Singing-voice disorder is called dysodia in the same way as dysphonia, which refers to
      speaking-voice disorders. Dysodia results in a variety of symptoms. Acoustic signs are the
      most numerous: tonal anomalies (lack of accuracy, reduction of vocal range); dynamic
      anomalies (problem to sing softly or loudly); timbre abnormalities (vibrato problems,
      strained voice, roughness, difficulties on attacks). Dysodia also results in respiratory
      disorders, physical signs, psychological consequences and damage to hedonistic properties
      (loss of comfort, vocal endurance, musicality). It can reach amateur or professional singers.
      For professional singers, voice is the main working tool. When they have dysodia,
      professional difficulties can be temporary or even lead to the loss of work. In addition,
      dysodia can lead to financial loss and well-documented anxiety. For amateur singers, dysodia
      hinders their musical practice, thus limiting the recognized benefits of choral singing on
      cohesion, social integration and personal development. The diagnosis of dysodia is made after
      a laryngeal examination and a vocal assessment to identify patient's speech difficulties.

      Voice assessment includes subjective voice analyses but also instrumental analyses that
      include acoustic, electrophysiological and aerodynamic voice measurements. The interest of
      aerodynamic parameters for the diagnosis of vocal pathologies is now widely demonstrated.
      These parameters include measurements of estimated subglottal pressure (ESGP), phonation
      threshold pressure (PTP) (minimum pressure to initiate a sound) and oral air flow (OAF). They
      depend on the level of training of singers and the type of vocal dysfunction. These
      aerodynamic data are collected with devices such as the Assisted Voice Evaluation Device
      (EVA2©) used in the laryngeal department of the Gui de Chauliac University Hospital. These
      pressure and flow parameters are higher in opera singers than in non-singers. In clinical
      practice, the ESGP and PTP are higher during vocal straining in dysphonic patients.
      Concerning OAF, results remain controversial: increase with vocal effort in euphonics
      non-singers; decrease with intensity increase in euphonic non-singers. Aerodynamic behaviours
      of dysodic singers have not yet been described, although they can help to better identify the
      singer's vocal difficulties and could be essential parameters for targeting more precisely
      rehabilitation exercises proposed in voice therapy.

      In addition, most studies on prevalence of vocal disorders in singers come from the American
      continent. Very few descriptions of this population have been made in France. The few that
      exist are quite old or involve limited samples. Moreover, to date, no study has explored the
      aerodynamic profiles (flow and pressure) of singers, although these profiles are considered
      to be relevant clinical indicators to describe the singer's vocal difficulties and thus
      precise more specific therapeutic objectives.

      In this context, our project aims to fill these gaps by describing a French population of
      singers consulting in phoniatrics and describing their aerodynamic behaviours. Do the
      singers' aerodynamic parameters (pressure, flow) reflect the dysfunctions in singing voice?
      Based on results of the literature on speaking and singing non-pathological voice, the
      investigators hypothesize that during voice assessment, the values of ESGP and PTP will be
      increased and that those of OAF will be decreased over the entire range of the singer in case
      of vocal pathology
    
  