
    
      Despite overwhelming scientific evidence demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of
      vaccines, parental immunization concerns continue to increase. Compared to parents who refuse
      all vaccines, vaccine-hesitant parents (VHP), defined as parents who are ambivalent towards
      vaccines, are of particular interest because they tend to be more amenable to vaccination.
      VHPs tend to be part of a larger group of parents with moderate vaccine concerns who seek
      additional information from their healthcare provider before deciding whether or not to
      immunize. These parents will sometimes immunize after education and reassurance from their
      provider. Alternatively, they may choose to delay or refuse certain vaccines. It is important
      to identify VHPs early in the medical relationship to provide effective communication and
      appropriate education regarding vaccine concerns in order to ensure maximum immunization
      coverage for the children of these parents.

      The Parent Attitudes about Childhood Vaccines (PACV) survey was previously developed to
      identify VHPs. In a follow up study, the survey was validated and found to be a reliable
      instrument in identifying VHPs. The PACV survey differs from other survey instruments in that
      it seeks to specifically identify VHPs. Moreover, the survey was found to be a reliable
      predictor of immunization status with higher total PACV scores associated with
      under-immunization.5 It is unknown if administering the PACV survey can have a negative
      impact on parental immunization beliefs or if the PACV survey can elicit vaccine concerns
      that otherwise would not have been present at that point in time.

      Study enrollment will occur among parents/guardians of children who are scheduled at a Texas
      Children's Pediatric practice for an 2-week well child visit. Parents/guardians of children
      will receive an enrollment packet containing a self-screening form, cover letter, and survey
      from the practice staff at their appointment check-in. Parents will be randomized to receive
      1 of 2 surveys - either the PACV or a placebo survey about general childhood health topics.
      Upon receipt of the enrollment packet, the parent/guardian will be asked to complete a
      self-screening form to determine if they meet eligibility criteria. If the parent/guardian
      does not meet eligibility criteria the self-screening form will direct them to return the
      enrollment packet unopened to the front desk staff. Parents/guardians of children meeting
      eligibility criteria will be directed to open the enrollment packet and complete the survey.
      The PACV survey will then be administered to all subjects six months following the initial
      survey administration.

      Prevalence of vaccine hesitancy will be calculated for each group (initial PACV or placebo
      survey) separately and then for both groups combined. PACV scores calculated from the second
      administration at 6 months will be compared across groups to evaluate if administration of
      the PACV increases vaccine hesitancy.

      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Person must self-identify as English-speaking.

        2. Parent of a child less than 3 months of age.

        3. Parent must be 18 years of age or older.

        4. Parent of a child seeking routine, well-child care at a selected TCP practice site.

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. Person does not self-identify as English-speaking.

        2. Parent of child greater than 3 months of age.

        3. Parent is less than 18 years of age.

        4. Parent of child not seeking routine, well-child care at a selected TCP practice site.
    
  