
    
      For the pilot phase of this study we will contact women with type 1 diabetes. The study will
      be explained and the subjects will be asked to sign an informed consent. Each subject will be
      asked to complete a brief medical history and lifestyle questionnaire.

      Subjects will have blood samples taken for glucose and C-peptide and an intravenous arginine
      stimulation test. For the study tests, subjects will be asked to come to the Clinical
      Investigations Unit at the University of Alberta Hospital after an overnight fast only once
      during the study. The intravenous arginine test is a 10 minute test and does not cause
      hyperglycemia, an advantage over glucose in the setting of pregnancy.

      Arginine infusion The intravenous arginine infusion test will be performed after an overnight
      fast greater than or equal to 8 hours. Subjects may drink water. For the Type 1 diabetic
      patients on insulin, long-acting insulin may be taken no less than 8 hours prior to the test;
      no food or short-acting insulin may be taken within 5 hours of the test. Lispro insulin
      should not be taken within 4 hours of the test.

      On the morning of the test, an intravenous catheter, using a 20 gauge IV intercath, will be
      placed in an antecubital vein in one arm both for sampling and for infusion. Veins will be
      kept patent with an infusion of NaCl (0.9%) at 25 mL/hr throughout the test. The arm from
      which samples are obtained will be warmed to 55 C with a heating blanket to assist in the
      arterialization of the venous samples.

      Baseline blood samples for glucose and C-peptide measurements will be drawn in a serum gel
      barrier tube at minus 10 and 0 minutes. An injection of 5 g of arginine (20 ml Sabex) diluted
      with 20 ml normal saline to equal 40 ml will be administered over 30 seconds, starting at
      time 0. The vein will immediately be flushed with 20mL normal saline. Blood samples for
      insulin and C-peptide will be drawn in barrier tubes at 2, 3, 4, 5, 7 and 10 minutes and
      serum will be separated and transferred into a cryogenic tube for analysis.

      The acute C-peptide response to arginine is defined as the mean of the three highest insulin
      or C-peptide values between 2 and 5 minutes after the start of the arginine infusion with the
      mean of the minus 10 and 0 values subtracted.

      Blood samples (basal and stimulated) will be analyzed for glucose and C-peptide. The insulin
      response will not be measured in these Type 1 subjects as it would be meaningless and the
      C-peptide response will be used.

      Blood glucose will be determined by the hexokinase method using the Hitachi 917 system (Roche
      Diagnostics, Indianapolis, IN).

      C-peptide assay An Ultrasensitive C-peptide ELISA method will be used to analyze for
      C-peptide. This test is specific for low concentrations of C-peptide in blood, specifically
      for patients with abnormal insulin secretion.

      Statistical Analysis/Power calculation

      Upon the significance test results for group differences, we will proceed with multiple
      comparisons of groups to locate the source of significance, while adjusting for multiple
      significance testing, using the method of Bonferroni.

      Expected Possible Findings/ Conclusion

      We hope to show that pancreatic islet mass may be present in women with Type 1 diabetes. Any
      demonstration of beta-cell recovery even in the unique setting of pregnancy would be
      exciting, as it would demonstrate progenitor beta cells present in the pancreas in type 1
      diabetes subjects.
    
  