
    
      Participants will be randomized into either the test group or the control group. Both groups
      will complete a one-week run-in period and then be followed over a 16 week period. This study
      will be conducted in two cohorts of 50 participants with 25 test participants and 25 control
      participants in each cohort.

      Run-in Week - On the first day, participants will report to the laboratory for initial
      orientation to the study and methods. Baseline body measurements, height, weight and body
      composition analysis (using Bioelectrical Impendance), and a fasting blood sample, blood
      pressure and pulse will be taken. Participants will also complete additional study
      questionnaires and records. (Table 1 provides a summary of all measures at baseline and
      across the 16 week test period). Participants will also taste and rate various fat-replaced
      foods and complete a log of any changes in health over the next 3 days to determine
      palatability and tolerance of fat-replaced foods. Before trying foods, a survey will be
      administered to check for common food allergies. Finally, participants will be instructed to
      complete food diaries for 2 weekdays and 1 weekend day. Participants will return the food
      diaries and logs the following week. Participants who: 1) do not complete all parts of the
      run-in phase, 2) do not like and are not willing to eat at least 80% of the tested foods, or
      3) have negative health effects following consumption of the foods will be dismissed from the
      study. No manipulations to participants' diets will occur during this phase.

      16-Week Test Phase - During this phase, the test group will be given fat-replaced foods and
      instructed in a detailed diet plan to create a low-fat (<25% kcal from fat), weight
      maintenance diet providing optimal glycemic control. The test group will attend a 1h
      educational session (didactic and discussion) every 2wks. (Appendix 2 lists course topics.)
      Academic and professional staff will lead the sessions. Participants will be required to keep
      logs of certain behaviors and food records (2 weekdays and 1 weekend day over the 2wk
      period). Prior to the educational meetings, participants will submit data collection sheets
      (questionnaires and logs), be weighed and scheduled measures. Following the meeting,
      participants will be given fat-replaced foods for use over the next 2 weeks. Participants
      will be instructed to keep a log of usage of the provided foods, explicitly told that the
      foods are not for use by other members of their household and will be required to return all
      remaining or unused foods to the laboratory at the next meeting. In addition, at 8 weeks and
      16 weeks, a blood sample, body composition, psychometrics, waist/hip measurements, blood
      pressure and pulse will be taken. The control group will receive vouchers for local
      supermarkets to offset the cost of the foods provided to the test group but will not be given
      actual food. This group will come to the laboratory every 2 weeks for identical data
      collection including blood draws but will not attend educational sessions. Instead, the
      control group will receive a newsletter every two weeks about the importance of a low-fat
      diet in the management of type II DM; however this newsletter will not give specific
      information about the use of fat-replaced foods in a low-fat diet. This newsletter will be
      sent to the test group as well.

      Diet The test group diet plan will be designed to be a weight maintenance diet which derives
      no more than 25% kcal from fat (no more than 10% from saturated fat). A Registered Dietitian
      will design an individually tailored, 7d rotating suggested meal plan which includes the
      detailed use of fat-replaced foods according to the optimal strategy identified in Experiment
      2. The individual prescriptions will be based upon the Mifflin-St.Joer equation and baseline
      intake obtained from the diet records from the run-in week.
    
  