
    
      Sedentarity is a risk factor for overweight, insulin resistance and diabetes mellitus.
      Several randomized clinical trials have shown that lifestyle interventions including exercise
      are efficient in improving metabolic homeostasis in overweight and obese patients. This may
      be related sedentarity being associated with low physical fitness, and to training enhancing
      it through multiple systems effects (cardiovascular and respiratory systems, central nervous
      system, osteo-articular system).

      Although there is increasing evidence that low physical fitness is a risk factor for many
      non-communicable diseases, the early identification of subjects at risk remains inadequate
      due to the absence of clear anamnestic and clinical criteria. Defining physical fitness. For
      the same reason, the monitoring of subjects following lifestyle interventions remains
      suboptimal.

      The aim of this study is to develop a simple field tool to non-invasively assess global
      physical fitness in overweight patients participating to a physical activity program.

      Eigtheen male and female subjects, aged 18-50 years, BMI >27 kg/m2 referred to a physical
      activity intervention by their primary care physician, will be included. Their physical
      fitness will be assessed at inclusion (ie before starting the exercise program) and at the
      end of the 3-month program.This will be done by calculating a Global Fitness Score (GFS)
      based on performances attained and cardiovascular responses observed during 5 physical
      exercises (3 min step test with measurement of heart rate and blood pressure, number of time
      subject can stand from a chair within 1 min., handgrip strength measure, "reach-test" to
      assess osteo-articular mobility of back and hips, balance test). Results obtained from this
      GFS will be compared to maximal power output calculated from a submaximal spirometry at 25,
      50, 75 and 100 W Primary outcome are: GFS (composite of a score of physical endurance, two
      scores of muscle strength, one score of balance, and one score of osteo-articular mobility)
      before and after 3 months of intervention.

      Secondary outcomes are: physical activity questionnaire, maximal power output; maximal oxygen
      consumption; fat oxidation; fasting metabolic profile before and after 3 months of
      intervention.
    
  