
    
      Beta-blockers are indicated in the management of numerous medical conditions including angina
      pectoris, myocardial infarction, hypertension, congestive heart failure, cardiac arrhythmia,
      systemic hypertension, as well as to reduce complications in the perioperative period.
      Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are at greater risk of such
      conditions and may therefore benefit from the use of beta-blockers. Despite clear evidence of
      their effectiveness, clinicians are often hesitant to administer beta-blockers in COPD
      patients for fear of adverse effects on lung function. Indeed, the pathophysiologic hallmark
      of COPD is expiratory flow limitation. Because beta-adrenergic receptors participate to
      bronchial dilatation, review articles and practice guidelines traditionally listed asthma and
      COPD as relative contraindications to beta-blocker use, citing cases of acute bronchospasm
      occurring during beta-blocker exposure.

      However, cardioselective betablockers have over 20 times more affinity for beta-1 receptors
      as for beta-2 receptors, and theoretically should have significantly less risk for
      bronchoconstriction. Cardioselective beta-blockers include atenolol, metoprolol, bisoprolol
      and acebutolol. A recent Cochrane analysis documented the safety of cardioselective
      beta-blockers in COPD. Indeed, single doses of cardioselective beta-blockers as well as
      treatment of longer duration ranging from 2 days to 12 weeks led to a non-significant
      worsening in lung function compared to placebo. Expiratory flow limitation is commonly
      assessed by forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1). However, the FEV1 appears to be a
      crude estimate bronchial obstruction in COPD. Indeed, the relationship between the
      physiologic impairment, as traditionally measured by FEV1, and the characteristic symptom of
      COPD is not straightforward. Dyspnea appears to be more related to dynamic hyperinflation
      occurring during exercise than to FEV1 measured at rest. Lung hyperinflation is defined as an
      abnormal increase in the volume of air remaining in the lungs at the end of spontaneous
      expiration. For example, bronchodilators, which generally have minimal effect on FEV1 in
      COPD, work by improving dynamic airway function, allowing improved lung emptying with each
      breath. This allows the patient to achieve the required alveolar ventilation during rest and
      exercise at a lower operating lung volume and thus at a lower oxygen cost of breathing.
      Exercise can proceed for a longer duration before the mechanical limitation to ventilation is
      reached. Changes in dynamic hyperinflation are thus representative of subtle changes in
      bronchial obstruction. Importantly, the effects of cardioselective beta-blockers on dynamic
      hyperinflation, a subtle marker of bronchial obstruction, remain unknown.

      The aim of this prospective, randomized, double blind and crossover study is to assess the
      effects of short-term cardioselective beta-blocker therapy on dynamic hyperinflation and on
      exercise tolerance and symptoms in patients with moderate-to-severe COPD.
    
  