
    
      Rationale: Interferon has long been used as a therapy for renal cell carcinoma. However,
      optimal dosing schedules have not been identified and patients have been relegated to
      receiving the highest possible doses for prolonged periods of time. This high-dose approach
      often leads to serious adverse effects from toxicity that limits the usefulness and patient
      tolerance of this treatment. No formal study has determined the relationship if any between
      the maximal tolerated dose (MTD) and the biological effective dose of interferon alpha-2b.
      The current study seeks to fill that gap by gathering research information about different
      doses of interferon alpha-2b and correlating with measurements of JAK/STAT in the blood.
      Validation of correlative studies to determine optimum biologic dosing are needed so that
      therapy may be adjusted appropriately rather then the current approach of maximizing dose. In
      addition, a trial of low dose daily administered interferon-2b has not been carried out in
      the current era with refined histologic classification and modern CT imaging scanning. As
      this therapy potentially has wide applicability, definite response rates need to be
      documented.

      Purpose: The purpose of this study is to assess the response rate of daily low dose
      interferon-2b in patients with metastatic or unresectable clear cell renal carcinoma. The
      duration of the response and overall survival will be determined in study participants. This
      study will also evaluate JAK/STAT, two types of kinases or enzymes involved in an
      intracellular signaling process associated with cancer growth, in peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells over the course of interferon alpha-2b dose escalation. Researchers will
      examine in a preliminary manner the correlation between clinical response, toxicity, and
      JAK/STAT signal transduction. Progression free survival and rate of stable disease will also
      be determined in a preliminary manner.

      Treatment: Study participants will receive interferon alpha-2b. This drug will be
      self-administered daily through injections into the skin. The dose level of interferon
      alpha-2b will be increased each week into study treatments. For the first three weeks and
      approximately monthly thereafter, patients will have blood drawn three hours following
      interferon alpha-2b administration to measure JAK/STAT. Toxicity from study treatments will
      be closely monitored in patients during clinics visits. Supportive care therapies will be
      given throughout the study. Treatments will be discontinued due to disease growth or
      unacceptable side effects.
    
  