
    
      Background: One of the most common occurrences following ventral incisional hernia repair is
      post-operative ileus. Post-operative ileus is a source of patient discomfort and morbidity
      that ultimately delays discharge from the hospital and is frequently a source of patient
      readmission. Prolonged length of hospital stay due to post-operative ileus increases direct
      health care costs, as well as the indirect costs of a delay in returning to the workforce.
      The cause of prolonged ileus is multifactorial, but some of the main culprits include
      intra-operative bowel manipulation, the release of endogenous opioids, the administration of
      exogenous opioid analgesics during surgery and for post-operative pain control, inflammation,
      and fluid shifts. A study by Lowe et al showed that following ventral hernia repair, 27% of
      their study patients had a prolonged ileus, defined as lasting more than 7 days
      postoperatively. Likewise, the mean hospital stay for these patients was 12.5 days, due most
      frequently, to a delayed return of bowel function.

      Ventral incisional hernia repair is a common operation and post-operative ileus remains a
      frequent and costly post-operative occurrence for which we do not currently have an effective
      therapy. Alvimopan has proven to successfully decrease the duration of post-operative ileus
      and is FDA approved for such use in patients who have undergone bowel resection. Ultimately,
      decreasing the interlude between operation and return of bowel function results in shorter
      hospital stays, lower hospital costs, and faster rehabilitation. We propose to study the
      effectiveness of Alvimopan in decreasing postoperative ileus time in patients undergoing
      ventral hernia repair, a cohort that we feel may benefit from the use of Alvimopan but that
      to date has not been studied.

      Recruitment and Sample Size: A total of 140 patients are expected to undergo research related
      treatments. The study will contain one open surgery arm. The open surgery arm will be a
      single-site prospective, randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled clinical trial with
      1:1 randomization between the study drug and placebo with 70 patients in each group for a
      total of 140 patients in the study. An interim evaluation of efficacy will be conducted
      separately in the open surgery arm when half the patients have been recruited.

      This study is expected to enroll up to 140 subjects from one academic medical center
      (Froedtert Hospital and the Medical College of Wisconsin) a site that performs state of the
      art hernia repairs and is a high volume hernia practices.

      Treatment: Consented patients in the Treatment Group will receive 12 milligrams (mg) of
      Alvimopan per-oral (PO) 30 to 90 minutes prior to ventral hernia repair in the pre-operative
      area and continue 12 mg PO twice daily until hospital discharge or post-operative day (POD) 7
      for a maximum of 15 in-hospital doses (Appendix II). The first post-operative dose will begin
      after Nasogastric Tube (NGT) removal.

      Patients in the Control Group will receive 12 milligrams (mg) of Placebo orally (PO) 30 to 90
      minutes prior to Ventral Hernia Repair (VHR) in the pre-operative area and continue 12 mg PO
      twice a day until hospital discharge or post-operative (POD) 7 for a maximum of 15
      in-hospital doses. The first post-operative dose will begin after NGT removal.

      Warnings and precautions as provided in the prescribing information packet and US PI include:

        1. A higher number of myocardial infarctions was reported in patients treated with
           alvimopan 0.5 mg twice daily compared with placebo 12 in a 12-month study in patients
           treated with opioids for chronic pain, although a causal relationship has not been
           established

        2. Patients recently exposed to opioids are expected to be more sensitive to the effects of
           ENTEREG and therefore may experience abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, and diarrhea.

        3. Not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment.

        4. Not recommended in patients with end stage renal disease.

        5. Most common adverse reaction (incidence >=1.5%) occurring with a higher frequency than
           placebo among ENTEREG-treated patients undergoing surgeries that included a bowel
           resection was dyspepsia [2013 PI].

        6. Not recommended in patients with complete GI obstruction or in patients who have surgery
           for correction of complete bowel obstruction.

        7. Not recommended in pancreatic or gastric anastomosis.
    
  