
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the mean percent change from baseline to 12 months in percentage body fat mass
      among men with prostate cancer receiving androgen deprivation therapy randomized to
      participate in the ?STAND? clinic versus (vs.) usual standard of care. (Randomized Cohort)
      II. To determine the feasibility of completing multi-disciplinary STAND clinic visits within
      context of concurrent chemohormonal therapy for prostate cancer. (Non-randomized Pilot
      Cohort)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the mean percent change from baseline to 12 months and patterns of change over
      time during participation in the STAND clinic vs. usual standard of care with respect to:
      metabolic impact on diabetes and cardiovascular risk factors, bone health, and quality of
      life/psychosocial impact.

      II. Among men randomized to receive usual standard of care that cross-over to participate in
      the STAND clinic after month 12 of the study: to measure the mean change from baseline at
      start of participation in the STAND clinic after 12 months of participation in: metabolic
      parameters including percentage body fat, fasting insulin/glucose, homeostatic model
      assessment insulin resistance (HOMA-IR), body weight/body mass index, waist circumference;
      bone health; quality of life; and patient satisfaction.

      III. Among men in the non-randomized pilot cohort: to determine the mean change from baseline
      to 12 months during STAND clinic participation in the primary and secondary metabolic and
      quality of life parameters listed above.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To investigate for a relationship between inherited genetic polymorphisms of functional
      relevance near or within genes encoding proteins with roles in steroid hormone transport and
      androgen receptor signaling with changes in metabolic parameters among men treated with
      androgen deprivation therapy.

      II. To investigate changes in trabecular bone micro-architecture as measured by high
      resolution peripheral quantitative computed tomography (QCT) Imaging of radius and tibia
      during androgen deprivation therapy.

      III. To investigate for relationship between 2nd digit to 4th digit length ratio (2D:4D
      ratio) and quality of life on androgen deprivation therapy.

      IV. To investigate for a relationship between 2nd digit to 4th digit length ratio and
      baseline empathy score as measured by validated questionnaire.

      OUTLINE: Patients receiving androgen deprivation therapy are randomized to 1 of 2 arms and
      patients receiving concurrent chemohormonal therapy are assigned to Arm II.

      ARM I (STANDARD OF CARE): Patients receive leuprolide acetate subcutaneously (SC) or
      intramuscularly (IM), goserelin acetate SC, or triptorelin pamoate IM and visit their health
      care provider every 3 months for 12 months. Patients will be referred to a nutrition,
      exercise, and symptom management service upon patient request or if deemed necessary by a
      healthcare provider. Patients may cross-over to Arm II after 12 months.

      ARM II (STAND CLINIC): Patients receive leuprolide acetate SC or IM, goserelin acetate SC, or
      triptorelin pamoate IM every 3 months for 12 months. Patients also review educational modules
      discussing various aspects of anti-androgen therapy and management of side effects and meet
      one-to-one with a licensed exercise trainer, registered dietician, and symptom management
      service to receive individualized counseling monthly for 12 months.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2, 4, and 6 months.
    
  