
    
      Background: Over the past decade the burden of poor maternal and child health outcomes in
      Togo, particularly in the Northern regions, have remained high despite global progress. The
      principal causes of under-5 deaths in Togo are diseases with effective and low-cost
      prevention and or treatment strategies, including malaria (18%), acute lower respiratory
      infections (15%), and diarrheal diseases (8%).While Togo has an official plan for the
      integrated management of childhood illness (IMCI), including a permissive policy on
      integrated community case management (iCCM), challenges in implementation persist with low
      public sector health service utilization.There are critical gaps in access and quality of
      community health systems throughout the country and an urgent need to improve health outcomes
      through expanding access and quality of services.

      Intervention: The investigators have adapted an integrated facility and community-based
      health systems strengthening (ICBHSS) model to improve primary healthcare services in Togo.
      The ICBHSS model includes a bundle of evidence based interventions including (1) community
      engagement meetings and feedback; (2) the elimination of facility user fees for children
      under five and pregnant women; (3) pro-active community based IMCI using Community Health
      Workers (CHWs) with additional services including linkage to family planning and counseling,
      HIV testing & referrals; (4) clinical mentoring and enhanced supervision at public sector
      facilities; and (5) improved supply chain management and facility structures. In 2015, a
      pilot ICBHSS initiative was launched in partnership with the Ministry of Health (MOH) at four
      public sector clinics in Northern Togo. Preliminary results from this pilot intervention
      suggested a meaningful reduction in children under-5 deaths, with a trend in reduction for
      under-one deaths as well as increased health service utilization at all 4 sites. In
      collaboration with MOH and technical partners, IH developed a plan to expand the ICBHSS model
      to 21 distinct health facilities over a four-year period in four additional districts:
      Bassar, Binah, Dankpen, and Kéran. The planned roll out includes expanding into a new
      district every 12 months based on budgetary and feasibility considerations. As part of this
      expansion planned for 2018, Integrate Health (IH) and MOH partners are planning an
      implementation study to both improve service delivery at expansion sites and inform national
      scale strategies.

      Study: The investigators will conduct a mixed methods assessment, using the RE-AIM framework
      to evaluate the impact and implementation of the ICBHSS initiative in 4 districts. Consists
      of three key components: (1) a stepped-wedge randomized cluster pragmatic control trial to
      obtain annual coverage, effectiveness, and adoption metrics using a population-based
      household survey, (2) health facility assessments to be completed at the cluster (district)
      level for each health facility prior to intervention launch and post-intervention, and (3)
      key informant interviews conducted at 12, 24, 48 months for each cluster. The primary outcome
      will be under 5 year old mortality rate, with secondary outcomes including under-one
      mortality rate, maternal mortality rate, as well as maternal and child health service
      utilization.
    
  