
    
      One hundred healthy health workers will be randomly assigned to receive either Levamisole,
      Isoprinosine, Levamisole and Isoprinosine or no-intervention for two months. Written informed
      consent will be obtained from all participants.

      During the study:

        1. Participants will be assessed by detailed questionnaire, clinically and laboratory
           investigations for COVID 19 Detailed questionnaire for: job description, site of
           isolation hospital, duration of contact, time of exposure, methods of protection
           Clinically for any symptoms suggestive of COVID19: fever, plus at least one sign or
           symptom of respiratory disease including cough, shortness of breath, respiratory
           distress/failure, runny/blocked nose, plus Laboratory: Sampling of the following will be
           withdrawn from all participants at beginning and end of the study: COVID 19 IgM (for
           recent infection) or IgG or (old infection)

        2. Assessment of the modulatory effect of the drugs will be done by one or more of the
           following parameters: (at beginning of the study, 2 weeks, 1 month, 2-month, 3 month)

             -  Neutrophil function test

             -  Natural killer cell count and activity.

             -  T cell count and B cell subsets by flowcytometry and activity markers

             -  Quantitative immunoglobulines Levels (IgG, IgM, IgA, IgE)

        3. Assessment of the drug safety at beginning of the study and every two weeks except for
           complete blood count every week:

             -  Urine analysis

             -  Complete blood count with differential to determine total white blood cell count,
                absolute neutrophilic count (to exclude agranulocytosis) and absolute lymphocytic
                count (for COVID19).

             -  Serum uric acid

             -  Renal functions tests

             -  Liver function tests

      Randomization method:

      A block-randomization scheme will be generated by computer software. Computer-generated
      random numbers will randomize the participants into four intervention groups of 25 each. The
      patients were randomly assigned to receive either Isoprinosine (1 g 3 times per day daily) or
      Levamisole (150 mg/day for two days per week), both or no-intervention for two months.

      End point of the study:

        -  Refusal of patient to complete the study.

        -  Non-compliance on treatment

        -  Agranulocytosis or thrombocytopenia.

        -  Hyperuricemia.

        -  COVID19 infection
    
  