
    
      Specific Aim #1: DEVELOPMENT: A prototype of an augmented reality (AR) videogame intervention
      for alcohol use prevention and harm reduction in adolescents aged 16-18. Input from 4 focus
      groups of 5 adolescents each (n = 20), and the extant literature will inform the development
      of the AR videogame intervention, "No Time Wasted".

      Specific Aim #2: PILOT EVALUATION: Conduct a pre-post pilot study with 20 teens ages 16-18
      collecting assessment data at baseline and immediately following gameplay to assess

      "No Time Wasted" will be an innovative, immersive intervention using novel technology that
      will captivate the target audience with narrative and gaming elements to scaffold the
      educational message. The proposed research will be conducted in two phases. Phase I consists
      of: (a) the development of the prototype using input from 4 focus groups of 5 adolescents
      each (n = 20), aged 16-18 and the extant literature (Specific Aim #1). In Phase II will
      consisted of a pre-post pilot study with 20 teens ages 16-18 collecting assessment data at
      baseline and immediately following gameplay to assess 1) the intervention's acceptability and
      feasibility by collecting quantitative and qualitative data on teens' satisfaction and
      gameplay experience of the intervention, and 2) the preliminary impact of the intervention on
      knowledge, intentions, perceptions, attitudes, social norms, self-efficacy and behaviors
      related to alcohol use and harm reduction.

      Conduct focus groups to gather data to develop the AR videogame prototype, "No Time Wasted":
      Four focus groups will be conducted (5 adolescents each) to collect feedback on the game
      content, narrative, characters, and gameplay mechanics. To facilitate the discussions, visual
      tools (e.g., storyboards, pictures) will be used. The focus groups will be conducted
      according to standard dual-facilitator procedures. The four focus groups will be adequate to
      achieve thematic saturation. The focus groups will be conducted such that ideas and themes
      from one discussion inform discussion topics and prompts used in the next focus group. Audio
      recordings of each session will be transcribed, reviewed, and discussed by the research team
      to refine the videogame intervention. As a part of the game development and with parental
      permission, selected students will be invited to the Yale recording studio on campus to
      provide voices for the videogame characters.

      Conduct a pre-post pilot study: This study will enroll 20 adolescents ages 16-18 using a
      pre/post design to evaluate the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary efficacy of the
      AR videogame prototype. Participants will accumulate between 1- 1.5 hours of game play over 2
      sessions (approximately one week, meeting twice). This total duration and number of sessions
      is consistent with those found in effective alcohol harm reduction and prevention
      interventions, which range from 10 minutes to 4 hours, and with the amount of time
      adolescents play videogames. Participants will have a 15-10 min break in the middle of each
      session and will be instructed that they may take additional breaks as needed.
    
  