
    
      The goal of our community-based participatory research study is to identify the nature and
      extent of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) use among HIV-positive Latinos on the
      San Diego/Tijuana border. CAM utilization among US Latinos living with HIV is associated with
      delayed utilization of and poor adherence to antiretroviral therapies (ARVs) that may
      exacerbate health disparities in HIV care access and health outcomes. US Latinos face more
      barriers to HIV care than non-Latino Whites including less health insurance, delays in
      seeking HIV care, and entering care at advanced stages of HIV disease. Latinos living with
      HIV/AIDS may be more likely to use CAM when faced with barriers to accessing conventional HIV
      care than non-Latino Whites. CAM use, including herbal therapies, seeking care from
      alternative healers, and religious practices may be implicated in HIV-related health
      disparities for US Latinos living with HIV, but research is lacking, particularly in the
      context of binational healthcare utilization. The United States (US)-Mexico border is a
      demographically booming region characterized by a shared population living on either side of
      the border and who cross frequently to Tijuana or to San Diego; US HIV care providers working
      in the USMexico border region serve many Latinos who access services and care on both sides
      of the border.Concern over clinician reaction to CAM may erode Latino patient-provider
      communication, yet assessment of CAM use from patient and clinician perspective and health
      system characteristics is also lacking. We will describe CAM use in HIV-positive Latinos in
      the US-Mexico border region to improve culturally-effective care delivery and inform future
      biomedical and behavioral interventions to decrease disparities in ARV access and
      utilization, and improve HIV-related health outcomes for US Latinos.

      Specific aims of our study are:

      Aim 1: To assess CAM-specific health care behavior, including bi-national CAM utilization
      from allied/alternative health personnel (e.g. pharmacists, non-Western medicine healers)
      among HIV-positive Latinos residing in Tijuana and San Diego.

      Hypothesis 1 (H1) Greater use of CAM will be observed among HIV-positive Latinos who report
      a) crossing the U.S. border more frequently, and b) having migrated to Tijuana or San Diego
      (e.g. from southern Mexico).

      Aim 2: To assess use of CAM in the context of HIV treatment utilization and practices,
      including factors related to delayed entry into HIV care (e.g. HIV stigma); and access to,
      utilization of and adherence to ARVs among HIV-positive Latinos residing in Tijuana or San
      Diego. H2.a) Compared to HIV-positive Latinos who report using herbal CAM, those who do not
      use herbal CAM are more likely to be using ARVs and report higher levels of adherence to
      ARVs; H2.b) Compared to HIV-positive Latinos who do not attend religious services regularly,
      those who attend religious services regularly are more likely to use ARV.

      H2.c) Compared to HIV-positive Latinos who report experiencing HIV-related stigma, those who
      do not report experiencing HIV-related stigma are significantly more likely to use ARVs and
      report lesser utilization of CAM.

      Aim 3: To determine perceived barriers to communicating use of CAM and ARV adherence to
      clinicians among HIV-positive Latinos residing in Tijuana or San Diego, including
      satisfaction with clinician communication; concern about physician response to reporting CAM
      modalities such as herbal therapies, pharmacy practices in Mexico and folk healing perception
      of ARV efficacy, and perception of ARV efficacy.

      H3) Among HIV-positive CAM users, disclosure of CAM use will be higher in Latino patients who
      report higher satisfaction with communication with clinicians than those who report lower
      satisfaction with clinicians.

      Aim 4: To explore provider and system barriers to culturally-effective communication about
      CAM and ARV adherence with HIV-positive Latino patients, including clinician knowledge about
      patient CAM practices.

      To address Aims 1-3 we will conduct a quantitative study using interviewer-administered
      surveys with 200 HIV positive Latinos (100 from each side of the border). In Aim 4 we will
      purposively sample 20 HIV clinicians on both sides of the border and conduct in-depth
      interviews. Our aims are consistent with the Office of AIDS Research 2008 Plan to assess
      sociocultural and structural determinants and health systems that enhance, sustain and/or
      perpetuate health disparities.7 Capitalizing on our HIV research expertise with Latino
      communities, this study will lead to development of culturally-effective interventions to
      improve timeliness and adherence to HIV care in populations with documented health
      disparities and will reduce gaps in care.
    
  