
    
      Part 1

      Study design:

      Cross-sectional observational study.

      Study population:

      200 IBS patients, M/F, age 18-65 years, will be recruited under a period of 4 years from the
      primary health care in Region Örebro County. Patients will also be recruited from the general
      public using websites, social media and advertisements.

      Data collection:

      After informed consent is signed, a doctor's assessment is made including medical history,
      physical examination and laboratory tests.

      For assessment of the IBS symptoms but also comorbid conditions such as upper GI symptoms,
      somatization and psychiatric symptoms, 12 different validated questionnaires will be used to
      identify sub-populations (phenotypes).

      All patients will be asked to fill in these questionnaires before starting, during and after
      treatment.

      Stool and blood samples will be taken at baseline and after treatment and will be stored at a
      biobank for later analysis of microbiomics, proteomics and epigenetics.

      Analysis:

      Descriptive statistics to identify different IBS features, and Pearson's correlations to
      study between-person correlations in a correlation network to see which parameters correlate
      most with the IBS symptom scale (GSRS-IBS) and Quality of life (IBS-QoL). They will be used
      as the dependent variables in multiple linear regression analysis with the other parameters
      as independent variables.

      Part 2 and 3

      Study design:

      Randomized controlled clinical trial.

      Study population:

      Patients will then be randomized to either iCBT (80 patients), Low FODMAP diet (80 patients)
      or control group (40 patients) (2:2:1 randomization). The control group will wait 10 weeks
      before being randomised to treatment with either iCBT (20 patients) or low FODMAP diet (20
      patients).

      Treatments:

      iCBT and Low FODMAP diet (see below).

      Analysis:

      Treatment efficacy analysis using linear mixed models on the primary outcome measures with
      time as within-subject factor (random intercept random slope models) and group as
      between-subject factor, with the time-by-group interaction effect testing the hypothesis of a
      stronger response to treatment compared to waiting list control. Continuous variables will be
      used to maximize power. Within-person correlations between IBS features. Linear mixed models
      and latent class growth analysis to establish which baseline parameters of IBS predict the
      treatment effect on the GSRS-IBS and IBS-QoL. Cross-lagged panel models to investigate the
      temporal order of change in the different outcome variables, while controlling for
      stabilities over time and cross-sectional correlations.

      Part 4

      Comparison of psychological and dietary treatment in IBS patients. At this point the
      investigators will have 100 patients who were treated with ICBT and 100 patients who were
      treated with low-FODMAP diet. Treatment efficacy will be analyzed using linear mixed models
      on the primary outcome measures with time as within-subject factor (random intercept random
      slope models) and group as between-subject factor, with the time-by-group interaction effect
      testing the hypothesis of a stronger response to iCBT compared to low-FODMAP.

      Power calculation:

      It is estimated that 100 participants per group need to be included in the treatment studies
      and the analysis of predictors of treatment responses with regard to a dropout rate of 10%
      (part 2-4). For part 1, the analysis can be performed on the entire study population of 200
      participants, which gives 90% power to be able to detect an effect size (Cohen's f² = 0.10)
      in multiple regression analysis with 9 independent variables (derived from questionnaire
      PHQ-9, GAD-7, PHQ-12, VSI, IBS-BRQ and NEO-FFI) predicting the severity of IBS symptoms
      (IBS-SSS and GSRS-IBS) and quality of life (IBS-QoL).
    
  