
    
      Heart failure (HF) is a world-wide problem. At the moment 26 million people are living with
      this chronic disease and the prevalence is still increasing. Besides this growing number in
      prevalence, HF is also responsible for almost 1 million hospitalizations a year in the US and
      in Europe. Consequently, this has also a major economic impact especially due to recurrent
      admissions of these patients. Adequate prediction of decompensation could prevent
      (un)necessary admissions as a result of heart failure. Philips is developing a Bayesian model
      for chronic heart failure, enabling monitoring of patients with heart failure in the hospital
      and at home. An important characteristic of such a Bayesian model is that it is a
      knowledge-based model, in contrast to data-mining based models, and requires only a few
      patient data to get started (10-20 patients). Another important characteristic is that these
      'knowledge-based models' are applicable in any setting, again in contrast to data-mining
      based models. This makes the proposed model different from conventional data-mining
      approaches to modelling. During a hospital admission, the model will be "filled in" with
      personal patient data. Subsequently, during the rest of the hospital stay or after release
      from the hospital, a number of symptoms and lab measurement variables ("observables"), will
      be the input for the model. The output of the model (the result) will be a probability of
      improvement (versus worsening) of the condition of the patient or the status of the heart
      failure condition on a scale (from 1-10). The model can deal with less input variables than
      the number it has been "personalized" with. With less input measurements, naturally the
      reliability of the result will be reduced. This modelling approach basically captures the
      clinical way of thinking into a model. If interpreted in the right way using smart Bayesian
      modelling, the GP or geriatrician will be able to monitor and treat the majority of heart
      failure patients. This fits in current thinking to reduce HC costs by keeping patients at
      home and out of the hospital.

      The clinical investigation is designed to evaluate whether the outcome of the "Bayesian
      Hemodynamics model" compares with the cardiologist's status assessment. The purpose of this
      study is to validate the computer model that has been developed to assess the status of a
      heart failure patient. With the model, the investigators aim to support healthcare
      professionals with early detection of deterioration of heart failure patients and with
      providing the right treatment when it is needed. If successful, this could help heart failure
      patients to stay at home longer and reduce hospital admissions.

      The clinical literature review is documented in report, Personalized Heart Failure Monitoring
      using a Bayesian network, Anja v.d. Stolpe, Wim Verhaegh, Folke Noertemann, PR-TN 2017/00180.

      This clinical investigation is needed, because no complete datasets, including ground truth
      assessments by cardiologists, are available, neither in existing databases, nor in clinical
      literature.

      The clinical investigation needs to be performed on a population that fulfills the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria described in Chapter 6, because the "Bayesian Hemodynamics
      model" is only valid for these cases.
    
  