
    
      Aims of the study

      The main goal of this study is to perform a large-scale, prospective and long-term analysis
      of the HRQOL in patients diagnosed with glioma and to set up a database which contains
      general patient characteristics, tumor information, treatment strategy and follow-up data of
      each included patient. This large-scale database will allow the investigator to investigate
      several relevant research questions in a well-documented group of glioma patients.

      Methodology

      HRQOL is a multidimensional concept covering physical, psychological and social domains as
      well as symptoms induced by the disease and the treatment. Currently there is no single gold
      standard tool to measure HRQOL, and several valid measures of HRQOL in brain tumor patients
      are available. In this study the investigator will use the EQ-5D questionnaire to report
      patient's HRQOL. The EQ-5D is widely used and has been validated in many different patient
      populations. It has been designed so that patients can describe the extent to which they have
      a problem in each of the five dimensions of health: mobility, self-care, usual activities,
      pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression The timing of the HRQOL questionnaires will depend on
      whether a patient will be diagnosed with either a LGG or a HGG. Moreover, as the current
      treatment strategies for LGG patients and for relapsed HGG patients are highly variable, the
      investigator scheduled the HRQOL measurements not in function of the treatment, but rather in
      function of the classical, standard-of-care patient follow-up (either 3 or 6 monthly).

      Missing data

      When there are missing data for some patients, the question arises as to whether patients
      with missing data differ from those who returned completed forms. As a consequence, missing
      data presents problems in the analysis and the interpretation of the results. Hence, the
      amount of missing data should be minimized. A regular check on missing data will be performed
      by the CTA. In case the HRQOL form was not completed by the included patient, the patient
      will be contacted by phone or e-mail and he/she will be asked to provide an answer to the
      different questions of the HRQOL questionnaire in order to avoid missing data. In case the
      patient is unable to complete the HRQOL questionnaire, the CTA will report the reason for
      non-completion in the database.
    
  