
    
      Participants were recruited in three groups: weight loss maintainers (WLM: maintaining ≥13.6
      kg weight loss for ≥1 year), normal weight controls (NC: Body Mass Index (BMI) matched to
      current BMI of WLM), and controls with overweight/obesity (Overweight Controls (OC): BMI
      matched to pre-weight loss maximum BMI of WLM). The investigators hypothesize that total
      daily energy expenditure (TDEE) in WLM is similar to OC but is significantly higher then NC.
      High levels of volitional physical activity may compensate for the reduction in energy
      expenditure ("energy gap") that is the expected result of weight loss. This allows WLM to
      maintain a high level of "energy flux", which may facilitate optimal body weight regulation
      over time. The investigators will use doubly labeled water to compare TDEE in WLM and both NC
      and OC. The investigators will also compare individual components of TDEE including resting
      energy expenditure (REE), thermic effect of food (TEF), physical activity energy expenditure
      (PAEE), and physical activity level (PAL) between groups. The investigators also hypothesize
      that REE in WLM is similar to controls of both types under free living conditions, but will
      decrease following a period of physical inactivity and be significantly less than controls.
      Studies in rodents have consistently shown evidence of an increase in metabolic efficiency in
      the reduced obese state manifested by a lower than predicted REE. Studies in humans have
      shown mixed results, however few studies have controlled for habitual level of physical
      activity. Recent evidence suggests REE is greater in adults who perform regular exercise than
      their sedentary peers; this difference can be attributed in part to greater tonic sympathetic
      nervous system stimulation of REE that occurs in habitually exercising adults. The
      investigators believe there is an increase in metabolic efficiency in the reduced obese state
      manifested by a lower than predicted REE, and that high levels of physical activity function
      to "mask" or "correct" this metabolic efficiency. The investigators will compare REE under
      free living conditions and during an experimentally imposed period of reduced energy flux
      (restricted physical activity matched by an equivalent reduction in energy intake) in WLM and
      controls.
    
  