
    
      White spot lesion (WSL) is the earliest sign of demineralization of the enamel and a common
      problem caused because of plaque accumulation and poor oral hygiene. These WSLs are of great
      concern in young patients, considering that esthetics is the prime reason for young patients
      to seek dental treatment. The appearance of these areas of demineralization should be
      prevented and appropriate strategies must be undertaken in remineralizing these lesions.
      Enamel decalcification can occur as a result of orthodontic bracket or any other foreign body
      attached onto the tooth surface, and provoked by poor oral hygiene.It is an incipient caries
      in the subsurface beneath an intact enamel outer surface. It is characterized by chalky white
      appearance (WSLs) mostly around the brackets, and have different refractive index than intact
      enamel surface. If the WSL's are left untreated it can progress to break down the enamel
      surface and develop into advance stages of carious lesion that indicate esthetic restorations
      or in more advance cases a prosthodontic intervention.

      Research has shown good evidence on non-invasive treatment of WSLs such as establishing good
      oral hygiene and the use of fluoride and non-fluoride remineralizing agents. Fluoride
      containing agents are available as high-fluoride toothpaste, fluoride mouthwash, gels and
      varnish. Recently, other non-fluoride materials and techniques such as casein phosphopeptide
      -amorphous calcium phosphate (CPP-ACP) has shown promising results. Clinpro® is 5% sodium
      fluoride varnish and is indicated to be used for hypersensitive as well as for demineralized
      teeth. It flows smoothly on moist teeth and binds firmly to their surfaces. 1ml of Clinpro®
      contain 50 mg of sodium fluoride. Fluoride varnish placed around orthodontic brackets during
      treatment has been shown to reduce the incidence and prevalence of WSL. Tooth Mouse® contains
      Casein phosphopeptide-Amorphous calcium phosphate (CPP - ACP) is product from the milk
      casein. This delivers the necessary Calcium and Phosphate ions to the tooth, which will
      reduce the risk of caries and white spot by enhancing tooth remineralization. MI Paste® which
      is Casein phosphopeptide-Amorphous calcium phosphate fluoride (CPP-ACPF) additional contains
      fluoride in addition to CPP-ACP. The level of fluoride is 900ppm which approximates that in
      adult strength toothpastes. When CPP-ACPF is applied in the oral environment, it will bind to
      biofilms, plaque, bacteria, hydroxyapatite and soft tissue localizing bio-available calcium,
      phosphate and fluoride. Recent studies have investigated the remineralization potential of
      CPP-ACP combined with fluoride and have found a synergistic effect when these are
      administered together, which is the composition in MI paste. Sodium fluoride (0.2%) mouth
      rinses are effective in reducing caries and inhibit carbohydrate utilization of oral
      microorganisms by blocking enzymes involved in the bacterial glycolytic pathway studies have
      shown sodium fluoride mouth rinse to be effective in reducing S. mutans counts. Thus sodium
      fluoride was selected as a control in our study. The aim of this research is to compare
      Clinpro® 5% sodium fluoride plus tri calcium phosphate varnish, Tooth mouse® CPP-ACP without
      fluoride, MI Paste® CPP-ACP with fluoride,1.23% APF gel and 0.2% sodium fluoride mouthwash in
      remineralization of white spot lesions. Considering the variety of these agents that are
      available the aim of this randomized controlled trial is to identify the remineralisation of
      these mentioned agents. These agents are being routinely used in our primary care practice.
    
  