
    
      Balance is an integral part of human ability. Whether for daily activities in life or sports
      related activities, humans rely on body balance and it affects peoples successful
      performance.To maintain balance, individuals must control their center of mass (COM) location
      over the base of support (BOS) during both voluntary movements, and in response to external,
      destabilizing forces. Exercises play an important role in balance improvement and fall
      prevention. Physiotherapists can help individuals to train their central nervous system to
      respond to different sensory challenges through balance control exercises. Falls are a
      leading public health concern with statistics reporting that 30 percent of adults 65 years of
      age and older, and 50 per cent of those 80 years of age and older, experience a fall
      annually. Research highlights the importance of patient-orientated, balance-targeted
      exercises, which draw focus to a sense of body position in space. virtual reality and video
      gaming programs for improving balance. An increasingly popular system for virtual reality
      balance training is the Nintendo Wii. Nintendo Wii real-time device is somatosensory gaming
      comprises the balance board, software, and database it is used for balance assessment are
      balance training purpose. Virtual reality balance training typically requires participants to
      produce discrete, controlled movements to and beyond their base of support in response to
      visual targets. A force plate measures the performance of the participant and can provide
      online feedback of postural control.

      Literature shows its high levels of usability and enjoyment with no serious adverse effects.
      Findings of research on effects of the Nintendo Wii Fit on Community-Dwelling Adults with
      Perceived Balance Deficits suggest that an intervention program including the Wii fit may be
      an effective rehabilitation option for adults with perceived balance deficits.

      The advantage of the Nintendo Wii with Wii Balance Board (WBB) is that it not only offers an
      alternative balance exercise-training tool but it can also record balance measurements. The
      WBB is more portable than heavy and expensive laboratory equipment while still providing
      valid and reliable measurements. A recent study evaluated the validity of the WBB in
      measuring balance variables.There are number of exercise training that are used for balance
      improvement including tai chi, yoga , task specific training. Some of them showed marked
      improvement in balance while others have little or no improvement. The use of exergaming for
      different types of rehabilitation has established great interest particularly Nintendo Wii
      .Wii fit is has been used for balance training from the past few years in an individual with
      balance impairment as well as in healthy individuals, it is a novel and in expansive method
      of balance training in WBB use improve the visual perception, postural control, mobility,
      motor function and also decrease the risk of fall . Different games are used in WBB including
      Balance training, Yoga, strength training, aerobic training. Few studies used the control
      group along with Wii fit group to determine its effectiveness in balance training. Different
      clinical test for balance assessment was used before and after balance training including
      Berg Balance Scale (BBS), Fullerton Advance Balance test(FAB) test, Time up and go test
      (TUG), Functional Reach Test (FR) in different studies.A study showed that balance
      interventions involving the Wii Fit system have relied on the balance-specific exer-games it
      involve Wii Fit balance games, yoga games rely on static balance control. Despite this broad
      mission, the Wii Fit has generated specific interest in the domain of neurorehabilitation as
      a measurement and training device for balance ability. Balance control increases with
      increasing age as early as mid-30s .Balance control increases with increasing age as early as
      mid-30s This study aimed to assess the balance error in healthy young adults of our society
      as well as their balance training by using Wii fit and traditional balance training. By
      providing balance training to young population we intended to improve feed forward postural
      control, improve motor skills and decrease chances of lower extremity injuries
    
  