
    
      Summary

      To determine if 10 Hertz bilateral cerebellar rTMS is more effective than 10 Hertz unilateral
      cerebellar rTMS or sham in:

        1. Increasing PMEP amplitude over the pharyngeal cortical area

        2. Reversing focal cortical suppression to the pharyngeal motor cortex induced by a
           'virtual lesion'.

      This experiment will be performed over six visits to the laboratory.

      Experiment Previous studies in our laboratory have shown that focal suppression of the
      strongest pharyngeal motor representation (1 Hz rTMS for 10 minutes at an intensity of 120%
      of resting motor threshold) transiently suppresses cortical swallowing activity as measured
      by PMEP amplitude and function as measured by a swallowing reaction time task, for up to an
      hour after cessation of rTMS (14, 15). This temporary suppressive effect has been called a
      cortical 'virtual lesion'. This model has been utilised in several studies (2, 14, 15) as a
      way of trialling the effects of neurostimulatory interventions in a safe, controlled
      environment in healthy subjects, before proceeding to patient trials. Studies have also shown
      that interventions which are capable of reversing the effects of focal cortical suppression
      more quickly than would ordinarily be the case if the suppressive effects were left to
      dissipate naturally, are effective in improving post stroke dysphagia (16).

      The optimal stimulation sites for the pharyngeal cortical areas and cerebellum will have
      their resting motor thresholds identified and marked using single pulse TMS with a figure of
      eight coil (wing diameter of 90mm). Anatomical landmarks will be used to help guide
      neuronavigation. The vertex of the head will be identified with a tape measure as will the
      inion (the most prominent part at the back of the skull) (1). Studies have demonstrated that
      the pharyngeal cortical area is found anterior and lateral to the vertex while both halves of
      the cerebellum lie inferior and lateral to the inion (1, 15).

      Visits 1- 2 (Aim 1 Measurement of Pharyngeal Cortical MEP Amplitude) Cortical and cerebellar
      PMEPs will be measured by administering single pulse TMS at 10% of stimulator output above
      resting motor threshold. Ten stimuli (trials) will be given over the pharyngeal motor cortex
      with greater neuronal activity - lower resting membrane threshold. This stimulus intensity
      has been shown to give the best reproducibility results for viscerosomatic TMS studies (15).
      Cerebellar MEPs will be measured by administering 5 stimuli (trials) of single pulse TMS over
      the cerebellum.

      Participants will be randomised to receive one of two cerebellar rTMS interventions (on
      separate visits):

        1. Real 10 Hz cerebellar rTMS (250 pulses) to the right cerebellar hemisphere (unilateral)

        2. Real 10 Hz cerebellar rTMS (250 pulses) to the right and left cerebellar hemispheres
           (bilateral)

           The effects of the interventions on PMEPs over cortical pharyngeal areas bilaterally
           will be measured immediately and every fifteen minutes for an hour post intervention.
           All data will be compared to baseline MEP amplitude.

           Visits 3-4 (Aim 2 Measurement of Pharyngeal Cortical MEP Amplitude after Virtual Lesion)
           A 'virtual lesion' (1 Hz rTMS for 10 minutes at an intensity of 120% of resting motor
           threshold) will be administered by holding a figure of eight coil flat over the cortical
           pharyngeal representation with the highest neurological activity - this is the
           representation with the lowest resting membrane potential (15). After which, over two
           visits to the laboratory, unilateral and bilateral cerebellar rTMS will administered to
           the cerebellar sites identified earlier.

           During these two visits participants will have their baseline pharyngeal MEPs measured
           in a similar manner to visits 1-2. After focal cortical suppression subjects will be
           randomised to receive one of two cerebellar rTMS interventions (on separate visits):

        3. Real 10 Hz cerebellar rTMS (250 pulses) to the right cerebellar hemisphere (unilateral)

        4. Real 10 Hz cerebellar rTMS (250 pulses) to the right and left cerebellar hemispheres
           (bilateral)

           The effects of the interventions on PMEPs over cortical pharyngeal areas bilaterally
           will then be measured immediately and every fifteen minutes for an hour post
           intervention before being compared to baseline.

           Visits 5-6 (Aim 2 Measurement of Swallowing Accuracy Using Reaction Time Task)

           During these two visits, subjects will have baseline measurements of normal, fast and
           challenge swallows (*see below for measurement procedure). After focal cortical
           suppression subjects will be randomised to receive one of two cerebellar rTMS
           interventions (on separate visits):

        5. Real 10 Hz cerebellar rTMS (250 pulses) to the right cerebellar hemisphere (unilateral)

        6. Real 10 Hz cerebellar rTMS (250 pulses) to the right and left cerebellar hemispheres
           (bilateral)

      The effects of the interventions on swallowing function will then be measured by repeating
      normal, fast and challenge swallow reaction times, immediately and at regular intervals for
      an hour post intervention.
    
  