
    
      The purpose of this pilot, 12 week, clinical research study is to determine if
      supplementation with Vitamin D will improve the clinical outcome in subjects with chronic
      urticaria and angioedema (CUA). Vitamin D is a key element in the regulation of immune system
      responses, and vitamin D could play an important role in the treatment of CUA. Recently, we
      published that there is an important association with CUA and serum 25-hydroxy vitamin D
      (25OHD). Namely, vitamin D levels in subjects with CUA were significantly lower as compared
      to subjects with an alternative allergic disorder, allergic rhinitis. There is now one other
      observational report that supplementation with vitamin D (50,000/wk) in subjects CUA resulted
      in clinical improvement; however, there was only one treatment arm and optimal serum 25OHD
      required to obtain benefit was not investigated.

      This current study is a double-blinded, prospective, interventional study that seeks to
      recruit adult subjects with physician-diagnosed CUA and randomize subjects to either the
      recommended dietary allowance (Vitamin D 600 IU/day) or the recommended upper limit of intake
      (Vitamin D 4000 IU/day). Subjects will answer a questionnaire to collect information
      regarding demographics, previous diagnostic tests, medications, and complete an urticaria
      severity score (USS). Information from the medical record: weight, height, body mass index
      (BMI), thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), free thyroxine (T4), thyroid autoantibodies,
      urticaria autoimmune testing (CD203c results), anti-nuclear antibody (ANA), urinalysis, and
      allergy skin prick testing, which are part of the CUA evaluation will be obtained. Subjects
      will have research blood draws for serum 25OHD level, iPTH, calcium, phosphorus, albumin,
      urine calcium, and vitamin D receptor (VDR) gene expression. All subjects will receive
      standard-of-care therapy according to the 2009 Third International Consensus Meeting on
      Urticaria position guidelines. Follow-up visits for medication usage, urticaria severity
      score, and serum and urine safety monitoring will be at 6 and 12 weeks.

      The hypothesis of this study is that high dosing of vitamin D will result in clinical
      improvement in subjects with CUA. The primary clinical endpoint is medication usage, and the
      secondary outcomes are urticaria severity score and prednisone rescue use. We will explore if
      threshold serum 25OHD levels correlate and VDR expression correlate to clinical outcomes, and
      to determine power analysis to conduct a larger scale study. Finally, the study aims to
      determine if vitamin D supplementation is safe and well-tolerated in subjects with CUA.
    
  