
    
      Background: Diabetes self-management is critical to sustaining optimal health following
      diagnosis. Diabetes distress (DD) is a crucial factor that influences a Veteran's engagement
      in diabetes self-management. DD is distinct from depression, and includes four domains (i.e.,
      regimen, emotional, interpersonal, healthcare provider). The presence of DD negatively
      impacts engagement in self-management and HbA1c. Despite interventions aimed at decreasing
      DD, these interventions have shown minimal lasting effects. One reason may be because
      interventions do not tailor information to an individual's DD.

      Significance & Impact: This proposal will be the first to examine the impact of correlating
      factors on DD, and then design and test a self-management intervention tailored upon a
      Veteran's DD type. This proposal addresses the VHA Strategic Plan Priority areas of utilizing
      resources more efficiently and improving the timeliness of services, and the HSR&D Research
      Priorities of Population Health/Whole Health and Primary Care Practice. This proposal's
      findings can improve both care delivery and health outcomes of Veterans, as the investigator
      will help facilitate the Veteran's linkage to ubiquitous, existing VHA and community
      services.

      Innovation: This proposal will develop an intervention that targets sub-optimal T2D
      self-management by providing tailored self-management information in conjunction with
      connections to supportive services. The investigators will identify how, and to what extent,
      DD and its factors, influence a Veteran's self-management behaviors.

      Specific Aims: Aim 1 will examine the association of psychosocial factors (depression, PTSD),
      environmental factors (finances, support), self-management behaviors, and HbA1c with DD.
      These Aim 1 data will inform the identification of modifiable factors and selection of the
      population for a diabetes self-management intervention for Veterans with T2D. Aim 2 will
      describe self-management challenges and preferred learning strategies to inform the
      intervention components and delivery approach for Veterans with T2D. Obtaining in-depth
      perceptions of DD type, self-management strategies and challenges, and learning preferences
      is essential to tailoring intervention components. The purpose of Aim 3 is to design & pilot
      test an innovative, tailored T2D self-management information and supportive services
      intervention for Veterans with T2D, to promote engagement in self-management behaviors. In
      Aim 3 the investigators will determine the feasibility and acceptability of the intervention
      for Veterans with T2D.

      Methodology: This proposal uses an explanatory, sequential mixed-methods design to describe
      DD in a sample of Veterans who receive care at Durham. In Aim 1 the investigators will survey
      Veterans (n = 200), and balance enrollment by HbA1C (< 9 or 9) and medication use (insulin,
      no insulin). In Aim 2 the investigators will conduct semi-structured interviews with a
      sub-sample (n = ~36) of Veterans surveyed in Aim 1. The investigators will balance enrollment
      by HbA1C, medication use, and DD level as operationalized by the Diabetes Distress Scale
      (low, moderate, high). In Aim 3 the investigators will develop and refine the intervention
      using findings from Aims 1 & 2 and strategies successfully used by co-mentors. To develop the
      intervention the investigators will conduct semi-structured interviews with stakeholders (n =
      ~20: physicians, nurses, administrators) to review components (e.g., learning approaches,
      relevant VA/community resources) to ensure relevancy. The investigators will modify
      components and the delivery strategy as needed. Then, will test the intervention with 30
      Veterans to evaluate feasibility and acceptability, and utilization of recommended supportive
      services, using quantitative and qualitative approaches.

      Implementation & Next Steps: The next steps include dissemination of findings about DD, and
      its correlates, and the development of an IIR. This IIR will be a Phase III efficacy trial
      and will be sufficiently powered to test the effects of providing self-management information
      and connections to supportive services tailored to a Veteran's DD to improve HbA1c.
    
  