
    
      Hospital infections are often caused by bacteria such as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
      aureus (MRSA) or multi-drug-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii (MDRAB). Hospital infections
      increase the cost of health care, length of hospital stay, and mortality compared to
      infections with antibiotic-susceptible organisms. Many of these antibiotic-resistant bacteria
      are transmitted by patient-to-patient contact.

      Healthcare workers are one possible vector of patient-to-patient transmission. Transient
      colonization of hands, clothing and protective equipment can leads to the colonization and
      infection of other patients. The surfaces of patient rooms are also frequently contaminated
      with antibiotic-resistant bacteria. A number of recent studies have concluded that patient
      rooms are not cleaned thoroughly or frequently enough to keep commonly touched surfaces free
      of bacterial contamination. Given the frequency of contact between the healthcare worker and
      the patient's environment, bacteria that contaminate environmental surfaces while the patient
      is in the room are a significant potential reservoir for patient-to-patient transmission via
      the hands of healthcare workers.

      In this study, the investigators will examine rooms of intensive care unit patients colonized
      with MRSA or MDRAB. The investigators will randomize these rooms to receive either standard
      room cleaning plus a cleaning of high-touch surfaces ('enhanced cleaning') or to receive only
      standard room cleaning plus a sham cleaning of high-touch surfaces ('sham enhanced
      cleaning'). The investigators will then culture healthcare workers' disposable isolation
      gowns and gloves as they exit the enrolled room after routine patient care activities. The
      investigators will examine the cultures for the presence of MRSA or MDRAB to determine
      whether additional cleaning significantly reduces the proportion of healthcare workers with
      contaminated gloves and gowns, and therefore may reduce the risk of transmitting these
      bacteria to other patients. The results of this trial will help guide future efforts to
      decrease patient-to-patient transmission of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.
    
  