
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if primary treatment with transoral endoscopic head and neck surgery will
      improve progression free survival (PFS) for patients with human papilloma virus negative
      (HPV-) oropharyngeal cancer (OPC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare patterns of failure (local-regional relapse versus distant) and survival
      (overall and progression-free).

      II. To determine the safety and efficacy (rate of positive surgical margins) of using
      transoral robotic surgery for patients with T3 tumors of the tonsil, tongue-base, or
      glossopharyngeal sulcus.

      III. To compare head and neck cancer-specific quality of life (QOL) short-term (< 6 months)
      and long-term (2 years) relating to swallowing function.

      IV. To compare subjective (patient reported) and objective (physiologic) measures of
      swallowing function short-term and long-term.

      V. To assess effect of neck dissection on shoulder function using a validated QOL instrument
      for patients undergoing neck dissection VI. To assess the correlation of physician derived
      clinical target volumes (CTV's) with locoregional control or failure.

      VII. To determine whether specific molecular profiles are associated with overall or
      progression-free survival or other clinical endpoints.

      VIII. To determine the sensitivity and specificity of pre-treatment computed tomography (CT)
      scans detecting the presence of lymph node extracapsular extension by examining the
      surgically dissected lymph nodes.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo transoral endoscopic head and neck surgery (eHNS). Depending on
      post-operative pathology findings, patients may undergo intensity modulated radiation therapy
      (IMRT) once daily (QD) five days a week for 6 weeks. High-risk patients also receive
      cisplatin intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36 during radiation therapy.

      ARM II: Patients undergo IMRT QD five days a week for 7 weeks. Patients also receive
      cisplatin IV on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36 during radiation therapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  