
    
      The most significant disadvantage of the current EEG-NF method is the low spatial resolution
      of the EEG, which does not allow for the localization of site activity within deep brain
      regions known to be associated with the development of PTSD, such as the amygdala, the
      hippocampus, and the mPFC. The aim of the present project is to overcome this drawback by
      integrating EEG and fMRI imaging methods, such that the patient will receive real-time
      feedback regarding the activation of emotional target areas located deep within the brain.
      FMRI is based on the measurement of metabolic changes following electrical activity in the
      brain, thus non-invasively representing the neuronal activity of various brain regions when
      performing emotional and/or cognitive tasks. fMRI has high spatial resolution, and in
      contrast to EEG - it allows for the localization of regions deep within the brain, such as
      those related to trauma responses within the limbic system and prefrontal cortex. Recently,
      real-time fMRI (rt fMRI) has been used to train subjects to modulate activity within deep
      brain regions , . Some studies have even shown that subjects can be trained to regulate
      activity within a network of regions including the mPFC and limbic regions, resulting in a
      positive effect on patients suffering from chronic pain and depression . Moreover, it has
      also been found that via real-time fMRI feedback subjects can be trained to regulate activity
      within networks that have been linked to emotional regulation; a skill critical for dealing
      with traumatic events . The major disadvantage of this method is that fMRI tests are
      expensive and inconvenient for the patient, and the MRI machine required for this method are
      stationary and not easily accessible.

      To combine the advantages of both methods the investigators performed simultaneous testing of
      both EEG and fMRI. Using special algorithms, with high reliability, the investigators studied
      the electrical signals that represent activity related to emotional regulation within deep
      brain regions . This combination allowed for a significant improvement in the spatial
      resolution of the EEG device and added significant temporal information taken from the fMRI
      signal. The combined recording of EEG and fMRI with advanced computational methods, such as
      cross correlation and machine learning, provide significant improvement in the attribution of
      EEG signal localization, which until now could not be achieved with adequate reliability. In
      other words, the EEG pattern of activity reliably represents activation of deep limbic
      regions providing an "electrical fingerprint" (EFP) of these areas.

      Accordingly, the investigators developed an innovative treatment protocol in which subjects
      are asked to control either visual or auditory stimuli, determined by feedback from the
      brain, based on the extent of the EFP . In a pilot study on a group of civilians the
      investigators showed that subjects successfully learned to modify their electrical brain
      signal based on the EFP . In an additional study, simultaneous recordings of EEG and fMRI
      showed that success was indeed related to changes in activity within deep brain regions
      involved in emotional regulation; such as the mPFC and hippocampus. Furthermore, our results
      indicate that following training to volitionally regulate the EFP via EEG-NF, participants
      exhibited improved emotion regulation .

      Rationale for current study:

      Based on the EFP model and the NF literature in the treatment of PTSD this study aims to
      examine the efficiency of an fMRI-guided-EEG-protocol for self-regulation through NF for
      reducing stress vulnerability.

      The study will assign two groups:

      experimental group: EFP neurofeedback control groups: Sham neurofeedback In order to assess
      the efficiency of the NF protocol as a preventative intervention for PTSD, the investigators
      plan to compare this treatment outcomes to those of a placebo sham protocol.

      Primary objective:

      Examine the efficiency of NF in reducing stress vulnerability.

      Secondary objective:

      Examine the efficiency of amygdala targeted Neurofeedback (NF) in reducing stress symptoms
      among individuals who were recently exposed to a traumatic event. .

      Study design:

      Randomized parallel design, with 2 groups: EFP-NF (n=35), Sham-NF (n=35)

      Participant selection:

      The study will involve 40 participants with PTSD symptoms between the ages of 18-40, who will
      be divided randomly into 2 groups (experimental group, control group).

      Number of participants:

      The study will involve 70 individuals.

      Recruitment process:

      Participants will be recruited from the ER and trauma clinic at TASMC. The hospital will
      provide our research team with daily lists of the individuals who arrived at the ER over the
      past 24 hours, screened for possible trauma related incidents. Our team will then contact the
      potential subjects over the phone and will request informed consent to conduct a phone
      interview to assess the presence of acute stress symptoms. A brief description of the study
      will be provided. If the individual agrees and is found suitable for further participation
      they will be invited to the trauma clinic at TASMC where a trained clinical psychologist will
      conduct a comprehensive PTSD evaluation. The trauma clinic at TASMC will also refer suitable
      patients from within their database for participation in our study. All subjects referred by
      the trauma clinic will undergo identical procedures for obtaining informed consent and
      subsequent clinical evaluation as those described above.

      Intervention arms:

      The study will include 2 groups. The experimental group will receive EEG-NF sessions targeted
      on the amygdalae and the control group will Sham-NF.

      Brain area/s of interest:

      The regions of interest will include the limbic system and more specifically the Amygdala,
      hippocampus ventral striatum, as well as cortical areas associated with emotional regulation
      (such as dorso-lateral PFC and dorso and ventro-medial PFC cingulated cortex and insula).

      Study procedures:

      Pre treatment phase Day 1 Participants will undergo a psychiatric evaluation (using SCID),
      and medication monitoring. Participants will also be asked to fill in demographic and
      psychological questionnaires assessing emotion regulation abilities (ERQ), state anxiety and
      traits (STAI), and questionnaires measuring symptoms of stress, anxiety and depression (CAPS,
      PCL, BDI).

      Day 2 All Participants will undergo a brain-imaging scan to characterize brain network
      responses associated with emotional arousal and regulation. Participants will be scanned for
      functional and structural MRI which will include ROI localizer for the NF, resting state,
      emotional conflict task, facial recognition task reward task and DTI.

      The research staff will explain the course of the MRI testing to the participant, and will
      enter with the subject into the mock simulator to verify that he is lying on his back
      properly and feels comfortable. During testing the patient will be presented with visual and
      auditory stimuli, as well as short video clips. Auditory presentation: stimuli will be heard
      via MRI-compatible headphones. Visual displays: the subject will view the stimuli through a
      mirror and projected onto a screen in the magnet room. In between sessions the patient will
      be given time to rest. Participants will be asked to avoid moving as much as possible during
      the scans.

      The total duration of testing, from subject arrival to departure, will take approximately
      90-180 minutes (20-30 minutes to fill out forms and undergo training, 30 minutes for
      explanations and a break, and 60 minutes of imaging). Participants will remain in the MRI for
      about 60 minutes, and under no circumstances will remain longer than 90 minutes.

      Training phase The duration of the training phase will be 4 weeks. At this point participants
      will be randomly assigned to either the EFP-NF or T/A-NF groups. Both the EFP-NF and the
      T/A-NF groups will receive 1-2 sessions per week for a total of 6 sessions.

      During training sessions, participants will train to develop skills for regulating brain
      activity using auditory or visual feedback. Each session will last an hour, including EEG Cap
      placement and filling state questionnaires. The participant will be seated comfortably in
      front of a computer screen. A staff member will explain the goal of the meeting to the
      participant, introduce the equipment to be used, and describe the course of the meeting.
      Following the above explanations, the staff member will place the EEG cap on the
      participant's head and will ensure that the participant feels comfortable. The EEG -
      Neurofeedback practice will consist of five-minute segments repeated for up to 30 minutes.
      During each practice segment the participant will be asked to modify any visual or auditory
      media that provides feedback on the degree of successful brain training. For example, during
      visual feedback the participants will be asked to lower the speed of a skateboard presented
      on the computer screen or alternatively, during auditory feedback to reduce the level of
      music audible through headphones placed on their ears. After every two practice segments, the
      duration of each practice will increase such that the two first steps will be very short
      (about 5 minutes each) and the last two the longest (about 10 minutes each); a total of six
      steps every trial over a total of approximately 45 minutes

      Post treatment phase This phase will take place 3-5 days after the end of the training phase.
      Day 1

        -  Participants will undergo a second psychological evaluation (CAPS).

        -  Participants will complete the same questionnaires as in the pre treatment phase (BDI,
           ERQ, STAI, PCL).

      Day 2 • All Participants will be scanned for functional and structural MRI which will include
      ROI localizer, resting state, DTI.

      Follow-up phase Day 1-5

      • All participants will receive 2 maintenance sessions (EFP-NF or T/A-NF)

      Day 6

        -  Participants will undergo a third psychological evaluation (CAPS).

        -  Participants will complete the same questionnaires as in the previous phases (BDI, ERQ,
           STAI, PCL).

      Data collection:

      Researchers will assist participants filling in the electronic questionnaires and will
      conduct the non electronic ones (these would be later transcribed to excel sheets by research
      assistants).

      Researchers will run the MRI scans and the NF sessions (all the rt-fMRI NF and some of the
      EFP-NF), together with two to five research assistants. The contact with the participants
      will be by E-mail and phone. The research assistants will monitor participation. The
      participants will receive a reminder (by phone and or email) one day prior to each session.
    
  