
    
      Baseline Tests:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will have the following baseline tests:

        -  You will complete 7 questionnaires about your symptoms, how you have been feeling, and
           your general quality of life. It should take about 20 minutes to complete.

        -  Basic information about you (such as your age and education level) will also be
           collected.

        -  You will have an EEG to measure the electrical activity of your brain. During the EEG,
           researchers will place a cap containing 19 electrodes on your scalp and 1 electrode on
           each earlobe. The electrodes will measure and record your brain wave activity, similar
           to the way a doctor listens to your heart beat from the surface of your skin. The EEG
           should take about 45 minutes to complete.

      Study Groups:

      After completing the baseline tests, you will be randomly assigned (as in the roll of a dice)
      to 1 of 3 study groups. This is done because no one knows if one study group is better, the
      same, or worse than the other group.

        -  If you are assigned to Group 1, you will receive traditional neurofeedback training.
           Traditional neurofeedback training rewards you based on your own brain's activity.

        -  If you are assigned to Group 2, you will receive sham neurofeedback training. Sham
           neurofeedback training does not use your own brainwaves. In sham neurofeedback, you will
           be training from the brainwaves of another person who does not have neuropathy. Sham
           neurofeedback is not designed to help train your brainwaves. It is designed to be
           compared with traditional neurofeedback to learn if traditional neurofeedback has any
           real effect. If you have any questions about how sham neurofeedback is designed to work,
           talk with the study doctor or study staff.

        -  If you are assigned to Group 3, you will continue to receive standard care. You will not
           take part in the neurofeedback training, but you will take part in the follow-up visits
           (described below).

      If you are assigned to Groups 1 or 2, you will not be told if you are receiving traditional
      neurofeedback training or sham training.

      Neurofeedback Training (Groups 1 and 2):

      You will have at least 2 neurofeedback training sessions each week for up to 10 weeks (20
      training sessions total). The training sessions may take place on any 2 days of the week and
      may be up to 5 times a week, if you are interested in training more quickly. The study doctor
      will discuss the option of training faster with you.

      Each neurofeedback training session should take about 1 hour to complete.

      During each session, you will have an EEG while you sit quietly, relax, and watch a computer
      screen. The screen will be blank at first and then a series of pictures will appear. The
      pictures will change as your brainwaves change. You may also be shown pictures of flowers,
      bridges, mountains, and so on. You may be asked to play small games, for example a Pac-Man
      type game in which a small character moves around a maze. You will be able to choose to
      either view pictures or play a game.

      When researchers see that your brain waves change in the way they are looking for, you will
      be "rewarded." When you are rewarded you will see a pretty picture on screen and you will
      hear a beep.

      A neurotherapist will be present during each session to make sure you do not fall asleep and
      that you are relaxed during the procedure.

      At each neurofeedback training session, you will also be asked to rate your neuropathic
      symptoms on a scale of 0-10 before you begin the neurofeedback training and again after the
      session is complete. This should only take a few minutes.

      Length of Participation:

      Your active participation on this study will be over after follow-up. If you are in Groups 2
      or 3, you may be able to stay on study for an additional 4 months if you agree to Optional
      Procedure #1 (described below).

      Follow-Up (All groups):

      Within 1 week after your last neurofeedback training session and again about 1 month later:

        -  You will fill out the same 7 questionnaires you completed at baseline.

        -  You will have an EEG. If you are in Group 3, you will have this EEG about 1 week after
           Group 1 has completed their neurofeedback training.

        -  After you have completed the assessment 1 month later, you will be told which group you
           were in and offered neurofeedback if you were in the sham group.
    
  