
    
      This retrospective observational study will be carried out at Hospital São Domingos, state of
      Maranhao, Brasil. It is a tertiary hospital with 450 beds and six Intensive Care Units (ICU)
      with a total of 63 beds. With the admission of the first patients with Coronavirus Disease
      2019 (COVID-19) as of March 20, we initially made available a 12 beds ICU exclusively for the
      treatment of patients with COVID-19. At the beginning of April, the number of beds was
      increased to 35 and, immediately afterwards, two semi-intensive units (16 and 21 beds) were
      created for patients in need of non-invasive respiratory support, with the 35 beds ICU 35
      dedicated to receive only patients in need of high-level support (usually invasive mechanical
      ventilation) with or without other organ dysfunctions.

      In the period from March 20 to June 15, 2020, 935 patients with confirmed diagnosis (RT-PCR)
      of COVID-19 were admitted to the hospital and 187 of them were treated in the ICU.

      Data were obtained from the hospital's electronic medical record. Demographic and severity
      data included age, sex, Simplified Acute Physiology 3 (SAPS 3) and Sequential Organ Failure
      Assessment (SOFA) scores at admission, nutritional risk determined by Nutritional Risk
      Screening 2002 (NRS-2002) and commodities. Clinical and laboratory data on arrival at the ICU
      including Partial pressure of oxygen in arterial bood / Inspired fraction of oxygen (PaO2 /
      FIO2) complete blood count and PCR D-dimer, ferritin, fibrinogen and lactic acid
      dehydrogenasew (LDH). Drug interventions including use of hydroxychloroquine,
      corticosteroids, heparin, tocilizumab. Characteristics of invasive and non-invasive
      respiratory support, use of prone position, ECMO and vasoactive drugs. The main
      complications, acute kidney injury requiring hemodialysis, secondary infectious complications
      will be documented as well as the outcomes.
    
  