
    
      The first phase of the study will be the placebo needling, performed with a sham needle and
      following the same procedures than the therapeutic treatment. Four placebo sessions will be
      performed, 1 per week, with placebo stretching, followed by washout period of two weeks, and
      4 more dry needling therapeutic sessions, also once a week and active stretching. The muscles
      selected for dry needling were frontal, temporal, trapezius, masseter, sternocleidomastoid
      (SCM), head splenius, scalene, medial pterygoid, lateral pterygoid, rhomboid.

      Procedure technique Each patient was recommended to assume a relaxed posture suitable to
      access the muscles being treated, instructed to expose the painful area, settled himself in
      supine, prone, or side lying positions, at a stretcher or a chair, depending on the muscle to
      be treated. The main therapist performed MTP target with a pen, hands antisepsis, gloves wear
      and skin area cleaning with 70% isopropyl alcohol prior to needling. Along all procedure the
      main therapist was able to view the patient's face and to receive regular treating feedback.
      A sterile disposable filament needle was inserted directly perpendicular through the skin
      using a guide tube that was then removed. Depth needle penetration with slow sidelong
      direction in and outside displacements were performed through the muscle until reach MTP
      spot. The patient's reaction indicated a "DEQI" (name given for the vague sensation of
      needle-specific pain) or a "twitch response" (deflagration of a contractile muscle answer in
      the moment that maximum muscle shortening fibers were broken). At this point needle was
      leaved static in situ for 30-60 seconds. After the correct treatment needle was removed and
      the muscle was active stretched.

      Variables studied before and after therapeutic needling were:

        1. Tinnitus annoying as measured by AVS.

        2. Pain magnitude as measured by AVS.

        3. Tinnitus impact on patient's quality of life through THI questionnaire validated for
           Portuguese language.

        4. Cervical pain impact on patient's quality of life through NDI questionnaire validated
           for Portuguese language.

        5. Tinnitus MML through psychoacoustic measures.
    
  