
    
      This prospective observational study was carried out at the Obstetrics and Gynecology
      Department Mansoura University Hospital, and private settings in Mansoura, Egypt, during the
      period from May 2013 to December 2016. Inclusion criteria included women diagnosed with
      primary atonic PPH, during cesarean section when the uterus failed to contract after the
      routine doses of uterotonics. Women and their partners were counseled and signed a consent
      regarding the technique as an alternative to devascularization or hysterectomy. Exclusion
      criteria included patients with placenta previa complete or incomplete centrails, and/or
      placenta accreta. Also one case of atonic PPH, when the uterus was incompressible and failed
      to contract on bimanual compression was excluded from the study, as in our experience these
      cases failed to respond to any type of UCS.

      In this series, immediately after anesthesia, all women received misoprostol 400 mcg (two
      tablets of MisotacR, Adwia Co, 6th October city, Egypt) sublingual, as well as 20 IU of
      oxytocin (Syntocinon, Sanofi Aventais, Egypt) in 50 0-mL lactated Ringer's solution as an
      intravenous infusion, after delivery of the baby and clamping of the umbilical cord. This is
      routine practice for all women undergoing CS in our department.

      After closure of the uterine incision, uterine atony was diagnosed in 108 women when the
      uterus felt soft and flappy, and failed to respond to intermittent fundal massage, the second
      dose of the previously mentioned ecbolics was given. Then, bimanual compression of the uterus
      was attempted for 10 to 15 minutes until the tone of the uterus is regained as well as to
      assess the potential chances of success of the Mansoura-VV uterine compression suture.

      Within 15 minutes of the diagnosis, the uterus was rechecked to identify any bleeding points.
      the investigators performed Mansoura-VV uterine compression suture. The right V was performed
      as follow: (i) 100-cm Vicryl no. 1 was thrown to form two nearly equal parts (each 50 cm) on
      a blunt semicircular 70-mm needle, the curve of the needle was straightened. (ii) The needle
      transfixed the right uterine wall from anterior to posterior, about 2 cm below the
      hysterotomy incision and 3 cm from the (this represents the apex of the V suture). (iii)
      after transfixation, the Vicryl was divided thus two threads from one transfixation each
      50-cm threads penetrated the lower uterine segment; medial (M) and lateral (L) threads, each
      has anterior (aL and aM) and posterior (pL and pM) ends in relation to the uterus (iv) The
      free anterior and posterior ends of the lateral thread (aL and pL) were tied above the fundus
      with three double - throw knots about 3 cm from the right cornual border of the uterus
      forming the lateral limb of the V suture. (v) The free anterior and posterior ends of the
      medial threads (aM and pM) were tied above the fundus 2-3 cm medial to the lateral limb
      completing the V suture . The lead surgeon pulled the suture to provide moderate tension,
      while the assistant surgeon lift the uterus upward while perform a bimanual uterine
      compression to minimize trauma and to achieve or aid compression during the ligation of each
      vertical limb. (vi) using a similar technique, the left V suture was laid on the left side,
      and then the VV suture is completed.

      The vagina was inspected to check for control of bleeding with Mansoura-VV sutures, the
      uterus cannot be stretched. Only one case (1/108) required additional bilateral uterine
      vessels ligation for control of bleeding, the abdomen was closed routinely. Antibiotics were
      given and continued postoperatively for 5 days.
    
  