
    
      Context :

      Listeriosis is a rare, severe foodborne infection caused by the bacterium Listeria
      monocytogenes (Lm). It manifests as septicemia, central nervous system (CNS) infection and
      maternal-fetal (MF) infection. Its associated overall mortality is very high, above of 30%. A
      better knowledge on the factors involved in its occurrence and in clinical manifestations is
      therefore needed to improve outcome. Surveillance of human listeriosis in France relies on
      the mandatory reporting of cases and the submission of the corresponding Lm strains to the
      National Reference Centre for Listeria (NRCL).

      A number of acquired risk factors for listeriosis have been identified, such as pregnancy,
      age, cirrhosis, renal insufficiency, diabetes, cancer, HIV infection, transplantation and
      immunosuppressive therapies. If listeriosis is rare, the exposure to Lm is universal. The
      high prevalence of known risk factors in the general population and the low occurrence of the
      disease suggest that unknown parameters, such as host genetic factors, contribute to the
      susceptibility to listeriosis. This is supported by animal studies, which have shown that
      genes involved in innate and cell-based immunity are critical to control listeriosis.
      However, no genetic study on host susceptibility to listeriosis in humans has been performed
      so far, in the absence of prospective collection of patients' samples.

      Listeriosis diagnosis is based on Lm culture from clinical samples. This specific method
      lacks sensitivity, and the usefulness of PCR or serological assays have not been assessed in
      prospective case-control studies. Biomarkers are useful tools to diagnose infections and
      assess their severity, but their contribution to listeriosis diagnosis and prognosis has not
      been evaluated.

      The Multicentric Observational NAtional Analysis of Listeriosis and Listeria (MONALISA), a
      national case-control prospective study on listeriosis, was launched in 2009. It enrolls all
      culture-proven cases declared to the NRCL: clinical and biological data and biological
      samples (plasma, serum, PBMC) are collected at inclusion for each patient. Controls with
      comparable background and presentation are also included. 818 cases have been included (427
      S, 252 CNS and 107 MN) over 3.5 years, along with 456 controls.

      Hypothesis :

        -  host genetic variation plays an important role in determining susceptibility to
           listeriosis and its clinical manifestations. Common host genetic variation in the human
           population may play a role in susceptibility in association with known acquired risk
           factors. Rare variants may also explain severe manifestations of listeriosis, such as
           death, severe persistent neurological impairment and fetal loss, in the absence of risk
           factors.

        -  biomarker patterns can assess and predict infection and infection severity. Immune
           responses may be tracked as a biological signature of invasive listeriosis

        -  biomarkers patterns could hopefully correlate with genotypic characterization as a
           phenotypic reflection of a genetically inadequate / missing link hampering the proper
           coordination of the immune response to Lm.

      Methods :

        -  SNP arrays genotyping of the whole cohort

        -  Whole-exome sequencing of the whole cohort to identify rare variants

        -  Biomarkers identification in serum and plasma of patients and controls by simultaneous
           multi-analyte and metabolomic profiling:

      The cohort is already constituted.

      Expected results :

      Better understanding of major biomedical aspects of listeriosis, namely host genetic
      susceptibility factors and diagnostic/prognostic biomarkers.
    
  