
    
      Urethral strictures affect 1% of men and are rare in women. Most urethral strictures in the
      United States develop in the bulbar section of the urethra which is the section of the
      urethra proximal to the penis but distal to the prostate. A common method of surgical
      correction is to longitudinally open the strictured urethra and augment its width by the
      addition of a graft of buccal mucosa taken from the oral cavity. The urethrotomy for
      placement of the graft can be made along the superficial (ventral) or deep (dorsal) side of
      the urethra. The graft bed dorsally is the tunica albuginea of the corporal bodies (the
      capsule around the erectile bodies of the penis) whereas ventrally it is the corpus
      spongiosum of the urethra (the vascular layer that surrounds the urethra).

      Ventral buccal graft onlay first described by Morey and McAninch in 1996, involves a midline
      perineal incision and retraction of the bulbo-spongiosum muscle downward to expose the
      ventral urethral surface. The corpus spongiosum is incised longitudinally to expose the
      urethral lumen and the incision is extended proximal and distal to the established stricture.
      The buccal mucosa graft is harvested and trimmed to the length and width of the urethrotomy
      and the graft is sutured at the proximal and distal apices and a running suture at the
      lateral margins to establish a tight anastomosis. Ventral placement allows for limited
      urethral mobilization and easy access but there is concern about higher likelihood of
      diverticulum formation and development of associated complications such as post-void
      dribbling and ejaculatory dysfunction. In addition, many surgeons have concern about graft
      contraction as spread-fixating the graft is not possible.

      Dorsal buccal graft onlay, first described by Barbagli in 1996, also involves a midline
      perineal incision. The bulbo-cavernosum and corpora cavernosum are dissected from the bulbar
      urethra allowing for complete mobilization of the urethra. The urethra is rotated 180 degrees
      to allow for dorsal access and an incision is made on the dorsal urethra proximal and distal
      to the stricture location. The buccal graft is harvested and trimmed to the appropriate size
      of the urethrotomy and spread on the overlying tunica albuginea of the corporal bodies. The
      right mucosal margin of the urethra is sutured to the right margin of the buccal graft and
      the corporal bodies. The urethra is rotated back to allow for suturing of the left mucosal
      margin to the left margin of the buccal graft and corporal bodies, essentially covering the
      entire urethral plate. Dorsal placement potentially allows for a more stable vascular bed for
      graft sustainability and less spongiosal bleeding, but requires a greater urethral
      mobilization and longer operative times. The technical challenge of graft placement in a
      dorsal location is much greater than placement ventrally. Potential problems with dorsal
      placement include damage to the male external urinary sphincter, which is dorsally located,
      and anastomotic leakage and perineal abscess in the immediate post-operative period.

      There are multiple studies that attempt to compare the outcomes of ventral versus dorsal
      graft placement for bulbar urethroplasty, but these studies rely on case series and
      retrospective data. Andrich and Mundy reported better outcomes with dorsal buccal placement,
      but statistical significance was not formally established. Both Barbagli and Figler were
      unable to demonstrate superiority of either ventral or dorsal buccal graft placement.
      Currently there is no high level of definitive randomized evidence to suggest superiority of
      either ventral or dorsal buccal placement in terms of patient outcomes and complications. In
      fact, the best level of evidence is VI (small case series) and dorsal vs. ventral placement
      is largely dependent on individual clinical judgment and comfort level with each procedure.

      One factor contributing to the inability to detect a difference between dorsal vs. ventral
      graft placement has been the liberal definition of success that leads to uniformly high
      success rates across studies (85-95%) and, hence, studies that are underpowered to detect a
      difference in success rates. In these studies, the definition of success has typically been
      "need for repeat surgery". Such a definition suffers from significant detection bias in that
      (1) subclinical stricture recurrences may go undetected if they are not screened for; and (2)
      surgeon or patient reluctance to undergo a repeat surgery may lead to false negatives. When
      patients are rigorously followed with endoscopic inspection of the area of surgery with
      cystoscopy, narrowing is often identified at a much higher rate than "need for repeat
      surgery". For instance, in a preliminary review of our retrospective data using surveillance
      cystoscopy, the investigators detected narrowing in 46% of ventral buccal patients and
      approximately 18% of dorsal buccal patients. This more strict definition of success and the
      lower success rates that follow may allow for detection of a clinically meaningful difference
      in the success rate with the two procedures in a reasonably-sized clinical trial.

      The investigators plan a randomized comparison of dorsally-placed vs. ventrally-placed buccal
      mucosa graft in men undergoing buccal graft urethroplasty for bulbar urethra stricture. A
      collaborative multi-institutional study deriving data from the Trauma and Urologic
      Reconstruction Network of Surgeons, a network of twelve reconstructive urology centers in the
      United States, would allow the investigators to achieve the required sample size within 2-3
      years. The results of this study will ultimately advance research efforts in urethral
      stricture management and provide substantial evidence for utilization of ventral versus
      dorsal buccal placement for reconstructive urologists.
    
  