
    
      Premature ovarian failure is a loss of normal function before age 40, leading to infertility
      and hypoestrogenism. While POI is sometimes called premature menopause, it is not the same
      thing as menopause. Women with POI may still have occasional irregular periods and may even
      occasionally achieve a pregnancy. Symptoms of POI include: irregular menses or amenorrhea,
      infertility, hypoestrogenic symptoms and decreased libido. POI may be caused by Chromosomal
      defects such as mosaic Turner's syndrome, exposure to toxins (chemotherapy or radiation),
      autoimmunity, genetic factors (FMR1) and other unknown factors.

      Autologous Platelet Rich Plasma (A-PRP) is plasma with a concentration of platelets above the
      blood baseline. A-PRP is developed from autologous blood. Within A-PRP, the concentration of
      platelets delivers an increased number of growth factors. In this study A-PRP will be
      prepared using Regen Lab PRP Kit which is approved by US-FDA for preparation of PRP.

      PRP is becoming widely used in a variety of medical procedures seeking tissue remodeling
      and/or healing as an intervention. To date, applications in orthopedics, wound healing,
      dermatology and plastic surgery have gained general acceptance, primarily as the role of
      platelets and their activation in tissue repair and recovery has become better understood at
      a cellular and molecular level. This knowledge base provides a foundation for the present
      study because of the ready availability of FDA-approved kits for autologous PRP preparations
      and the recognition that the aging ovary acquires tissue pathologies in the form of wound
      healing and fibrosis as a result of repeat ovulations over the reproductive lifespan of
      women. Since PRP is an autologous blood product, and is widely used via injection into
      various organs and tissues, safety concerns are minimal.

      This study will involve only adult women with a diagnosis of POI. Consenting participants
      will receive injections of autologous Platelet RIch Plasma (A-PRP) in one randomly selected
      ovary under ultrasound guidance performed after induction of IV sedation. Randomization will
      determine whether the right or left ovary will be treated. The result of randomization will
      not be recorded in the participants clinical chart, but will be maintained in the research
      database with blinding to all clinical participants. The physician performing the A-PRP
      administration will not perform post procedure follow-up of those patients. In case of a
      complication, possibly related to treatment, the case will be unblinded.

      The study will be powered to detect a 20% response in the treated ovary (every patient's 2nd
      ovary will serve as control). This will require 68 ovaries and 34 patients. The study, thus,
      does not involve randomization of patients because each patient's second ovary functions as
      control ovary, although which ovary will receive treatment in a given patient will be
      determined by computer randomization.
    
  