
    
      Surgical resection is the first choice treatment for patients with non-small-cell lung
      cancer. Although improvements of surgical techniques have reduced the incidence of
      complications, the long-term survival rate of postoperative patient is far from optimal.
      Cancer metastasis and recurrence are the main reasons that lead to long-term postoperative
      death. It is unavoidable that some cancer cells will be disseminated into the blood
      circulation or the lymphatic systems during surgery. The development of metastasis and
      recurrence are dependent on the balance between the immune function of the body and the
      cancer-promoting factors during the perioperative period.

      Studies showed that surgical stress inhibits the cytotoxic effects of natural killer cells
      and the activity of T cells, and thus leads to immunosuppression of the body. Furthermore,
      perioperative management such as anesthetic techniques, anesthetics and related drugs, blood
      transfusion and hypothermia can also affect immune function. For example, studies showed that
      inhalational anesthetics and opioids aggravate immunosuppression, and may lead to worse
      outcome; whereas regional anesthesia and non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs relieve
      immunosuppression, and thus may improve outcome. Glucocorticoids (mainly dexamethasone) are
      frequently used for prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting. A recent retrospective
      study showed that, for patients undergoing surgery for pancreatic cancer, perioperative use
      of dexamethasone was associated with improved long-term survival. However, prospective
      randomized controlled trials are still lacking to demonstrate the relationship between
      perioperative management and long-term outcome in cancer patients.

      A recent retrospective cohort study of the applicants recruited 588 patients after surgery
      for non-small-cell lung cancer and performed a postoperative follow-up for a medium of 5.2
      years. After adjusting the confounding factors with multivariate logistic regression model,
      perioperative use of dexamethasone (medium dose 10 mg, for prevention of postoperative nausea
      and vomiting) was associated with prolonged survival (HR 0.70, 95% CI 0.54-0.89; P = 0.004);
      perioperative use of flurbiprofen axetil (medium dose 200 mg, for postoperative analgesia)
      was also associated with a slightly longer survival but not statistically significant (HR
      0.81, 95% CI 0.63-1.03; P = 0.083). Further analysis showed that combined administration of
      dexamethasone and flurbiprofen axetil had additive effect in prolonging survival (compared to
      no use of both: adjusted HR 0.57, 95% CI 0.38-0.84, P = 0.005).

      The investigators hypothesize that, for patients undergoing surgery for non-small-cell lung
      cancer, perioperative administration of dexamethasone and flurbiprofen axetil may improve
      long-term survival. However, evidences from randomized controlled trials are still lacking in
      this aspect.
    
  