
    
      This study is a two arm parallel allocation of participants to either the intervention or
      control group will be utilized for a one year trial.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to stand on a low magnitude, high frequency mechanical
      stimulation device ("vibrating") platform for 10 minutes twice daily for one year.
      Participants in the control arm will stand on a placebo device.

      This study will evaluate the effects of low magnitude, high frequency stimulus on bone
      mineral content(BMC), bone mineral density (BMD), and bone strength in childhood cancer
      survivors who present with BMD values 1.0 or more standard deviations below the mean for
      their age and gender for the lumbar or whole body. This study will evaluate the effects of
      low magnitude, high frequency stimulus on markers of bone turnover in childhood cancer
      survivors who present with BMD values 1.0 or more standard deviations below the mean for
      their age and gender for the lumbar or whole body.

      At baseline participants will have evaluations to determine bone mineral content and bone
      mineral density (Dual X-ray Absorptiometry and Qualitative Computed Tomography) and a blood
      sample collected to measure biomarkers of bone turnover, hormonal status and Vitamin D
      metabolism. Anthropometrics and tanner stage will be obtained at baseline, 3 months, 6
      months, 9 and 12 months. A physical activity monitor will be worn for a 7 day period and a
      food frequency questionnaire will be completed. Tibial length will be measured. Participants
      have a blood sample collected either at home or at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital
      (SJCRH) every 3 months during the study to measure biomarkers of bone turnover, hormonal
      status and Vitamin D metabolism, anthropometrics and tanner stage, physical activity monitor
      and food frequency questionnaire. All measurements and evaluations required at baseline will
      be repeated at the completion of study visit.
    
  