
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Assess the percentage of patients with minimal residual disease (MRD) negative complete
      remission (CR) (MRD-CR) or complete remission with incomplete count recovery (MRD-CRi) with
      azacitadine (AZA) + venetoclax (VEN) with pembrolizumab during the first 6 cycles and compare
      to control arm.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the investigator-assessed rates of CR/CRi/partial remission (PR)/morphological
      leukemia free state (MLFS) as defined per the modified International Working Group (IWG) 2003
      response criteria with AZA + VEN with pembrolizumab, as well as rates of MRD negative MLFS.

      II. Rates of complete remission with partial count recovery (CRh) and hematologic improvement
      (HI) to red blood cells and platelets.

      III. Assess time to MRD negativity and duration of MRD negative state, event free survival
      (EFS), relapse free survival (RFS), calculated as the time from initial treatment to either
      disease relapse or death, duration of response (DOR, defined as the time from first CR/CRi to
      the date of the first documented relapse or death, whichever occurs first) and overall
      survival (OS).

      IV. Assess the proportion of patients who develop severe toxicity.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. MRD assessment by duplex sequencing (DS) and comparing DS and multiparameter flow
      cytometry for MRD detection as an exploratory biomarker.

      II. Assessment of immune-checkpoint expression and dynamic change of immune cell subsets in
      response to the combination of checkpoint-inhibition and backbone combination in acute
      myeloid leukemia (AML).

      III. High-throughput sequencing of the T-cell receptor (TCR) Vb CDR3 regions on ﬂow
      cytometrically sorted t-cell subsets to assess the effect of immunotherapy on the diversity
      of the t-cell repertoire and assess for correlation to clinical outcomes.

      IV. Investigation of protein signatures and ribonucleic acid (RNA) signatures associated with
      response and efficacy using O-link cytokine panel and RNA-sequencing (seq), respectively.

      V. Determination of mutational load by whole exome sequencing to assess for correlation with
      clinical outcomes, immune infiltrating profile, and T cell repertoire diversity and
      clonality.

      VI. Profiling of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation patterns before and after treatment
      to assess for correlation to response to treatment.

      VII. Correlate gut microbiome at baseline and changes in the microbiome with clinical
      response, both in standard chemotherapy and immunotherapy/chemotherapy therapy settings.

      VIII. MRD assessment using duplex sequencing strategy for circulating cell-free tumor DNA and
      correlation with long-term outcomes.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I (AZA + VEN):

      INDUCTION THERAPY PHASE: Patients receive azacitadine intravenously (IV) over 10-40 minutes
      or subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-7 and venetoclax orally (PO) on days 1-28 of cycle 1 and
      days 1-21 or 1-28 of subsequent cycles. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY PHASE: Patients receive azacitadine IV over 10-40 minutes or SC on days
      1-7 and venetoclax PO on days 1-28 of cycle 1 and days 1-21 or 1-28 of subsequent cycles.
      Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 3 years in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. After completion of 24 cycles, patients who respond to treatment or
      have stable disease (SD) may continue treatment per physician discretion.

      ARM II (AZA + VEN + PEMBROLIZUMAB):

      INDUCTION THERAPY PHASE: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 8 of cycle
      1 and every 3 weeks in cycle 2-6, azacitadine IV over 10-40 minutes or SC on days 1-7, and
      venetoclax PO on days 1-28 of cycle 1 and days 1-21 or 1-28 of subsequent cycles. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY PHASE: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 8 of
      cycle 1 and every 3 weeks in cycle 2-6, azacitadine IV over 10-40 minutes or SC on days 1-7,
      and venetoclax PO on days 1-28 of cycle 1 and days 1-21 or 1-28 of subsequent cycles.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 24 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. After completion of 24 cycles, patients who respond to treatment or
      have SD may continue treatment with azacitadine and venetoclax per physician discretion.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 3
      years.
    
  