
    
      Purpose

      To assess the efficacy and safety of intravenous 5% albumin infusions in severe Postural
      Orthostatic Tachycardia Syndrome (POTS).

      Hypothesis

      Periodic albumin infusions will be effective in treating patients with severe Postural
      Orthostatic Tachycardia Syndrome (POTS)

      Justification

      POTS is characterized by an excessive increase in heart rate and light-headedness on assuming
      an upright posture, standing or sitting that at times culminates in syncope. Most symptoms of
      POTS result from marked cardiovascular deconditioning and activation of sympathetic responses
      due to cerebral hypoperfusion. Plasma volume expanding therapies are one of the mainstays of
      treatment. Saline infusions in patients with severe orthostatic intolerance lead to rapid but
      transient symptomatic improvement lasting several hours. Human albumin infusions are used for
      plasma volume replacement/expansion and have been shown to significantly improve cerebral
      blood flow. A small subset of patients suffering from severe POTS have shown robust response
      to weekly albumin therapy, supporting the investigator's hypothesis that periodic albumin
      infusions will provide significant and sustained symptomatic relief to patients with severe
      POTS. This would increase their orthostatic tolerance and improve functional capacity without
      the limitations and side effects associated with other therapies.

      Objectives

      Primary Objective:

      Measured change in the severity of orthostatic intolerance assessed by the Orthostatic
      Symptom Grading Scale (OSGS) scores at 4 weeks in each arm of the study.

      Secondary Objectives:

      Measured changes in Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System, Health
      Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ -20) from baseline to end of study.

      Degree of improvement from baseline in the severity of tachycardia and pulse pressure on a
      10-minute HUTT.

      Exercise Testing: Change in maximal exercise capacity of the patients from baseline using
      peak oxygen consumption (VO2).

      Research Method/Procedures

      Study Duration: 2 years

      Subject Duration: 16 weeks; 15 visits (+2 optional)

      This is a pilot study with a randomized double blind, controlled, and cross over design.

      Fifteen patients with severe neuropathic form of primary POTS will be enrolled from the
      University of Alberta Hospital (UAH) Autonomic Clinic during the two-year study period.

      Eligible patients will receive weekly intravenous infusions of 5% Albumin or Saline in a
      double blinded fashion for 4 weeks and will crossover to the other infusion for 4 weeks after
      an intervening 4-week washout period.

      The participants will be required to maintain a daily diary of their symptoms during the
      screening, the study and washout periods. Any possible adverse effects as the result of
      infusions will be documented.

      Outcome measures will be quantified using validated symptom scales at the end of each study
      period and the percentage reduction of tachycardia from baseline on tilt table test done
      within three days of completion of each study arm.

      Subjects will be randomized to one of two treatment arms: one arm will receive 5% albumin at
      a dose of 1 gm/kg to be given weekly for 4 weeks and the other arm will receive an equal
      amount on a volume basis of Saline weekly for 4 weeks. At the end of this treatment period
      the subjects will undergo a 4-week washout period followed by opposite treatment arm from the
      first study period. In this protocol each patient will serve as their own control.

      Study Procedures

        1. Physical/Neurologic Examination

           All patients will undergo detailed a physical/neurological examination and laboratory
           testing at the time of enrolment and during the study.

        2. Cardiac Workup

           All participants will have had an ECG and an echocardiogram. If not one will be done
           prior to enrolment.

        3. Autonomic Testing

      Patients will also undergo detailed autonomic testing as per Mayo Clinic Protocols at
      baseline, which will include the following tests:

      i. Quantitative Sudomotor Axon Reflex Test (Sweat testing) will be done to rule out autonomic
      failure as a cause of orthostatic intolerance. An abnormal sweat test in the foot/leg is seen
      in neuropathic form of POTS and suggest postganglionic sympathetic Sudomotor involvement.
      Sweat responses will be recorded from four consistent sites (left forearm, proximal lateral
      leg, medial distal leg, and proximal foot). Test interpretation will involve comparison of
      observed sweat volumes (in nl/min) with age- and gender-based norms.

      ii. Cardiovagal (Parasympathetic) Testing: Parasympathetic (cardiovagal) function will be
      assessed by measuring heart rate variability (HRV) during deep breathing (DB), Valsalva
      Maneuver (VM) and HUTT and the responses compared to age based normal. Briefly, during the DB
      test the patient will perform deep inspirations and expirations paced to an oscillating light
      emitting diode (LED). Beat-to-beat R-R intervals will be recorded during each effort and the
      mean HRV range determined by averaging the largest R-R differences for five consecutive
      cycles. During the VM, patients will blow into a tube at a constant pressure for 15 seconds
      while supine. Valsalva ratio (VR) will be calculated by dividing the maximum HR by lowest HR
      occurring within 40 seconds after VM. Finally, during HUTT the 30:15 ratio will be calculated
      by dividing R-R interval at 30 secs to the R-R interval at 15 secs while inclined.

      iii. HUTT will be done at baseline for confirmation of diagnosis and to assess severity of
      POTS i.e. orthostatic tachycardia, pulse pressure reduction, neurocardiogenic syncope, and
      within three days of the end of each arm of the study. Heart rate will be recorded
      continuously with a 3-lead ECG. After baseline recording for 2-5 minutes, patients will be
      tilted to an angle of 70 degrees for 10 minutes after which patients will be reclined back to
      supine position for another 5 minutes. The blood pressures will be manually recorded from the
      opposite arm at 30 seconds, 1 minute, 2 minute, 5 minute, 7 minute and 10 minutes. Symptoms
      and signs of presyncope will be monitored and recorded throughout the duration of test. HUTT
      will also be performed at the end of each phase and at end of study (for a study total of
      four times) to assess efficacy.

      d. Exercise Tolerance:

      The physical/exercise endurance of the study subjects will be assessed by an exercise
      physiologist/rehabilitation specialist at baseline and the end to study to assess the effect
      of intervention on the participants' physical abilities. VO2max will be calculated using
      standard protocols - measured VO2max (ml/kg/minute) divided by predicted VO2max multiplied by
      100.

      e. Laboratory Investigations

      Laboratory Investigations will be performed during the study visits as shown:

      Serum albumin, electrolytes, complete blood count (CBC), d-dimer levels at baseline and every
      two weeks (to assess hemolysis, volume overload etc.) Supine and standing plasma
      catecholamine levels at baseline and end of study (to assess sympathetic tone) 24-hour
      urinary sodium excretion at baseline, mid-point (2weeks) and end of each arm.

      - Baseline serum pregnancy test in women.

      f. Patient Diaries

      Patients will be asked to maintain a daily diary of their symptoms using the OSGS and PHAQ
      -20 scales, and sleep diaries during the screening and the study periods. Patients will
      record a twice-daily dairy of supine and orthostatic blood pressures to assess the incidence
      of any orthostatic hypertension using provided blood pressure monitors. Any possible adverse
      effects associated with albumin infusions as reported by the study participants or infusion
      nurses will be noted.

      Plan for Data Analysis

      Data analysis will be procured through collaboration with Epidemiology Coordinating and
      Research Centre (EPICORE) at University of Alberta.

      The null hypothesis is that the primary outcome measure i.e. OSGS scores at baseline would
      not be statistically different at the end of study period in the active arm of the study.

      For the primary statistical analysis, we will use a paired t-test to compare the OSGS scores
      at baseline and at 4 weeks in each arm of the study. Secondary analyses will be performed
      with paired t-test comparing the scores on HAQ-20 scales and degree of tachycardia at same
      time points. Repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be used to compare
      functional and sleep scores in patients' diaries over the study period. Probability values
      <.05 will be considered statistically significant, and all tests will be 2-tailed.

      Sample size calculation: Number of subjects needed for this study with a power of 0.8, an
      effect size of 0.7 (from pilot data) and a significance level of .05 is 15. With an estimated
      dropout rate of 15% (2 patients) the total number of subjects required is 17.

      Study Outcome/Duration Rationale: The duration of each arm of the study and outcome measures
      were determined based on the following observations:

        1. Preliminary results indicate that patients start showing symptomatic improvement within
           few weeks of albumin infusions. The four-week duration for each study arm should be able
           to discern the differences in clinical benefit between the two infusions.

        2. Considering the albumin half-life, a four-week washout period week should allow complete
           return to baseline without any residual effects from the preceding infusion.

        3. Many studies in POTS have used transient changes in cardiovascular parameters i.e.
           tachycardia, stroke volume etc. immediately after administration of the study drug as
           surrogate markers of improvement in POTS. These biological markers alone do not
           necessarily reflect clinical benefit, are one-dimensional and are confounded by a number
           of physiologic variables. Nevertheless, the degree of improvement in orthostatic
           tachycardia on tilt table testing has been included as a secondary outcome measure.

        4. The primary and secondary end points are geared towards global assessment that
           incorporate the patients' symptoms and impact of intervention on overall functional
           scores and orthostatic intolerance over a sustained period. These are unarguably more
           robust and reflective of the true clinical status.
    
  