
    
      Subjects will be enrolled in the study over a period of 12 months beginning at the time of
      IRB approval or until a complete data set is collected on 50 subjects. This will be a
      longitudinal study following individual patients for six months and data collection for all
      patients will continue for a total of 18 months. Patients will be enrolled during their first
      visit. Additionally, at the first visit for each patient, an EDSS score will be measured, app
      training performed, and the first app-obtained measurements entered. The patients will be
      contacted by the research assistant to complete the app tasks on a weekly basis. Clinical
      EDSS scores will be measured in the clinic at 3 month and 6 month follow-up appointments
      Research personnel at the Clinical Site will screen for eligible subjects and obtain informed
      consent. The data collected from the application will continue to be sent to the sponsor.

      The purpose of the BeCare App is to replicate the clinically-derived EDSS score. Because the
      app can be used independently by the patients at more frequent intervals, use of the app may
      lead to earlier detection of a decline in function than would be possible by clinic
      evaluations; the app would measure function utilizing data that closely parallels the
      clinically obtained EDSS score. In the clinic it may take up to two years before someone is
      noted to have progressive features. The implication of using the BeCare MS App is earlier
      intervention with switching to more effective Disease Modifying Treatment. Further, as the
      BeCare App has a cognitive assessment component not routinely performed during follow-up
      clinical visits, the need for earlier intervention may result in more effective therapy and,
      therefore, slowed disease progression.

      The EDSS is scored by first assessing Human Functional systems (FS) scores. These systems
      include Sensory, Bowel& Bladder, Cerebral, Ambulation and Visual. Function System Scores
      correspond to the amount of observed disability in that system. Low scores 0 represent no
      disability in that system, to a maximum score representing high disability.

      Clinicians then assess EDSS scores from these Functional System scores (FS) according to
      their experience with patients. The EDSS is scored according to the following:

      0 Normal neurological exam, no disability in any FS 1.0 No disability, minimal signs in one
      FS 1.5 No disability, minimal signs in more than one FS 2.0 Minimal disability in one FS 2.5
      Mild disability in one FS or minimal disability in two FS 3.0 Moderate disability in one FS,
      or mild disability in three or four FS. No impairment to walking 3.5 Moderate disability in
      one FS and more than minimal disability in several others. No impairment to walking 4.0
      Significant disability but self-sufficient and up and about some 12 hours a day. Able to walk
      without aid or rest for 500m 4.5 Significant disability but up and about much of the day,
      able to work a full day, may otherwise have some limitation of full activity or require
      minimal assistance. Able to walk without aid or rest for 300m 5.0 Disability severe enough to
      impair full daily activities and ability to work a full day without special provisions. Able
      to walk without aid or rest for 200m 5.5 Disability severe enough to preclude full daily
      activities. Able to walk without aid or rest for 100m 6.0 Requires a walking aid - cane,
      crutch, etc. - to walk about 100m with or without resting 6.5 Requires two walking aids -
      pair of canes, crutches, etc. - to walk about 20m without resting 7.0 Unable to walk beyond
      approximately 5m even with aid. Essentially restricted to wheelchair; though wheels self in
      standard wheelchair and transfers alone. Up and about in wheelchair some 12 hours a day 7.5
      Unable to take more than a few steps. Restricted to wheelchair and may need aid in
      transferring. Can wheel self but cannot carry on in standard wheelchair for a full day and
      may require a motorised wheelchair 8.0 Essentially restricted to bed or chair or pushed in
      wheelchair. May be out of bed itself much of the day. Retains many self-care functions.
      Generally has effective use of arms 8.5 Essentially restricted to bed much of day. Has some
      effective use of arms retains some self-care functions 9.0 Confined to bed. Can still
      communicate and eat 9.5 Confined to bed and totally dependent. Unable to communicate
      effectively or eat/swallow 10.0 Death due to MS
    
  