
    
      Primary Efficacy Objective: To demonstrate faster time to extubation after arrival in the
      cardiothoracic ICU in patients having a CABG who receive Sugammadex 2mg/kg as compared to
      placebo.

      Hypotheses: We hypothesize that the use of Sugammadex for reversal of residual neuromuscular
      blockade in adults undergoing CABG, AVR or CABG/AVR combination surgery in the cardiothoracic
      ICU will significantly decrease the time to extubation.

      Prolonged intubation after cardiac surgery continues to be a common clinical challenge and is
      associated with significant risks and costs(1-5). Despite a Class I recommendation by the
      American College of Cardiology supporting care directed towards early postoperative
      extubation after low to medium risk Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting (CABG) surgeries (6), a
      sizable proportion of patients continue to have a prolonged course of cardiothoracic
      intensive care unit (CTICU) intubation(1). Residual neuromuscular blockade (NMB) continues to
      be one of the key factors leading to prolonged intubation after cardiac surgery(7). It is
      also a significant contributor to postoperative pulmonary and respiratory complications
      including hypoxia, upper airway obstruction; and decreased oxygen saturation - often
      prompting reintubation in critical care units(8-10). Due to the profound effects that
      neuromuscular reversal agents other than Sugammadex have when used in combination with
      muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonists on the autonomic nervous system and patient
      hemodynamics, these traditional reversal drugs are rarely used in the postoperative cardiac
      surgery patient population (11) as opposed to other general surgical cases.

      Sugammadex, a gamma-cyclodextrin drug, rapidly reverses neuromuscular blockade by
      encapsulating the non-depolarizing amino steroids agents(12) and is not associated with
      cardiovascular effects that are commonly seen with traditional NMB reversal agents(13). It
      can also reverse NMB more quickly and predictably than existing agents(14). However, there
      have been sporadic reports of hypotension(15), anaphylaxis(16), elongated a PTT(17) with the
      use of Sugammadex. Additionally, although the FDA currently lists Sugammadex as indicated for
      reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium and vecuronium in adults undergoing
      surgery,(18) its use in the post cardiac surgery setting is limited due to lack of supportive
      data. In this context, the present study aims to test the effectiveness of a pragmatic and
      broadly applicable care pathway for shortening time to extubation among patients in the
      cardiothoracic ICU who have undergone isolated CABG, AVR or CABG/AVR combination procedure.
      The FDA-approved package insert is attached as an appendix to this application.

      Study design: Prospective, randomized, double blind, single center placebo-controlled trial.

      Number of participants: 110 enrolled with assumed randomization of 90 using 1:1 randomization
      between active ingredient (intervention) and control arms, to be assigned randomly using a
      computer generated algorithm.

      Subject Recruitment: Subjects will be consented in the collaborating surgeons offices or in
      pre-admission testing. Every effort will be made to consent subjects prior to day of surgery.
      If a patient is referred or identified any time after those visits, they may be consented in
      the preoperative area.

      Anesthetic management per protocol:For enrolled patients, anesthetic management will be left
      to the discretion of the attending anesthesiology provider. As per our usual clinical
      practice, Rocuronium or vecuronium will be used as the non-depolarizing NMB and that where
      sedation is desired and appropriate, The patients will be transferred to the CTICU intubated
      and on a propofol infusion and/or dexmedetomidine per our usual clinical practice.

      Upon CTICU arrival, determination of continued eligibility will be determined. If the
      decision is made to continue on a fast-track extubation pathway, eligible patients will be
      randomized, investigational pharmacy will be contacted for study drug. 30 minutes after the
      ICU admission, propofol will be discontinued. Precedex may be continued per clinical
      discretion. The participant will be randomized to either receive Sugammadex or placebo. A
      qualitative train-of-four measurement will be obtained. The administration of the study and
      placebo compounds will be performed by CTICU nurses who will receive the drugs in a blinded
      fashion from the departmental research pharmacy. The level of neuromuscular blockade will be
      measured by accelerometer before and after the drug/placebo administration by the research
      coordinator. This will be done by placing a sheet over the limb being tested, so that the
      clinical team remains blinded to the results of the drug /placebo administration. The study
      drug will be supplied by Merck. Patients will be initiated on SIMV with 40% FiO2, tidal
      volumes 8-10 ml/kg and PEEP of 5.

      Ten minutes after the drug administration, if the patient is able to lift head and remains
      hemodynamically stable, the patient will be switched to CPAP mode of ventilation for 30
      minutes. At the end of the CPAP trial tidal volumes, Rapid Shallow Breathing Index (RSBI) and
      ABG will be assessed. The patient will be extubated if he/she is not hypoxic/ hypercarbic,
      has RSBI<100 and has TV >300 cc. The final clinical decision to extubate the patients will be
      taken by the CTICU team.

      If a patient fails the 30 minute CPAP criteria, the ICU intensivist will be immediately
      notified. Every attempt will be made to correct the underlying cause of CPAP failure, and a
      prompt reassessment will be made as deemed appropriate by the intensivist to reattempt CPAP
      versus continuing controlled mechanical ventilation.

      It is estimated conservatively that the study personnel will randomize 3 patients per week
      allowing for data collection to be completed within 1 year of study commencement. Data
      analysis and dissemination of findings will be conducted over the subsequent 6 months by the
      study institution investigators per the publication plan below.

      Blinded analyses of the data will be performed by the study investigators along with the
      departmental statistician in the Department of Anesthesiology at the Yale School of Medicine.

      Variables/Time Points of Interest: The primary outcome is the time to extubation, which will
      be the duration from arrival to the ICU to the extubation time. Participants' blood pressure,
      heart rate, and chest tube output will be tracked from arrival to the CTICU until extubation
      per ICU protocol.

      Statistical Methods:Baseline comparability. We expect that the randomization process will
      produce reasonably comparable groups. However, the adequacy of the randomization will be
      assessed by comparing the distribution of baseline demographic and clinical characteristics
      among the intervention groups. Comparability for continuous variables will be examined
      graphically and by summary statistics (means, medians, quartiles, etc.). Categorical
      variables will be examined by calculating frequency distributions.

      Proposed statistical test/analysis: Positively skewed variables will be log-transformed prior
      to hypothesis testing. For the primary outcome, a two-sided Student's t-test will be used to
      compare the time to extubation between the two groups. If necessary, covariate adjustment
      will be made using the multiple linear regression analysis method. Differences between means
      and 95% confidence intervals will be estimated to describe the magnitude of intervention
      difference between the two groups. As part of sensitivity analyses, the time-to-extubation
      outcome will be also analyzed by the Cox regression model. To compare the categorical adverse
      events between two groups, chi-square test or Fisher's exact test will be used.

      Missing Data: Prevention is the most obvious and effective manner to control bias and loss of
      power from missing data. Therefore, several strategies (e.g., timely data entry and daily
      missing data report) will be imposed to limit the likelihood that missing data will occur
      during this study. This protocol will follow the intention to treat principle, requiring
      follow-up of all subjects randomized regardless of the actual treatment received.

      Power analysis: Our 'in-house' historical data (n = 73) showed that after excluding outliers
      greater than the 80th percentile, patients undergoing isolated CABG demonstrated a mean of
      8.39 hours to extubation (SD 2.89). Although we anticipate a Hawthorne effect demonstrating
      reduced time to extubation in both the active and placebo arms of the present study, we have
      conservatively chosen to maintain power based on historical data. We therefore estimate that
      45 subjects per group will give us 90% power to detect a clinically relevant effect size of
      2-hours difference between active and placebo groups at an alpha value of 0.05 using a
      two-sided two-sample t-test. To allow for post consent, pre-randomization study drop out, we
      will aim to enroll a total of 110 (90 + 20 = 110) subjects.

      Per-protocol Sensitivity Analysis: In parallel with the primary analysis, if exclusions above
      occur post randomization but prior to drug administration, the investigators will conduct a
      parallel "per-protocol" sensitivity analysis.

      Drug supplies will be supplied by the sponsor.

      Adverse Experience Reporting: Throughout the duration of the study, researchers will adhere
      to good clinical practice and the guidelines of the institution. Patient vitals will be
      continuously monitored during and after the administration of the test drug. A data and
      safety monitoring board (DSMB) consisting of the head nurse and a senior critical care staff
      will meet monthly to discuss any serious events. Any incidence of anaphylaxis or unexplained
      hypotension requiring initiation of pressors or cardiac pacing within 5 minutes of drug
      administration will be reported an evaluated. Increases in chest tube output considered
      clinically significant by the critical care team will be noted. Any of these adverse events
      will trigger an analysis by the DSMB. If the DSMB determines that study drug may be causing
      an increase in adverse events, the study will be suspended until the DSMB is able to fully
      review the events and make a recommendation in consultation with the Yale Human
      Investigations Committee. The local Merck research representative will also be notified about
      the events. If the data monitoring board and/or institutional review board (IRB) view that
      the study is unsafe, the study will be discontinued.

      Specific Safety Events to Be Reported During Manuscript Preparation: For manuscript
      preparation, the rates of hypotension, anaphylaxis, and bleeding (i.e. Chest Tube output)
      will be reported and compared between active and placebo groups.
    
  