
    
      XLH rickets is a rare inherited disorder in which the bones become painfully soft and bend
      easily because of a phosphate deficiency. This genetic defect causes the kidneys to allow
      excretion of an inappropriately high amount of phosphate into the urine. The kidneys are also
      unable to convert vitamin D into a form usable by the body, resulting in inadequate amounts
      of active vitamin D. Because vitamin D is needed to absorb calcium and phosphate from the
      intestine, this deficiency further reduces phosphate levels. Without the sufficient phosphate
      needed for normal bone growth, individuals with XLH rickets typically develop skeletal
      malformations, bone pain, and abnormally bowed legs. Hyperparathyroidism, a condition in
      which the parathyroid glands excrete excess amounts of PTH, also occurs frequently in
      individuals with XLH rickets, and may play a significant role in the skeletal complications
      associated with XLH rickets. The purpose of this study is to determine the effectiveness of
      paricalcitol in lowering PTH levels and reducing disease symptoms in individuals with XLH
      rickets.

      This study will last 12 months. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either
      paricalcitol or placebo, taken in the form of two pills daily for the duration of the study.
      During a baseline 3-day inpatient hospital stay, participants will undergo a physical exam, a
      cardiac ultrasound, a bone scan, blood collection, and a radiographic skeletal survey. The
      skeletal survey will include x-rays of various body parts. Participants who are 18 years or
      younger will not undergo the radiographic skeletal survey. Study visits for all participants
      will occur every 2 months until the end of the study. These visits will include a physical
      exam, review of disease symptoms, blood and urine collection, and a check of medication
      compliance.
    
  