
    
      With an estimated 5.6 million people living with HIV in South Africa, the AIDS epidemic has
      led to a large number of orphaned or otherwise vulnerable children (OVC) and families. Both
      psychosocial challenges and economic hardship are disproportionately common in homes where an
      orphan or HIV-infected adult resides. OVC caregivers may suffer emotional distress, have
      limited social support and experience family discord. Research reports a heightened risk of
      mental health problems among OVC caregivers, including grandparents and HIV positive parents.
      Addressing the needs of OVC caregivers is integral to a comprehensive, family-based approach.
      OVC programming principles therefore emphasize the importance of interventions that endeavor
      to enhance the psychosocial well-being and caregiving capacity of OVC guardians.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the impact of Future Families Care Worker home
      visiting program. Future Families is a South African non-government organization working in
      six townships located within the greater Tshwane area (also known as Pretoria) of South
      Africa. Future Families trains and mobilizes Care Workers from the local community to provide
      biweekly home visits to OVC households to offer caregivers and children information,
      psychosocial support, and encourage awareness and accessing of health and social services.

      Future Families will identify an approximate 500 eligible beneficiaries families between
      May-July 2014. These families are randomly assigned to receive a Care Worker beginning in
      August 2014 or approximately 12 months later following the second survey. Random assignment
      will be accomplished using computer software designed for random allocation of subjects to
      groups, and interviewers will be blind to individuals' group assignments. Both groups of
      newly-enrolled beneficiaries will be offered homework assistance classes at a Future Families
      facility, to ensure that even the control group receives some benefit from enrolment.

      In each of these homes, data will be collected from the adult caregiver, the adult in the
      home who has primary responsibility for the care of residing children in June-July 2014 and
      again in November 2015 (following an approximate one year of service delivery). Further, we
      also obtained data from 282 current adult caregiver beneficiaries from within the same
      communities who have been enrolled in the program for at least one year, to facilitate an
      immediate post-test assessment, comparing the wellbeing of these current beneficiaries with
      newly enrolled beneficiaries. The post-test is designed to provide insight into potential
      impact of past efforts as well as potential areas for improvement. This information is
      particularly useful at the outset of the evaluation as it can inform and direct program
      implementation to address gaps while bolstering areas of success.
    
  