
    
      To answer the questions raised in the primary and secondary endpoints, a biological
      collection (serum, plasma, DNA, RNA, mono-nucleated cells and urine) and a collection of
      detailed data by the mean of a questionnaire (demographic, clinical, lifestyle, professional
      exposure to the virus, COVID-19 infection with detailed symptoms and complications) during
      the serological screening for SARS-CoV-2 of hospital agents (medical and non-medical staff)
      of the Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Paris (Paris, France) will be carried out. 4000
      professionals in 5 hospitals of the Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Paris. As part of the
      research, the anti SRAS-CoV-2 serology will be monitored 6 months (M6) and 12 months (M12)
      after the initial serology and a brief questionnaire (update regarding treatments,
      co-morbidities, and COVID-19 infection) will be fulfilled at these two time points. Of note,
      if the inclusion could not be performed during the initial serological screening, the
      professional will be recalled to be included at M6.

      Statistical analysis: The analysis of the determinants independently associated with
      symptomatic COVID + status will be carried out by uni- and multivariate logistic regression.
      The internal validation will be carried out by methods of draw with discount (bootstrap). The
      performance of the model will include calibration (graphical method) and discrimination
      (AUC). The biomarker study will include the study of the association with COVID + symptomatic
      versus asymptomatic status by univariate then multivariate analyzes (logistic regression)
      including clinical variables. The additional value of biomarkers will be studied by comparing
      the discriminating power of clinical models with and without the new biomarker. Finally, the
      study of the heterogeneity of COVID + symptomatic and asymptomatic patients will be carried
      out by an unsupervised analysis of Machine Learning known as archetypes.
    
  