
    
      Electromagnetic navigation bronchoscopy has been used for more than a decade to access
      peripheral and central parenchymal lung lesions bronchoscopically. Traditionally standard
      fluoroscopy using C-arm is used to confirm the location and guide the biopsy instruments
      under real-time guidance. With availability of Cone Beam CT, fluoroscopic images of much
      higher quality and resolution can be obtained intra-operatively. It also enables the
      bronchoscopist to obtain intraoperative CT images and confirm the exact location of the
      lesion and the Bronchoscopic biopsy catheter or the biopsy instruments.

      At my institution, lung nodules/masses requiring ENB have been approached using Medtronic
      Super-Dimension Version 7 Electromagnetic Navigational Bronchoscopy system. All the
      procedures are done under fluroscopic guidance using a regular C-Arm. All the lesions are
      confirmed using peripheral Endobronchial Ultrasound (EBUS). Once the appropriate location is
      reached, biopsy is obtained using FNA (18G or 21G), Single or Triple needle brush,
      Transbronchial forceps and Bronchoalveolar lavage.

      A pathologist is present on site for all the cases to review the slides and assist in
      diagnosis. All the cases are done under general anesthesia through endotracheal tube.

      Also, all the ENB procedures have been performed by one Interventional Pulmonologist since
      August 2017.

      For the interventional arm, all the aspects will remain the same except that the cases are
      done in Hybrid OR instead of Endoscopy. All the patients are completely paralyzed
      intra-operatively. Also, instead of a standard C-Arm providing 2D fluoroscopic guidance, a
      Philips Azurion 7 C20 FlexMove system with Emboguide, 3D Segmentaion and Overlay tools is
      being used. This enables the bronchoscopist to obtain a CT scan of the chest and also segment
      out the lesion(s) of interest and to overlap the 3-D image of the lesion on live fluoroscopy
      in all 3 dimensions.

      During the ENB procedures, at least 1 full Xpert CT is going to be obtained, mostly after
      completing the airway registration and ENB guided approach the lesion. Once the extended
      working channel and the locatable guide is advanced to the lesion using ENB guidance, the
      catheter is locked and scope held in place. The patient is maintained in inspiratory breath
      hold and Cone Beam Ct is used to obtain the Xpert CT that shows the lesion and surrounding
      lungs, chest and mediastinal structures in the surrounding area of the chest.

      This is then used to analyze the location of the lesion and the lesion of the extended
      working channel, locatable guide and the biopsy instruments in relation to the lesion. The
      lesion is then segmented and EmboGuide+Overlay feature is used to project a 3D view of the
      lesion on the live fluoroscopic images in all three axis. This also allows the bronchoscopist
      to obtain Anterior-posterior, Lateral and oblique views at various angles while maintaining
      the 3D overlap.

      Additional CT scans might be obtained intra-operatively if needed to guide the biopsy
      catheter appropriately towards the lesion. Due to the live nature of the Cone Beam CT, it is
      much more capable of providing accurate guidance regarding the location of the lesion and the
      biopsy instruments. hence, in case of any discrepancy, information provided by Cone Beam CT
      is considered more reliable and used with higher confidence.

      Rest of the steps involved in procedure are similar between the control and the
      interventional arm including the surgeon, type of bronchoscopes, type of electromagnetic
      navigational system, use of peripheral Endobronchial Ultrasound and availability of on-site
      pathologist. The biopsy instruments used are also the same including transbronchial needle
      for FNA, Single or triple needle brush and transbronchial forceps. Bronchoalveolar lavage is
      also obtained at the end via extended working channel.

      All the patients undergoing biopsy of the peripheral/central lung lesions using ENB also
      undergo Convex EBUS guided mediastinal surveillance and EBUS-TBFNA of any Lymph Node that
      appears to be greater than 5 mm on EBUS exam.

      My study aims to study the effect of using Cone Beam CT with segmentation, 3-D overlay and CT
      augmented fluoroscopy on sensitivity and diagnostic yield of electromagnetic navigation
      bronchoscopy for diagnosis of peripheral and central lung lesions including lung nodules and
      masses which could not be directly accessed using just white light bronchoscope.
    
  