
    
      There have been many studies published that have shown a reduction in bone density around
      knee replacements. Exact reasons for this are not fully understood but one theory is that the
      stresses transmitted to the bone around a new knee replacement do not adequately load the
      surrounding bone due to the stress shielding effects of the cement. Bone requires itself to
      be loaded by weight-bearing pressure in order to maintain its density and structural
      integrity.

      A loss of bone density around the knee has potentially significant consequences for patients.
      The ability of the bone to support the knee replacement may be compromised, potentially
      leading to subsidence and failure of the joint replacement. Patients are known to be more
      prone to falls within 1 year of having a TKR in comparison to age matched controls who have
      not undergone knee replacements. The incidence of falls following knee replacement was shown
      to be 38% in one study after the first year post-operatively, compared to 24% in non-TKR
      subjects. A reduction in bone density following TKR also renders patients more prone to
      aseptic loosening and fracture around the knee replacement with potentially disastrous
      consequences.

      The majority of research seems to demonstrate a loss of BMD around the knee at around 12
      months following TKR surgery, with the most significant BMD decrease occurring between the
      period of 5-12 weeks post-surgery, occurring primarily at the periprosthetic region. Up to
      68% of patients have been reported as showing BMD loss after TKR at the distal anterior femur
      within the first 12 months post-operatively. The possible fracture risk associated with this
      has been investigated. Women aged ≥ 70 years who have undergone TKR surgery are 1.6 times
      more likely to have a fracture than younger patients and 2.3 times more likely to suffer a
      fracture than men.

      Bone density is measured by use of Dual X-ray Absorbitometry scans (DEXA). However, DEXA bone
      density measurement alone provides an incomplete picture of bone strength. DEXA measurement
      is derived from the bone mineral content (BMC) divided by bone area, but does not account for
      the distribution of the trabeculae and the structural integrity of the microarchitecture.
      This has led to the development of a tool called the trabecular bone score (TBS) which is
      able to differentiate between microarchitectures that exhibit the same density.

      Advancement in technology has led to re-designs in uncemented knee replacements. These newer
      implants are able to withstand torsional stresses that previously would have concerned
      surgeons who feared implant movement in the early post-operative phase. The development of
      biologic coatings on to TKR components also means that bony on-growth and thus stability of
      the knee implant is achieved much more quickly than was previously. Surgeons have become
      keener to use such uncemented devices and recent research has shown comparable results in
      terms of patient satisfaction, Oxford Knee Scores and the need for revision surgery between
      cemented and uncemented devices.

      Bone architecture responds to the stresses placed upon it. Theoretically, cementless fixation
      could help preserve periprosthetic bone stock. In uncemented total knee replacements'
      weight-bearing loads are transmitted through the prosthesis directly to the surrounding bone
      as opposed to being dissipated by a layer of cement between the implant and the
      periprosthetic bone. Other potential benefits of cementless fixation include shorter
      operating room time, ease of revision, and the elimination of complications associated with
      cemented fixation, including debridement of the cement and resulting loose fragments.
      Patterns of wear (osteolysis) can occur in cemented implants, it is hoped that the new
      generation of highly porous uncemented implants will enable biological bony fixation of the
      implant, thus providing greater osseous integration and more durable fixation.

      If the number of TKR continues to rise as predicted, the economic consequences for the NHS
      are significant. Further clarity on the potential benefits of one implant over another is
      required to contribute to our knowledge of best practice and evaluate cost effectiveness.

      The Triathlon cemented knee replacement has been used worldwide since 2004. A new version of
      the implant has been developed, this newer version has the same geometry as the Triathlon TKR
      but has been designed with a special biological coating which enables it to be used without
      cement, it is currently in use in the US. We would like to assess the potential of this
      implant to reduce bone density loss around the knee and to see if this will reduce the risk
      of bone fracture. At the same time we would like to ensure at least the non-inferiority of
      the uncemented implant compared to the cemented one both in terms of patient satisfaction,
      functional ability and improvement. We would also like to evaluate cost effectiveness of the
      two methods of fixation; to see if the shorter operating time associated with not using
      cement will result in significant cost saving for the NHS.

      Before undertaking a full randomised control trial investigating the above, we would like to
      establish that the proposed methodology and approach are feasible. Therefore an internal
      pilot study will be performed first.
    
  