
    
      Specific Aims: This study aims to assess the acceptability of asynchronous

      telepsychiatry (ATP) and synchronous (STP) in rural Skilled Nursing Facility

      (SNF) population, in a 12-month randomized controlled trial. ATP relies on

      video recording of a psychiatric interview, where the video is later reviewed by

      a psychiatrist to make a psychiatric diagnosis and treatment recommendation

      to the primary treatment team.

      STP is real-time, face-to-face psychiatric assessment using video conferencing

      to come up with a psychiatric recommendation. People residing in SNFs

      generally rely on primary and consultant physicians to visit them and rarely

      have outpatient psychiatrist follow-up. SNFs offer more services than what is

      available to primary care office, and include 24-hours skilled nursing services,

      physical therapy, nutritional consultation, occupational therapy, social services,

      wound care, and psychiatric consultation when available. SNF residents are

      unable to live independently due to their multiple medical comorbidities and are

      therefore more medically ill than patients who are typically seen in primary care

      settings. The present study aims to demonstrate feasibility and to collect pilot

      data in SNFs. This study is funded by the University of California (UC Davis)

      Behavior Health Center of Excellence grant via the California Mental Health

      Services Act (Prop 63). In a larger, future study, we intend to demonstrate that

      ATP will be no different than STP in clinical outcomes but will be more

      accessible and cost effective.

      Aim 1: To assess whether ATP and STP models improve clinical outcomes:

      Hypotheses: Compared to STP, the ATP arm will: H1: show similar clinical

      outcome trajectory, reflected in improvement from baseline, as measured by

      Clinical Global Impression (CGI), Patient Health Questionaire-9 (PHQ-9), Brief

      Interview for Mental Status (BIMS), and overall behavioral symptoms; H2: have

      similar use of health care resources: psychiatric medications, additional interval

      psychiatric visits, number of emergency room visits and hospitalizations

      (medical, psychiatric, and overall); And H3: produce shorter waiting times for

      psychiatric consultation.

      Aim 2: To assess the acceptability of ATP and STP by examining satisfaction

      surveys from SNF residents (who are able to complete the surveys).

      Hypothesis:

      Compared to STP, ATP participants will show: H1: Similar levels of satisfaction

      as measured by: Telemedicine Satisfaction Survey as completed by

      participants.

      Aim 3: To conduct preliminary healthcare economics analysis and feasibility of

      producing estimates of cost-effectiveness of ATP vs. STP in SNFs. Hypotheses:

      ATP, compared to STP, will: H1: be more cost effective as measured by cost

      savings from reduced need for face-to-face psychiatrist time and similar use of

      other medical and psychiatric services.
    
  