
    
      Aim 1) Establish a cohort of 30 well-characterized patients with PHACE syndrome and enhance
      existing tissue and DNA banks to facilitate future investigation.

      We will use rigorous phenotyping strategies to establish a cohort of 30 patients with PHACE
      syndrome 4-6 years of age, and collect neuroimaging studies and patient tissue and DNA
      samples to enhance an existing tissue repository to facilitate future studies, such as
      validation of biomarkers.

      Aim 2) Determine the prevalence and describe the spectrum of neurodevelopmental impairment in
      a cohort of patients 4-6 years of age with PHACE syndrome.

      Given the multiple risk factors for neurodevelopmental deficits in PHACE patients, we propose
      a comprehensive assessment of a cohort of patients 4-6 years of age, this age range
      represents a critical period, as it is the time that most children enter the formal
      educational system and it allows for a more thorough evaluation of neurodevelopmental skills.
      Upon completion of this 2-year study we expect to have immediate impact on clinical care by
      identifying specific deficits in this cohort. Once identified and quantified, we will publish
      the data with clinical guidelines for patient management including age and frequency of
      neuroimaging, frequency of neurologic evaluation, and age and utility of neurodevelopmental
      assessment. We anticipate that these guidelines will identify at risk infants and early
      intervention can be initiated, resulting in improved functional outcomes. In addition, this
      data will provide a cost-effective functional outcome methodology that can be used for
      clinical trials and to validate biomarkers identified in this pilot study.

      Aim 3) Identify potential clinical, molecular, biochemical, and imaging biomarkers aimed at
      early detection and risk stratification of cerebrovasculopathy and neurodevelopmental
      impairment.

      We hypothesize that certain risk factors including, but not limited to, genotype, hemangioma
      size, hemangioma location, cerebral anomalies, cerebellar anomalies, and cerebrovascular
      anomalies predispose patients to progressive vasculopathy. We will determine risk factors and
      identify biomarkers for progressive cerebrovascular disease. Based on this information we
      will establish guidelines for serial and diagnostic cerebrovascular imaging and develop a
      method of risk-stratification that will allow for early clinical prediction and intervention
      of long-term neurodevelopmental prognosis. Specific Aims
    
  