
    
      The research will be carried out at the Tulane Lakeside Hospital for Women and Children.
      Caregivers of eligible infants will be approached by the medical team during the infants stay
      at the hospital and asked if they would be willing to hear more about this study. Fliers will
      be provided and also posted so that pregnant mothers or mothers who see the flier can also
      find out more about the study and decide to participate. Mothers may contact the study
      directly. Alternatively the medical team will ask the caregiver if the research team can
      contact them to set up a time to talk to them about the study. If the caregiver agrees then
      the contact information for the caregiver will be provided to the research team who will
      schedule an in person meeting to go over the protocol and obtain consent. The PI or one of
      the research team will meet with the infant's parent/legal guardian, review the study
      explaining all music therapy methods that will be used, explain the risks and benefits of
      participation, answer all questions and ask for consent to allow infant to participate in the
      study, to allow researchers to audio-video record the music therapy session, and to allow
      researchers to review medical records of the parent/legal guardian and infant to obtain
      information for the Data Collection Form regarding the infant's gestational age, race,
      ethnicity, gender, diagnosis, pregnancy and delivery complications, results of the any
      laboratory work, infant medication history, and daily withdrawal Scores over the study
      period, or until infant's medical discharge. Infants will still be able to participate in the
      study if the caregiver does not consent to audio-visual recording. Informed consent and HIPAA
      forms will be obtained electronically via REDCap, including electronic capture of the
      mother's signature as well as consenting research assistant's signature, and the original
      electronic copy of the informed consent and HIPAA forms are maintained in the REDCap
      database, accessible only by study personnel as listed in the IRB.

      After informed consent has been obtained, the parent/legal guardian will complete the
      following questionnaires and surveys: Adverse Childhood Experiences Scale (ACE), Duke
      Functional Support System Questionnaire (FSSQ), Edinburgh Depression Scale (EDS), Postpartum
      Bonding Questionnaire (PBQ), Prenatal Life Events Scale (PLES Revised), Perinatal Stress
      Scale:NICU (PSS:NICU), the Coronavirus Anxiety Scale (CAS) and the COVID-19 Exposure and
      Family Impact Survey (CEFIS). The parent/legal guardian does not have to be present, but can
      be present for all music sessions.

      Music therapy interventions will take place over the course of five days. The anticipated
      length of stay in the hospital for infants with NOWS or iatrogenic exposure to opioids is 21
      days and for healthy full term infants is two to three days; however per institutional
      protocol, infants exposed to long-acting opioids in utero could be monitored up to 72-96
      hours prior to discharge to monitor for signs of withdrawal. We will continue study
      procedures until completion of the music therapy treatment schedule, or until infant's
      discharge from the hospital if infant is discharged before completing all music therapy
      sessions. We will not interfere with standard medical care and therefore recognize that
      infants without NOWS will receive less days of music therapy in general, however the
      consistent daily administration of music therapy will provide some ability.

      This study will use a cross-over design with participants undergoing music therapy once daily
      (either morning or afternoon) using a Song of Kin, defined as a familiar song used to lull
      the infant to sleep. If Song of Kin is not provided, the default lullaby will be "Twinkle
      Twinkle Little Star." In addition, there will be sessions of standard nursing care with no
      treatment intervention (CON). Counterbalancing will be achieved by assigning a different
      order of presentation of conditions for each group. Each day, infants will receive a music
      therapy session lasting up to 20 minutes using the above mentioned technique. The music
      therapy session will be in the morning or afternoon depending upon which treatment group the
      participant is assigned to. There will not be any visits by the music therapist during
      sessions that the infant is to receive standard nursing care with no treatment intervention
      (morning/afternoon). Over the 5 day period (all week, including weekends) participants will
      experience conditions in the following order (with music therapy sessions designated as "MT"
      and control data only designated as "C"):

      Condition A:

      Day 1 (AM - music therapy, PM - control) Day 2 (AM - control, PM - music therapy) Day 3 (AM -
      music therapy, PM - control) Day 4 (AM - control, PM - music therapy) Day 5 (AM - music
      therapy, PM - control)

      Condition B:

      Day 1 (AM - control, PM - music therapy) Day 2 (AM - music therapy, PM - control) Day 3 (AM -
      control, PM - music therapy) Day 4 (AM - music therapy, PM - control) Day 5 (AM - control, PM
      - music therapy)

      Prior to the first session, a research assistant will place electrodes on the infant so that
      they study team can gather sympathetic and parasympathetic response non-invasively using
      MindWare Portable Lab System (MindWare Technologies, Gahanna, Ohio). These electrodes will
      remain on the infant throughout each session and be removed via adhesive removing pads
      following each session's data collection. This will minimize discomfort to the infant
      secondary to electrode removal and minimize risk of skin irritation by leaving electrodes in
      place for a proloned period of time. The medical team will complete the standard hospital
      withdrawal scoring scale for each infant with NOWS or suspected to have NOWS following unit
      policy. Withdrawal scores will not be collected on newborns who are not thought to have NOWS.
      Data related to the NOWS symptoms and medical conditions will be obtained from medical
      records. Additional observational data before and after the music sessions will be collected
      by the research assistant, including descriptions of where the session is conducted
      (isolette/bassinette), activity level, vital signs, sleep/wake pattern, sucking pattern, and
      any other observed behaviors throughout the session.

      The following research materials and data collection tools are submitted with this IRB
      package: Data Collection Form and Key, Medical Abstraction Form, Music Therapy Session Notes,
      Support System Questionnaire (FSSQ), Edinburgh Depression Scale (EDS), Postpartum Bonding
      Questionnaire (PBQ), Prenatal Life Events Scale (PLES Revised), Adverse Childhood Experiences
      (ACE) Scale, Duke Functional Support System Questionnaire (FSSQ), Perinatal Stress Scale:NICU
      (PSS:NICU), the Coronavirus Anxiety Scale (CAS) and the COVID-19 Exposure and Family Impact
      Survey (CEFIS) and Research Code Identification Sheet.
    
  