
    
      In the treatment of psychological disorders, web-based self-help programs can be very
      helpful, especially when combined with psychotherapy. However, up to this point, there are no
      respective programs for patients with Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD), although this
      disorder is associated with severe personal suffering and requires time-consuming therapy,
      which, in many cases, cannot be provided, due to the lack of therapeutic supply.

      In this study, treatment effects of the web-based self-help program Priovi on BPD symptom
      severity when added to treatment as usual will be investigated. Priovi is a comprehensive
      program, which is conceptually and substantially based on the schema therapeutic approach
      used in BPD patients. It contains interactive dialogues that can be accessed via computer or
      smartphone, illustrations, audios and motivating text messages.

      After a phone pre-screen and a diagnostic evaluation conducted by a psychiatrist, 200
      patients suffering from BPD will be randomized into either the intervention group or into the
      waitlist control group. Priovi's duration of use is one year, measuring points will be
      determined before beginning of treatment (T0) as well as after 3 (T1), 6 (T2), 9 (T3) and 12
      months (T4). The primary outcome variable will be the score of the Borderline Personality
      Disorder Severity Index (BPDSI), a highly reliable external assessment tool measuring BPD
      severity. Secondary outcome variables will be BPD symptom severity (as assessed by
      self-ratings), symptom severity of depression and anxiety as well as quality of life. The
      study will be collaboratively conducted by the University of Lübeck and the GAIA AG in
      Hamburg.

      In this study, Priovi for BPD patients will be tested in a randomized controlled trial. It
      will be used as add-on therapy combined with any guideline therapy available to the
      respective patients. In doing so, the following hypothesis will be investigated: Compared to
      patients, who exclusively receive treatment as usual, the additional use of the self-help
      program in question will lead to a stronger decrease in BPD symptom severity.
    
  