
    
      Alcohol use is a significant problem among Latinxs because of the disproportionate burden of
      physical harms and negative consequences associated with substance use relative to other
      racial/ethnic groups. Factors associated with the stress related to being an immigrant
      increase risk for substance use. A theoretically-based cultural adaptation of motivational
      interviewing (CAMI) that specifically integrated discussion of stressors related to
      immigration (e.g., discrimination, stigma, social isolation) resulted in significant
      reductions in harms related to alcohol for those Latinx heavy drinkers with high
      discrimination compared to standard MI, and reduced anxiety and depressive symptoms one year
      later compared to MI. Rigorous tests that examine theoretically-informed adaptation of
      efficacious interventions for addictions are not common, yet are needed to advance
      implementation science because they address questions that are the basis for successful
      implementation. The proposed Hybrid Type 1 Effectiveness-Implementation study is an important
      next step in this line of research, which is to investigate the feasibility of implementing
      the CAMI intervention in a real-world clinical setting. The key questions are: Would CAMI
      have positive effects among individuals who use both drugs and alcohol? How do providers view
      this intervention? The investigators will collaborate with a primary care center that serves
      a mainly Latinx client population to train their Community Wellness Advocates (CWAs) to
      deliver the CAMI to patients who are heavy drinkers. The investigators will conduct a
      concurrent investigation on the process of implementing the CAMI in primary care - a two-arm
      randomized clinical effectiveness trial will enroll Latinx heavy drinkers (18 years or older)
      in primary care who use alcohol (and may use other drugs) - and follow them for 12 months
      after the intervention. Specific Aims are: (1) To examine the impact of CAMI plus an in-
      person booster session (vs. assessment only) on outcomes: % heavy drinking days, frequency of
      alcohol- related consequences, depressive/anxiety symptoms, and number of illicit drug use
      days, using a Hybrid Type 1 Effectiveness-Implementation design and (2) To gather indicators
      of implementation outcome from multiple stakeholders using a mixed-methods approach. The
      investigators will follow Curran's framework to evaluate the process of implementation and
      Proctor's framework to measure implementation outcomes: acceptability, adoption, intervention
      appropriateness, feasibility, overall cost (i.e., CAMI vs. assessment only), and treatment
      fidelity. This study, a first to examine the acceptability of culturally-adapted addiction
      treatments in primary care settings, will answer essential questions on implementing
      evidence-based care for Latinxs that can improve health disparities related to substance use.
      Long term goals are to translate the lessons from the proposed Hybrid study to the broader
      community to focus on population health for all primary care patients.
    
  