
    
      Entervirus 71 is one of the most important infectious diseases in children and the important
      concern in public health. Since 1998, EV71 has become an endemic disease in Taiwan and caused
      hundreds of severe cases and dozens of fatal cases each year due to lack of EV71 vaccine.
      Family transmission study also showed that it is highly contagious among households as well
      as in daycares or kindergartens. Therefore, a rapid diagnosis is clinically necessary and can
      provide clinicians the rapid answers and make early treatment possible to reduce the
      complications and case-fatality rate. In addition, early diagnosis of the patients will alert
      parents and public health workers to prevent the contacts earlier and to limit the EV71
      spread.

      Electrosensing antibody probing system (e- Ab sensor), which was developed for the rapid and
      sensitive detection of hapten, proteins or viral antigen in medical samples, will be used for
      analyzing the interaction kinetics between Q.anti-EV71 and its antigen EV71 present in EV71
      patients and normal sample. The system incorporates the use of engineered semiconductive
      antibodies or virus in vertical and lateral chip (eVchip) or lateral flow through (eVsignal)
      formats. In electrosensing virus probing, semiconductive antibodies are bound as a suitable
      electrosensing probe which specifically and selectively binds EV71 epitope target molecules
      in the test serum. In comparison with results from direct sequencing of EV71, the
      investigators evaluate the performance of e- Ab sensor, including reproducibility,
      sensitivity, specificity, and cross-reaction. The potential factors which may interfere with
      the results would be investigated. e- Ab sensor threshold decisions must maximize its
      sensitivity. Therefore, the threshold value in the test group is to find the decision could
      have 90% sensitivity and 90% specificity. With such technique, the investigators hope to make
      early diagnosis and give EV71 patients early treatment to reduce the complications and
      case-fatality rate.
    
  