
    
      The type of surgery will be chosen according to the degree of curvature and penile length
      after meticulous preoperative assessment.

      Preoperative evaluation

        -  A thorough history will be taken, with special stress on:

        -  Sexual history, including concomitant ED and baseline erectile function as assessed
           using validated questionnaires such as the International Index of Erectile Function
           (IIEF).

        -  Penile curvature ;( direction, degree, interfere with intercourse (hand assisted or
           not), presence of pain, home (self) photograph during erection).

        -  Co-morbidities like vascular disease, diabetes mellitus, and cardiac disease.

        -  Special habits like tobacco use and drug intake.

        -  History of penile trauma.

        -  History of previous penile surgery.

           • Physical examination including

        -  Measurement of stretched penile length, girth measurement, and penile sensation to
           touch.

        -  Direction and degree of penile curvature will be measured using the protractor through
           examination of the pharmacologically erect penis by office test using intracavernosal
           PGE1 (20 mg) and photograph taken during erection in the outpatient clinic.

        -  In cases of PD, the size, number, and position of the plaques will be assessed. •
           Routine evaluation for fitness before surgery. Operative techniques All surgeries will
           be performed under anaesthesia starting by a circumfericial degloving incision. After
           lateral dissection and mobilization of the neurovascular bundle, an artificial erection
           will be performed to assess the degree of deformity and the point of maximum curvature.

      Plication On convex side of the shaft, Allis clamps are used on the greater curvature to
      estimate the number and length of tissue needed for plications, nonabsorbable stitches are
      placed into the tunica albuginea in pairs and adjusted as needed to achieve optimal
      straightening. The artificial erection is then released and sutures tied.

      Nesbit Technique On the convex side of the shaft, excision of horizontal ellipses of the
      tunica albuginea on the greater curvature (with approximately 1 mm for each 10º of
      curvature), Allis clamps are then applied until the desired straightening is achieved. These
      ellipses are excised and closed transversely in a stepwise fashion until curvature is
      completely corrected.

      Modified Nesbit Technique On the convex side of the shaft consisted of a longitudinal
      incision in the tunica with transverse closure (Heineke- Mikulicz principle), The length of
      the incision is limited to about 1 cm to prevent excessive indentation of the penis.

      Length-Preserving Techniques (Grafting Technique) On the concave border of the penile shaft
      tunica lengthening procedures involve incising or excising the plaque, and adding graft
      material to cover the defect, Excision can be avoided if the surgeon is able to perform
      relaxing incisions on the plaque with added grafting material. The graft (usually 20% larger
      than the defect) is then sutured to the tunica albuginea with separate running suture, The
      types of graft used are autologous buccal mucosa or dermal graft.

      The patients will return to outpatient clinic after discharge by 1 month and 3 months to
      evaluate for the postoperative results and complications.

      Statistical analysis The statistical analysis will be done using SPSS 21.0 (statistical
      package for the social sciences).

      Ethical considerations Informed written consent will be obtained from all patients after
      explanation of the operative details and possible postoperative complications.
    
  