
    
      Epilepsy is a common childhood condition affecting approximately 326,000 youth in the United
      States. Adolescents with epilepsy are at significant risk for poor social and academic
      outcomes, neurobehavioral comorbidities (i.e., internalizing and externalizing symptoms), and
      poor treatment adherence. Studies have shown that one potential reason for these poor
      outcomes are deficits in executive functioning (EF), defined as the skills necessary for
      goal-directed and complex activities, including problem-solving, initiation, monitoring,
      organization, planning, self-regulation and working memory. EF deficits have been documented
      in 1/3 of youth with epilepsy, which is 3 times the prevalence in healthy youth.
      Evidence-based interventions to improve EF could play a critical role in preventing adverse
      outcomes (e.g., psychological comorbidities, non-adherence to the treatment regimen) and
      promoting optimal functioning in adolescents with epilepsy; however none exists for this
      vulnerable population. The aim of the current study is to establish the feasibility,
      accessibility, acceptability, and preliminary effects of an individually-tailored
      intervention to improve EF in adolescents with epilepsy (Executive Functioning
      Intervention-Epilepsy; EFI-E). Thirty participants will be recruited who have at least one
      clinically-elevated EF subscale or at least two at-risk subscale scores (> 1 standard
      deviation above the mean) on the parent Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function
      (BRIEF®)) to qualify for the EFI-E. EFI-E will consist of 10 web-based modules addressing
      foundational EF skills. Each online module will be accompanied by a videoconference with a
      therapist to review the skills and problem solve around adolescent-identified goals. Baseline
      and post-treatment questionnaires will be completed by adolescents and primary caregivers and
      electronically-monitored adherence will be obtained throughout the open trial. Participants
      will be in the trial for 9 months.
    
  