
    
      The cumulative effects of adverse childhood experiences (ACEs), including trauma exposure,
      parent mental health problems, family dysfunction, and experiences of racism can lead to
      prolonged activation of stress response systems, known as toxic stress. Toxic stress can
      adversely influence maternal and childhood health. Increased numbers of ACEs are associated
      with negative birth outcomes such as decreased birth weight and gestational age at delivery.
      An intergenerational transmission of toxic stress has been evidenced in disruptions to
      children's hypothalamic pituitary adrenal (HPA)-axis functioning that result in life long
      health impacts. African American women are at increased risk for ACEs and similarly
      experience disparities in birth outcomes including low-birth weight and preterm birth. Many
      low-income, urban African American women are navigating the demands of pregnancy while
      confronting compounding chronic stressors, such as dangerous neighborhoods, lack of adequate
      and accessible public services, poverty, and the historical context of injustice,
      discrimination, and disadvantage. Although early life adversity can have serious consequences
      lasting across the lifespan and generations, interventions during critical periods such as
      pregnancy have the potential to prevent the intergenerational transmission of toxic stress
      and associated health disparities.

      Prenatal mindfulness-based interventions have been shown to reduce depression, anxiety, and
      stress in pregnant women. Mindfulness is recommended as a culturally relevant intervention to
      reduce stress-related health disparities among African American and has been found to be
      feasible and acceptable to African American women. Further, mindfulness-based interventions
      are efficacious for a variety of mental health conditions and are cost-effective and scalable
      in diverse settings. Dialectical Behavior Therapy (DBT) Skills Training is a group format
      mindfulness-based intervention with demonstrated efficacy for increasing emotional regulation
      abilities and reducing depression and PTSD symptoms. DBT Skills Training has been adapted for
      trauma-exposed populations and is considered a transdiagnostic intervention for emotion
      dysregulation. Further, it is increasing being used with parents who have trauma histories
      and/or mental health problems. Adapting DBT skills for pregnant women with a history of ACEs
      and current depression and/or PTSD symptoms is novel and has the potential to interrupt the
      intergenerational cycle of toxic stress by improving maternal stress response, depression,
      and PTSD, thus reducing the risk of the intergenerational transmission of toxic stress.

      This study will examine initial feasibility, acceptability, and effectiveness of an adapted
      8-week DBT Skills Training group for mothers-to-be (DBTMTB) for low-income, African American
      pregnant women with a history of ACEs and current depression and PTSD symptoms to be
      delivered virtually. This adapted DBT Skills Training to the context of pregnancy will
      include specific pregnancy and parenting applications of DBT mindfulness and emotion
      regulation skills and opportunities to practice applying mindfulness and emotion regulation
      skills to enhance management of chronic stressors. The researchers posit that DBTMTB
      addresses important contributors to persistent birth outcome health disparities experienced
      by African American women and has the potential to reduce the cycle of toxic stress and
      transgenerational transference of disparities in health by improving pregnant women's mental
      health and stress response.
    
  