
    
      Malaysia has been struggling in fighting drug addiction in the country (NADI, 2005). Opioids
      predominantly heroin and morphine and ATS (Chawarski et al, 2006). dependence are the primary
      drugs of abuse for most drug users in Malaysia There are more than 300,000 registered drug
      users in Malaysia, most are opioid dependent and current intravenous drug users (IVDU). Drug
      abuse comes together with other medical and social problems, as 25-30% of IVDU are infected
      with HIV; and IVDU accounts for 70% of HIV infections in Malaysia. There are more than 90,
      000 registered HIV positives between 1986 and 2010. (National Anti-Drug Agency of Malaysia,
      2010).

      Over the past decade, amphetamine-type stimulant (ATS) has also emerged as a major drug
      problem. Globally, ATS is now the second most commonly used illicit drug type and is more
      widely used than heroin. ATS abuse is especially prevalent and problematic in the Asian
      region, where ATS production, use, drug seizures, and demand for treatment have continued to
      increase. Injection of methamphetamine has been reported in Malaysia (Chawarski et al, 2006)
      and other south-east Asian countries (McKetin, 2008). In the most recent survey of
      out-of-treatment heroin IVDU in cities across Malaysia, more than 60% report current ATS use,
      and 29% inject ATS (Chawarski et al, 2012).

      ATS use is associated with increased HIV transmission behavioral risks. The connection of
      heroin, methamphetamine and HIV in Malaysia is well documented (Chawarski et al, 2006).
      Increased needle sharing and risky sexual behaviors lead to increased prevalence of HIV
      infection. ATS use exacerbates HIV transmission risk through a number of mechanisms: ATS
      users report engaging in more frequent and more risky sexual behaviors while using ATS and in
      more frequent needle sharing. ATS is also associated with impairments of mood and executive
      functioning that may persist for prolonged periods and may contribute to relapse to drug use,
      thus all other problems.

      Drug abuse has been a major problem in Kelantan for the past several decades (Suarn &
      NorAdam,1993) and ATS has been gaining momentum over the past decade. The number of
      individuals arrested annually for ATS in Kelantan increased over the past 5 years from 2900
      in 2007 to 5300 in 2010. For the past 5 years, Kelantan has also led Malaysia in having the
      highest population prevalence of HIV infection, at 47 per 100,000 in 2008, nearly 4 times the
      prevalence reported for the rest of Malaysia. Kelantan also has the highest number of women
      with HIV in Malaysia with more than 1200 reported in 2008, suggesting that HIV is making the
      transition to the general population. A large proportion of treatment seeking drug users in
      Kelantan are HIV positives and are susceptible to high mortality (JKNK, 2012).

      Paliperidone, the primary active metabolite of risperidone, is a long-acting atypical
      neuroleptic (antipsychotic) medication. It blocks dopamine 2 (D2) receptors and serotonin 2A
      receptors and acts as an alpha2 antagonist. Blockade of the D2 receptors may reduce the
      reinforcing effects of ATS or other stimulants; blockade of the serotonin 2A receptor leads
      to increased DA release in the prefrontal cortex and motor regions and may thus improve
      cognitive performance and mood and reduce motor impairments associated with blockade of D2
      receptors; and alpha2 antagonist actions may provide antidepressant effects.

      Paliperidone's potential efficacy for treating ATS dependence was suggested both by its
      potential for blocking or attenuating the rewarding effects of ATS use and by its potential
      for improving cognitive functioning in patients recovering from ATS dependence. An open label
      pilot study of oral risperidone for the treatment of methamphetamine dependence provided
      preliminary evidence for the safety, tolerability and potential efficacy of risperidone.
      Risperidone was generally well-tolerated and associated with decreased methamphetamine use
      and improvements in fine motor function and mood. A subsequent open trial of injectable
      ripseridone found that injectable risperidone was associated with reductions in
      methamphetamine use and improvements in verbal memory.

      However to date there have been no published replication studies or studies of paliperidone
      for treating ATS dependence in other populations and setting. This proposed pilot study of
      paliperidone for the treatment of ATS dependence would extend this work and provide specific
      data regarding the tolerability and efficacy of paliperidone in opioid-agonist maintained
      patients with co-occurring ATS and opioid dependence (COATS).

      In addition to detoxification and treatment medications, a manual-guided educational drug and
      HIV risk reduction counseling (EDRC) will be provided to all participants. EDRC provides
      education about medical understanding of opioid and ATS addiction, highly effective
      strategies used in successful drug recovery efforts, medical and other harmful consequences
      of drug use including HIV and other infectious disease transmission, as well as about
      effective prevention of all negative consequences of illicit drug use (Chawarski et al,
      2008). It helps patient to remain in treatment, adhere to prescribed medications, abstain
      from or reduce illicit opioid and ATS use and HIV risk behaviors, and make life-style changes
      fostering sustained recovery. It also teaches basic cognitive and behavioral coping skills
      that increase the patients' chances to reach sustained and prolonged recovery from drugs. For
      HIV positive patients, EDRC encourages patients to attend the HIV clinic and adhere to
      monitoring, medication, and other treatment recommendations. EDRC will be provided by trained
      and supervised nursing personnel, drug counselors, or therapists. It will be offered in
      individual format with the frequency ranging from 3 times per week during detoxification to
      once per week during the outpatient phase of treatment.
    
  