
    
      Gout is the most prevalent inflammatory rheumatological disease among young men, affecting
      about 4% of the general population. Caused by the deposit of monosodium urate (MSU) crystals
      which form because of high urate concentrations in serum. Currently, there is no universal
      definition for hyperuricemia but The Gout, Hyperuricemia, and Crystal-Associated Disease
      Network (G-CAN) define hyperuricemia as a blood urate concentration above the saturation
      threshold which is usually understood to be urate levels over 7 mg/dL. For this study, the
      term urate will be used as the final circulating product of the enzyme xanthine oxidase in
      the purine metabolism which favors the precipitation and formation of MSU crystals. Even
      tough, hyperuricemia is often asymptomatic, the clinical presentation can be that of gouty
      arthritis, uric acid nephropathy, urolithiasis and/or chronic tophaceous gout.

      The relevance of asymptomatic hyperuricemia lays in the relation to other chronic
      degenerative diseases, including atherosclerotic disease, systemic arterial hypertension,
      coronary artery disease and chronic kidney disease.

      A logistic regression analysis made by Zhu et al, looking specifically at the demographics of
      gout and asymptomatic hyperuricemia based on the data from The National Health and Nutrition
      Examination Survey (NHANES) showed a general hyperuricemia prevalence of 13.2%, which
      corresponds to about 26.6 million individuals. Additionally, it was observed that
      hyperuricemia increases with age, it being more common in individuals over 65 years,
      prevalence of 31%, corresponding to approximately 10.7 million American adults. Other
      epidemiological studies have evidenced the relationship between asymptomatic hyperuricemia y
      different comorbidities for example atherosclerotic disease, systemic arterial hypertension,
      coronary artery disease and metabolic syndrome. Those studies suggest that elevated urate
      levels are an independent cardiovascular risk factor. Their findings also suggest that
      lowering serum urate levels is associated with a descend in the risk of cardiovascular
      complications. In spite of this, there is currently no indication for hypouricemic
      pharmacological treatment for individuals with hyperuricemia that don´t have a diagnosis of
      gout, urolithiasis, uric acid nephropathy or as prophylaxis for tumoral lysis syndrome. The
      I-Lan Longitudinal Aging Study (ILAS), a cohort study from Taiwan, showed a higher
      cardiovascular risk in individuals without diabetes or previous cardiovascular disease but
      with serum urate levels above 6.1 mg/dL. Lastly, our group has shown that the presence of
      hyperuricemia at admission in the emergency room doubles the short-term risk of death (30
      days) in patients with coronary heart disease.

      Hyperuricemia increases the risk of atherosclerosis by up to 60%. It is believed that the
      cause for this lay in the activation of the inflammasome´s cryopyrin (NLRP3) protein complex
      by the MSU crystals . This promotes the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines,
      particularly the mature forms of interleukin (IL)-1β and IL-18. In addition, the phagocytosis
      of MSU crystals executed by neutrophils and macrophages, induces production of reactive
      oxygen and nitrogen species all of which lead to oxidative stress and consequently to
      endothelial dysfunction. When kept chronically, it is probable that these mechanisms result
      in atherosclerosis. Solid evidence has shown that pharmacological treatment aimed at reducing
      urate levels is beneficial in patients with gout since it lowers the occurrence of adverse
      cardiovascular events and all-cause mortality. There is still a group of individuals with
      chronically elevated urate levels without clinical manifestations for which pharmacological
      treatment remains a topic of debate and controversy. Even though, some of these individuals
      could benefit from hypouricemic pharmacological therapy, there is currently no criteria for
      determining when it should be started. The first line of treatment are xanthine oxidase
      inhibitors like allopurinol and febuxostat. Both lower serum urate in comparable
      concentrations but a study done comparing the two agents showed that allopurinol induces a
      more significant global survival rate than febuxostat therefore treatment with allopurinol is
      preferred.

      Musculoskeletal ultrasound (MSUS) has proven to be an excellent, noninvasive, diagnostic tool
      for different articular and rheumatological diseases. Its value lays in the evaluation of
      tendons, ligaments, joints and periarticular soft tissue. MSUS is useful in early stages of a
      disease, when no symptoms are present, and also at the chronic stages with established
      morphostructural damage. It has proven to be sensible to change, so it can be used to follow
      up on morphostructural changes during the course of treatment. Additionally, having color
      doppler and power doppler (PD) technology allows for the visualization of the degree of
      vascularization and angiogenesis in the affected tissue. These are the reasons MSUS is
      considered an innocuous imaging method which works without radiation, that is less costly and
      more accessible than most other imaging technologies. A series of studies show the relevance
      of MSUS for the detection of morphostructural changes suggestive of MSU deposits
      characteristically found in gout. The ultrasonographic signs related to said deposits are
      hyperechoic enhancement of the superficial margin of the hyaline cartilage, better known as
      the double contour sign, widening of the joint cavity, aggregates, tophi, and erosions.
      Wright et al compared MSUS´ and conventional radiography's capacity to detect erosions
      secondary to gout on the first metatarsophalangeal joint of 78 patients. MSUS proved to be
      superior in that study.

      In previous studies, our group has observed the presence of morphostructural changes
      suggestive of MSU deposits in individuals with asymptomatic hyperuricemia using MSUS. The
      change observed in the joints was similar to that of patients with a gout diagnosis. The main
      findings were hyperechoic enhancement of the superficial margin of the hyaline cartilage
      (double contour sign) on the femoral cartilage and first metatarsophalangeal joint,
      intraarticular tophi, as well as patellar and Achilles enthesopathy. These results have since
      been replicated even in animal models, supporting that asymptomatic hyperuricemia induces
      morphostructural changes in different tissues (hyaline cartilage, entheses, tendons and
      subchondral bone) before leading to an acute gout attack or an episode of urolithiasis.

      Recently, our group investigated a possible association between morphostructural changes
      suggestive of MSU deposits and the elevation of inflammation markers in individuals with
      asymptomatic hyperuricemia. For this purpose, three groups were studied: the first made up of
      individuals with asymptomatic hyperuricemia, the second formed by patients with chronic gout,
      and the third comprised of normouricemic individuals as a control group. All participants got
      an MSUS of the knee, ankle and first metatarsophalangeal joint in search for morphostructural
      changes suggestive of MSU deposits. The serum concentrations of IL-1β, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5,
      IL-6, IL- 10, IL-12, IL-13, interferon -γ(INF) and tumoral necrosis factor (TNF) were
      measured in all the participants. The levels of the following chemokines IL-8 also known as
      C-X-C Motif chemokine ligand 8 (CXCL8), monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1) also known
      as C-C Motif Chemokine Ligand 2 (CCL2) and epithelial-derived neutrophil-activating peptide
      78 (ENA-78) also known as C-X-C Motif chemokine ligand 5 (CXCL5), and microRNA(miR) miR-146a,
      miR-155 y miR-223 were also quantified.

      In this study, the investigators found that individuals with asymptomatic hyperuricemia
      present similar levels of cytokines and chemokines as those observed in patients with gout;
      more notably the serum concentration of IL-6, IL-8 and miR-155 were significantly higher in
      both groups when compared to the normouricemic controls. Also, a significant relation between
      presence of MSU crystals (independent of urate acid levels) and higher levels of IL-6, IL-8
      and miR-155 was found. This is the first study to suggest that the presence of MSU deposits
      (detected by MSUS) are a marker of inflammatory activity independent of the existence or lack
      of previous gouty arthritis episodes.

      The elevated levels of inflammatory cytokines, chemokines and microRNA in individuals with
      asymptomatic hyperuricemia makes questioning the need for pharmacological treatment in this
      group even more relevant.

      The more knowledge is gained on the beginning and progression of atherosclerotic heart
      disease, the more evident it becomes that local and systemic inflammatory processes are
      associated.

      Chronic, systemic inflammation can be evidenced by different premature immunosenescence
      phenomena, among them the loss of expression of the co-signalizing Cluster of Differentiation
      28(CD 28) molecule from T CD4 + lymphocytes is of particular interest. The percentage of
      Cluster of Differentiation 4 that lack the expression of Cluster of Differentiation 28 (CD4+
      CD28null) is a relievable marker that is sensible to change of chronic inflammation and
      atherosclerotic damage.

      As a matter of fact, the presence of activated systemic inflammatory pathways could be the
      etiopathogenic bond that unites a persistent elevation of urate serum concentration with the
      development of accelerated atherosclerosis and adverse cardiovascular events including
      coronary artery disease. By this logic, individuals with asymptomatic hyperuricemia with
      evidence of MSU articular deposits are the ones that could benefit from hypouricemic
      treatment since this would lower local and systemic inflammation.

      A score which can be used to predict the risk of myocardial infarction or stroke (QRISK3).
      The variables it uses are age, gender, ethnicity, tobacco consumption, previous diagnostic of
      diabetes, chronic kidney disease, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus or
      severe psychiatric disease; family history of angina or myocardial infarction before 60 years
      of age, use of drugs for erectile disfunction, antihypertensives, atypical antipsychotics or
      regular use of steroids, and body mass index. Its algorithm provides four results: 10-year
      risk given as a percentage, the result a healthy person of the same age, gender and ethnicity
      would get, relative risk, and the age at which a healthy individual would have the same risk
      as the patient.
    
  