
    
      Objectives:

      Primary objective: To investigate inter- and intra-rater reproducibility of the portable
      height device

      Secondary objectives:To assess agreement between the portable height device and wall-fixed
      digital stadiometer.

      ____

      Participants: Approximately 30 adults, 18+ years old men and women in the study is expected
      to be enrolled. Participants will be recruited through convenience sampling in order to
      maximise recruitment efforts during the time of the study. Data on gender, age, and height
      will be collected.

      ____

      Ethics: Written informed consent will be obtained from all participants prior to the study.
      The local ethics committee will be consulted for approval of the study. Approval will also be
      obtained from the Danish Data Protection Agency.

      ____

      Measuring devices:

      Portable laser measuring device: A laser distance meter (Bosch Zamo, Robert Bosch GmbH,
      Gerlingen-Schillerhöhe, Germany) will be mounted perpendicularly to the end of a wooden lath
      (3x4x50 cm). The other end of the lath will be mounted perpendicular to a T-shaped metal
      plate which will fixate the x- and z-axis of the laser measuring device. The portable height
      device will measure vertically down in its z-axis from the participant's vertex to the floor
      in front of the participant.

      Stadiometer (reference standard): a fixed stadiometer will be used as a reference (Harpenden
      Stadiometer, Holtain Limited, Crosswell, UK).

      ____

      Procedure:

      Measurements will be performed at Aalborg University Hospital, Aalborg, Denmark. Two raters
      will independently perform height measurements in two separate rooms with each measuring
      device (portable height device and fixed stadiometer) on all participants. Each rater will
      perform three measures per device. During measurements, participants will be asked to stand
      flat on the floor (hard surface) without shoes. Furthermore, participants will be asked to
      stand with their heels positioned together and against the wall during both type of
      measurements. Each rater will make sure that participants' heads are be positioned in the
      Frankfurt plane, and encourage participants to stand with a straight back against the wall.

      Stadiometer (reference standard): The measuring device will be pulled down to the skull.
      Afterwards, the participant will be asked to take a deep breath and hold it, after which the
      measurement will be performed.

      Portable laser measuring device: The lath with the laser distance meter will be placed on top
      of the participant's vertex and fixated in two axes by holding the T-shaped piece against the
      wall. The lath will be rotated until the laser distance meter points vertically, which is
      done using a bubble level mounted on the end of the lath. The laser distance meter will be
      activated by clicking on the "START" button. Participants are asked to take a deep breath and
      hold it, after which the measurement will be locked and recorded. Following each measurement,
      the participant will take a step away from the measuring area and afterwards step back again
      to replicate the measurement procedure.

      Blinding: All 30 participants will be measured using the laser distance meter first by each
      rater. When this stage is complete, measurements will be secured and inaccessible, in order
      to blind the raters when performing stadiometer measurements afterwards. It is assumed that
      each rater will not be able to remember each participants' height when 30 participants are
      measured consecutively. After the stadiometer measurements have been performed, data will
      also be secured and inaccessible. Afterwards, this entire procedure will be repeated once
      more. Measurements will be collected using a data capturing tool Research electronic data
      capture (REDCap).

      ____

      Statistics:

      Participants: Age will be reported in mean with standard deviations, and gender will be
      reported in proportions. Both height measures will have 95% confidence intervals reported.

      Agreement:Mean of all three measurements per rater per measuring device per participants will
      be calculated. The difference between the means will be calculated by subtracting the mean
      laser measurement from the mean stadiometer measurement. This will also be performed with
      only the mean of the two first measurements, and finally also the first measurement. Thus, it
      would be possible to evaluate whether one measurement would have similar agreement with two
      or three measurements. Bland Altman plots with limits of agreement (LOA) will be generated
      together with standard error of measurements (SEM) and coefficient of variation (c.v) for all
      the above-mentioned combinations.

      Reliability: Intraclass Correlation Coefficients (ICC) with 95% confidence intervals between
      measuring devices will be calculated.

      Software: Statistics will be performed using Microsoft Excel for Mac version 16.28 (Microsoft
      Office, Microsoft Corporation, WA) and IBM SPSS Statistics for MacOS version 25.0 (IBM
      Corporation, Armonk, NY).

      ____

      Conflicts of interest: The authors report no conflicts of interest.

      ____

      Dissemination: This study is planned to be published in an English-language journal. The
      reporting of the study will follow the current guidelines for reliability and agreement
      studies (GRRAS).
    
  