
    
      Introduction:

      Cervical degenerative disease is an almost universal concomitant of human aging. Over half of
      the middle aged population has radiological or pathological evidence of cervical spondylosis.
      This condition is often asymptomatic, but in 10% to 15% of the cases, it is associated with,
      or progresses to, neural compression. Cervical spondylotic radiculopathy is a condition due
      to a root nerve compression while cervical spondylotic myelopathy is a condition due to a
      medullar cord compression. Root nerve or medullar cord can be compressed either by a soft
      disc extrusion or by osteophyte due to a degenerative disc. Anterior cervical discectomy and
      fusion is the gold standard treatment of those conditions when non-surgical treatment failed.
      The aim of this surgery is to provide a neurologic decompression associated to an
      intervertebral segmental stabilization. Decompression is achieved by discectomy and
      stabilization by cervical interbody bone fusion. This bone fusion is supported by
      implantation of material in the interbody space like bone or Poly-Ether-Ether-Keton cage with
      bone substitute. This cage provides a bone fusion matrix and an intervertebral height and
      stability support at the same time. To enforce the stabilization, a plate can be screwed on
      the anterior cervical vertebral wall. The HRCC® cage is a stand-alone cage with no need to
      implant plate. One risk of this technic is the secondary migration of the cage. That's why
      this cage is maintained with two rotary blades which penetrate into vertebral plates. It
      allows easier surgical procedure, with a lower duration of surgery. But one of the reasons of
      treatment failure is pseudarthrosis. It is defined as the absence of bone bridging the fusion
      area without any lucencies. It mays occur as an increase of axial pain or radicular pain. The
      aim of this study is to demonstrate similar results on bone fusion in the surgical treatment
      of cervical radiculopathy or myelopathy with HRCC cage used in anterior cervical discectomy
      and fusion compared with other technics based on a prospective cohort study and a literature
      review.

      Materiel and Method In the context of standard practices, patients are included in the study
      when they consult the neurosurgical team of the REIMS University Hospital Center with
      diagnosis of one level cervical discopathy causing cervical radiculopathy or myelopathy with
      non-surgical treatment failure needing a one level anterior cervical discectomy and fusion.
      Patients are proposed to be included during this pre-operative consultation and they are
      informed about the protocol and the data collected. If they accept it and sign the
      non-opposition form, they are included in the study.

      The collected data at the pre-operative consult are classic demographic data with age and
      sex, clinic data with weight, height and BMI, pseudarthrosis risk factors with diabete,
      tobacco addiction, chronic use of corticosteroid and osteoporosis with confirmed diagnosis,
      pre-operative symptomatology with presence of cervical radiculopathy with or without deficit,
      cervical myelopathy with or without pyramidal syndrome at the inferior limb and measurement
      of neck and radicular arm pain using a numeric scale, quality of life data with the Neck
      Disability Index (NDI) and the 12-Item Short Form Survey (SF-12), pre-operative imagery data
      with cervical IRM and the discopathy level, with cervical X-Ray in the profile incidence and
      measurement of cervical lordosis, measurement of regional lordosis, height. Per-operative
      collected data are duration of surgery, bleeding, used bone graft either allograft or
      autograft and final arthrodesis level. Immediate post-operative data are collected the last
      day of hospitalization with measurement of neck and arm pain using a numeric scale,
      complications with dysphagia, dysphonia, cervical compressive hematoma with urgent surgical
      revision, motor neurological deficit with rating if present, surgical revision, duration of
      the hospitalization in days, post-operative imagery data with cervical lordosis, regional
      lordosis, height as previously describe, and cage migration. There is a 12 months follow-up
      with consultations at 6 weeks, 6 months and 12 months. Collected data are for all measurement
      of neck and radicular arm pain using a numeric scale for the neck and for the arm,
      persistence of complications with dysphagia, dysphonia, and motor neurological deficit with
      rating if present, imagery data with cervical lordosis, regional lordosis, height as
      previously describe, and cage migration. At 6 months and 12 months we add quality of life
      data with the NDI and the SF-12, dynamic cervical X-Ray data with the measurement of the
      spinous process shift and CT-scan data. The diagnosis of pseudarthrosis is established on
      this multimodal imagery. As secondary outcomes, we will search to correlate pseudarthrosis
      and quality of life impact, to identify complications and to describe the sagittal balance
      evolution of the cervical spine.

      Then, when all the data will be collected, statistical analyses will be performed with
      description of the cohort and descriptive statistics of all the demographic, radiographic and
      clinical parameters detailed above for the whole cohort: Mean (±SD) for the continuous
      variables and Median (±IQR) for the categorical variables. A comparison between
      pseudarthrosis group and fused group will be performed with univariate analysis (Student
      test, Wilcoxon test, Chi2 or Exact Fisher test) then a multivariate analysis will be
      performed with a logistic regression.
    
  