
    
      Lifestyle changes, such as moderate physical activity (e.g. brisk walking) have been shown to
      delay or prevent the development of Type 2 diabetes in patients with obesity and
      pre-diabetes. Given the clear benefit of exercise in disease prevention and management,
      evidence-based cost-effective brief interventions are needed to improve patient outcomes
      related to Type 2 diabetes and associated health disparities.

      In America over the last two decades, adult obesity rates have doubled from 15% to 30%. In
      1990, no state had an obesity rate over 14%. In 2003, thirty-five states posted obesity rates
      of over 20%. Tennessee currently ranks fifth in the U.S. for highest rate of adult obesity.
      In 2003, direct medical costs associated with obesity totaled an estimated $1.84 billion in
      Tennessee. Medicare ($433 million) and Medicaid ($488 million) absorbed approximately 50% of
      these medical costs. Obesity is closely linked with such diseases as heart disease, stroke,
      diabetes, and certain cancers. In both East and South Nashville, cancer, heart disease, and
      stroke are listed as three of the top five causes of death with significant racial,
      educational, and economic disparities.

      Reducing socioeconomic and racial/ethnic disparities in Type 2 diabetes among adults will
      require multiple interventions society-wide in order to provide cumulative and synergistic
      effects that can result in sustained health practices and improved patient outcomes. One step
      in this approach is to encourage health care providers to deliver health promotion advice and
      counseling to their patients during routine office visits. Another is to link advice with
      readily available resources wherein an individual might be able to implement counsel.
      Therefore, the specific aim of this proposal is to evaluate the relative contribution of a
      multi-component, behavioral counseling intervention delivered by health care professionals
      versus the same behavioral counseling intervention when augmented by an interactive health
      promotion "telephone helpline" that will, among other things offer guidance on the
      availability of physical activity resources at Metro Parks facilities. In order to refine
      this intervention (Phase II) before it is executed, focus groups will first be conducted in
      Phase I with members of the target population in order to obtain feedback on the proposed
      intervention activities and materials. Qualitative findings and feasibility testing will be
      the basis for modifying the intervention.
    
  