
    
      After the screening procedures confirm that you are eligible to participate in the research
      study: If you take part in this research study, you (and your donor) will have the following
      tests and procedures:

      Donor Lymphocytes Collection: Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell involved with the
      immune system. Your original marrow/stem cell donor will undergo one white blood cell
      collection procedures called leukapheresis. Blood from the vein in one arm will be circulated
      through a special machine to remove the white blood cells, and the rest of the blood will be
      returned to the donor's other arm. The cells collected from the leukapheresis will be sent to
      the laboratory where the amount of white blood cells collected will be measured. A sample
      will be removed for study testing, and the remaining lymphocytes will be set-aside for
      infusion.

      Donor Lymphocyte Processing: Once the lymphocytes are collected from your donor, the
      CliniMACS System device will enrich (preferentially select) the number of Treg cells. Samples
      will be taken before and after processing by the CliniMACS System to examine the cells. After
      completing the necessary safety tests, the Treg-enriched donor lymphocyte cells will be ready
      for administration.

      Donor Cellular Infusion (DCI): The Treg-enriched donor lymphocytes will be infused through an
      intravenous (I.V.) catheter over approximately 5-10 minutes. Prior to the infusion, you will
      receive Tylenol and Benadryl to prevent transfusion related reactions. You will be observed
      for about 1 hour after the infusion. The total anticipated time you will spend in the clinic
      is approximately 2 hours.

      Since the investigators are looking for the highest one-time dose of the anti-inflammatory
      donor cells that can be administered safely in combination with IL-2 without severe or
      unmanageable side effects in participants that have cGVHD, not everyone who participates in
      this research study will receive the same dose of the donor cells. The cell dose you get will
      depend on the number of participants who have been enrolled in the study before you and how
      well they have tolerated their cell doses.

      Study Drug: You will give yourself or be given IL-2 daily through an injection under your
      skin. You will do this once every day for 8 weeks, starting from the day of donor Treg cell
      infusion. You will then have 4 weeks off of IL-2.

      IL-2 will be provided in single-use (one-time only) syringes to be refrigerated at home at 36
      - 46°F (2 - 8°C).

      During the first 6 weeks of IL-2, you will continue to take steroids and other immune
      suppressing medications without changing the dose your doctor has set for you while you are
      on IL-2. After 6 weeks of IL-2 therapy, your doctor may reduce the amount of steroids you
      take.

      If your cGVHD improves after 8 weeks on IL-2, you may have the option of continuing
      extended-duration therapy. Extended-duration therapy is daily IL-2 treatment starting at the
      end-of-study visit after week 12. Your doctor will discuss this option with you. If you
      continue with extended-duration IL-2 therapy after completing the week 12 evaluation, you
      will be assessed on the following schedule:

        -  Clinic visits for evaluation of toxicity and clinical benefit approximately every 4
           weeks

        -  Immunologic assays approximately every 8 weeks. Immunologic assays will measure the
           effect of IL-2 on immune cells.

      Drug Diary: Each day for the first 8 weeks you take IL-2 and each day during extend-duration
      IL-2 (if applicable), you will be asked to document, in a drug diary, when you took the drug
      and where you injected it. The diary will also include special instructions for taking the
      study drug(s). The diary will also ask if the entire syringe was injected, and if there were
      other issues related to IL-2. You will be asked to return your drug diary to clinic every 14
      days while you receive IL-2. If you continue taking IL-2 in the extend-duration portion, you
      will return your drug diary every 8 weeks (at your clinic visit).

      Chronic GVHD Assessments: While you are on study, a member of the study team will examine you
      to evaluate your cGVHD. These assessments may include examination of your skin,
      joints/muscles, eyes, mouth, lungs and gastrointestinal system (for example, whether you have
      experienced any nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, difficulty swallowing). The investigators will
      also look at the range of motion of different body parts (for example, your arms).
    
  