
    
      Primary Hypothesis: Brexpiprazole treatment will be associated with dose-dependent reduction
      in resting pupil diameter as a reflection of LC NE neuron target engagement in a group of
      subjects with PTSD. Secondary Hypothesis: Brexpiprazole therapy will be associated with a
      dosedependent decrease in CAPS-5 scores Tertiary Hypothesis: The pre-post treatment change in
      resting pupil diameter will be statistically significantly correlated with the pre-post
      change in CAPS-5 score.

      Subjects will be screened and will undergo pupil measures with rating scales on Visit 1.
      Subject must be free of all psychotropic medications for one week before Day 1 assessment,
      except that prior FLX treatment will require 4 weeks of abstinence, and MAOIs will require 2
      weeks of abstinence. They will be randomized to study drug an issued six weeks of study
      medication on Day 1 to take home. A phone call will then occur for safety assessment and
      medication adherence at every week. They will present back to the study site on Day 42 and
      undergo pupil measures with rating scales. They will then undergo a one week washout period.
      On Day 49 they will then be given another study drug to take home with rating scales and
      pupil measures obtained that day. A phone call will then occur for safety assessment and
      medication adherence at every week. They will present back to the study site on Day 91 and
      undergo pupil measures with rating scales. They will then undergo a one week washout period.
      On Day 98 they will then be given another study drug to take home with rating scales and
      pupil measures obtained that day. A phone call will then occur for safety assessment and
      medication adherence at every week. They will present back to the study site on Day 140 and
      undergo pupil measures with rating scales. No more study medication will be provide on Day
      140 and a final visit will be scheduled for on Day 147, one week later, for and end of study
      interview with labs and physical exam. At each visit, other than the final visit, subjects
      will complete the CAPS-5, MADRS, Insomnia Severity Index, and Clinician Assessment for
      Adverse Effects.
    
  