
    
      The incidence of Tuberculosis (TB) in poor settlements around Cape Town continues to rise
      despite highly-active-anti-retroviral therapy (HAART) roll-out and DOTS. In Khayelitsha
      district, where this project will be conducted, TB incidence is about 1600/100000. There is
      an equally high HIV prevalence, currently 33%. Over 50% of adults presenting with active TB
      are co-infected with HIV and a third of all patients starting HAART have active TB. Although
      HAART has been shown to reduce the overall risk of TB by 59-80%, this risk still far exceeds
      the general risk. In the Khayelitsha HAART cohort, the risk of developing TB whilst on HAART
      is ~12 per 100 p-y. In the nearby community of Gugulethu, there is a 14% risk of active TB
      with at least half of the cases occurring within the first 3months on HAART. In a region
      where RD1-detected prevalence of latent TB infection is at least 80%, there is a real concern
      that TB will likely undo the benefit of HAART in the long run. Additional measures are
      therefore required to reduce the risk of TB in those already receiving or starting HAART.
      Isoniazid preventive therapy (IPT) represents an option but there is insufficient evidence to
      determine whether IPT can further (and safely) reduce the risk of TB in the HAART era. In a
      RCT, we propose to evaluate whether IPT can reduce the risk of active TB in patients
      receiving HAART.

      A total minimum sample size of 1204 is required for the study to detect a 35% reduction in
      the hazard rates for tuberculosis in the intervention group (h1= 0.052) compared to the
      control group (h0=0.085) at a power of 80% and a Type II error of 0.05. Our maximum targeted
      sample size when losses to follow-up and subgroup analyses are considered is 1445.
      Development of TB will be the primary endpoint.

      Additional information (on 10 August 2010):

      Recruitment and enrolment into the study was completed in October 2009. We have screened over
      2000 patients already on ART and those newly starting ART. However, instead of enrolling our
      desired maximum sample size of 1445, a revised minimum total of 1368 were instead randomized
      to the study drug. This followed an amendment to the sample size necessitated by new
      information on the clinical site; primarily higher rates of patients lost to follow-up at the
      clinical site than previously anticipated. The amendment to our sample size was reported to,
      and acknowledged by, the Research Ethics Committee of the University of Cape Town. Follow-up
      of participants will continue until Oct/November 2011.
    
  