
    
      Non-invasive and controllable suppression of regional brain activity may open new avenues for
      the treatment and management of epilepsy. There is good evidence that direct stimulation of
      epileptogenic sources can powerfully suppress seizure rates, but so far minimally invasive
      attempts have shown limited success. Currently, there are no approved non-invasive procedures
      for seizure suppression.

      Focused ultrasound (FUS) is a promising new potential treatment, because it can target any
      region in the brain, regardless of depth, with high spatial specificity. FUS allows for the
      non-invasive delivery of acoustic energy to a well-localized and circumscribed brain region
      of a few millimeters in diameter, depositing mechanical or thermal energy. The possibility of
      transcranial application of FUS into deep brain areas has already been demonstrated by the
      strategic placement and operation of an array of multiple ultrasound transducers.

      The ultrasound based BrainSonix device is a highly novel non-invasive alternative to direct
      stimulation. Capitalizing on non-invasive high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU),
      BrainSonix, using an animal model, found early evidence of selective suppression of regional
      neural activity in the brain. Importantly these effects were non-thermal and reversible.
      Further study is required to validate and characterize the degree of suppressive effects on
      epilepsy to ensure safe application in human subjects. Low Intensity Focused Ultrasound
      Pulsation (LIFUP) differs from HIFU because the intensities of ultrasound used are an order
      of magnitude lower than HIFU. Also, whereas ablative HIFU is administered continuously, LIFUP
      is administered in short pulses, which reduces energy deposition. The investigators' and
      others data have demonstrated that administration of ultrasound, as LIFUP, causes a
      significant, but reversible, neuromodulatory effect, while preventing the tissue from being
      thermally damaged.

      Study Procedures

      Visit 1 Assessment The initial assessment will be performed shortly after signing the consent
      form. The patient will meet with the clinician and baseline demographic information and
      general physical information will be collected. The patient will also undergo a
      psychiatric/neurological evaluation, including a neurological exam, and several
      neuropsychiatric questionnaires using the Brief Symptom Inventory (BSI) self-report, the Beck
      Depression Inventory (BDI) self-report, a neuropsychiatric battery of tests described in
      section 9.2.4 below, the Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI) and the
      Mini-Mental Status Assessment (MMSE). They will also be required to complete an Magnetic
      Resonance Imaging (MRI) screening questionnaire to detect the presence of any devices that
      might present a safety risk.

      Visit 2 Treatment and Assessment At visit 2, the location of the epileptic focus will be
      determined based on previously performed studies as part of the individual's routine epilepsy
      evaluation. The location of the epileptic focus will be determined based on previously
      performed studies as part of the individual's routine epilepsy evaluation. Brain MRI,
      interictal electroencephalogram (EEG), ictal EEG, interictal positron emission tomography
      (PET), ictal PET, interictal single-photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT), ictal
      SPECT, interictal magnetoencephalography (MEG), ictal MEG, and magnetic resonance (MR)
      spectroscopy data may be available and utilized to determine each participant's epileptogenic
      zone.

      LIFUP will be administered to the temporal region on the side to undergo surgery, within the
      focus producing seizures (as determined by the comprehensive epilepsy evaluation). LIFUP
      session will take place during the 7 days prior to the operation. See Section 8.2.1 for more
      details regarding the LIFUP Sonication procedure.

      The subject's heart rate and blood pressure will be monitored during the procedure. Routine
      electrode electroencephalography (EEG) will be recorded immediately before and after the
      LIFUP sonication session. Recording will last approximately 60 minutes.

      The same neurological exam and neuropsychiatric questionnaires using the Brief Symptom
      Inventory (BSI) self-report, the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) self-report, and the
      neuropsychiatric battery of tests described above will be performed at Visit 2, as well.
      Testing will last approximately 2 hours.

      LIFUP Sonication Procedure

      Low-Intensity Focused Ultrasound Pulsation (LIFUP) sonications will be conducted using the
      LIFUP experimental device BX Pulsar 1002 produced by the Brainsonix Corporation. LIFUP will
      be administered to the temporal region on the side to undergo surgery, within the focus
      producing seizures (as determined by the comprehensive epilepsy evaluation). In addition the
      functional magnet resonance imaging (fMRI) recording will be done during the LIFUP to
      determine the target area of activity and to navigate the focus of the transducer to that
      area. The ultrasound will be focused on the highest activity area within the temporal lobe.
      Functional MRI of the brain will be obtained throughout the LIFUP session. Initially LIFUP
      will be administered below the minimum effective dose determined in previous animal
      experiments. Up to 8 sonications will be administered during the LIFUP session. The total
      dose of LIFUP is not to exceed 2 min. The total time within the MRI machine will be up to 90
      minutes.

      After the participant is fitted with the transducer they will be placed in the MRI machine
      and undergo a series of scans. After placing the transducer over the anterior tip of the
      temporal lobe the participant will undergo fMRI BOLD scans with LIFUP excitation: Tone Burst
      Duration = 2ms and Pulse Repetition Frequency = 250Hz) at four levels of intensity
      (720mW/cm2, 1440mW/cm2, 2880mW/cm2 and 5760mW/cm2). Before increasing the intensity, the
      transducer will be moved approximately 5mm posterior. The excitation scans will be analyzed
      immediately for evidence of BOLD activation. After the last excitation scan the LIFUP
      parameters will be changed to inhibitory parameters: Tone Burst Duration = 0.5ms and Pulse
      Repetition Frequency = 100Hz).

      Surgical Resection and Histology After surgical resection of the anterior temporal lobe,
      histology will be performed on the resected tissue to look for evidence of tissue injury not
      characteristic of temporal lobe epilepsy or previously identified on the routine brain MRI.

      Three Month Follow-up At three months the epilepsy surgeon will assess the healing of the
      surgical wounds and will conduct a Structural MR. The results will be reported back to the
      investigator.

      Six Month Follow-up At six months the epilepsy surgeon will carry out a neurogical exam, and
      several neuropsychiatric questionnaires using the Brief Symptom Inventory (BSI) self-report,
      the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) self-report, a neuropsychiatric battery of tests
      described in section 9.2.4 below, the MINI, and the Mini Mental Status Assessment.

      Neuropsychiatric Battery of Tests The following battery of neuropsychiatric tests will be
      performed on the study subjects at one of the participant's standard clinical visits, as part
      of their standard clinical care and at visit 2 following the LIFUP sonication procedure. This
      battery of tests has been designed to not interfere with their standard clinical care. The
      Visit 2 scores will be compared to the Visit 1 (Baseline) scores to assess neuropsychiatric
      changes as a result of the LIFUP procedure.

      Seizure Account Participants will be instructed to maintain a daily log of all seizures from
      the date of consenting until the date of the operation.

      Heart Rate and Blood Pressure Monitoring The patient will be affixed with a heart rate
      monitor. A periodic blood pressure check will be performed if the heart rate increases more
      than 30% during or immediately after sonication. The investigators' lab has the capacity to
      measure those parameters in MRI. If the patient's blood pressure has also increased more than
      10% then they will be withdrawn from the study.

      EEG Monitoring Routine electrode electroencephalography (EEG) recorded immediately before and
      after the LIFUP sonication session. Recording will last approximately 60 minutes.

      A 30-minute awake EEG using scalp electrodes placed according to the International 10-20
      System of electrode placement will be performed immediately before and immediately after the
      LIFUP treatment.

      Interim Safety Analysis The data will be analyzed after the first subject in order to
      determine subsequent treatment paradigm in the next 2 subjects. After the first participant,
      histology data will also be analyzed by the investigator. If the participant shows
      histological damage in the a category (i.e. apoptosis, irreversible blood brain barrier (BBB)
      disruption, ischemia) at a given intensity then the investigators will continue with the next
      cohort of 2 participants, but the investigators will no longer use that intensity, or higher
      intensities. If more than one participant shows histological damage in the same category at
      the lowest intensity (720mW/cm2), then the study will be stopped.

      Biostatistical Analysis

      Statistical analyses will be performed using SAS® v9.3 or higher (SAS Institute, Cary NC,
      USA).

      All statistical analyses of safety and performance measures will be descriptive in nature.
      Continuous variables will be summarized by a mean, standard deviation, minimum, median and
      maximum, and categorical variables by a count and percentage. Confidence intervals will be
      provided where relevant.

      If multiple evaluations are taken in a single patient, statistics described below will be
      appropriately modified to accommodate the within patient correlation.

      Demographic, medical and clinical history variables will be tabulated. Continuous variables
      will be summarized by a mean, standard deviation, minimum, median and maximum, and
      categorical variables by a count and percentage.

      The numbers of patients who were enrolled and completed each visit of the study will be
      provided, as well as the reasons for all enrollment discontinuations, grouped by major reason
      (e.g., lost to follow-up, adverse event). A list of discontinued patients, protocol
      deviations, and patients excluded from the efficacy analysis will be provided as well.

      Histological results in the resected tissue of the anterior temporal lobe will be presented.

      Comparison of all neurological assessment scores at the pre-treatment visit and at the
      post-treatment visit will be presented.

      Comparison of the number of epileptiform discharges and Epileptiform Discharge frequency (DF)
      during a 30-minute period before and a 30-minute period after LIFUP will be presented.

      Change in BOLD signal during or after LIFUP sonication will be presented.

      Subjects who do not have valid data for the efficacy measures will be treated as missing
      values. No imputation is planned.
    
  