
    
      This current study will enroll EBC subjects with differing breast cancer (BC) subtypes, with
      the intent of characterizing the molecular alterations in BC tissue before and after
      short-term exposure to the anti-androgen darolutamide. Studying the biological mechanisms in
      which darolutamide targets the androgen receptor (AR) in BC will be crucial in understanding
      its' potential role, as well as provide the foundation for further development of
      darolutamide in this disease.

      TRIO030 will evaluate the following objectives: Primary -To identify the molecular
      alterations that occur in human BC tissue, following short-term exposure to darolutamide in
      female subjects with EBC; Secondary - To evaluate the safety and tolerability of short-term
      exposure to darolutamide in female subjects with EBC.

      Design: This will be a multi-center, open-label, tissue-acquisition study involving up to 60
      subjects from approximately 20 sites in North America and Europe, and will enroll EBC
      subjects of differing subtypes (i.e., triple negative [TNBC], ER+/HER2-, and HER2+), with the
      intent of characterizing the molecular alterations in BC tissue before and after short-term
      exposure to the anti-androgen darolutamide.

      Such information may suggest that darolutamide be combined with other modalities; for
      example, if treatment with the drug is discovered to affect multiple signaling pathways.
      Molecular profiling of tumor samples before and after darolutamide treatment may permit the
      identification of patients likely or unlikely to respond to the agent based on the biological
      and molecular characteristics of their tumors.

      Duration: It is recommended that the surgery date is defined prior to starting protocol
      treatment and then the start date of darolutamide (Day 1) will be derived as minus 14 to 21
      days from the scheduled surgery date. Treatment will be taken until the day prior to surgery
      or when the subject is ordered to stop all oral intake (i.e., "nil per os" (npo)), which ever
      occurs first. If for some reason surgery takes place more than 21 days after treatment start,
      it is acceptable that the subject receives darolutamide for more than 21 days and up to a
      maximum of 35 days; subject should continue protocol treatment until the day prior to
      surgery, or npo is ordered. In these cases it is strongly recommended to have surgery
      performed as soon as possible after 21 days of treatment are completed.

      After surgery, an End of Study (EoS) visit will occur 30 days (+/- 3 days) after the
      subject's last intake of darolutamide. In case of ongoing protocol treatment-related AEs/SAEs
      at the time of the EoS visit, monitoring of these events will continue as clinically
      indicated until (a) the events have resolved or (b) the events have reached a status which,
      in the Investigator's opinion, is unlikely to resolve due to the nature of the condition
      and/or the subject's underlying disease.

      Total Number of Sites: A total of 14 sites were opened worldwide, with 5 sites located within
      the U.S, 6 in Canada, and 3 in Germany.

      Sample Size/Patient Population: Up to 60 subjects will be enrolled in the study. To be able
      to assess the molecular alterations after darolutamide, exposure in different BC subtypes,
      subjects being either triple-negative, or ER+/HER2 negative, or HER2 positive, will be
      enrolled in the study. Up to 20 subjects with each of these subtypes will be included (with
      an acceptable minimum of 8 evaluable patients in each cohort).

      Dosage Regimen: Darolutamide will be given at a dose of 600 mg (2 x 300 mg tablets) twice
      daily (b.i.d) to a daily dose of 1200 mg.

      The first day of darolutamide administration in the study is considered Day 1. The last
      darolutamide intake will be on the day prior to breast cancer surgery, when the pre-surgery
      visit should occur.

      darolutamide should be taken approximately at the same time each day twice a day. It is
      recommended that darolutamide be taken with food; recommendation is to take it with breakfast
      and dinner each day.

      Supportive measures and dose modifications: A subject who experiences a treatment-related
      grade 3 or higher adverse event (AE) must be withdrawn from protocol treatment and should
      proceed to surgery and undergo an EoS visit. In the case of a grade 1-2 treatment-related AE,
      the Investigator should contact the Medical Monitor if a dose reduction or treatment hold is
      required.

      Washout pre-trial: Prior treatment of ovarian hormone replacement therapy should be stopped
      at least 28 days prior to registration. Use of other investigational drugs should be stopped
      within 28 days of enrollment. No major surgery within 28 days before enrollment (Major
      surgery is defined as requiring a general anesthesia or respiratory assistance; involving
      openings into the great cavities of the body, organs removed, or normal anatomy altered;
      implying risks of severe hemorrhage; implying risk for life of the patient or severe
      disability).

      Concomitant Medication: Subjects will be instructed to consult with the Investigator before
      taking any medications (including over-the-counter medications). Supportive medications may
      be provided prophylactically or therapeutically per Investigator discretion.

      Any concomitant treatment NOT listed below is considered permitted in the study and may be
      prescribed as clinically appropriate during the study:

        -  Investigational agents other than the protocol treatment.

        -  Any additional standard or investigational anticancer agents, such as chemotherapy,
           immunotherapy, targeted/biologic therapy, endocrine therapy, etc., even if utilized as
           treatment of non-cancer indications. darolutamide must be permanently discontinued upon
           initiation of a non-protocol standard or investigational antineoplastic therapy prior to
           surgery.

      Rescue Medication and Risk Management: No specific pre-medication is required. Based on the
      current available data , there are no special warnings and precautions associated with the
      use of darolutamide.

      Premature Withdrawal / Discontinuation Criteria: The patient may withdraw from the study at
      any time without prejudicing future medical treatment. In any case, the withdrawal should be
      clearly documented in the subject's clinical records.

      Should a patient decide to withdraw consent, all efforts will be made to complete and report
      the observations as thoroughly as possible. A complete final evaluation at the time of the
      patient's withdrawal should be made with an explanation of why the patient is withdrawing
      from the study. After complete withdrawal of consent, no further study procedure is performed
      and no further data will be collected.

      Discontinuation: The Investigator will also discontinue protocol treatment if any of the
      following conditions is met:

        -  Intercurrent illness or a change in subject´s condition or unacceptable toxicity that
           warrants protocol treatment discontinuation according to Investigator's judgment

        -  Any event, condition, criterion which would warrant discontinuation of darolutamide
           (i.e., severe toxicities), including grade ≥ 3 protocol-treatment related AE

        -  Any event, condition, reason which would warrant darolutamide to be held for more than
           the maximum acceptable delay of 7 consecutive days

        -  Subject receives non-protocol anti-cancer therapy at any time during the protocol
           treatment

        -  Subject's decision to withdraw protocol treatment

        -  Lost to follow up

        -  Death

        -  Pregnancy

        -  Investigator's decision

        -  Discontinuation of the study by the sponsor

        -  Patient is enrolled but does not receive protocol treatment for any reason
    
  