
    
      The purpose of this study is to identify organizational and provider practice norms at major
      US cancer centers, and how these norms influence patient and family expectations and provider
      decision-making heuristics for later-line chemotherapy, hospice, and ICU admission among
      minority patients with advanced cancer. Norms are rules about which there is at least some
      degree of consensus, enforced through social sanctions. Heuristics are unconscious judgments
      or rules of thumb.The study team will collect direct observation data from outpatient clinic
      visits, and semi-structured interview data from selected participating providers, patients,
      caregivers, and other informants following the initial observation.

      The study team will perform 2-week, qualitative case studies of 3 theoretically sampled
      National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) and NCI Comprehensive Cancer Centers. Oncology
      practice managers' nominations of providers with particular cancer focuses, high volumes, and
      high peer influence will be used to sample oncologic clinicians to shadow in outpatient
      clinic settings. Observations will be hand-written during the clinic visit, and later
      dictated and transcribed. Observed providers will be invited to be interviewed. Select
      patients and caregivers will also be invited to be interviewed following initial clinic
      observation. Other informants will be invited to be interviewed on an ad hoc basis. All
      interviews will be audio recorded and transcribed, and interviews will be semi-structured to
      allow for natural flow of conversation. Observations and interviews will all be done by the
      study PI, project coordinator, and/or another research team member.

      Clinical observations and semi-structured interviews will assess the following outcomes: 1)
      formal and informal organizational norms influencing provider decision-making, 2) provider
      decision-making heuristics, and 3) patient and caregiver expectations. All outcomes will be
      assessed regarding receipt of chemotherapy in the last 14 days of life, intensive care unit
      (ICU) admission in the last 30 days of life, and non or late hospice referral.

      We also aim to to explore the how COVID-19 intersects with organizational and provider norms,
      practices, and service delivery for patients with advanced cancer.
    
  