
    
      Goal:

      Reframing the negative attitude toward fever. Reducing unnecessary use of drugs (antipyretics
      and antibiotics) as well as lower the number of medical consultations. In order, the
      investigators will use a media-based mobile application and a web knowledge base. Languages
      English and Hungarian.

      Hypotheses:

        1. The mobile application and knowledge base increases health literacy of parents and
           professionals.

        2. The application will change the uncertain and/or negative attitude toward fever.

        3. The positive change in attitude will influence antipyretic and consecutive antibiotic
           use, lower medical provider contact, enhancing the practical implementation of
           guidelines.

      Method:

      Noninvasive, noninterventional, self-reported, observational, prospective cohort study under
      real-life conditions.

      Data: provided by caregivers and/or patients are grouped and classified based on the severity
      of the disease behind the fever.

      Data analysis:

      Analysis sample size calculation: To analyze guideline-adherent and non-adherent behavior at
      a 95% binomial confidence interval with an accuracy of +/- 2%, at least 500 fever phases are
      required if the smaller group comprises 5%. The investigators a-priory estimation based on
      surveys is that only about 15% of caretakers have a guideline-conforming approach to the
      management of fever, hence 1,500 fever events are needed for the planned accuracy. If
      adherent and non-adherent groups are approximately the same size, a maximum of ca. 2,500
      fever phases are required.

      The exact incidence of fever per age group is not yet known. Larger samples are required -
      and expected - for subgroup analyses (e.g. between age groups). Recruitment will therefore
      continue throughout to year 3 and beyond. The Chi² test is used to compare two subgroups.
      Sample size planning cannot take unplanned multiple testing into account, so the results can
      only be interpreted exploratively.

      Subsample calculations: If a difference of 5% between two frequencies is interpreted as
      clinically significant, at a power of 80% and an alpha error probability of 5% assuming
      normal distribution in both subsamples, the following sample sizes are required: For a very
      rare sample, ca. 200 cases per subsample are sufficient. If the rate is around 50%, ca. 1,600
      cases per subsample are required.

      Software: IBM SPSS Statistics 22, Microsoft Excel ...

      Research partners providing theoretical and professional background:

      University of Pécs Hungarian Medical Chamber (Győr-Moson-Sopron Megye) University of Witten
      Heim Pál Childrens Hospital National Emergency Service Healthware Tanácsadó Kft. Dr. Szőke
      Henrik és Társa Egészségügyi Szolgáltató Kft.

      Organizational tasks are conducted in the framework of the University of Pécs, Faculty of
      Health Sciences and by the Civil Support Közhasznú Nonprofit Kft.
    
  