
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Coronary heart disease continues to be the leading cause of death in the United States,
      despite risk factor reduction and technological advances in treatment options. Prospective
      studies implicate chronic anxiety as an independent risk factor for fatal coronary heart
      disease. In particular, anxiety increases the risk of sudden cardiac death substantially.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Nine hundred and fifty CAD patients were recruited for this study from patients hospitalized
      for elective cardiac catheterization. Anxiety was measured by the Hospital Anxiety Scale, the
      Spielberger Trait Anxiety Inventory, and the Crown-Crisp Phobic Anxiety Scale. Symptoms of
      depression were measured by the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale, the Hospital
      Depression Scale, and the Beck Depression Inventory. Vagal control of heart rate was
      determined using power spectral analysis to measure two indices of vagal control:
      baroreceptor-mediated vagal reflex cardiac control, and respiratory sinus arrhythmia.
      Patients were followed at 6 months, l year, 2 years, and 3 years postcatheterization, and
      cardiac mortality data were obtained, including non-sudden and sudden cardiac death. The data
      generated by this study were used to examine the involvement of impaired vagal cardiac
      control in the risk of fatal coronary heart disease and sudden cardiac death associated with
      anxiety.

      Specifically, the study examined: (1) the relationship between anxiety and cardiac mortality;
      (2) the relationship between anxiety and vagal control; (3) the role played by reduced vagal
      control in mediating anxiety-related risk; and (4) the relationship between depression, vagal
      control and cardiac risk. Findings of a relationship between anxiety, reduced vagal control
      and sudden cardiac death would suggest the potential importance of early intervention in
      cardiac patients with anxiety disorders and would underscore the benefit of aggressive
      monitoring of arrhythmias in this population, which may ultimately translate to reduced
      mortality rates.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  