
    
      This study examines the effectiveness of the Heart Exercise And Resistance Training - Peer
      Lead ActivitY (HEART-PLAY) intervention to significantly sustain exercise adherence in
      patients referred for Cardiac Rehabilitation (CR). CR Clinic staff and CR patients who meet
      study inclusion criteria and are willing to serve as peer leaders, will be taught to lead the
      intervention activities with trained health educators and research staff. The HEART-PLAY
      program and behavior change will be sustainable because of the presence of peer and staff
      leadership and because it employs proven strategies from social cognitive theory and
      ecological models including self-monitoring, feedback, social support, role modeling, and
      relapse prevention. HEART-PLAY teaches patients how to accumulate meaningful PA across the
      day and provides a supportive social infrastructure to maintain motivation. Since the aim is
      to test an augmented CR program that can be widely adopted, the project employs a design that
      allows for the concurrent testing of both intervention and implementation strategies and
      outcomes. Across the five days of the week and the AM and PM clinic sessions, there will be
      approximately 25 different peer-led groups (clusters) run to obtain complete data on a total
      of 264 women and men 18+ years old of varied socioeconomic and ethnic backgrounds referred
      for CR. HEART-PLAY and STANDARD participants will be scheduled to visit the Step Clinic on
      distinctly different days/times to avoid contamination. Participants in the STANDARD
      condition will receive the standard of care cardiac rehabilitation, consisting of 36 sessions
      across 12 weeks of prescribed, supervised exercise sessions, Participants in the HEART-PLAY
      will receive standard CR and additionally receive pedometers, resistance bands, and the
      National Institute of Aging (NIA) exercise guide. Patients will further receive counseling
      from peer health coaches, social support from group education sessions, and supplemental
      educational materials. After the 12 weeks of prescribed, supervised exercise sessions,
      HEART-PLAY group participants will continue to receive support from peers and clinic staff
      with check-in calls, feedback on pedometer goals, and bi-weekly group events including walks
      and/or resistance band group exercise classes. Pilot data support that the peer-led approach
      in the clinic setting will be enthusiastically received by patients and significantly
      increase PA and adherence.
    
  