
    
      AIMS: 1) To evaluate the HH/ED as mainstream service during the last decade (2006-2015); 2)
      To assess healthcare value generation of during the process of large scale deployment of the
      HH/ED program including generation of information useful for further refinement of
      transitional care in AISBE; and, 3) To assess the cost-effectiveness of AISBE's integrated
      care services using a population-based approach. These studies will contribute to refine
      three core aspects of the ongoing services; that is, a) Service evaluation; b) Health risk
      assessment and service selection; and, c) Service workflow definition and execution.

      Study 1 - It evaluates both characteristics and outcomes of the process of HH/ED deployment
      from 2006 to 2015 without a control group.

      Study 2 - Since late 2016, HH/ED is offered as a first choice for hospitalization to patients
      admitted in the Emergency room of Hospital Clinic. The current program has potential for 36
      home-based admissions on a 24x7 day basis. The study will cover all patients admitted in the
      program (estimated 1,500 candidates) using both registry data and electronic medical records.
      Moreover, a subset of 200 consecutive HH candidates admitted through the Emergency room at
      Hospital Clinic will be selected using a 1:4 ratio. They will perform a complete study adding
      administration of standardized questionnaires carried out during HH/ED admission, one-month
      and three month after HH/ED discharge.

      The intervention group will receive the standard HH/ED service and it will be compared with a
      control group that will include the same number of patients (n=200) under conventional
      hospitalization. The control group will be selected from those patients admitted in the
      Emergency room of the Hospital Clinic, but transferred to Hospital Sagrat Cor (within AISBE)
      for conventional hospitalization. Inclusion of the control group will also follow 1:4 ratio.
      Matching between intervention and control groups will be periodically assessed by groups of
      10 patients.

      The study design, as described, does not include Early Discharge patients included from
      highly specialized programs carried out at Hospital Clinic. Consequently, an additional HH/ED
      group of 100 patients from those programs will be also characterized (without control group)
      in order to properly identify the needs of this subset of patients for transitional care.

      Finally, the population-based study (Study 3) will assess the Barcelona-Esquerra as
      intervention group will be compared with data from the other three healthcare sectors from
      the city of Barcelona, taken as control groups, because they do no have well identified
      integrated care programs.
    
  