
    
      Critical Time Intervention-Task Shifting (CTI-TS)is delivered by lay Community Mental Health
      Workers (CMHWs) and Peer Support Workers (PSWs) based in mental health outpatient service
      programs (MHS) and supervised by mental health professionals. These workers provide community
      outreach and support to engage service users, their families, primary care practitioners,
      peers and other community members in the recovery process.

      The CTI-TS program is concerned with improving supports for people recovering from episodes
      of mental illness. Examples of areas where extra support may be provided include medication
      management, housing or crisis management, help with the family, help obtaining good services
      from mental health centers and primary health centers, and help developing social
      relationships in the community.

      The program is provided by a CTI-TS team, including a community mental health worker and a
      peer support worker (someone who has used mental health services in the past, and has
      recovered). All of the CTI-TS activities will last 9 months. The evaluation of how people
      fare will last 18 months. The activities of CTI-TS will be in addition to the usual care
      provided by the subject's local health service. Usual care might include meeting with a
      mental health professional, meeting with a social worker, and/or obtaining prescriptions for
      medicine. This study will compare how people fare who have participated in the CTI-TS
      activities against the group of people who received only the regular services of this
      community mental health center. As part of the study, a trained researcher will meet with
      each subject for an interview at the beginning of the project, again 9 months later, and
      again after 18 months. These interviews will ask questions about how the subject is doing
      with his/her health and quality of life, and if the subject is getting help or support with
      problems.
    
  