
    
      Bacterial vaginosis during pregnancy is considered as a risk factor for preterm birth since
      the 1990's. A meta-analysis realized in 2003 found an Odds ratio of 2.4 for preterm delivery
      among women with bacterial vaginosis carriage, culminating at 7.5 when carriage before 17
      weeks gestation was considered. Preterm delivery is a pregnancy complication known to be more
      prevalent among patients of African descent. Various hypothesis have been tested to account
      for this observed discrepancy and several authors consider that up to 50% of the difference
      in preterm delivery rate between Afro-american and Caucasians may have and infectious origin,
      with up to 30% attributable to a very different bacterial vaginosis carriage among patients
      of various ethnic origin. Several factors may interfere in the link observed between
      bacterial vaginosis and preterm delivery, which are also unevenly distributed among women of
      different ethnic origin. Exposure to stress, low socio-economic status, single marital status
      or low access to prenatal care are among those factors. Thus analyzing a relation between
      bacterial vaginosis and preterm delivery mandates to control for such factors. The present
      study will proceed to a vaginal sampling before 17 gestational age (GA) to diagnose a
      bacterial vaginosis through the Nugent score which is the standard diagnostic method for this
      pathology. At the same time, a written survey concerning stressful events in the past 12
      months is submitted to volunteer patients in order to use the social readjustment rating
      scale by Holmes and Rahe and to account for the role of stress as a potential confounding
      factor. Socio-demographic data, obstetrical history and complications during pregnancy were
      also recorded and patients followed-up prospectively until delivery. Caregivers were blinded
      to the results of initial vaginal sampling. No alteration of the normal pregnancy follow-up
      was required by the study design.
    
  