
    
      A total of 100 young adults (21-26 years; 50% women, no history of AUDs>mild) will be
      recruited from the greater Austin area. Participants will be equally divided among those with
      parental history of bipolar disorder but not AUDs, parental history of bipolar disorder and
      AUDs, parental history of AUDs but not bipolar disorder, and typically developing age- and
      sex-matched controls with no parental history of mood disorders or AUDs (N=25 per group). The
      phone screen used for this study will assess parental history and clinical symptoms to
      achieve these recruitment goals for each subgroup.

      Once recruited and enrolled, subjects will undergo detailed structured clinical evaluations
      to verify inclusion and exclusion criteria (including family history), comprehensive
      assessment of alcohol and other drug use history, and cognitive testing. Participants will
      return to the laboratory on subsequent days and complete their alcohol/placebo sessions while
      wearing Secure Continuous Remote Alcohol Monitoring (SCRAM) sensors and under the influence
      of alcohol or a placebo condition (counter-balanced). Following standard beverage
      administration procedures in a simulated bar laboratory, changes in heart rate, body sway,
      and self-report measures of subjective response to alcohol will be measured. Up to four
      participants will complete the beverage session together in the bar laboratory. This
      increases the ecological validity and strengthens the placebo manipulation. It also increases
      subject flow. Participants will be escorted to a private assessment room for all behavioral
      assessments. For each participant the first beverage session assignment (whether the
      participant is given alcohol or the placebo beverage first) will be randomized. The SCRAM
      sensor will be worn continuously and measure transdermal alcohol concentration throughout the
      alcohol and placebo sessions. Participants will wear the SCRAM sensor home overnight
      following their alcohol session and return the next morning for SCRAM sensor removal.
      Transdermal alcohol concentration is continuously collected overnight following an alcohol
      session. Participants will not be required to wear the SCRAM sensor home after their placebo
      session. For the placebo session, we will inform participants they received a low dose of
      alcohol and that their BrAC is at 0.0g% at the end of the session so monitoring overnight is
      not needed. Alcohol and placebo sessions will occur within 3 days of each other.

      For both the alcohol and the placebo beverage conditions, the protocol will be the same. The
      beverage administration sessions will in a simulated bar laboratory in co-Investigator, Kim
      Fromme's, research suite at the University of Texas at Austin. The table in the testing room
      will be wiped down with alcohol prior to the participant's arrival (olfactory cue). Study
      staff will use an algorithm to calculate individual alcohol doses based on the participants'
      age, sex, height, and weight. Participants fast from food for 4 hours prior to their session.
      Before beginning consumption of their beverages, they will eat a weight-adjusted, 1 calorie
      per pound snack of pretzels. While participants eat their pretzels, study staff will mix
      beverages in front of participants. Vodka and placebo (decarbonated tonic water) will be
      stored in absolute vodka bottles, measured out, and combined with mixer in front of
      participants. Mixed drinks will be poured into glasses that have been sitting face down with
      rims soaking in vodka. Prior to giving the beverage to the participant, all drinks will get
      an alcohol floater (squirt of absolute vodka on top of the drink). Participants will be given
      20 minutes to orally consume two beverages (10 minutes per beverage).

      Following oral consumption and a 15-minute absorption period, breathalyzer tests will be
      conducted every 10 minutes to identify a .06g% ascending limb breath alcohol concentration
      (BrAC). Heart rate, body sway, and self-report of response to alcohol will be collected. BrAC
      will be measured at approximate 10 minute intervals, and heart rate, body sway, and
      subjective response to alcohol collected again at peak BrAC (0.08g%) and at descending BrAC
      of .06g%. Baseline heart rate, body sway, and self-report response (with instructions
      modified to ask how participants feel when they first arrive to the laboratory) are also
      collected before sessions begin so change on test days (e.g. peak 0.08g% BrAC heart rate -
      baseline heart rate) is calculated. Consistent with NIAAA guidelines for human alcohol
      studies, BrAC readings will continue every 30 minutes until participants are below 0.04% at
      which time they are escorted home. During the placebo condition, participants are told they
      will receive varying doses of alcohol, provided ambient olfactory cues, the rims of glasses
      are soaked in vodka, and alcohol floater is added to beverages (gustatory cues). A placebo
      manipulation test is measured during the ascending limb (placebo: after the absorption period
      with time of test given at the average time it takes individuals to reach ascending 0.06g%
      BrAC during the alcohol session) and when participants reach ascending 0.06g% BrAC (during
      alcohol session). Participants are asked to estimate the number of standard alcoholic drinks
      they were served. The average time participants stay in the laboratory will be shorter for
      the placebo vs. alcohol beverage condition. Participants are told they received a lower dose
      of alcohol and at the end of the placebo session they are told their BrAC is 0.0g%. They
      therefore do not need to wear the SCRAM sensor home. During the alcohol session participants
      are released at 0.04g% and they are told they need to wear the SCRAM sensor home overnight.
      Participants are debriefed, including BrAC reached during sessions, after they complete both
      sessions.
    
  