
    
      Objective

      Alzheimer disease (AD), Parkinson disease (PD), and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) are
      associated with the accumulation of neurotoxic material in the brain. Potentially toxic
      material is normally restricted from the brain by P-glycoprotein, a transporter protein
      expressed by endothelial cells at the blood-brain barrier. Disruption of the blood-brain
      barrier has been reported in animal models of AD, PD, and FTD, and specific dysfunction of
      P-gp has been linked to AD and PD pathology. Therefore, P-gp may be protective against
      certain neurodegenerative diseases, and P-gp dysfunction may be a risk factor for developing
      AD, PD, or FTD.

      Positron emission tomography (PET) imaging can measure P-gp function. If P-gp function is
      abnormal, a radiolabeled P-gp substrate will cross the blood-brain barrier and enter the
      brain. Intact P-gp function, on the other hand, will prevent the substrate from entering the
      brain. If P-gp dysfunction is a risk factor for developing AD, PD, or FTD, then patients with
      these diseases should have more radiolabeled substrate in the brain than healthy controls.

      We have developed a novel radioligand, [(11)C]N-desmethyl-loperamide [(11)C]dLop), which is a
      P-gp substrate. Our goal is to use PET imaging with [(11)C]dLop to see if P-gp function is
      reduced in AD, PD, and FTD.

      Study population

      In this protocol, we wish to evaluate 15 patients with AD, 15 patients with PD, 15 patients
      with FTD, and 15 healthy volunteers.

      Design

      Subjects will undergo screening with a history, physical exam, ECG, and blood and urine
      laboratory testing. Subjects will receive a dedicated brain PET with [(11)C]dLop and a brain
      MRI. Since [11C]dLop uptake is influenced by blood flow, a [(15)O]H2O PET scan will be
      performed to determine flow to the brain.

      Outcome measures

      Our outcome measure will be the amount of [(11)C]dLop uptake in the brain in AD, PD, and FTD
      patients and in healthy controls. Brain uptake will be measured as the percent standardized
      uptake value (%SUV). Percent SUV reflects the measured brain radioactivity after [(11)C]dLop
      injection, corrected for patient weight and the injected dose of [(11)C]dLop. As an
      exploratory outcome measure, we also will correct brain uptake for cerebral blood flow. Blood
      flow will be determined using [(15)O]H2O PET.
    
  