
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety of oral azacitidine (CC-486) when
      combined with R-CHOP (the treatment regimen normally used in treating Diffuse large B-cell
      lymphoma or Grade 3B follicular lymphoma). This study also proposes to explore the
      pharmacokinetics of oral azacitidine when administered in combination with R-CHOP and to
      assess the effects the drug can have on the human body, as well as the ability of CC 486 in
      combination with R CHOP to further effect the response of tumors associated with Diffuse
      large B-cell lymphoma or Grade 3B follicular lymphoma, .

      Oral azacitidine in combination with R-CHOP has not been approved for the treatment of
      Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma or Grade 3B follicular lymphoma and its use in this study is
      investigational. Various dose levels of this investigation treatment will be administered to
      subject enrolled into the study.

      This study is separated into three periods: Screening and Registration, Treatment and
      Follow-up periods. Before the patient can receive the study drug the doctor will perform
      tests to find out whether he/she can participate in the study. This is done during the
      Screening Period. If the patient and the treating physician determine that the patient is
      eligible to participate in the study, the patient will be registered in the study and
      assigned to receive one of the investigational dose levels of oral azacitidine.

      The Treatment period starts when the patient receives their first dose of the study drug. The
      maximum time the patient will receive study treatment is 5 months. The intent is for the
      patient to complete 6 cycles of treatment. Each cycle will be 21 days. The Follow-up period
      starts when the patient's treatment is completed or discontinued for any reason. The patient
      will have fewer exams, tests and visits once entering the follow-up period. These visits will
      be every 6 months for up to 2 years.
    
  