
    
      Recurrence of Bipolar I (BP I) major depressive episode (MDE), is now recognized as a major
      mental health problem. Recurrent BP I MDE is a disorder with no satisfactory therapy, and its
      treatment remains a challenge to clinicians. To date, initial and long-term therapy of BP I
      MDE has been based on un-validated practice guidelines. These guidelines recommend limiting
      antidepressant drug (AD) use during initial therapy of BP I MDE, and completely avoiding AD
      use during long-term therapy. There is, however, no empirical evidence to suggest that mood
      stabilizer (MS) monotherapy is superior to combined MS plus AD therapy in preventing
      recurrent BP I MDE. Nor is there evidence to suggest that long-term MS plus AD therapy
      results in more manic switch episodes. We present evidence that AD-induced mania during
      long-term therapy of BP I MDE has been over-estimated, and that long-term use of MS plus AD
      therapy may be superior to MS therapy alone in preventing recurrent BP I MDE. In this study,
      we will ask: "Does continuation therapy with combined lithium plus fluoxetine result in fewer
      MDE relapses and recurrences vs. lithium monotherapy?" To answer this question, patients with
      BP I MDE will receive combined lithium plus fluoxetine therapy for 8 weeks. Responders who
      stay well for an additional 4 weeks of consolidation therapy will then be randomized to
      double-blind continuation therapy with either (i) combined lithium plus fluoxetine, or (ii)
      lithium alone (following fluoxetine taper and discontinuation) for an additional 50 weeks. We
      hypothesize that long-term lithium plus fluoxetine therapy will result in fewer MDE relapses
      and recurrences vs. lithium monotherapy. We will also ask: "What is the relative safety,
      tolerability, and frequency of syndromal and sub-syndromal manic, hypomanic, and mixed state
      conversions during continuation treatment with combined lithium plus fluoxetine vs. lithium
      monotherapy?" To answer this question, we will measure: the frequency, severity, and duration
      of syndromal and sub-syndromal manic, hypomanic, and mixed state conversions; frequency,
      severity, and duration of treatment-emergent adverse events; frequency of treatment
      discontinuation; time to onset of first syndromal and sub-syndromal conversion event; time to
      first treatment intervention of each syndromal and sub-syndromal conversion event; and, time
      to onset of increase in suicidal ideation event. We hypothesize that lithium plus fluoxetine
      therapy will result in a similar frequency of syndromal and sub-syndromal conversion events,
      and a similar frequency of treatment-emergent adverse events. We further hypothesize that
      lithium plus fluoxetine therapy will result in fewer suicide ideation events and fewer study
      discontinuations vs. lithium monotherapy. We believe that the results of this trial may have
      an important public health impact on the current practice guidelines for treating BP I MDE.
    
  