
    
      This is an open-label, multi-center interventional trial in Cystic Fibrosis (CF) patients
      with new MRSA isolated from the respiratory tract (oropharyngeal (OP) = OP swab, sputum, or
      bronchoscopy) at a clinical encounter.

      Forty-two subjects with new MRSA infection will be enrolled and will receive two weeks of
      oral trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) or minocycline depending on age, allergies and
      antibiotic resistance of prior isolate for 14 days, and nasal mupirocin for 5 days. Subjects
      old enough to do so will use oral disinfectant gurgle (0.12% chlorhexidine gluconate oral
      rinse) for 14 days. The primary endpoint will be the proportion of positive MRSA respiratory
      cultures at Day 28 and this will be compared to our prior STAR-Too results.

      Subjects will then have a 14 day wash-out period (i.e., no TMP-SMX or minocycline from Day 14
      to Day 28) and all participants will repeat the treatment protocol from Day 29 to Day 42.
      Repeat cultures will be done at day 56 ± 7 days, most likely combined with their next clinic
      visit. Results of Day 56 cultures will be an exploratory, secondary outcome.

      A subsequent visit will be 3 months later with their routine clinic appointment. Any interim
      clinic visits will be used to obtain repeat cultures and clinical data.

      Assessment of MRSA culture status will be by OP swab for all subjects, with additional sputum
      in those who expectorate.

      Total duration of an individual subject's participation will be six months. Total duration of
      the study is expected to be 42 months, which includes data analyses and publication.

      Due to COVID 19 restrictions, a study amendment was filed in March 2020 for subjects
      currently active subjects that allowed remote study visit for V3 and V4. Cultures were
      collected at home and mailed to the Core Study lab, clinical case forms and surveys were
      completed via video visits. These changes were approved by each study site that this was
      relevant to i.e. 4 study sites had subjects active at that time.
    
  