
    
      Diabetes melitus is a group of metabolic disorders resulting from a defect in insulin
      production and/or insulin action. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has estimated that the
      total number of people with diabetes mellitus worldwide will increase from 171 million in
      2000 to nearly 370 million in 2030 with the prevalence of the disease for all age groups to
      be 4.4%. 90% of diabetes cases worldwide are of Type II diabetes mellitus (T2DM) as a result
      of greater prevalence of sedentary lifestyle, unhealthy diet and rise of obesity, as well as
      an increasing number of elderly population. T2DM can be attributed to relative deficiency of
      insulin, involving insulin resistance, aberrant synthesis of hepatic glucose and progressive
      deterioration of pancreatic beta-cell functions resulting in chronic hyperglycaemia with
      disturbances in carbohydrate, fat and protein metabolism. Insulin resistance, classically
      defined as a decreased sensitivity to metabolic actions of insulin, is recognised as an
      important risk factor in the pathogenesis of various disorders, including T2DM. However,
      insulin resistance and ß-cell dysfunction can be asymptomatic and may remain undiagnosed for
      many years. Current T2DM management employs a range of pharmacological (hypoglycaemic agents)
      and lifestyle (diet, exercise) intervention approaches aiming at managing hyperglycaemia,
      with the main objective being to ensure sufficient delivery of glucose to the various tissues
      of the body and prevent hyperglycaemia by achieving good glycemic control. Nutrition has been
      regarded to play a significant role in the complex pathophysiology of T2DM and in the last
      several years, increasing amount of evidence has emerged linking various nutrients and food
      sources with a positive management of T2DM.

      Seaweed have traditionally been consumed as a readily available whole food or traditional
      medical preparations, especially in Asia. Seaweeds are rich in bioactive compounds in the
      form of polyphenols, carotenoids, vitamins, minerals, phycobilins, phycocyanins, and
      polysaccharides, many of which are known to offer a wide range of benefits in human health.
    
  