
    
      Prospective cluster randomized interventional study with primary health care clinics as
      clusters.Clinics will be randomized to conventional care or to structured patient education
      in addition to care. Trained physicians will extract information from the patient medical
      record and will conduct a personal interview with the participants, after they finish with
      their routine visit, to fill a case report form (CRF)

      CRF will include the following items:

        -  Patient Demographics,

        -  Socioeconomic: income, employment and education

        -  Past Medical History

        -  Smoking history

        -  Alcohol use

        -  Medications

        -  Adherence: Morisky scale

        -  Examination: BP, weight, height, waist

        -  Investigations: LDL-C, HbA1C 2.Compliance/adherence to the medication will be measured
           by using the Morisky scale, which is a validated scale for measuring adherence in
           hypertension and diabetic patients among other disease.

      Patients attending clinics that are randomized to structured patient education will receive
      education targeting all the risk factors they have. They will be informed about specific
      evidence -based target values they should achieve for each of the risk factors. Their
      compliance to prescribed medications will be encouraged and specific advice about improving
      compliance will be given. To achieve this physicians in the education clinics are going to
      use two items:

        1. Framingham Risk Score calculator.

        2. Know your numbers patient booklet.

      Follow up visits will be scheduled at 2 months, 6 months and 12 months after the initial
      visit. For patients in both education and conventional clinics, compliance to medications
      will be assessed and the degree of risk factor control will also be determined through
      specific measurements that include number of cigarettes smoked, systolic and diastolic blood
      pressure, body mass index and waist circumference, HBA1C and LDL values.
    
  