
    
      Aggressive incidents are highly prevalent among chronic psychiatric inpatients. Previous
      studies have demonstrated the potential of multivitamin-, mineral-, and n-3 fatty acids
      (n-3FA) supplementation to reduce aggression in adolescent and forensic populations. To test
      the hypothesis that multivitamin-, mineral-, and n-3FA supplementation reduces aggression
      among chronic psychiatric inpatients, we designed a pragmatic, randomised, double-blind,
      placebo controlled, multicentre intervention study among psychiatric inpatients residing in
      long-stay psychiatric wards. During 6 months, one group receives 2 supplements daily from
      Orthica: one containing vitamins and minerals (vitamins [B1, B2, B3, B5, B6, B11, B12, C, D,
      E, Beta Carotene; Calcium, Iodine, Copper, Magnesium, Selenium, Iron, Zinc, Potassium,
      Chrome, Manganese]) and one containing fish fatty acids (n-3FA: eicosapentaenic acid [EPA]
      and docosahexaenic acid [DHA]) and the other group receives 2 placebo capsules.

      The main study parameter is the number of aggressive incidents from baseline (t0) to endpoint
      (six months post baseline, t3). Patients who wish to participate enter a 2-week run-in phase
      in which they take 2 placebo capsules daily. After positive evaluation of this run-in phase
      patients are randomized to the active or the control condition. Participants will then start
      the daily use of 2 supplement capsules or 2 placebo capsules, which will continue for 6
      months. At 3 time points (at baseline [t0] and at 2 and 6 months post-baseline [t2 and t3]),
      three questionnaires measuring feelings of aggression, quality of life, and psychiatric
      symptoms will be administered. Also, at t0 and t3 (micro)nutrient status will be determined.
      Finally, at 4 time points (t0, 2 weeks post baseline [t1], t2 and t3), nursing staff will
      report on observed levels of aggression and social dysfunction.
    
  