
    
      Overall Goal: To reduce the incidence, severity, duration, and frequency of delirium episodes
      in cognitively impaired long-term care (LTC) residents at high risk for delirium.

      Background: Delirium is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality among older people
      admitted to both acute and LTC settings. Prevention, founded on a thorough understanding of
      associated risk factors, is the best approach for dealing with delirium. Several successful
      multicomponent interventions have been developed to reduce delirium incidence in the acute
      care setting (30%-73% reduction) by intervening on identified modifiable risk factors. Little
      work, however, has focused on using this approach to reduce delirium incidence in LTC. As
      such, co-investigators within the study team employed an integrated knowledge translation
      strategy to develop a LTC multicomponent delirium prevention program (PREPARED Trial
      intervention). The feasibility and acceptability of this program has been demonstrated using
      a participatory approach in two Quebec LTC facilities (LTCFs), and the program has received
      recognition by the scientific community. Given its large expected impact and high knowledge
      translation potential, a thorough and well-designed large-scale evaluation is urgently needed
      in order to demonstrate the effectiveness of the multicomponent delirium prevention program
      in preventing delirium among high-risk LTC residents.

      Primary Objective: To assess efficacy of the PREPARED Trial intervention in reducing delirium
      incidence, and delirium episode severity, duration, and frequency among cognitively impaired,
      high-risk LTC residents.

      Secondary Objectives: To compare the effect of the PREPARED Trial intervention to that of
      usual care on the incidence of falls among cognitively impaired LTC residents, to estimate
      the association between medication use and delirium incidence in LTCFs, to estimate if there
      is an effect modification by motor subtype of delirium or by dementia subtype, and to measure
      the prevalence of delirium in participating institutions.

      Tertiary Objectives: To compare the effect of the PREPARED Trial intervention on other health
      outcomes, including: changes in functional autonomy or social engagement, the number of
      transfers to acute care, consultations with healthcare providers, and mortality rates.

      Methods: This 4-year cluster randomized study will involve nursing staff and residents in
      40-50 public and semi-private LTC facilities in Quebec, Canada. Institutions within all 5 of
      the Montreal island Integrated University Health and Social Services networks (CIUSSS) and
      one private provincial network are currently participating. Approximately 900 LTC residents
      will be enrolled in the study and followed for 18 weeks only if they are at high risk of
      delirium and are delirium-free at baseline. The PREPARED Trial intervention is a program
      consisting of four components: a decision tree, an instruction manual, a training package and
      a toolkit. Primary study outcomes such as delirium incidence (measured by the Confusion
      Assessment Method), delirium severity (measured by the Delirium Index), and level of
      adherence to the PREPARED Trial protocol will be assessed weekly. Functional autonomy levels
      will be assessed at the beginning and end of follow-up, while information pertaining to
      modifiable delirium risk factors, medical consultations, and institutional transfers will be
      collected for the duration of the follow-up period. For primary analysis, hazard ratios will
      be modeled using Cox regression to compare the effect of the PREPARED Trial intervention to
      that of usual care on the time to first delirium episode. Clustering effects will be taken
      into account using frailty models, an extension of Cox regression for the addition of random
      effects.

      Expected Outcomes and Significance: This large-scale intervention study will contribute
      significantly to the development of evidence-based clinical guidelines for delirium
      prevention in this frail elderly population, as it will be the first to evaluate the efficacy
      of a multicomponent delirium prevention program translated into LTC clinical practice on a
      large scale. In addition to reducing delirium in this frail population, deliverables include
      validation of this prevention program, as well as the transferring of its components
      (including bilingual video training modules for LTC staff) to relevant knowledge users across
      Canada.
    
  