
    
      Probiotics are live micro-organisms which when administered in adequate amounts can exert a
      health benefit on the host. This health-promoting effects have been extensively studied in
      the gastrointestinal niche but it becomes more and more clear that other niches are also
      interesting for the potential of probiotics. Recent breakthroughs in 'next generation
      sequencing' (NGS) technologies are making it now possible to map the microbiota after DNA
      extraction, which is very interesting for bacteria that are not or difficult to cultivate.
      The research into the microbiota of the skin with such new NGS technologies shows that there
      is also an equilibrium in the skin composition of the microbiota and that there is a
      disturbance of the skin microbiota in atopic dermatitis (AD). The etiology of AD is complex,
      with the manifestation of the disease being influenced by various genetic and immune
      mechanisms acting in concert with environmental factors. A reduction in the skin microbial
      diversity is often observed and flares are characterized by an abundance of skin pathobionts
      such as Staphylococcus aureus. Therefore, topical probiotic strains could have a positive
      effect on the skin microbiome and function by inhibiting pathogens, restoring the skin
      microbiome and/or barrier function and executing anti-inflammatory effects on the skin cells.
      The main objectives of this study are to analyse the skin microbiome in healthy volunteers
      and patients AD to obtain in depth data of the composition of the skin microbiome and
      identify possible biomarkers for AD. In parallel, a double-blind placebo-controlled study
      with topically applied live lactobacilli will be performed to give more insights in the
      working mechanisms of lactobacilli on AD skin. More specifically to evaluate the effect of
      the 'live' Lactobacillus species as 'active ingredient' in relation to acne symptoms and skin
      microbiome modulation.
    
  