
    
      This is a prospective, multicenter, open-label, randomized trial comparing OAC with no OAC
      (1:1 ratio) in patients who develop new-onset POAF after CABG. The primary effectiveness
      endpoint is the composite of death, stroke, transient ischemic attack (TIA), myocardial
      infarction (MI), systemic arterial thromboembolism or venous thromboembolism (VTE) at 90 days
      after randomization. The primary safety endpoint is BARC (Bleeding Academic Research
      Consortium) grade 3 or 5 bleeding at 90 days after randomization. The overall intent is to
      evaluate the trade-off in prevention of thromboembolic events versus an increase in bleeding.

      Patients will be randomly assigned to the following treatment strategies:

        -  OAC-based strategy (experimental arm): OAC with vitamin K antagonist (VKA) with
           international normalized ratio (INR) target 2-3 or any approved direct oral
           anticoagulant (apixaban, rivaroxaban, edoxaban or dabigatran) in addition to background
           antiplatelet therapy with aspirin 75-325mg once-daily or a P2Y12-inhibitor (clopidogrel
           or ticagrelor)

        -  Antiplatelet-only strategy (control arm): with aspirin 75-325mg once-daily or a
           P2Y12-inhibitor (clopidogrel or ticagrelor)

      The protocol-specified duration of anticoagulation is 90 days. Patients, who are randomized
      to the control arm and develop recurrent AF after 30 days, may be crossed-over to an OAC.
      Accrual is expected to take 36 months. Study follow-up visits will be performed at 90 days
      and phone follow-up at 180 days.

      Data for patients enrolled in the registry will be ascertained from the local clinical site
      via a review of medical records. The baseline risk profile of registry patients (i.e.,
      patients eligible but unwilling to be randomized) will be analyzed and compared to that of
      patients randomized in the trial. The usage of anticoagulant and antiplatelet therapies in
      the registry population overall and baseline CHA2DS2-VASC stroke risk score will also be
      determined.

      Patients will be offered the option of having biospecimens collected for future research.
    
  