
    
      Background: Opioid abuse and addiction is a growing epidemic both in the United States and
      globally. It impacts the health, social welfare, and economic stability of those directly
      affected and society as a whole. According to the National Institute on Drug Abuse there are
      approximately 2.1 million people in the United States with substance use disorders related to
      prescription opioid medications and another 467,000 addicted to heroin. Data from the Center
      for Disease Control National Vital Statistics System demonstrated that the number of drug
      poisonings involving opioid analgesics tripled from 2000 to 2014, and in 2010 opioid pain
      relievers were responsible for 82.8% of all unintentional deaths in the United States.1 In an
      attempt to combat this epidemic many states have implemented community-based opioid overdose
      prevention programs aimed at increasing resources to combat addiction and distributing
      naloxone to community members. These programs increase knowledge of overdose prevention and
      the factors that increase a person's risk for overdose. Evaluations of these programs have
      also demonstrated that nonmedical bystanders are able to administer naloxone effectively
      after completing training.2 Naloxone can be administered intravenously, intramuscularly, or
      via inhalation. Opioid overdose prevention programs are typically initiated by local and
      state governments, which allows for interprogram variability regarding the route of naloxone
      administration used by community members. Pre-hospital data has demonstrated that intranasal
      naloxone is a safe and effective alternative to intravenous naloxone.3 A usability assessment
      comparing a naloxone auto-injector (Evzio®) to the use of a nasal atomizer suggested that the
      route of administration did impact the rate of successful naloxone administration by
      nonmedical community members.4 Opioid overdose prevention programs typically utilize
      intranasal atomizers, nasal inhalers, or intramuscular administration routes. In 2016 the
      investigators conducted a usability assessment of naloxone administered by community members
      who received training on how to use the naloxone device that was assigned. Our data supported
      that intranasal administration with an atomizer or spray resulted in a higher administration
      success rate when compared to intramuscular injection. Recently, New York, along with many
      other states, passed legislation allowing individuals to purchase naloxone over-the-counter
      without a prescription. This legislation has drastically expanded access to naloxone, but has
      reduced the opportunity to train community members purchasing the medication. The
      investigators plan to conduct a usability assessment of simulated naloxone in community
      members in the absence of training to assess the rate of successful administration and time
      to successful administration.

      Objectives:

      Primary: The successful administration of simulated naloxone without training. A successful
      administration will be defined as administration of the simulated naloxone to the mannequin
      head or simulated flesh pad within 7 minutes and without any critical errors (defined below).

      Secondary:

        -  Total time required to successfully administer the simulated naloxone without training.

        -  Comparison of successful administration with standard and simplified instructions

        -  Comparison of total time required for successful administration with standard and
           simplified instructions

        -  Likert-item assessment of the usability of the simulated naloxone product

        -  Likert-item assessment of usability of the naloxone administration instructions

      Design: Single site, open-label, randomized usability assessment of intramuscular,
      intranasal, and nasal spray administration of simulated naloxone using standard
      (package-insert) or simplified (developed by study team) instructions. A convenience sample
      of participants will consent to volunteer in the study at a public venue. Participants will
      provide verbal consent and will be randomly assigned a simulated naloxone kit containing
      either intramuscular standard, intramuscular simplified, intranasal standard, intranasal
      simplified, nasal spray standard, or nasal spray simplified administration materials. The
      participant will enter a use scenario station and will be asked to assemble and administer
      the simulated naloxone kit to a mannequin (intranasal and nasal spray) or simulated flesh pad
      (intramuscular). The participant will be instructed to start and will be timed until the
      simulated naloxone has been successfully administered or 7 minutes has elapsed. The
      participant will be observed by one trained investigator who will assess for successful
      administration of the simulated naloxone and critical errors. The environment will contain
      distracters to mimic a community based setting. Once the participant has successfully
      administered the simulated naloxone or 7 minutes has elapsed the timer will be stopped.
      Successful administration of simulated naloxone will be defined as administration of the
      agent without any critical errors occurring (defined below). Data collected will include
      demographics (defined below), successful administration of simulated naloxone, product
      assessment information, instruction assessment information, and time to successful
      administration of simulated naloxone.

      Eligibility: healthy adults (18 years of age and older) at a public venue will be asked to
      participate in the study. Participants with severe visual or hearing impairment (defined as:
      legally deaf, legally blind, unable to read print size provided on instructional handout, or
      unable to hear instructions from a research staff member), that have previous naloxone
      administration training, that are not English proficient, that are pregnant, or that have
      previously participated in the trial will be excluded.

      Statistical Methods: All data will be analyzed using IBM SPSS Statistics software.
      Demographics data will be analyzed using descriptive statistics for continuous measures and
      percentages for categorical measures. The successful administration of naloxone will be
      compared between groups using the Chi-square test and a significant difference will be
      defined as a p-value of less than 0.05 for the result. The time to administration between
      groups will be assessed using a one-way ANOVA and a significant difference will be defined as
      a p-value of less than 0.05 for the result. The Likert-item data will be reported as
      percentage of response level and analyzed using a one-way ANOVA with a significant difference
      defined as a p-value of less than 0.05 for comparison between administration methods and
      instruction methods.

      Data Analysis/Interpretation: As stated above data will be collected to assess both the
      successful administration of and time to administration of naloxone. The rate of successful
      administration will be reported as a percentage for each of the three groups and analyzed
      using the Chi-square test. Successful administration is defined as administration of the
      simulated naloxone within 7 minutes without committing any critical errors. Critical errors
      are as follows:

        -  Intranasal (atomizer): failure to remove both yellow caps from bristoject, failure to
           remove cap from simulated naloxone, failure to attach atomizer, failure to attach
           simulated naloxone, drug leak prior to administration, administration in only one
           nostril, and failure to administer within 7 minutes.

        -  Intramuscular: failure to attach the needle to the syringe, failure to remove cap from
           simulated naloxone, failure to draw up >90% (0.9 mL) of the simulated naloxone, failure
           to puncture simulated flesh pad with needle, failure to push entire volume of fluid in
           the syringe into the simulated flesh pad, and failure to administer within 7 minutes.

        -  Intranasal (spray): failure to place the tip of the device into one nostril, failure to
           depress the device and release the simulated naloxone, failure to administer within 7
           minutes.

      Time to successful administration will be reported using descriptive statistics (mean time to
      administration) and analyzed using a one-way ANOVA. Times for participants who commit a
      critical error or who do no administer the simulated naloxone within 7 minutes will not be
      included in the analysis. The Likert-item data will be reported as a median with an
      inter-quartile range and analyzed using a one-way ANOVA.

      A route of administration will be considered to be more user-friendly if it demonstrates a
      statistically significantly higher rate of successful administration compared to another
      route of administration. Additionally, a route or instruction type will be considered user
      preferred if the Likert-item data demonstrates a significantly better score on usability.

      Study Procedures: No study procedures will be performed on study participants.
    
  