
    
      Objectives

        -  The purpose of this study is to examine the effectiveness of group music therapy in
           prison. Specifically, the investigators aim to determine whether group music therapy is
           associated with greater improvements in levels of anxiety, depression, and self-esteem
           among prisoners than the care that is normally provided. Additionally the investigators
           aim to explore the unique value of music therapy in prison, its potential advantages to
           other forms of therapy in this setting, and how it can be effectively implemented in the
           Chinese prison system.

      Methods

        -  A randomized controlled study with individual assignment of participants to one of two
           parallel groups will be conducted to determine the effects of group music therapy
           compared to no treatment.

      Participants

        -  Inmates from a prison in Beijing, China will be eligible to participate in this study
           and will be included if they are willing and meet the inclusion criteria detailed below.
           Recruitment started in April 2012 and will continue until 192 participants have been
           enrolled during this period.

      Interventions

        -  Experimental group

             -  Participants in the experimental group will take part in biweekly group music
                therapy for 10 weeks (20 sessions). Each group will be formed by 6 to 8 people, and
                each session will last for 90 minutes. The sessions will take place in the activity
                room in the prison. The academically trained music therapist with previous relevant
                clinical experience will apply receptive and active music therapy techniques. The
                active techniques will include musical improvisation as a medium to work with
                participants according to therapeutic goals and participants' needs. The music
                therapist has a background in both psychodynamic and humanistic approaches, but
                will apply existential-humanistic oriented approaches to work with the participants
                of this study. Taking into account factors such as the limited duration of the
                intervention, the outcomes of this study, and the group setting of the
                intervention, the humanistic framework is felt to be more suitable for this study
                than a psychodynamic framework. Specifically, the outcomes including emotions and
                self-esteem are closely related to the humanistic approach. The therapist will
                focus on creating a favorable and respectful environment, building trustful and
                authentic relationships between the therapist and group members, and increasing
                their self-awareness, encouraging the participants' expression and sharing of
                emotions.

      The first three sessions will be introductory sessions. The music therapist will introduce
      the goals of music therapy, three techniques of music therapy (improvisation, song writing,
      and music imagery), and discuss how these approaches can help the group. Each the following
      session will start with a discussion on the focus of the group (the thoughts, emotions, or
      topics which the group wants to share or explore). Then, the therapist and the group will
      reach an agreement which music therapy technique should be chosen. The therapist will keep
      the flexibility of music therapy techniques applied in this study to ensure the result of
      this research to be closely related to clinical work. In usual clinical work, music
      therapists tend to apply multiple methods in working with clients. At the end of each
      session, the group members will reflect on the music therapy activity through verbal
      discussion, drawing, or other musical experiences (such as another improvisation, singing a
      song together, or movement in music) to bring the session to a closure.

        -  Control group

             -  Participants assigned to the control group will not receive any specific treatment
                in this study. The usual care that is normally available at the prison will
                continue to be available for all participants during the study. This may include
                medical care and psychological/psychotherapeutic care. The rate of psychotherapy is
                usually very low, except in case of any extreme events (such as suicidal behavior,
                severe outbursts of anger, or fights with other prisoners). All prisoners will
                normally have a psychological class together. Data will be collected of how many
                participants in each group received other therapies during the study. Due to
                ethical considerations, the control group will receive group music therapy or
                psychotherapy by academically qualified therapists for 5 weeks after the study is
                finished.

      Study Design

      The investigators will allocate participants individually to the interventions using a
      computer-generated randomization list. Randomization will be balanced within prison
      departments to ensure equal sizes of intervention groups. This will not compromise allocation
      concealment because eligible participants from one department will be randomized
      simultaneously (rather than entering the study successively one by one). A person who has no
      direct contact with participants will conduct the randomization so that concealment of
      allocation can be assured before the intervention.

      Because of the scarcity of qualified music therapists in Chinese prisons, the first author
      will also be the music therapist to execute intervention. An advantage of this double role
      may be that this experience will allow her to be closely involved in the therapy process and
      to closely observe and experience changes in the participants. This vivid process will
      facilitate the interpretation of the data because it will help to understand any unexpected
      results through the therapist's experience and observation from the music therapy sessions.
      The quality of the therapy will be ensured through weekly supervision with an experienced
      music therapist. A qualified psychotherapist will be trained to help the participants to
      complete the self-report scales. This person will ensure that participants understand the
      questions and complete the questionnaire correctly, but will not be involved in the therapy
      and will be instructed not to influence the participants in their ratings. The behavioral
      observations will be collected by the prison guards who will be unaware of the purpose of
      this study.

      Outcomes of this study will be assessed at pre-test (before randomization; these measurements
      will also be used to screen participants), at the mid-point of the intervention (after 5
      weeks) and at post-test (after 10 weeks). A longer follow up investigation is not possible
      because participants in the control group will be offered therapy after post-test.
    
  