
    
      Before commencing the study, we informed participants who met the inclusion criteria about
      the scope of the study and obtained their written and oral consent. Participants in each
      group completed the data collection form regarding patients' characteristics, the SF-MPQ, the
      ODI and the Physical Functioning and Bodily Pain subscales of the SF-36. A day before LDH
      (Lumbar Disc Hernia) surgery, participants in the control group received standard clinical
      education, whereas ones in the intervention groups received either video- or brochure-based
      education. Participants in the brochure group learned about the proper use of body mechanics
      from the "Body Mechanics Educational Brochure for LDH Patients" and demonstrations performed
      by primary investigator after which we answered any questions that participants asked.
      Brochure-based education took nearly 15 min, and participants could keep the brochures after
      the education programme ended. By contrast, participants in the video group learned about
      proper use of body mechanics from the "Body Mechanics Educational Video for LDH Patients"
      presented on a laptop, after which we also answered any questions that participants asked.
      Video-based education took nearly 15 min, and we provided CD-ROM with the video to the
      participants. Unlike participants in the intervention groups, ones in the control group did
      not receive structured education. Clinical nurses orally informed them about points to
      consider while performing activities such as standing, rising from bed and lifting. Final
      data collection took place in the sixth postoperative week, following the statement of the
      American Association of Neuroscience Nurses that pain and disability begin to decrease and
      that quality of life begins to increase 4-6 weeks after thoracolumbar surgery (Starkweather
      et al., 2013). During the postoperative period, participants in all groups completed the
      SF-MPQ, the ODI and the Physical Functioning and Bodily Pain subscales of the SF-36.
      Participants in the brochure and video groups also completed the survey addressing their
      satisfaction with the educational materials, whereas ones in the control group completed the
      survey addressing their satisfaction with the clinical education that they received. We
      collected data face-to-face with participants, which took approximately 20 min. Participants
      who lived outside Ankara completed the respective survey via telephone interviews, which took
      approximately 30 min.
    
  