
    
      Chronic postoperative pain (CPP) remains a disturbing and obscure clinical problem, which
      could persist beyond wound healing phase and last for more than 3 months after surgery. The
      prevalence of CPP after sternotomy is estimated to be as high as 14%-61%, according to
      several recent studies. However, CPP following other types of surgeries has not been well
      evaluated. There is paucity of literature regarding the impact of CPP on daily life as well.
      Additionally, the identification of predisposing factors for CPP would provide clues for its
      prevention and treatment. The aim of present study was to assess the prevalence of CPP,
      investigate its impact on life quality and explore its potential risk factors.

      After informed consent was signed, patients receiving surgery under general anesthesia during
      2018 will be included. The sample size in Peking Union Medical College Hospital is estimated
      to be approximately 700. Furthermore, we are trying to contact with other large hospitals in
      China to make a multi-center study.

      Patients' preoperative information will be collected from medical record, including basic
      demographic data, primary disease (tumor size, location and peripheral invasion) and previous
      chronic diseases (hypertension, diabetes, coronary heart disease, chronic kidney disease,
      anxiety and depression). Intraoperative information will be obtained from anesthesia record,
      including surgical scope, duration, length and location of incisions and blood loss.
      Postoperative pain control methods can be learned from medical orders. Acute pain will be
      evaluated in the ward of the department of surgery before discharge. At the same time, an app
      will be installed on patients' mobile phones. Our long-term postoperative follow-up would be
      performed by sending out survey questionnaires via this app in the 4th, 8th, 16th, 32th, and
      48th weeks after surgery. The survey covers questions regarding the intensity (Wong-Baker
      FACES Pain Rating Scale), characteristic, location and impact on daily activities (Brief Pain
      Index, BPI) of CPP. Furthermore, information regarding treatment of CPP will also be
      collected, if any. All the data obtained from app could be included into our database and
      statistically analyzed.
    
  