
    
      Airway management remains an important determinant of morbidity and mortality in anesthesia,
      despite progress in recognizing factors of difficult mask ventilation and intubation. Many
      recommendations have been published regarding the practice of intubation in anesthesia. Our
      study focuses on two topics which remain under discussion: the position of the patient's head
      and the use of a videolaryngoscope.

      As to patient's head position, most anesthesiologists place the patient in the sniffing
      position (supine torso with neck flexed forward, and head extended), a position denominated
      "sniffing"by analogy to that adopted to smell a perfume. However, Adnet et al. questioned
      this position based on magnetic resonance imaging of eight healthy young volunteers
      positioned either with their heads in a neutral position or in extension, or with their heads
      and necks on a pillow. They showed that the sniffing position does not allow the alignment of
      the three important axes (mouth, pharynx and larynx) in awake patients with normal airway
      anatomy [1]. The "Head Elevated Laryngoscopic position" (HELP), with a raise of the head and
      neck so that "An imaginary horizontal line should connect the patient's sternal notch with
      the external auditory meatus" [2] facilitates the alignment of the pharyngeal, laryngeal, and
      oral axes of the airway during difficult laryngoscopy [3].

      As to videolaryngoscopy, there is no doubt that it is a major advance in airway management. A
      recent Cochrane Systematic Review concluded that videolaryngoscopy increased easy laryngeal
      views and reduced difficult views and intubation difficulty [4]. However, its place is still
      debated: first line or rescue in case of suspected difficult airway. Its systematic use means
      discarding the standard Macintosh laryngoscope [5] which is not supported by clinical
      studies, in particular those of Wallace et al. [6] and of Thion et al. [7].

      In the present randomized study we will study a combination of two factors in tracheal
      intubation on patients without suspected airways abnormalities: position (sniffing or HELP)
      and a McGrath laryngoscope (with or without video). This leads to four groups, A: sniffing
      position plus McGrath Mac videolaryngoscope with its screen deactivated so as to mimic a
      plain laryngoscope (R-V-), B: HELP plus McGrath Mac videolaryngoscope with a deactivated
      video screen (R+V-), C: sniffing position plus a McGrath Mac videolaryngoscope with an
      activated video screen (R-V+), D: HELP plus a McGrath Mac videolaryngoscope with it video
      screen activated (R+V+). This protocol allows using the same type of laryngoscope in all
      cases.
    
  