
    
      The trial proposed is a single arm, phase II treatment protocol designed to examine the
      engraftment, toxicity, graft-versus-host disease and ultimate disease-free survival following
      transplants derived from (1) HLA-matched siblings or related donors, (2) HLA-compatible
      unrelated donors or (3) HLA haplo-type mismatched related donors using a new chemotherapeutic
      cytoreductive regimen. Candidates for transplant will be stratified according to their donor
      types.

      Candidates for this trial will include patients with high risk forms of ALL, AML or CML,
      non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, or myelodysplastic syndrome for whom an allogeneic marrow transplant
      is clearly indicated, and patients with aplastic anemia refractory to ATG or cyclosporine
      treatment and who are transfusion dependent. All research participants will be conditioned
      for transplantation with intravenous busulfan (busulfex®) (0.8- 1.0 mg/Kg/dose Q6H x 10
      doses), melphalan (70 mg/m2/dose x 2 doses) and fludarabine (25mg/m2/day x 5 doses). Doses of
      busulfan will be adjusted according to plasma levels. All research participants will also
      receive ATG (Thymoglobulin®) prior to transplant to promote engraftment. No drug prophylaxis
      againstGvHD will be administered post transplant. All research participants will also receive
      G-CSF post-transplant to foster engraftment.

      The preferred source of stem cells will be peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) induced and
      mobilized by treatment of the donor with G-CSF for 5-6 days. PBSC obtained through 2-3
      leukaphereses will be Isolex® 300i separated CD34+ stem cell column selected and E-rosette
      depleted (E-). The CD34 + E peripheral blood progenitors will then be administered to the
      research participants after they have completed cytoreduction. If the use of CD34 + E- PBSC
      is not possible, the alternative graft will consist of bone marrow derived stem cells T-cell
      depleted by soybean agglutinin and E-rosetting (SBA-E-).

      Research participants will be carefully monitored for engraftment, chimerism, incidence and
      severity of acute and chronic GvHD, regimen-related toxicity, characteristics of
      hematopoietic and immune reconstitution and ultimate survival and disease-free survival. This
      phase II trial is designed to investigate the feasibility and safety of a chemotherapy-based
      cytoreductive regimen plus a T-cell depleted peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) or bone marrow
      stem cell transplant (BMT) for the treatment of high risk patients with advanced stages of
      hematologic malignancies. The majority of research participants will receive grafts derived
      from PBSC and will be the focus of the trial. The study population will be segmented into
      three research participant groups based on the type of donors used for the hematopoietic stem
      cell graft: (1) HLA-identical sibling or related donor, (2) HLA-compatible unrelated donor,
      and (3) HLA-mismatched related donor.

      A maximum of 25 PBSC research participants in both related groups will be accrued onto the
      study; a maximum of 70 PBSC research participants in the unrelated group will be accrued. In
      order to reduce patient risk, the study design includes early termination of any trial group
      in the event of excessive graft failure, grade 3-4 acute graft-versus-host disease, or early
      transplant related mortality during the accrual period. Excessive failure is defined
      differently in the three donor groups. Stopping rules for the three research participant
      populations will be utilized. In addition to the 120 PBSC research participants, we
      anticipate approximately 25 BMT research participants treated across the three donor groups.
      These research participants will be followed and at the conclusion of the trial descriptive
      statistics on this subgroup will be recorded.
    
  