
    
      Vertebral compression fractures (VCF) represent an important source of morbidity in patients
      presenting osteolytic metastatic or myelomatous vertebral involvement. In addition, cancer
      treatments may induce osteoporosis with an additional risk of vertebral fractures.

        -  Current medical treatments are symptomatic. They do not treat the fracture itself.

        -  Vertebroplasty is an interventional radiological technique that consists of injecting,
           percutaneously, acrylic cement into the fractured vertebra under radiological guidance
           and local or general anaesthesia, in order to combine two effects: stabilization of the
           vertebral body fracture and pain reduction.

        -  Balloon Kyphoplasty is a variant of vertebroplasty which is performed using the KyphX®
           System (Medtronic., Sunnyvale, California). Balloon kyphoplasty aims at restore
           vertebral height of the fractured vertebra using an inflatable balloon prior to inject
           surgical polymethylmetacrylate (PMMA)cement,into the vertebral body to fix the fracture.
           It is an expensive technique costing around 4,000 euros for up to 2 vertebrae in the
           same patient. The surgical technique for the procedure has been described by LIBERMEAN
           et al: A bilateral approach is usually chosen to insert working cannulas into the
           posterior part of the vertebral body through a posterior transpedicular approach. In
           case of limited and asymmetric vertebral destruction, a single unilateral approach may
           be preferred. Fluoroscopy is used to insert the tools and control the procedure. With
           reaming tools, two working channels are created and the balloons are inserted. The
           balloons are available in lengths of 10, 15 and 20 mm.

      The two balloons (one on each side) should ideally be centered at middle height between the
      superior and inferior endplates and in the anterior two-thirds of the vertebral body. Balloon
      placement into the vertebral body is checked using radiopaque markers at the two extremities
      of the balloon. Once inserted, the balloons are inflated using visual, volume and pressure
      control to create a cavity. Inflation is stopped when one of the following inflation
      endpoints is reached: pressure raised over 400 psi, balloon contacts one of the cortical bone
      of the vertebra or reaching maximal balloon inflation volume. The balloons are then deflated
      and removed. The mean balloon inflation volume is 2 to 3ml. The Bone Filler Device, filled
      before with 1.5 ml of PMMA, is then advanced through the working cannula towards the anterior
      part of the cavity and cement is slowly extruded by a stainless steel stylet, acting as a
      plunger. When the amount of cement from the first Bone Filler Device is delivered in the
      cavity, it is removed and another Bone Filler Device is advanced through the working cannula.
      This step is repeated till a complete fill of the cavity is obtained. The same procedure is
      repeated through the other working cannula at the contra-lateral pedicle. Filling of the
      cavity with highly viscous PMMA is performed under continuous fluoroscopic control.

      The aim of this study is to quantify the analgesic and patient function improvement of
      Balloon Kyphoplasty together with complication types and rate in patients with malignant
      vertebral fractures due to metastatic disease or multiple myeloma.
    
  