
    
      Two different time series methods will be used to estimate the effect of an urban trail
      expansion (i.e. "intervention") that occured in WInnipeg, Manitoba Canada, between 2010 and
      2012. The study is designed to determine if a reduction in Major Adverse Cardiovascular
      Events (MACE) was observed in neighbourhoods that received the intervention relative to
      trends among the control neighbourhoods that did not receive the intervention. First, a
      multi-group segmented regression of interrupted time series data will be used to assess the
      effect of the intervention on CVD incidence, both immediately (change in level) and over time
      (change in trend) by creating indicator variables . The level will be the base rate of
      CVD-related end-points at the beginning of the pre-intervention period (2000) and the value
      immediately following each change point at which successive segments join until 2010. The
      trend is the rate of change in MACE end-points (in other words, the slope) during a segment.
      Autoregressive errors will be modeled to account for correlated outcomes. Second, an
      autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) model will be fitted for the CVD incidence
      time series by using the standard approach to identification, estimation, and checking. A
      trend and periodic seasonal terms will be applied to the entire study period (November 2000
      to October 2019). A separate ARIMA model will also be built for the pre-intervention period
      to forecast CVD evolution of the treated neighbourhoods. The number of CVD end-points
      prevented by the intervention will be estimated by calculating the difference between the
      predicted number and the observed number of cases. Should there by difficulty fitting an
      ARIMA model to a relatively small dataset, exponential smoothing models or the Holt Winters
      Algorithm will be used. Although they require larger sample sizes, they are ideal for this
      project as (1) they permit a variety of different types of intervention effect to be modeled
      explicitly, and (2) they are well suited to forecasting future trends.
    
  