
    
      Background:

      Dysregulation of apoptosis is instrumental in forming the malignant phenotype and is
      associated with resistance to chemotherapeutics and biological therapies. Cleaved Caspase 3
      (its activated form) plays a key role in the common apoptotic pathway.

      CP18 is an enzyme substrate of caspase 3. The formulation [18F]-CP18 includes PEG vector
      which facilitates internalization and can be non-invasively imaged using PET. Once cleaved
      into polar fragments by caspase 3, it become trapped within the cells.

      In a phase 2 NCI clinical trial (NCI Protocol (#12C0191) CTEP 9235), Birinapant (TL32711), a
      SMAC (second mitochondrial derived activator of caspase) mimetic, is being evaluated in
      patients with relapsed platinum resistant or refractory epithelial ovarian cancer, primary
      peritoneal cancer or fallopian tube cancer.

      PET/CT imaging with [18F]-CP18 may enable the non-invasive, in vivo monitoring of this drugs
      pro-apoptotic effects. If a measureable effect is shown in this pilot study, further
      evaluation of [18F]-CP18 PET/CT s potential to monitor apoptosis may be warranted.

      Primary Objective:

      To determine tumor uptake and retention of [18F]-CP18 before and after treatment with a SMAC
      mimetic (Birinapant, TL32711), in patients with relapsed platinum resistant or refractory
      epithelial ovarian cancer, primary peritoneal cancer or fallopian tube cancer.

      Eligibility:

      All subjects must meet the eligibility criteria for the phase 2 study of Birinapant (NCI
      Protocol (#12C0191) CTEP 9235) and be enrolled in or planning to enroll in parent therapy
      protocol

      All subjects must sign a document of informed consent indicating their understanding of the
      investigational nature and risks of the study before any protocol related studies are
      performed.

      Design:

      This is a pilot study to assess the change in [18F]-CP18 PET tumor uptake following treatment
      with Birinapant, a SMAC mimetic drug, in patients with relapsed platinum resistant or
      refractory epithelial ovarian cancer, primary peritoneal cancer or fallopian tube cancer.
      Subjects will undergo at least 3 [18F]-CP18 PET/CT imaging studies,one pre-therapy, one
      within 48 hours after receiving the initial dose of Birinapant, and a third scan within 48
      hours after receiving cycle 2, day 15 dose of Birinapant and prior to the tumor biopsy on the
      same day. An exploration of the relationship between PET imaging parameters and clinical
      response and various biomarkers (as determined under the referring protocol) will also be
      performed. Ten patients will be enrolled on this protocol.
    
  