
    
      Acromegaly is often caused by growth hormone (GH)-secreting pituitary adenoma and causes
      anatomic changes in the body and various metabolic disorders caused by increased GH and
      insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF1). Surgical treatment of pituitary tumors is the preferred
      standard of care, but only 40-70% of patients can be treated with surgical treatment alone.
      In many cases, complete resection of the tumor is not possible and the hormone imbalance
      persists after surgery. After surgical treatment, several additional treatments are needed to
      prevent hypersecretion of GH and to normalize blood levels of IGF-1.

      As first-line treatment after surgical resection, there are typically drug therapy and
      radiation therapy. The most common used drugs are octreotide and lanreotide, which are growth
      hormone analogues. However, according to the recent guideline, the endocrine remission rate
      obtained from post-operative drug therapy is only 17-35%. Although clinical trials are
      underway for new drugs, the burden of expensive drug costs, recurrence during drug
      withdrawal, and drug side effects remains major drawbacks. There is a need for therapeutic
      intervention to reduce the dose and duration of therapy, to prevent tumor recurrence, and to
      achieve rapid endocrinologic remission.

      Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS), such as gamma knife radiosurgery, has been actively
      introduced worldwide to control residual pituitary tumors and has been applied to more than
      200 cases of intractable acromegaly. The effect of SRS on endocrine remission in patients who
      did not receive endocrine therapy was confirmed in the literature. In a study of 136 patients
      who underwent preoperative radiotherapy followed by more than 5 years of follow-up, 65.4% of
      patients reported endocrine remission. According to the recently published meta-analysis, SRS
      showed 93-100% tumor growth control and size reduction within 5 to 10 years after surgery.
      The endocrinologic remission rate was reported to be 40-60% at 5 years.

      To date, SRS has been recommended for the treatment of growth hormone - secreting pituitary
      tumors in cases where surgical removal is not feasible from the beginning or if drug
      treatment fails after surgical removal. Only the retrospective study of SRS was performed and
      no prospective study was conducted at all. However, many institutions already prefer
      preemptive SRS treatment for residual tumor after surgery and have been practiced in many
      patients. Therefore, prospective clinical trials are needed to establish the basis for
      upfront SRS and establish the treatment strategy for patients who do not have endocrine
      remission after surgical treatment of GH secretory pituitary tumor.
    
  