
    
      Study Design: This is a randomized, single blinded, standard of care-controlled clinical
      trial. All adult patients over eighteen desiring arthroscopic meniscus surgery will be
      eligible. Nonnarcotic postoperative pain control regimen described below were chosen based on
      previous studies in fracture care and joint arthroplasty.

      Patients will be consented and recruited. Once participation has been determined and consent
      obtained, the names of participating patients will be provided to the research pharmacy.
      Patients will be randomized with a computer-generated table in 2 patient blocks by the
      research pharmacy. Patients postoperative analgesia will be divided into one of the following
      2 treatment arms: 1) A novel nonopioid pain protocol or 2) traditional narcotic pain
      analgesia

      Primary endpoints is reduction in pain as measured by Visual Analog Score and Patient
      Reported Outcome Measurement Informatics Systems. The endpoints will be collected at each
      post-operative day using a journal. Moreover, endpoints will be collected at the patient's
      first post-operative appointment. These appointments are scheduled within one-week of the
      index procedure.

      Statistical Analysis: All continuous data will be analyzed using independent 2-group t tests
      and reported as means ± standard deviations. Categorical data will be compared between the 2
      groups using chi-square tests and reported as counts and percentages. A preliminary test to
      confirm the quality of variances will be conducted prior to utilizing the t test to confirm
      the appropriate statistical analysis. Nonparametric equivalents Wilcoxon rank-sum and Fisher
      exact tests will be used as needed for nonnormal distributions and low variable numbers,
      respectively. A multivariable regression analysis was performed to assess for potential
      confounding demographic variables.
    
  