
    
      Coronary artery reblockage remains still a drawback of percutaneous coronary interventions
      even in the era of drug-eluting stents (DES). DESs working principle consists of the delivery
      of controlled amounts of antiproliferative agents at the local level, which results in the
      suppression of neontimal proliferation, the main cause of lumen re-narrowing after stent
      implantation.At present, several DES platforms have been developed and evaluated for clinical
      use. They differ between them with regard to the stent type, anti-proliferative drug,
      presence of polymers employed for drug storage and modification of drug-release kinetics as
      well as type of polymer used for this purpose. Most of the DES platforms have used agents
      from the "limus family". Although the majority of DESs employ polymer coating to control drug
      storage and release, in view of the increasing safety and efficacy associated with the
      long-term presence of polymers a strong interest has recently been shown in the development
      DES platforms that do not require permanent polymers. Trials as ACTION or JUPITER II have
      demonstrated that not all DESs are associated with the expected improved outcomes. On the
      other hand, not all successful DESs have been equally effective in the reduction of
      restenosis. Thus, rapamycin-eluting stents (Cypher stents) have been associated with lower
      angiographic and clinical restenosis rates than paclitaxel-eluting stents (Taxus stents).
      Similarly, Cypher stents have been superior to Endeavor stents regarding the primary end
      point of late luminal loss in the recent ENDEAVOR III trial. Meanwhile, the on-site
      rapamycin-coated stents (ISAR stents) had an equivalent antiproliferative efficacy to Taxus
      stents in the ISAR-TEST trial. However, none of these studies evaluated angiographic
      restenosis as their primary endpoint and no direct comparisons between the 3 DES -Cypher,
      Endeavor and ISAR stents, have been performed. The Cypher stent is a stainless steel stent
      coated with sirolimus with use of permanent polymers while the Endeavor stent is a cobalt
      alloy based stent coated with zotarolimus which also uses permanent polymers for drug-storage
      and release. The ISAR stent is a rough surface stainless steel stent that can be coated with
      sirolimus in the cath lab without requiring permanent polymeric coating.
    
  