
    
      The outbreak of the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2)-infected disease (COVID-19) began in
      Wuhan, Hubei province in December 2019, spread throughout China in early 2020 and developed
      as a pandemic thereafter. Although the virus mainly causes respiratory symptoms, GI
      (gastrointestinal) presentations have been reported in and outside of China. Patients may
      present with anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea and abdominal discomfort. Also, faecal-oral
      transmission of the virus is currently discussed. Preliminary, unpublished data from China
      suggest that patients with GI symptoms may suffer more frequently from severe courses of the
      disease. Clinical studies show an incidence rate of diarrhea ranging from 2% to 50% of cases.
      It may precede or trail respiratory symptoms. A pooled analysis revealed an overall
      percentage of diarrhea onset of 10.4%. SARS-CoV-2 uses the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2
      (ACE2) for cellular entry. ACE2 is expressed in the small intestinal epithelia as well as in
      the upper esophagus, liver, and colon. SARS-CoV-2 binding affinity to ACE2 is significantly
      higher (10-20 times) compared with SARS-CoV. Diarrhea is associated with prolonged symptoms
      and viral carriage.

      Clinical information on the characteristics of Covid-19 diarrhea is scarce. The duration of
      diarrhea is around 4 days with 3-4 loose stools per day. Faecal calprotectin is elevated in
      stool of patients with Covid-19 diarrhea, indicating a relation between gastrointestinal
      symptoms and this well-established inflammation biomarker.

      So far, no therapy is available for Covid-19 infection in general or for Covid-19 induced
      diarrhea. Rehydration and potassium monitoring should be performed as in all patients with
      diarrhea. It is important to underline that antivirals and antibiotics are often used for
      COVID-19 treatment or treatment of bacterial superinfections, involving a likely alteration
      of the gut microbiota and causing diarrhea. It is therefore plausible that the gut microbiota
      could be a new therapeutic target and that probiotics or synbiotics (combination of
      probiotics with prebiotics) could have a role in the management of these patients. The
      China's National Health Commission recommended the use of probiotics for the treatment of
      patients with severe COVID-19 in order to preserve intestinal balance and to prevent
      secondary bacterial infections without any available clinical studies to support this and
      probiotics apparently were used in Zhejiang during the Covid-19 pandemic. Although there is
      no specific data on the effects of probiotics on SARS-CoV2 infections, meta-analyses show
      that probiotics are effective in the treatment of upper respiratory tract infections and
      viral gastroenteritis of other origins. Furthermore, Enterococcus faecium has been shown to
      have antiviral effects in enteropathogenic coronavirus transmissible gastroenteritis virus
      infections in piglets. We therefore aim to assess the role of synbiotics in the therapy of
      Covid-19 infection with gastrointestinal symptoms.
    
  