
    
      SAMPLE SIZE As there are no studies to perform an adequate sample calculation, the present
      study will consist of 40 women, randomly randomized to use or not the vocalization technique,
      20 in each group ( pilot exploratory study).

      SAMPLING Sampling shall be obtained for convenience, consecutively.

      Low-risk pregnant women admitted to the "Espaço Aconchego" sector who meet the eligibility
      criteria, will be questioned by the researcher about the interest in participating in the
      study in question. The objective of the vocalization technique will be explained to the
      pregnant woman, with the main aim being the prevention of perineal laceration and the
      probable prevention of postpartum complaints. In the case of parturients above 18 years, the
      Free and Informed Consent Form will be given and will be read and explained aloud, and only
      those who freely agree to participate, signing the term, will be included in the survey. In
      the case of under-age parturients, the legal guardians will sign the Informed Consent.

      VARIABLE DEFINITIONS

      Perineal laceration: categorical variable, involving two categories:

        -  Present - when there is some degree of solution of continuity of the skin or mucosa in
           the posterior region of the perineum, which reaches or not the subcutaneous and the
           muscle.

        -  Absent - defined as the posterior region of the intact perineum, without any solution of
           tissue continuity.

      Duration of the active delivery period: numerical variable, determined in minutes (min), from
      total dilatation of the uterine cervix to the complete exit of the fetus associated with the
      spontaneous pull performed by the woman.

      The degree of laceration will be classified according to the damaged tissues and defined
      according to the following criteria:

        -  First degree laceration: involves the skin, the subcutaneous tissue and the vaginal
           mucosa or the combination of multiple superficial lacerations, reaching the tissues
           already mentioned;

        -  Second degree laceration: involves the superficial muscles (bulbocavernosus and
           transverse); if it is deep, it also reaches the pubococcygeus muscle;

        -  Third degree laceration: involves the set of superficial and deep muscles of the anal
           sphincter:

        -  Fourth degree laceration: involves the set of muscles of the anal sphincter and the anal
           epithelium.

      Location of vulvoperineal laceration

        -  Anterior region: clitoris, small left lip, small right lip, left vestibular region and
           right vestibular region;

        -  Posterior region: corresponding to the perineum itself (left side, right side and median
           region).

      Size of laceration: extension in centimeters of perineal laceration; continuous numeric
      variable; Need for perineal suture: dichotomous categorical variable type (yes / no),
      expressed according to the need for perineal suture; Number of threads used for perineal
      suture: discrete numerical variable, corresponding to the number of threads partially or
      totally used for the suture of perineal lacerations; Use of oxytocin after randomization:
      dichotomous categorical variable (yes / no), defined by the placement or not of the hormone
      at the time of delivery, after randomization; Episiotomy: dichotomous categorical variable
      type (yes / no), defined as a surgical incision performed on the perineum at the time of
      vaginal delivery; Instrumental delivery: dichotomous categorical variable type (yes / no),
      after leasing of the forceps or vacuum-extractor, followed by elevation of the cephalic pole,
      if considered necessary; Perineal edema: dichotomous categorical variable type (yes / no),
      defined as fluid accumulation in the interstitium of perineal tissues by subjective
      evaluation of the examiner.66 Perineal Pain through the Visual Analogue Scale (EVA):
      continuous variable, describing the level of pain referred by the patient at each evaluation,
      ranging from zero to ten, with zero being the total absence of pain and ten the most extreme
      pain, unbearable, never felt in the course of life67 Maternal satisfaction: Categorical
      ordinal variable determining the level of maternal satisfaction after delivery. They will be
      considered satisfied, very satisfied, dissatisfied and not very satisfied.

      Apgar scores of the newborn: continuous numerical variable, corresponding to the Apgar score
      recorded in the first and fifth minutes after birth, performed by the neonatologist,
      categorized as: 1 min ≥ 7, 1 min <7, 5 min ≥ 7, 5th min <7.

      Need of resuscitation: categorical variable yes / no corresponding to the need for
      resuscitation of the baby after delivery from the PPV or larger interventions.

      Neonatal ICU need: categorical variable type yes / no corresponding to the need for neonatal
      ICU, categorized as: yes or no.

      Spontaneous Pushing: when performed without interference of the team assisting the
      parturient; Guided Guidance: when performed with interference from the team that assists the
      woman patient; Maternal Age: variable expressed in complete years, according to the patient's
      information, at the moment of data collection; Weight: Continuous numerical variable (which
      can later be categorized), expressed in kilos, indicating the weight of the patient at the
      moment of the study. Information collected by the patient's medical record; Height:
      Continuous numerical variable (can be later categorized), expressed in meters, indicating its
      height. Information collected from the medical records at the time of their selection to
      enter the study; BMI: continuous numerical variable, which represents the woman's body mass
      index. The formula for arriving at this value is weight / height²; Schooling: categorical
      variable informed by the patient and categorized as illiterate, high school, elementary
      school, higher education; Conjugal situation: categorical and police variables reported by
      the patient with or without a partner; Occupation: categorical variable informed by the
      patient; Kristeller's maneuver: dichotomous categorical variable, type yes / no, defining
      whether the parturient received some fundal pressure performed by the obstetric team. You
      will be informed by someone from the team who attended the delivery that saw the birth;
      Valsalva maneuver> six seconds: dichotomous categorical variable, yes / no type, indicating
      if the woman was instructed to perform forces contracting her perineal muscles and holding
      her breath at the moment of uterine contractions; Number of pregnancies: discrete variable.
      Expressed by the number of times the pregnant woman became pregnant, including the current
      gestation; Number of births: a discrete numerical variable, corresponding to the number of
      births (birth after 20 weeks or newborn weight greater than or equal to 500 grams), according
      to the patient's or family members' information; Gestational Age in Weeks: continuous
      variable, recorded as discrete, recorded in full weeks obtained preferably from the date of
      the last menstruation (LMP) or by ultrasonography; Newborn weight: numerical variable
      measured by the weight of the newborn in grams (g) immediately after birth; Cephalic
      perimeter of the Newborn: numerical variable measured in centimeters (cm) of the newborn's
      head circumference.

      The statistical analysis will be carried out by the researchers, in addition to the
      statistician involved in the research, using the statistical programs Epi-Info 3.5.4 The
      statistical analysis will be performed with the groups identified as A or B, breaking the
      confidentiality only after obtaining the results and prepared tables. Thus, it will only be
      known which group was oriented on vocalization or not at the end of the analysis.

      Categorical variables will be compared in contingency tables using the chi-square test of
      association and Fisher's exact test, when applicable. The risk ratio (RR) will be calculated
      as a relative risk measure for the primary and secondary outcomes, with a 95% confidence
      interval being determined. The numbers necessary to treat and obtain a benefit (NNT) and the
      number needed to treat and obtain a cure (NNH) and their respective 95% confidence intervals
      will still be calculated.

      Regarding the continuous quantitative variables with dissimilar variances, if they present a
      normal distribution, the comparison between the groups will be performed with Student's t
      test for non-paired samples (parametric tests). If it is found that the distribution is not
      normal, the non-parametric Mann-Whitney test will be used. These tests will be used to
      identify the point differences between the two groups.
    
  