
    
      Current therapy for patients with asymptomatic PAA, elective repair has been recommended for
      PAA > 2 cm and for smaller aneurysms with associated mural thrombus1. Treatment modalities
      are similar in that they exclude the aneurysm from the circulation. Current treatment options
      include both open surgical bypass (OPAR) with aneurysm exclusion and endovascular popliteal
      artery repair (EPAR) in which the PAA is excluded by a stent graft. Open repair of PAA has
      been shown to have excellent graft patency and limb salvage rates, however it is associated
      with the need for general or regional anesthesia, 10-20% surgical site infection rate, and
      other complications such as seroma, hematoma, and neurological injury. Endovascular popliteal
      aneurysm repair is a minimally invasive technique that can be performed under conscious
      sedation but may be associated with higher risk of graft thrombosis, stent fracture, and may
      have a lower long term success rate. A paucity of strong comparative data further increases
      this equipoise. An adequately powered, prospective, comparative study contrasting OPAR
      approach with EPAR will guide vascular specialists in their treatment of PAA and is very much
      needed.

      Trial Conduct The trial will be conducted in compliance with the protocol, Good Clinical
      Practice (GCP) guidelines, Declaration of Helsinki and applicable federal regulatory
      requirements [Title 21 Code of Federal Regulations Parts 50, 54, 56, 812 and 45CFR46]. This
      trial will be registered on NIH clinical trial registry.

      Description and Importance of the Population to be Studied One hundred and forty eights
      subjects aged 35 or older with asymptomatic ≥ 2.0 cm PAA undergoing repair will be randomized
      to undergo either OPAR or EPAR. These patients will be recruited at the participating VSGNE
      centers who agreed to enroll and randomize patients for this trial. This trial will be
      formally approved by respective Institutional Review Boards.

      Investigators will focus on a population of subjects who are candidates for both open surgery
      and endovascular therapy as determined by the treating investigator. Such individuals
      represent patients who fall into the "grey area of treatment equipoise". Investigators will
      exclude subjects with associated acute limb ischemia and hyper-coagulable states. In the OPAR
      group the choice of conduit will be at the discretion of the surgeon. Vein or non-autogenous
      conduits will be allowed. In the EPAR group, a femoral cu-down for introduction of stent will
      be permissible. Percutaneous placement of stent-grafts will also be allowed. Investigators
      will exclude individuals who are deemed to be at prohibitive risk for open vascular surgery
      by standard American Heart Association AHA criteria as noted on formal preoperative
      evaluation or who have significant non-dialysis dependent renal dysfunction (Cr. >3.0). From
      an anatomic standpoint, investigators will exclude patients who cannot have their PAA treated
      by stent-grafts due to short "proximal or distal landing zones". Subjects without a patent
      outflow target vessel will, likewise, be excluded, as treatment options in such patients are
      usually limited to medical management, amputation or experimental therapies.

      TRIAL OBJECTIVES AND PURPOSE

      The OVER-PAR Trial is a multicenter randomized trial of best open surgical (OPAR) or best
      endovascular (EPAR) revascularization in a target population of subjects with asymptomatic ≥
      2.0 cm popliteal artery aneurysm who are candidates for both open and endovascular treatment.
      The trial has a superiority design and has the following specific aims and hypotheses:

      Trial Design The OVER-PAR Trial is a prospective, randomized, open label (two-arm),
      multicenter, superiority trial comparing the effectiveness of open surgical bypass (OPAR) and
      endovascular popliteal artery stent graft repair (EPAR) in 148 patients (n=74 in each group)
      with asymptomatic, clinically significant PAA. Patients with asymptomatic PAA will be
      screened. These patients will be enrolled from VSGNE centers who agreed to participate in
      this trial. The proposed trial duration is 4 years. The estimated mean follow-up per subject
      will be 2.5 years. The trial is powered at 80% to detect a hazard ratio of 1.53, depending on
      crossover rates, and assuming 2% loss to follow-up.

      The Randomization Scheme The randomization scheme will be set up at Boston Medical Center.
      Participating sites will have access to it by telephone. It is important to emphasize that
      both procedures to which patients will be randomized are acceptable modalities of care to
      treat PAA. Within each cohort, subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to one of the 2
      treatment arms by study coordinator at each center. Randomization will follow the following
      scheme. For each center, sealed, opaque envelopes indicating either OPAR or EPAR repair will
      be placed in a container in blocks of 6. Each block of 6 envelopes will contain 3
      representing OPAR and 3 representing EPAR. When a participating site recruits a patient, a
      phone call will be made to the central study coordinator at BMC who will open an envelope
      from the container corresponding to the center and relay the result (OPAR or EPAR) to the
      coordinator at the requesting center.

      Subjects cannot be randomized on the day of surgery since both procedures require some
      pre-operative planning. For example, a patient who undergoes open repair will need a
      pre-operative vein mapping to access suitability of vein conduit. Similarly, the patient
      awaiting EPAR will require procurement of appropriately sized patient-tailored stent -graft
      for repair of PAA.

      Since randomization will be performed during the pre-operative period, the patient will be
      aware of the surgical plan (open vs. endovascular) prior to the date of the surgery. He or
      she will then have an option to withdraw from the study and choose any appropriate treatment
      modality, if they so choose. Additionally, if the surgeon, based on his judgment, decides to
      offer his patient a different treatment modality from that assigned by the randomization
      scheme the subject will become a screening failure. Data from subjects categorized as a
      screening failure will be recorded in the usual registry arm of the VSGNE and used in
      post-hoc analyses after study completion.

      Each subject will be followed for a minimum of 24 months following randomization. Follow-up
      will continue during the accrual period and therefore the earliest enrolled surviving subject
      will have a maximum of 48 months follow-up.

      Since randomization will be performed during the pre-operative period, the patient will be
      consulted about the surgical plan (open vs. endovascular) prior to the date of the surgery.
      He or she will then have an option to withdraw from the study and choose any appropriate
      treatment modality, if they so choose.

      Additionally, if the surgeon, based on his bias, decides to offer his patient a different
      treatment modality from that assigned by the randomization scheme the subject will become a
      screening failure.

      Subject Withdrawal Criteria

      Subjects may be withdrawn from the study for the following reasons:

        -  Subject declines further study participation.

        -  In the investigator's judgment, it is in the subject's best interest.

      All protocol-specified visits and follow-up procedures should be performed for every subject
      enrolled in the trial. If the subject refuses to continue with the study visits, every
      attempt should be made to continue contact by telephone, written communication, or record
      review to determine if outcome events have occurred, unless the subject specifically refuses
      such follow-up. The reason for withdrawal will be documented for all subjects withdrawn from
      the study. If the withdrawing subject is unwilling to have his/her medical records reviewed
      until the end of the trial period (to document vital status and cause of death), he/she must
      submit a written refusal.

      TREATMENTS TO BE ADMINISTERED Subjects randomized to OVER-PAR endovascular therapy will
      receive treatment according to established standard of care for exclusion of PAA by
      commercially available endovascular sten-graft. Subjects receiving endovascular
      stent-graft(s) will be treated according to the Instructions for Use for the implanted
      device(s).

      Medications/Treatments Permitted and Not Permitted during the Trial There are no medications
      dispensed specifically for this trial. Investigators should follow standard of care
      guidelines as well as adhere to Contraindications, Warnings, and Precautions published in the
      instructions for use of each commercially available endovascular stent.

      ASSESSMENT OF EFFICACY Specification of the Efficacy Parameters All-cause mortality will be
      as reported to occur any time after randomization. Perioperative death is the subset
      occurring with 30 days of the index procedure.

      Amputation above the ankle in the index (treated) leg is a standard definition, as reported
      in surgical notes.

      Re-interventions will be reviewed for the primary endpoint only (new bypass graft,
      jump/interposition graft revision, thrombectomy/ thrombolysis). All re-interventions
      (hospitalizations) will be recorded, with length of stay (LOS) discharge diagnoses and
      (coded) procedures performed for the cost-effectiveness analysis.

      Functional Status will be assessed using the SF-12 which is widely used in cardiovascular
      trials and is available in Spanish, French, for use in North American trials.

      Quality of Life will be assessed with using VascuQoL questionnaire7 These are standard,
      validated instruments, available in Spanish and Canadian French as well as English, for this
      trial

      STATISTICS Analysis of the Primary Endpoints The first phase of analysis will include a
      description of study variables. This step includes generating summary statistics for study
      characteristics. Summary statistics will be generated and assessed for the total sample size.
      The quartiles and median time-to-event outcomes (e.g. MALE-free survival, or MALE-POD) will
      be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and will be reported with two-sided 95% confidence
      intervals for each intervention arm.

      The primary efficacy analysis will be an estimation of the hazard ratio comparing time to
      MALE and all death rates of subjects receiving OPAR to those receiving EPAR treatment using
      the nonparametric log-rank test. The hazard ratio and its 95% confidence interval will be
      estimated in a Cox regression model in which time to MALE+all deaths is the dependent
      variable and intervention is the independent variable.

      The primary analysis will be conducted on an intention-to-treat basis (i.e. based on their
      randomization status), which includes all subjects randomized, after the last subject has
      been followed for 1-year or are off study.

      Analysis of Secondary Outcomes Other time-to-event outcomes, such as amputation-free
      survival, described in the secondary aim will be analyzed similarly to the primary analysis.

      The above analyses will also be run on the per-protocol population (i.e. based on the actual
      intervention they received).
    
  