
    
      This research aims to verify in a pilot study the effect of selenium as an augmentation
      treatment for sertraline-resistant major depression and, as secondary endpoints, if the
      levels of selenium in patients with depressive episodes are different from individuals
      without depression. Thus, this clinical trial was intended to be a randomized double-blind
      placebo-controlled clinical trial evaluating the effect of selenium or placebo in patients
      diagnosed with major depression who have not responded to treatment with sertraline in
      appropriate dose and treatment duration. The initial sample will be comprised of patients
      with moderate or severe major depression, who will receive sertraline up to 200mg/day, for at
      least 8 weeks. A group of subjects without major depression will be selected as a control
      sample, which will be submitted to the same procedures of the included patients. It is
      estimated an initial sample of 90 patients with major depression (DSM-IV criteria), and about
      30 patients resistant to treatment, which will be randomly divided into two groups (selenium
      and placebo). The control group sample is estimated to be 45 subjects.

      For the diagnosis of major depression, it will be used the Structured Clinical Interview for
      DSM Axis I disorders (SCID Structured Clinical Interview for the DSM-IV Axis I disorders). To
      evaluate the outcome of treatment of the depressive symptoms, it will be used the Clinical
      Global Impression Scale and Patient Global Impression Scale (CGI and PGI), Hamilton
      Depression Rating Scale of 17 items for depression (HAM-D-17), Montgomery-Asberg Depression
      Rating Scale (MADRS) and SAFTEE- (brief structured interview assessing adverse events). The
      exclusion criteria include patients with any diagnosis of psychosis, bipolar disorder,
      personality disorder, any psychiatric condition that need hospitalization, severe risk of
      suicide, recent drug abuse or dependence, use of any polyvitamin substance, or any substance
      with known relevant psychopharmacological action, women with known or suspected pregnancy or
      breastfeeding, and people with unstable organic disease such as lupus erythematosus,
      uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism.

      Participation is voluntary, and participants of both genders must be over the age of 18
      years. After checking for exclusion and inclusion criteria (visit 0), the first phase of the
      study will start with the completion of the following laboratory tests: serum levels of
      selenium, electrocardiogram, hematology (hemoglobin, hematocrit, white blood cell count,
      platelet count), SGOT, SGPT, gammaGT, urea, creatinine, fasting glucose, TSH, free T4, T3,
      Na, K, total cholesterol + triglycerides fractions, urine analysis.

      The second phase consists in the treatment of patients with depression with sertraline, which
      will receive initial dosage of 50 mg / day up to 200 mg or maximum tolerated dose, according
      to the investigator's decision, for at least 8 weeks. Patients considered
      resistant-sertraline (Hamilton-D-17> 7) will be invited to participate in the double-blind
      randomization phase to treatment groups with placebo or selenium (400 mcg / day). Sertraline
      will be maintained throughout the whole phase randomization. As the trial would be completed,
      participants will be referred to outpatient care in community health services. Initially the
      variables will be analyzed descriptively. In phase 1 Student's test will be used in order to
      compare the serum levels of selenium in both groups. At stage 2 for comparison of pre and
      post treatment with Sertraline it will be used the non-parametric McNemar test and in step 3,
      to determine the behavior of the groups during six weeks, it will be used analysis of
      variance with repeated measures.
    
  