
    
      To meet the objectives of the study, a control group will be included in parallel with the
      treatment group in this trail. Forty patients (aged 35-65 years) who recently diagnosed with
      CRC will be recruited conveniently from the radiation oncology clinic at the King Hussein
      Cancer Center (KHCC), Amman, Jordan. Patients who meet the inclusion criteria and agree to
      participate and to take the drug will be allocated to the probiotic supplementation group,
      while patients who agree to participate but not to receive the drug will be allocated to the
      control group. The duration of the intervention will be 5 weeks, from the day of radiation
      until the end of treatment.

      For the participants, the King Hussein Cancer Center (KHCC) hospital setting will be utilized
      for data collection. The patients will be recruited over 12 months and all patients will be
      asked to sign a written informed consent before enrollment. The patients that will be
      assigned to the probiotics group (n=20), to receive 3 times a day probiotic supplement. The
      duration of the intervention (administration of probiotics) will start 10-14 days before
      radiotherapy and continue over the 5 weeks duration of treatment under the supervision of the
      treating physician and end with the end of radiation therapy. The blood sample will be
      collected at baseline and at the end of radiation therapy and 10-14 days after radiation
      therapy.

      The demographic data of each subject will be collected such as; gender, age, body mass index
      (BMI), tumor location, malignant tumors stage, tumor differentiation, educational level,
      occupation, family history, smoking, dietary and physical activity. At baseline and end line
      of the radiation therapy, a Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire C30 (QLQ-C30) will be
      collected and blood sample tests will be withdrawn and the following biochemical variables
      will be measured: immunoglobulin G, immunoglobulin M, immunoglobulin A, interleukin-6 (IL-6),
      C-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin-1(IL-1), interleukin-10(IL-10), interleukin-12 (IL-12),
      Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and complete blood count (CBC).
    
  