
    
      The study was designed according to the recommendations of the CONSORT statement for
      randomised trials of non-pharmacologic treatment. The study commenced in November 2009 after
      obtaining the ethical approvals from relevant authorities, and the trial has been registered
      with Clinicaltrials.gov (NCT01246687). After being screened for eligibility, 128 patients
      with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) from the outpatient clinics at these hospitals were
      recruited into the study with informed consent. After the baseline data collection, the
      participants were randomised into the e-intervention (n=66) or the control (n=62) group. The
      e-intervention group received an intensive six-month dietary intervention through the study
      website, which was developed based on various established guidelines and recommendations but
      personalised according to the participants' DSOC, in addition to the usual standard treatment
      at the outpatient clinics. In contrast, the control group received the usual standard
      treatment given to patients with T2DM, and did not receive the website login information, or
      any reinforcement via e-mail or SMS. Data were collected at baseline, six months
      post-intervention and at 12 months follow-up. A structured and pre-tested questionnaire was
      used for this purpose. The anthropometry measurements, blood pressure and resting heart rate
      were measured at data collection. Details on the blood biomarkers were obtained from the
      hospital medical records. The statistical analysis revealed that myDIDeA was successful in
      improving overall DKAB score by improving the diabetes-related dietary knowledge and attitude
      of the participants. Besides, the intervention programme also have successfully improved the
      DSOC score of the intervention group, suggesting the participants were indeed making small
      but significant progress in changing their dietary behaviour. Improvement in the diet quality
      (improvement in vegetable intake and reduction in carbohydrate and protein intake), glycaemic
      control and total cholesterol have added credibility to this web-delivered intervention. The
      process evaluation of the study website revealed that on the average each participant logged
      in the website once a week and spent 11 minutes at the website per visit. The usability
      (facilitating conditions) scored the highest, while the acceptability (anxiety) scored the
      lowest.
    
  