
    
      Study design: prospective, controlled, randomized study. All eligible patients will be
      randomly assigned in a 1:1 manner to receive aspirin or placebo.

      In each recruited subjects we will do:

        1. Anamnestic clinical information and Anthropometric measurements

        2. Electrocardiogram, echocardiogram and ultrasound assessment of carotid intima-media
           thickness (IMT) and flow-mediated dilatation (FMD)

        3. Ankle-Brachial Index measurement (ABI)

        4. blood samples from an antecubital vein after an overnight fast and urine samples at
           baseline, after 3 days and after 30 days of aspirin (100 mg/day) administration.

      Laboratory Methods: Blood samples will be immediately centrifuged at 2,000 rpm for 20 min at
      4°C, and the supernatant was collected and stored at -80°C until measurement. All
      measurements will be done blinded. Samples will be tested in duplicate, and those showing
      values above the standard curve will be re-tested with appropriate dilutions.Analysis of
      urinary and platelet isoprostane:Urinary PGF2α-III was measured by a previously described and
      validated EIA assay method. Ten millilitre urine were extracted on a C-18 SPE column; the
      purification was tested for recovery by adding a radioactive tracer (tritiated PGF2α-III)
      (Cayman chemical). The eluates were dried under nitrogen, recovered with 1ml of buffer, and
      assayed in a PGF2α-III specific EIA kit (Cayman chemical). Urinary PGF2α-III concentration
      was corrected for recovery and creatinine excretion and expressed as pg/mg of creatinine. PRP
      was then centrifuged 20 min at 800 g to concentrate platelets and the pellet was suspended in
      Tyrode buffer to obtain a final platelet concentration of 5x108/mL. PGF2α-III content was
      measured by a validated EIA assay method as previously described and expressed as pg/mg
      platelet protein.
    
  