
    
      It is estimated that approximately 5 million people in the United States have heart failure,
      with more than 500,000 new cases diagnosed each year. Heart failure is a disorder that
      develops over many years and can be attributed to a number of conditions, including heart
      attack, coronary artery disease, diabetes, high blood pressure, or congenital heart defects.
      Although there are many treatment options for heart failure, people with end-stage heart
      failure may benefit most from a heart transplant. However, the number of donor organs
      available remains limited, making alternative treatments for people with end-stage heart
      failure imperative. LVAD support, which has traditionally been used as a bridge to
      transplant, may also provide an alternative life-saving measure for patients with advanced
      end-stage heart failure. The mechanical circulatory support provided by LVAD may allow the
      left side of the heart to rest and recover enough so that removal of the device is possible
      and a heart transplant is no longer needed, at least temporarily. However, more research in
      this area is needed. Using data collected from patients who have undergone LVAD implantation,
      this study will attempt to better assess heart recovery and to generate criteria for
      identifying patients eligible for the removal of LVAD support.

      Participation in this study will last up to 3 years. First, 3 months before LVAD
      implantation, participants' medical records, including their medical history, medical
      therapy, and cardiac testing, will be obtained. Next, participants will undergo a weaning
      echocardiogram (echo) 1 month after LVAD implantation and, if necessary, monthly for 2 more
      months.During the weaning echoes, participants will have their LVAD settings adjusted,
      condition monitored, and additional data concerning their status collected. Before each echo,
      participants will also undergo a blood draw to determine how much blood thinner they will
      receive, if necessary.

      12cc of blood will be collected up to 30 days prior to the VAD implant to look at gene
      expression and proteins expressed in your white blood cells and blood serum.

      During the surgery, a small piece of tissue, ranging in the size from 1/4 inch cubed to 1
      inch cubed will be removed from the heart tissue. The surgeon removes the heart tissue as
      part of the normal surgical process, so that the surgeon can implant the VAD. Approximately
      half of the tissue will then be stored for research purposes.

      2-6 weeks after surgery a second blood draw of 12cc will be drawn again to look at the gene
      expression and proteins expressed in the patient's white blood cells and blood serum.

      Participants who are not eligible to be weaned from LVAD support after the three weaning
      echoes will continue to be monitored every 6 months for up to 3 years or until the device is
      removed. Participants who are eligible to have the LVAD removed will undergo another echo
      after they have recovered from the surgery and are no longer taking any intravenous
      medications to help the heart. Data from any routine follow-up echoes will also be collected
      from these participants every 6 months until study completion at Year 3.

      If the patient's heart recovers and the LVAD is removed, we are interested in removing a
      second piece of heart tissue that would otherwise be discarded at the time of removal of the
      LVAD.
    
  