
    
      Questionnaires:

      If you decide to take part in this study, before starting radiation therapy, weekly during
      radiation therapy, and again 3-4 weeks and 6-8 weeks after completing radiation therapy, you
      will complete 4 questionnaires. Three (3) of the questionnaires will be completed during a
      study visit, and the last 1 will be completed at home the next time you come into the clinic.
      You will return the questionnaire completed at home to the study doctor at a study visit. The
      questionnaires will ask questions about fatigue, any symptoms you may have, and your sleeping
      habits. It should take about 30 minutes total to complete all of the questionnaires each
      time.

      Sleep Diary:

      You will complete a sleep diary. The sleep diary will be provided to you before starting
      radiation therapy. You will record information in it about your sleep habits, caffeinated
      beverages and drugs you may take, the quality of your sleep, and how you feel when you wake
      up. You will complete the sleep diary during the 48 hours that you are wearing the actigraphy
      watch. You will bring the sleep diary to the clinic every week for the study doctor to
      review.

      Actigraphy Watch:

      You will wear an actigraphy watch on your wrist for 48 hours before starting radiation
      therapy, for 48 hours each week during radiation therapy, and again for 48 hours 3-4 weeks
      and 6-8 weeks after completing radiation therapy. The actigraphy watch will measure your
      activity during the day and night. You will bring the actigraphy watch to the clinic every
      week for the study doctor to review.

      Saliva Collection:

      You will collect a saliva sample four times during the day before starting radiation therapy,
      one time during the third and last week of radiation therapy, and again 3-4 weeks and 6-8
      weeks after completing radiation therapy. These samples will be used to measure levels of
      neurotransmitters and hormone levels. These are substances which are released in the body
      that may affect sleep and the immune system.

      Length of Study:

      You will remain on study for about 8 weeks after you complete radiation therapy.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 20 patients will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at M.D. Anderson.
    
  