
    
      Activation of the coagulation system occurs early in patients with sepsis, although
      clinically overt disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) is identified in only a
      minority of patients with severe sepsis. Uncontrolled activation of the coagulation system
      may contribute to the pathophysiology of multiple organ failure and the subsequent morbidity
      and mortality of sepsis. Identification of risk factors predicting progression to severe
      sepsis and DIC has been elusive. We propose that whole blood and cell-rich coagulation assays
      will offer improved sensitivity to both the procoagulant and anti-coagulant changes which
      occur early in sepsis and will improve recognition of non-overt DIC. Future studies will
      address whether these assays have sufficiently high predictive value to identify subgroups of
      patients who could benefit from early intervention.

      Specific Aims:

        1. We hypothesize that increased thrombin generation will precede development of overt DIC
           by a clinically significant time period. Our primary objective is to determine if
           endogenous thrombin potential measured at first diagnosis of sepsis prior to the onset
           of DIC and organ failure is predictive of overt DIC.

        2. There is significant individual variation among the healthy population in endogenous
           thrombin generation due to known and unknown polymorphisms within coagulation proteins.
           We predict that host variables in thrombin generation will contribute to susceptibility
           to DIC and poor outcome during sepsis. A secondary objective of this study is to
           determine if host coagulation variables predispose to the morbidity and mortality
           associated with sepsis.

      Experimental Design and Methods

      The study design will be a prospective observational study of patients presenting to the
      Memorial Hermann Hospital Emergency Department with sepsis. Criteria for sepsis include
      evidence of systemic inflammatory response syndrome as defined by the ACCP/SCCM Consensus
      Conference, and a known or suspected infection. Exclusion criteria include signs of severe
      sepsis or septic shock, as defined by the ACCP/SCCM Consensus Conference, at presentation,
      including: organ dysfunction, hypoperfusion and perfusion abnormalities. Chronic medical
      conditions associated with immune suppression or coagulopathies, such as neutropenia and
      sickle cell disease, and use of medications leading to immune dysfunction or coagulopathies,
      such as chronic steroid use or anti-coagulation will also be reasons for exclusion. In
      addition, because of the volume of blood required from each patient for laboratory studies,
      only patients 25 kg body weight or more will be enrolled. Withdrawal from the study will be
      at the discretion of the treating physician or subject. All efforts will be made to collect
      clinical information from patients who have withdrawn.

      Inclusion criteria

        -  Known or suspected infection as determined by the treating physician Patient to be
           admitted to the hospital

        -  Systemic Inflammatory Response Syndrome: 3 of the following 4 criteria:

        -  Temperature > 38 C or < 35 C

        -  Heart rate > 90 beats/min, except in patients with a medical condition known to increase
           the heart rate or those receiving treatment that would prevent tachycardia.

        -  Respiratory rate > 20 breaths/min or PaC02 < 32 mmHg, or on mechanical ventilation for
           an acute respiratory process.

        -  White blood cell count > 12,000/mm3, < 4,000/mm3, or > 10% bands

      Exclusion criteria

        -  - Use of the following medications: unfractionated heparin to treat an active thrombotic
           event within 8 hours before the infusion; low-molecular-weight heparin at a higher dose
           than recommended for prophylactic use within 12 hours before the infusion, warfarin used
           within 7 days of study entry, aspirin use at a dose of more than 650 mg/day within 3
           days before the study, thrombolytic therapy within 3 days before the study, glycoprotein
           IIb/IIIa antagonists within 7 days before the study entry, administration of activated
           protein C (Xigris ) in the 24 hours before study entry.

        -  Neutropenia

        -  Hemophilia

        -  Diabetic ketoacidosis

        -  Weight < 25 kg

      Patients will be enrolled in the emergency department within 2 hours of meeting eligibility.
      Written informed consent will be obtained from the patients or their authorized
      representatives. Blood samples will be collected by peripheral venipuncture during the first
      hour after enrollment and then once daily for 7 days (see Appendix A).

      Patients will be withdrawn from the study if blood sampling is not performed within 2 hours
      of obtaining informed consent.

      Clinical data collection Clinical data forms (see Appendix B) will be completed at the time
      of enrollment and daily for 7 days , at hospital discharge, and at 28 days. Clinicians will
      be blinded to the results of the research laboratory tests.

      Laboratory Methods

      Blood and plasma Each patient will have 15 ml blood collected at enrollment. Specimens will
      be obtained through antecubital venipuncture. Free flow or minimal suction will be employed;
      vacuum containers will be avoided. Specimens for platelet-poor plasma (PPP) and whole blood
      analysis will be collected into siliconized glass tubes with 0.105M tri-sodium citrate in the
      ratio of 1 part anticoagulant to 9 parts whole blood. PPP will be separated within 60 minutes
      and analyzed immediately. Platelet-rich plasma (PRP) specimens will be separated from the
      upper ¾ volume of plasma supernatant after centrifugation at 265g for 10 minutes at room
      temperature. The platelets will be counted on a Beckman Coulter counter and adjusted to 150 X
      109 platelets/l with autologous PPP. PRP will be used within 60 minutes. Cbc, PT/PTT,
      Fibrinogen, d-dimer, Protein C activity, Protein S activity, ATIII activity, Factor V Leiden
      mutation, Prothrombin G20210A mutation analysis will be performed in Memorial Herman Hospital
      clinical laboratories.

      RoTEG

      Whole blood specimens will be drawn as described above. Measurements will be performed on two
      roTEG Coagulation Analyzers from Pentapharm. RoTEG all-plastic reaction cups are procured
      from the manufacturer. Polypropylene and polyethylene pipettes are used to handle reagents
      and blood. Citrated whole blood will be re-calcified by 20 mcl 0.2 mol/L CaCl2 and activated
      by 20 mcl solution of recombinant human TF (Innovin) diluted 1:1000 using a sodium barbital
      buffer. The measured parameters have been defined by the manufacturer as follows: The
      clotting time(CT) is the time in seconds from Ca2+ activation of coagulation and until an
      increase in elasticity corresponding to 2 graphical mm is obtained on the ordinate. The clot
      formation time (CFT) is the time in seconds passing while the elasticity increases from 2 mm
      to 20 mm on the ordinate. The maximum clot formation (MCF) expresses the maximum strength in
      millimeters of the final clot. Several additional parameters representing the continuous
      registration of clot formation have been defined by Sorensen et al 28: the maximum velocity
      (MaxVel) of clot formation, the time to maximum velocity (T,MaxVel) of clot formation, and
      the area under the velocity curve (AUC).

      Thrombin Generation

      Calibrated automated thrombin generation measurements will be performed using the Hemker
      methodology. 29 Platelet rich plasma (PRP) will be prepared as described above. Fluorogenic
      substrate and chromogenic thrombin will be purchased through Thermolabsystems, and
      recombinant relipidated tissue factor(TF) through Dade Behring. alpha 2
      macroglobulin-thrombin complex used as a calibrator will be purchased through
      Thrombolabsystems. The thrombograms will be measured in a 96-well plate fluorometer (Ascent
      reader, Thrombolabsystems) and analyzed with software purchased through Thrombinoscope.
      Experiments will be carried out in quadruplicate and compared to a calibrator. To each well
      80 mcl of plasma will be added, followed by the calibrator or buffer, then the "trigger": 20
      mcl of 3 mM of TF. The plate will be placed in the fluorometer and allowed to warm to 37 C.
      The instrument dispenses 20 mcl of Fluorogenic substrate 2.5 mM and CaCl2 100 mM (FluCa) to
      all the wells to be measured, registers this as zero time, shakes them for 10 s and starts
      reading. During the measurement, the program compares the readings from the TG and the CL,
      calculates thrombin concentration and displays the thrombin concentration in time. The peak
      thrombin is the highest thrombin concentration reached during the time course of thrombin
      formation and inhibition. The thrombin potential is the amount of thrombin that is formed
      within 60 minutes (Area under the curve). The lag phase and the peak time refer to the start
      and velocity of thrombin formation, respectively.

      Data Management Data will be collected on paper forms which will be designed by the GCRC
      informatics core section. The GCRC informatics core will maintain data on a secure database
      (Access). Each subject will be assigned a unique ID reflecting the order in which enrollment
      took place.

      Data Analysis and Presentation

      This is a pilot study intended to provide the preliminary data for future clinical studies.
      Descriptive statistics will be used to characterize ETP and roTEG at initial presentation of
      sepsis. Means and ranges will be reported for each of the variables in the thrombin
      generation assay (lag time, slope of rise, peak value, and area under the curve) and roTEG
      (Clot formation time (CFT), maximum clot formation (MCF), maximum velocity (MaxVel) of clot
      formation, time to maximum velocity (T,MaxVel) of clot formation, and area under the velocity
      curve (AUC)). The primary objective of this study is to compare ETP at presentation to the
      development of DIC, as defined by a positive ISTH DIC score. The secondary objective will be
      to compare host coagulation variables, including ETP, roTEG, Pro C, Pro S, ATIII, FVL, and
      prothrombin G20210A mutation at presentation, with the secondary outcome measures of 28-day
      mortality and organ dysfunction. All statistics will be performed using NCSS/PASS.

      Sample size determination: There are no published reports of thrombin generation assays or
      thromboelastography in sepsis, or DIC. In our previous studies of patients taking an
      anticoagulant (warfarin), there was a 400% decrement of ETP (1719 to 404). In order to derive
      a mean ETP with a target width of 100 and 95% confidence interval, assuming a standard
      deviation of 259, we will need to enroll 100 patients.

      We will employ the following statistical methods for the analysis of data:

      Specific Aim #1: The endogenous thrombin potential (ETP) is the area under the curve of the
      thrombin generation assay. The values are continuous and range from 0 to 2,500. Maximum clot
      formation (MCF) from the roTEG will also be used to approximate ETP. The DIC score will be
      calculated and coded as a dichotomous variable: Yes (score > 5) or No (score < 5). A receiver
      operating curve will be derived for ETP and MCT and its sensitivity and specificity for
      predicting DIC. If the area under the curve is found to be significant, an optimal cut-off
      value with the highest degree of accuracy will be chosen. This value will be used to estimate
      the predictive value of the test. Positive predictive value will be calculated with the
      formula: # patients with ETP or MCT above the cut-off and development of DIC / # patients
      with positive DIC score. The predictive value of a negative DIC score will be calculated
      using the formula: # patients with ETP or MCT below the cut-off and no progression to DIC / #
      patients with negative DIC score.

      Specific Aim #2: A multivariate analysis will be done to determine which of the predictor
      variables (ETP, MCT, Pro C, Pro S, ATIII, FVL, ProG20210A, DIC) are associated with the
      secondary dichotomous outcome measures: organ dysfunction at 28 days (Any/None), 28-day
      mortality (Dead/Alive).
    
  