
    
      Standard Automated Perimetry (SAP) is currently the standard test for screening and
      monitoring visual loss owing to glaucoma. This test requires the patient to sit at a machine,
      looking at a central light and pressing a button whenever small spots of light appear in the
      peripheral vision. Traditionally these spots of light are projected into a bowl (concave
      surface), but more recently, computer monitors have been used. Other techniques are also now
      available such as the Moorfields Motion Displacement Test, where patients are required to
      press a button each time they see a vertical line on the screen wiggle. This test has been
      shown to have advantages over SAP, namely, to be tolerant to the effects of cataract and
      refractive error.

      In clinical settings, the Humphrey Visual Field Analyzer (Zeiss Meditec) is the most used
      visual field test in the UK. It employs a SAP strategy coupled with the Swedish Interactive
      Thresholding Algorithm (SITA), which is used to derive retinal sensitivity. Visual field
      measurements are very variable, requiring many tests over a long period to determine the
      extent of vision loss. In addition to the inconvenience caused to patients, the contribution
      of these many tests to the financial burden on the NHS is increasing with the growing aging
      population. As glaucoma is a chronic disease, patients need lifelong monitoring, requiring
      multiple tests and clinic visits. To address these unmet needs, the investigators have
      developed a new algorithm that can be used to monitor glaucoma.

      The investigators wish to carry out a study, which will allow them to compare agreement
      between SITA and a newly developed test algorithm. Measurement variability will be determined
      and compared between strategies. The long-term goal is to reduce test variability and the
      test time observed in SITA, whilst producing comparable contrast threshold values.
    
  