
    
      Nausea and vomiting in pregnancy (NVP) is one of the most common pregnancy-related ailments,
      affecting up to 70% of pregnant women. The causes of NVP are unclear but it has been
      described as multifactorial and complex. Studies investigating NVP and the use of antiemetics
      states that early recognition and treatment of the condition is important in order to prevent
      further deterioration. In contrary to this recommendation, many healthcare providers and
      pregnant women themselves are reluctant to use antiemetics due to the fear of teratogenicity.
      Studies have also shown that NVP may have a profound impact on pregnant women's wellbeing and
      that even mild NVP symptoms have been shown to significantly reduce pregnant women's quality
      of life. As NVP symptoms often occur during the first period of pregnancy where antenatal
      care not yet have been established, it is important to empower women to optimally self-manage
      their care to ensure maternal and fetal health.

      The objective of this project is to evaluate whether the "MinSafeStart" mobile application
      (app) can empower pregnant women to better self-manage NVP and hence improve their quality of
      life.

      The "MinSafeStart" app is a patient-centered app for women with NVP. The app was developed by
      us, in corporation with a team consisting of interaction designers, programmers, and
      researchers from the University Center for Information Technology (USIT) at the University of
      Oslo. The app utilizes the Pregnancy-Unique-Quantification-of-Emesis-24 (PUQE-24) scale to
      categorize the women's NVP severity (e.g. mild, moderate, or severe) on a daily basis, and
      visualizes the fluctuations over time in a graph. Each woman will have their own personal
      graph based on the information they put in. They will also be able to see how their symptoms
      are compared to an average graph. The women will get treatment advice based on their PUQE-24
      scale, e.g. dietary and lifestyle advice for mild symptoms and referral to see the doctor for
      moderate and severe symptoms.

      All pregnant women over 18 years experiencing NVP, and owners of a smartphone (iOS or
      Android) are eligible for inclusion. Participants will be randomized to either the
      intervention group (opportunity to use the app) or the control group (standard care).

      Data will be collected by four questionnaires (from both groups) and through the MinSafeStart
      app (intervention group only). All questionnaires will be distributed to the participants by
      email. The first questionnaire (Q1) at enrollment (baseline) and questionnaire Q2, Q3, and Q4
      at follow up, 2, 4, and 6 weeks after randomization respectively.

      Data about the participants will, in addition, be collected from four national registries;
      The Norwegian Patient Registry, The Norwegian Prescription Database, The Medical Birth
      Registry of Norway, and the Municipality Patient and User Registry. These data will be linked
      to the self-reported data (by the unique identification number of every citizen in Norway)
      collected during the intervention study.
    
  