
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To demonstrate that tailored therapy, according to tumor histology and EGFR-mutation
           status, and the introduction of novel drug combinations in the frontline treatment of
           patients with stage IV non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer, is promising for further
           investigation.

      Secondary

        -  To prospectively explore molecular markers of clinical outcomes.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to EGFR(epidermal
      growth factor receptor)-mutation status (mutated vs wildtype). Patients are assigned to 1 of
      2 groups.

        -  mutEGFR (mutated epidermal growth factor receptor) group: Patients receive bevacizumab
           IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1 and oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily on days 1-21.
           Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

        -  wtEGFR (wildtype epidermal growth factor receptor) group cohort 1:

             -  Induction chemotherapy: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes,
                pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes, and cisplatin IV over 60 minutes on day 1.
                Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease
                progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Maintenance therapy: Patients without progressive disease receive bevacizumab IV
                over 30-90 minutes and pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes on day 1. Treatment
                repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease progression.

      Blood and tissue specimens are collected for EGFR and molecular markers analysis, including
      gene expression, mutation, and pharmacogenomic analyses.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months.

        -  wtEGFR (wildtype epidermal growth factor receptor) group cohort 2:

             -  Induction chemotherapy: Patients receive pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes,
                and cisplatin IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up
                to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Maintenance therapy: Patients without progressive disease receive pemetrexed
                disodium IV over 10 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days in the
                absence of disease progression.

      Blood and tissue specimens are collected for EGFR and molecular markers analysis, including
      gene expression, mutation, and pharmacogenomic analyses.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 129 evaluable patients (77 in cohort 1 and 52 in cohort 2) with
      wtEGFR status and 20 patients with mutEGFR status will be accrued for this study.
    
  