
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the optimal dose of levetiracetam required to control seizures from brain
           metastases in patients with solid tumors.

        -  Determine the frequency of side effects and tolerability of this drug when used to
           control seizures in these patients.

        -  Determine any improvement in antiepileptic drug-associated symptoms in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot study. Patients are stratified according to baseline seizures (yes
      vs no) and/or baseline antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) (yes vs no). Patients are assigned to 1 of
      3 treatment groups.

        -  Group I (patients with no active baseline seizures): Patients receive oral levetiracetam
           twice daily beginning on day 1.

        -  Group II (patients requiring IV AEDs for baseline seizure control): Patients receive
           oral levetiracetam (instead of their current anticonvulsant therapy) twice daily
           beginning on day 1, after their presenting condition has stabilized.

        -  Group III (patients with active seizures controlled by other concurrent anticonvulsant
           monotherapy): Patients receive oral levetiracetam (instead of their current
           anticonvulsant therapy) twice daily beginning on day 1. Treatment with the other
           anticonvulsant drug is tapered beginning on day 3 as directed by the treating physician.

      In all groups, treatment continues for up to 6 months in the absence of uncontrolled seizures
      or unacceptable toxicities.

      During study therapy, patients maintain a seizure log that tracks frequency and type of
      seizures. Any patient who experiences a breakthrough seizure or multiple auras receives
      increasing doses of oral levetiracetam until the maximum dose is reached. Patients who
      continue to have seizures at the maximum dose level receive a second antiseizure medication
      at the discretion of the treating physician.

      Quality of life is assessed by the Fundamental Assessment of Cancer Treatment-Brain
      questionnaire at baseline and at 2 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  