
    
      Orthosatic hypotension describes a condition in which the autonomic nervous system fails to
      maintain a stable blood pressure in the face of postural change. Children presenting to the
      pediatric ED with fever often describe symptom like syncope, lightheadedness, dizziness,
      pallor, fatigue and weakness. These symptom may result from orthostatism related to acute
      febrile illness. We assume that fever may be associated with autonomic changes (e.g.
      vasodilatation) that can cause orthostatism. Objective:

      to determent if children suffering from acute febrile illness has higher rate of orthostatic
      hypotension compared with children with no febrile illness. Design: a prospective cohort
      study. Subjects: children aged 4-18 year with fever (temperature > 38.) for up to 48 hours,
      presenting to the pediatric emergency department. Interventions: All subjects will have their
      blood pressure measured in supine position (after 5 minute of rest) and after 3 minute of
      standing. Data analysis: The proportion of children with orthostatic hypotension in febrile
      and non febrile patients will be compared using χ2 test. The changes in blood pressure in
      both groups will be compared using the Student t test.

      Assumption: We assumed that the incidence of orthostatism is higher among children with
      fever, because fever can cause orthostatism. Significance: Orthostatism can cause syncope
      which is a potentially dangerous symptom (e.g. head trauma). Syncope accounts for 1-3% of
      hospital admissions in US. The incidence in youths is estimated at about 15%) Patients
      presenting to the ED with syncope may undergo numerous and expensive work up with low
      diagnostic yield. -understanding that fever itself can cause orthostatism and syncope may
      help us with precaution and diagnosis.

      Key word: orthostatism, fever children, emergency medicine.
    
  