
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and dose-limiting toxicity of AEE788 when
           administered in combination with 1 of 2 different doses of everolimus in patients with
           recurrent or relapsed glioblastoma multiforme.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the safety and tolerability of this regimen, including acute and chronic toxic
           effects, in these patients.

        -  Determine the single-dose and repeated-dose pharmacokinetic profile of this regimen in
           these patients.

        -  Determine, preliminarily, the efficacy of this regimen, in terms of response rate,
           progression-free survival, and overall survival, in these patients. (Phase II)

        -  Determine the antiangiogenic effects of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter, dose-escalation study of AEE788.

        -  Phase I: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups.

             -  Group 1: Patients receive oral AEE788 once daily and oral everolimus once daily on
                days 1-28.

             -  Group 2: Beginning at the first occurrence of dose-limiting toxicity in group 1,
                patients receive AEE788 as in group 1 and a higher-dose of oral everolimus once
                daily on days 1-28.

      In both groups, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients per group receive escalating doses of AEE788 until the maximum
      tolerated dose is determined.

        -  Phase II: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups according to eligibility for
           surgery.

             -  Group 1 (eligible for tumor biopsy, surgical resection, or tumor debulking):
                Patients receive oral AEE788 once daily at the MTD and oral everolimus once daily
                for 5-9 days. Patients then undergo surgery. Beginning 15-21 days after surgery,
                patients receive oral AEE788 and oral everolimus once daily on days 1-28.

             -  Group 2 (ineligible for surgery): Patients receive oral AEE788 once daily at the
                MTD and oral everolimus once daily on days 1-28.

      In both groups, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. In both phases, if treatment with AEE788 or everolimus is stopped due
      to toxicity, patients may continue to receive AEE788 or everolimus alone once daily.

      After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for as long as
      the investigator deems necessary.
    
  