
    
      Long-term toxicity and the high cost of medications are two problems faced by HIV infected
      people taking ART. Previous studies in HIV-infected patients suggest that ART with STIs may
      decrease drug exposure and lessen long-term drug toxicity, while not sacrificing viral
      suppression and patient health. This study will determine if ART with STIs can maintain the
      same level of immune function in HIV-infected people as continuous ART. This study will
      recruit patients in South Africa.

      This study will last 3.5 years. At study entry, all participants will begin daily ART
      consisting of lamivudine, lopinavir/ritonavir, and stavudine. At Month 6, only participants
      who have responded well to ART (CD4 count greater than 450 cells/uL and viral load less than
      50 copies/ml at Month 6) will be randomly assigned to one of two groups. Group 1 participants
      will participate in STIs during therapy, and Group 2 participants will receive continuous
      therapy. People in Group 1 will have treatment interruptions of 2, 4, and 8 weeks of duration
      in between 16-week periods of ART. Group 1 participants will re-initiate therapy if their CD4
      count drops below 350 cells or evidence of clinical disease progression is present. Group 2
      participants will continue taking ART throughout the study.

      At screening, participants will undergo medical history assessment, a physical exam, and
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scans. There
      will be at least 22 study visits occurring approximately every 8 weeks, each lasting 45 to 60
      minutes. At each study visit, participants will be required to bring any remaining pills with
      them so adherence can be assessed and will undergo medical assessments. Blood collection will
      occur at nearly all visits. For female participants, urine collection will occur at all
      visits. Participants will receive rabies vaccinations at Weeks 16, 17, and 22. A visit at
      Week 92 will include an MRI and participants will receive a rabies vaccine booster.
    
  