
    
      Alcohol intoxication leads to marked reductions in brain glucose metabolism that reflect in
      part the use of ketones (including acetate) as alternative energy sources by the brain during
      intoxication. With repeated alcohol exposure both clinical and preclinical studies have shown
      a shift of brain substrate preference towards ketones. This has led us to question the
      potential value of a ketogenic diet in alcohol detoxification in order to prevent the ketone
      deprivation that would follow alcohol detoxification in alcoholics.

      Objectives: Here we propose a blinded randomized design to assess the effects of a ketogenic
      diet on symptoms of alcohol withdrawal and on brain function in alcoholics undergoing
      inpatient treatment of alcohol detoxification. We hypothesize that a ketogenic diet will
      increase acetate levels in brain resulting in improved brain function in alcoholics as well
      as a reduction of alcohol withdrawal symptoms during detoxification.

      Study population: Participants diagnosed with alcohol use disorder (AUD) as per DSM IV or DSM
      5. Males and females ages 18 years and older will be included.

      Design: This will include an inpatient component and outpatient follow-up. Patients are
      admitted to the Clinical Center (CC) for detoxification, where they undergo treatment as
      usual (TAU) and will be randomized into a regular versus a ketogenic diet. Patients will be
      given benzodiazepines only if withdrawal symptoms emerge while receiving either the ketogenic
      or the regular diet. Within 2-6 days after admission, all patients will undergo an MRI (brain
      structure and function, functional connectivity and spectroscopy, i.e. MRS) and a battery of
      neuropsychological tests (NP). MRI scans will also be obtained in week 2. After 3 weeks of
      inpatient care the MRI scans and NP studies will be repeated. We will complete all study
      procedures in n=25 patients with AUD with the ketogenic diet and n=25 with the regular diet.

      Outcome parameters: Main outcome: To assess the effects of a ketogenic diet in patients
      hospitalized for the treatment of alcohol detoxification, on: (1) withdrawal symptoms
      including the need of medications to control them (benzodiazepines); (2) brain function as
      assessed by fMRI (at rest and during task conditions), (3) MRS, and (4) structural MRI.
      Secondary Outcomes: To assess the effects of a ketogenic diet on performance of cognitive
      tests, sleep, mood and craving.
    
  