
    
      This randomized controlled clinical trial will involve 40 adult patients with previously
      placed and restored dental implants. Patients of the Dr. Sam Borden Graduate Periodontics
      Clinic, Dr. Gerald Niznick College of Dentistry, University of Manitoba with at least a
      single implant with a screw retained crown and a diagnosis of peri-implant health or
      peri-implant mucositis and with Probing Depths (PD) less than 5mm. Patients will receive
      initial periodontal examination (baseline) and then they will be randomly divided in 2
      groups, group 1 with water flosser (experiment) and group 2 with conventional flossing
      (control). All clinical measurements will be taken by a single blinded investigator
      (Periodontal Resident) while a single dental hygienist is responsible for prophylaxis and
      delivery of oral hygiene instructions to the study participants. At each appointment 5
      clinical parameters will be recorded: Full Mouth Plaque Score (FMPS) and Quigley-Hein plaque
      index (QHI) of the implants after the use of a disclosing solution, Probing Depth (PD),
      Bleeding on Probing (BOP) of the study implants recorded at 6 sites (distobuccal, mid-buccal,
      mesiobuccal, distolingual, mid-lingual and mesiolingual) using a UNC 12 Colorvue probe and
      the width of the keratinized tissue (KT) at the buccal surface of the study implants.

      Randomization will be achieved using computerized randomization scheme. Patients meeting
      inclusion criteria will be assigned to one of two groups and allocated by means of sealed
      envelope opened on the day of the examination by the examiner.

      Group A (control): patient will be instructed to floss with TePe Bridge and Implant Floss
      once a day, preferably at nighttime.

      Group B (test): patient will be provided with Waterpik Water Flosser and instructed to water
      floss around the implant once a day, preferably at nighttime.

      To standardize the study, both groups will receive a research bag comprising a manual tooth
      brush and a toothpaste.
    
  