
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the 2-year treatment free remission (TFR) rate of children, adolescents, and
      young adults with chronic myeloid leukemia - chronic phase (CML-CP) following discontinuation
      tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI).

      II. To estimate the re-induction rate and maintenance of molecular remission (BCR-ABL1 =<
      0.1%) at 1 year after restarting TKI for children, adolescents, and young adults.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To describe clinical factors and laboratory correlates affecting the persistence of major
      molecular remission (MMR) and re-initiation of treatment after stopping TKI (e.g. patient
      demographics, duration and level of prior molecular remission, duration and type of TKI,
      clinical presentation at diagnosis and immune studies).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe change in height standard deviation score over time in patients who are able
      to discontinue their TKI.

      II. To describe the long-term health outcomes including but not limited to gonadal function,
      endocrine function, and bone metabolism in patients who are able to discontinue TKI as well
      as those that need to restart TKIs.

      III. To describe differences in patient-reported health status after stopping TKIs, including
      those who need to resume TKI after stopping.

      IV. To describe the incidence and characteristics of TKI withdrawal syndrome in children.

      V. To evaluate changes in neurocognitive outcomes of patients enrolled on this study using a
      patient-completed, performance-based, computerized measure of neuropsychological functioning
      and a parent-report/self-report questionnaire.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients stop taking TKI medication within 10 days after enrollment. Patients undergo
      peripheral blood collection to monitor loss of MMR every 4 weeks in year 1, every 6 weeks in
      year 2, and every 12 weeks in year 3. Patients who lose their molecular remission may restart
      TKI medication and are monitored every 4 weeks in year 1, every 6 weeks in year 2, and every
      12 weeks in year 3.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up annually.
    
  