
    
      Recently it was shown that in patients with type 2 diabetes at high risk for cardiovascular
      disease (CVD) who received Empagliflozine as compared with placebo had a lower rate of death
      from cardiovascular causes, non-fatal MI, or non-fatal strokes as well as death from any
      cause and hospitalization for heart failure Empagliflozine is a selective inhibitor of renal
      sodium-glucose co-transporters (SGLTs) that has been approved for treatment of type 2
      diabetes. It is associated with weight loss, reduction in blood pressure without an increase
      in heart rate, and improves markers of arterial stiffness and vascular resistance, visceral
      adiposity, albuminuria and urate.

      Renal sodium-glucose cotransporter (SGLT2) resides in the proximal tubule (PT).The latter is
      anatomically exposed to the initial glomerular filtrate. Therefore the proximal tubule (PT)
      cells play a variety of roles amongst which are receptor mediated protein endocytosis,
      reabsorption of sodium, glucose and phosphate At steady state approximately 85% of the
      filtered phosphate Pi load is reabsorbed by the kidney through sodium phosphate transporters
      found in the apical membrane of the proximal tubule cells.

      These transporters are also affected by fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23). Fibroblast
      growth factor 23 (FGF23) is a hormone that is mainly secreted by osteocytes and osteoblasts
      in bone, and the levels of FGF23 increase significantly at the very early stages of chronic
      kidney disease (CKD) and may play a critical role in mineral ion disorders and bone
      metabolism in these patients.

      Recent publications have also shown that FGF23 and its cofactor, Klotho, may play an
      independent role in directly regulating bone mineralization instead of producing a systematic
      effect. It augments phosphaturia by affecting sodium phosphate co transporters: mainly :NaP2a
      Fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) FGF23 binds to a receptor complex consisting of FGFR1, 3
      or 4 and α Klotho and activates ERK1/2 leading to internalization and degradation of NaP2a.

      Klotho a transmembrane protein identified as an aging suppressor protein , expressed mainly
      in the distal tubule and to a lesser extent in the PTC serves as a co-receptor along with FGF
      receptor in the binding of FGF23 in the DCT It is found mainly in kidney distal tubular
      epithelium, parathyroid gland, epithelial cells of the choroid plexus in the brain and human
      vascular tissue .Recently it was demonstrated in the PCT as well.

      Higher FGF23 levels were found to be associated with all cause mortality in patients with end
      stage renal disease, on dialysis, with CKD stages 2-4 and in the general population FGF23 has
      numerous adverse effects which might contribute to CVD: It is associated with abnormal left
      ventricular geometry, including higher left ventricular mass, higher left ventricular mass to
      volume ratio, greater risk of remodeling and of atrial fibrillation in. It also activates the
      renin angiotensin system and promotes sodium reabsorption in the distal tubule of the kidney
      contributing to volume overload and hypertension Reduction in Klotho's levels has been
      observed in normal aging and in renal disease, diabetes mellitus and hypertension .

      Klotho also exists in a secreted soluble form and as such has distinct actions. The secreted
      form increases nitric oxide (NO) availability, and protects against endothelial dysfunction.
      It possesses ant oxidative action as demonstrated in spontaneous hypertensive rats. Chronic
      kidney disease mice overexpressing Klotho demonstrate almost no aortic calcification.

      The complex Klotho/ FGF23 induces urinary phosphate excretion ,reduces serum levels of 1,25
      (OH)Vit D and inhibits secretion of PTH .

      Enhanced phosphaturia ameliorates vascular calcification. Indeed vessel produced Klotho is an
      endogenous inhibitor of calcification.

      Recently Dapagliflozine a renal sodium-glucose cotransporter SGLT2 inhibitor has demonstrated
      an enhanced ERK phosphorylation in cell culture of colon cancer If such phosphorylation
      occurs in ERK in renal proximal tubule cells than this phosphorylation would increase
      internalization and degradation of NaP2a leading in turn to hypophosphatemia and a decrease
      in FGF23 levels and increase of Klotho Therefore the investigators will search the blood
      levels of fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) and of Klotho in type 2 diabetic patients
      treated with Empagliflozine
    
  