
    
      Background: The association of minimal change esophagitis (MCE) with gastroesophageal reflux
      (GERD) is controversy. High resolution endoscopy may improve the detection of minimal change
      lesion (MCL). i- Scan endoscopy (SE) provides high resolution images with modulation of
      images for a specific purpose.

      Methods. All dyspeptic patients with or without GERD symptoms scheduled for endoscopy were
      recruited from February 2010 till July 2014. All completed the validated Thai version of
      GerdQ then underwent endoscopy. Forty normal volunteers were recruited for endoscopy and PHM
      test. The esophagus was examined by HD and SE with the TE-e mode sequentially. The captured
      images were independently evaluated for MCL (punctate erythema (PE), minute erosion (ME) and
      triangular lesion with elongated pit (EP) by three endoscopists. The agreement of > 2
      endoscopists was accepted as a final result. All had PHM within 1 week after the endoscopy.
      GERD was diagnosed by LA grade A-D esophagitis and/or PHM with acid exposure time > the upper
      limit of volunteer and/or positive symptom index and/or positive Symptom Association
      Probability. MCE was diagnosed when PE, ME or EP or the combination of these were present.

      The 40 normal volunteers were recruited for performing pH monitoring. The PHM data of 40
      volunteers were analyzed to set the upper normal limit of total acid exposure time in our
      population. The mean + 2SD of total acid exposure time of volunteers was 1.9%.

      Definition. GerdQ. The Thai version of GerdQ was translated from the English version. The
      contents of the GerdQ were tested by back translation from Thai to English by 5 personnel who
      are fluent in English and all showed the consistent contents. The reliability of the GerdQ
      was validated in 22 volunteers completing the questionnaire twice with 3 hours in between and
      showed no significant difference of the mean score (5.14+ 2.34 vs 6.23+ 1.57, p=0.07) and the
      number of subjects with GERD diagnosed by the GerdQ (2 vs 5, Fisher's extact test, p=0.21) .

      GERD is diagnosed when total acid exposure time is more than 2% or positive symptom index
      (SI) or positive symptom association probability ( SAP ) or endoscopy revealed LA erosive
      esophagitis > grade A.
    
  