
    
      Glaucoma is often asymmetric in nature, and an afferent pupillary defect (APD) is frequently
      present in persons with glaucoma. The investigators propose to conduct a clinic-based
      prospective study to assess the accuracy of using a binocular pupillographic device (RAPiD,
      Konan Medical, USA) to detect people with glaucoma. This device is designed to record and
      analyze pupil responses at multiple, controlled stimulus intensities, while using varied
      patterns and color stimuli.

      The asymmetric nature of glaucoma suggests that a high proportion of persons with glaucoma
      will have an APD (although many may be subtle and would be missed with less refined testing
      methods). When glaucoma patients have severe nerve damage or when field loss is bilateral and
      symmetric, an APD may not be present or may be too small to detect. Noting this limitation,
      the investigators will compare pupillary responses to stimuli at different locations (for
      example the superior compared to the inferior hemifield) to determine whether the
      investigators can detect asymmetric glaucoma damage within the same eye. In addition, it is
      likely that the pupil response in glaucoma will be diminished when compared to normal, which
      will also help with detection.

      Aim1: To examine the amplitude, latency and velocity of the pupil light reflex by optimizing
      its measurement to stimuli of various intensities and colors, and to characterize the
      variability of this response in normal subjects.

      Aim2: To quantify the amount of structural loss (retinal nerve fiber layer thickness and
      optic nerve head parameters) and functional loss (visual field mean deviation) necessary for
      an APD (as detected by RAPiD) to manifest.

      Aim3a: To develop an algorithm that best discriminates those with and without glaucoma by
      individual or combined use of 1) detecting an APD between the two eyes, 2) comparing pupil
      responses in different parts of the visual field within the same eye, and 3) comparing
      responses of diseased eyes to responses of "normal" eyes.

      Aim 3b: To assess the validity of this algorithm in glaucoma detection and to assess the
      reproducibility of the pupil response measurements at a follow-up visit within 7 months.
    
  