
    
      Efforts to improve end-of-care often focus on pain and symptom control, but few, if any,
      effective interventions exist addressing preparation and completion. We designed an
      end-of-life preparation and completion intervention, based on the human development
      literature identifying life completion as a developmental task and the robust evidence in
      health communication and clinical psychology that addresses the value of expressing emotions
      and stress on health outcomes. Our specific aims are 1) evaluate the impact of an
      intervention that promotes discussions of end-of-life preparation and completion on health
      outcomes in dying persons, including pain and symptoms, physical function, emotional function
      (anxiety and depression), spiritual well-being, and quality of life at the end of life and 2)
      evaluate the content of the such discussions, examining task variation associated with
      gender, ethnicity, socio-economic status, quality of communication with family, spirituality,
      and stage of illness to improve understanding of the need for tailored intervention content
      based on demographics or location in the trajectory of illness. We propose a randomized
      control trial to evaluate the intervention. 140 patients with advanced cancer, CHF, ESRD, or
      COPD will be randomly assigned into one of two intervention groups and complete a brief
      battery of pre-test measures. Subjects in the first group ("treatment") will meet with a
      facilitator three times for a period of forty-five minutes each. In the first session,
      subjects will be asked to discuss issues related to life review. A week later, participants
      will be asked to speak in more depth about issues such as regret, forgiveness and things left
      undone. In the final session, a week hence, subjects will focus on heritage and legacy. The
      subjects in the second group ("attention control") will meet with a facilitator three times
      for a period of forty-five minutes each and be asked to listen to a non-guided relaxation CD.
      One week and two weeks later, participants in all groups will receive post-test measures
      administered by a blinded interviewer.
    
  