
    
      Today's elaborated therapeutic interventions do not ensure sustainability of therapeutic
      success in alcohol-dependent patients. Thus, it is to develop and implement new therapeutic
      methods in order to increase regular treatment termination and continuous abstinence during
      treatment. Mental Contrasting (MC) consists of imaging a desired future and comparing it with
      obstacles of the present reality in order to increase goal commitment when expectations of
      success are high.

      In the study, MCII is implemented as an add-on intervention in order to reduce the risk of a
      relapse during treatment and to decrease drop-outs from treatment in alcohol-dependent
      inpatients. Therefore, inpatients with alcohol use disorder (AUD) are randomly assigned to
      one of two groups. The experimental group does receive MCII, the control group an exercise
      from treatment as usual. In addition, patients undergo brief motivational screenings in form
      of self-report questionnaires at the beginning and during treatment in order to assess
      motivational mediation of treatment effects and drinking events. The effect of the MCII
      training will be examined on primary (drinking during treatment) and secondary outcome
      variables (early treatment termination, motivational changes after drinking events).

      The Primary Outcome is return to drinking during treatment defined as any violation of total
      abstinence. Drinking is assumed if either a drinking event is reported by the patient or a
      Breathalyzer tests is positive.

      Participants are allocated to the groups using randomisation with emphasis on equal group
      sizes in control and experimental group. The list of randomisation was generated with the
      online tool "Research Randomizer".

      The investigator's a priori calculation of the required sample size is based on the primary
      outcome, i.e. return to any drinking during treatment. Given α=0.05 and 1-β=0.80 a one-sided
      z-test then yields a required sample size of 122 participants, i.e. 61 subjects in the
      intervention group and 61 subjects in the control group.

      All randomized subjects will be included in the analyses, regardless of whether they
      terminate the study regularly or not. Analyses will be done according to the
      intention-to-treat method (ITT).
    
  