
    
      Background:

        -  Soft tissue sarcomas (STS) are a relatively rare heterogeneous group of tumors that
           constitute about 1% of adult cancers.

        -  The mainstay of treatment for advanced disease has been palliative chemotherapy with a
           median overall survival of approximately 12 months. This has not changed considerably in
           the past years and there is an unmet need for newer targeted therapies.

        -  VEGF levels are elevated in patients with STS and various sarcoma cell lines express
           high levels of activated c-Met receptor.

        -  We hypothesize that dual targeting of the VEGF and c-MET pathways with cabozantinib
           would result in clinical benefit in patients with soft tissue sarcoma.

      Objectives:

      Primary:

        -  Assess the response rate (CR+PR) of cabozantinib in patients with soft tissue sarcomas.

        -  Assess the 6 month progression free survival (PFS) of cabozantinib in soft tissue
           sarcomas.

      Secondary:

      -Determine and compare circulating levels of HGF, soluble MET (sMET), VEGF-A, and soluble
      VEGFR2 (sVEGFR2) prior to and following administration of cabozantinib.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients must have had disease progression following one line of standard therapy

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years.

        -  Adequate organ function.

        -  Patients will be stratified based on prior VEGFR TKI therapy.

      Design:

        -  All patients will receive cabozantinib at 60 mg PO daily in 4 week cycles.

        -  Tumor response evaluations by imaging will be done every 2 cycles (less frequently for
           patients on study more than one year).

        -  The study will be conducted as a dual-endpoint two-stage Phase II trial to target
           objective tumor response rate (CR+PR) of 30% against an unacceptably low rate of 10%,
           and 6-month PFS rate of 65% against an unacceptably low rate of 45% (corresponding to
           median PFS of 9.6 vs. 5.2 months).

        -  The trial will accrue up to 55 patients.
    
  