
    
      Tuberculosis (TB) remains one of the leading causes of death from infectious disease
      worldwide, and treatment adherence a persistent challenge. This is particularly pressing in
      high-burden, low-resource settings such as Cambodia, where approximately two-thirds of people
      carry the TB bacterium, one of the highest rates in the world. The investigators propose to
      develop and pilot a novel smart phone-based intervention to improve TB treatment adherence,
      integrating video-enabled Directly Observed Therapy (VDOT) with transfers of mobile money and
      phone ownership to compliant patients. This intervention aims to directly address two of the
      key barriers to TB treatment adherence in low resource settings where DOT is costly or
      impractical. First, the video component has the potential to substitute direct in-person
      observation with time-stamped videos of patients taking their medication. Second, the
      proposed intervention incorporates incentives to patients for treatment adherence and
      equipment preservation in the form of mobile money and eventual phone ownership upon
      treatment completion.

      In partnership with the National Tuberculosis Program (NTP), the investigators will assess
      the feasibility of this intervention and of a future randomized study in two districts of
      Cambodia. First, the team will extend and adapt an existing platform for video-enabled
      medication monitoring (Mobile Interactive Supervised Therapy (MIST)) to incorporate mobile
      cash payments conditional upon compliance. Outstanding technical and usability issues with
      the platform will be identified and addressed by conducting an initial 1-month test of the
      intervention with 10 TB patients. Finally, the investigators will conduct an 8-month
      demonstration study among 50 households in our study locations to assess the acceptability,
      implementation, and potential for scale up of the intervention. We also aim to assess the
      practicalities and challenges of a future randomized controlled effectiveness and
      cost-effectiveness trial.

      To the best of our knowledge, this study is the first to examine a mHealth intervention for
      TB that integrates both adherence monitoring and patient incentives into a single platform.
      The results will be of immediate relevance to the NTP as well as other TB control programs
      seeking new alternatives to improving adherence, especially where traditional DOT may be
      infeasible or costly. These results will also be of interest outside the area of TB where
      adherence to treatment is critical, such as HIV. More generally, the study will provide key
      insights into mHealth programs in a setting relevant to other developing countries. This
      project will involve building new capacity in Cambodia for behavioral research, mHealth, and
      communications through training to the study personnel and general training on conducting TB
      and/or mHealth research to study partners and other stakeholders in the country.
    
  