
    
      Potential participants will be screened for inclusion/exclusion criteria. They must have a
      confirmed ASD diagnosis and be generally healthy. As part of the inclusion and exclusion
      criteria, the participant must have an appointment with their primary care provider or a
      hospital internist to complete a physical exam and required tests (EKG, CXR [chest x-ray],
      CMP [Comprehensive Metabolic Profile], CBC [Complete Blood Count], and head CTscan). At the
      first pre-treatment appointment (Visit 1), the participant and their legal guardian will
      review and sign the consent and assent forms with the investigator. The legal guardian also
      sign a Sentara Norfolk General Hospital release of medical information. The guardian will
      then fill out the ASD Diagnostic Checklist, Repetitive Behavior Scale- Revised, and the
      Aberrant Behavior Checklist. The physician will complete the Self-Injury Trauma Scale, which
      documents the number, type, and severity of unhealed self-injury traumas. At the end of the
      Visit 1, the guardian will receive a Subject Diary Card to record the number of self-injury
      episodes per day, the number of aggressive episodes per day, and the perceived severity of
      episodes that day. The Diary Card also has space to record the medication taken by the
      participant every day.

      The second pre-treatment appointment (Visit 2) will consist of a complete psychiatric
      evaluation with review of all medical evaluations. The subject must receive medical clearance
      to undergo ECT treatment. The first Diary Card will be collected at this time, and a second
      Diary Card will be given.

      After receiving medical clearance, participants (accompanied by their guardians) will begin
      to receive ECT treatments. They will receive ECT 3 times a week for 4 weeks, for a total of
      12 treatments (Visits 3- 14). All ECT treatments will take place in the Outpatient Surgery
      and Diagnostic Unit of Sentara Norfolk General Hospital, and will be performed by Dr. Shriti
      Patel or Dr. Justin Petri. All subjects will receive bilateral ECT. Participants will be
      placed under general anesthesia (Etomidate) and given a primary muscle relaxant
      (Succinylcholine). An anesthesiologist or nurse anesthetist will be present and will
      hyperventilate the patient to lower their seizure threshold. The first ECT treatment (Visit
      3) will determine the participant's seizure threshold. Subsequent ECT treatments (Visits
      4-14) will be determined by the acting psychiatrist based on the patient's seizure threshold.
      Following the procedure, the patient will recover in the Post Anesthesia Care Unit.

      Throughout the course of the treatment, guardians will continue filling out the Diary Card.
      Once treatment begins, guardians will be asked to also include any side effects of the
      treatment noted by themselves or the participant. Guardians will turn in and receive new
      Diary Cards weekly.

      After acute ECT treatment is complete, patients and their guardians will return to Eastern
      Virginia Medical School (EVMS) Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences for
      post-treatment appointments (Visits 15-18). At these post-treatment appointment guardians
      will complete the ASD Diagnostic Checklist, Repetitive Behavior Scale- Revised, and the
      Aberrant Behavior Checklist. The psychiatrist will complete a second Self-Injury Trauma
      Scale. At this time the Diary Card will be collected and subjects will receive Diary Cards
      for 1 month. Visits 15-18 will occur at 1 month, 2 months, 6 months, and 12 months post -
      acute ECT treatment.
    
  