
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine whether the use of the embrace device after repair
      of linear cutaneous surgery wounds improves scar cosmesis. We will use a split wound model,
      half of the wound is treated with the embrace device and the other half is not treated.
      Three-months post-surgery, the scar will be measured via the physician observer scar
      assessment scale, a validated scar instrument. The scar width and adverse events will also be
      recorded.

      Following the surgical repair of cutaneous wounds, scar formation is inevitable and results
      in varying degrees of aesthetic and/or functional impairment. Numerous treatment modalities
      have been employed to treat scars. Carbon dioxide and pulse dye lasers, as well as
      dermabrasion can reduce erythema and irregular topology of the scar surface1,2.
      Silicone-based products have also been used to treat post-surgical scars, including gels,
      sheets, and tape3-5. Intralesional steroids are often injected into to induce flattening of a
      scar6. More recent research has highlighted the impact of mechanical forces and tension on
      scar formation. In one report, incisions in both pigs and humans were treated with a
      tension-shielding device and showed a reduction in scarring7. More recently two clinical
      trials have been published in the plastic surgery literature showing that the use of the
      embrace device, a silicone-based dressing designed to minimize wound tension, is effective in
      improving the aesthetic outcome following scar revision surgery8,9. While these initial
      studies of the embrace device have promising findings, there are significant drawbacks to
      both studies including small study population, inclusion of patients seeking scar revision (a
      select group likely predisposed to poor scar cosmesis and not representative of first-time
      surgical patients), investigator conflict of interest, and the use of a digital
      software-based scar assessment tool using patients photos that were not standardized with
      respect to lighting or distance. Therefore, larger studies in first-time surgical patients
      with standardized photos for scar assessment are required to validate this potentially
      promising device for improved scar cosmesis.
    
  