
    
      Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is a major cause of death in the central

      Asian esophageal cancer belt and human papillomavirus (HPV) has been proposed as a potential
      cause. While several HPV-associated cancers have been identified (e.g., cervical, tonsillar),
      the role of HPV in esophageal carcinogenesis remains unclear. Estimates of the prevalence of
      HPV in ESCC in Henan province, which lies in the central Asian esophageal cancer belt and of
      which Linxian is a part, have varied from 0-78%. Contamination of specimens may contribute to
      this variation, as may differences in HPV detection techniques. With the imminent
      availability of an effective HPV vaccine, it is critical to determine if HPV is or is not
      involved in ESCC in Linxian given the potential for cancer prevention through use of the

      vaccine if HPV is involved. OBJECTIVES: The overall objective is to test the hypothesis that
      HPV is involved in the pathogenesis of ESCC in Linxian, China.

      We will 1) determine the prevalence of HPV DNA in ESCC tumors and 2) evaluate the activity of
      HPV in HPV DNA-positive cases.

      ELIGIBILITY:

      This study will be conducted among adult patients with ESCC presenting for esophagectomy at
      Yaocun Commune Hospital in Linxian, China.

      DESIGN: This case series study will collect demographic and clinical data from medical
      records and will use rigorous sterile procedures to obtain biologic specimens (blood, tumor,
      nontumor) from patients with ESCC. The presence of HPV DNA in tumor specimens will be
      evaluated using PCR with L1, E6, and E7-based primers. The activity of HPV in HPV
      DNA-positive cases will be assessed by immunohistochemistry for p16 (ink4a) over-expression,
      RT-PCR for E6/E7 mRNA expression, and amplification of papillomavirus oncogene transcripts
      (APOT) for HPV integration in tumor specimens. Nontumor specimens will also be examined for
      the presence of HPV DNA, and serum will be tested for HPV 16 and HPV 18 E6/E7 seropositivity
      as a marker of HPV-associated cancer.
    
  