
    
      Myocardial infarction (MI) outcomes strictly depend on the time to reponed the
      infarct-related coronary artery. Networks have been activated in the last years in many
      countries to achieve fast track access of patients with ST-elevation MI to hospital with h24
      primary PCI availability or directly to Cath Labs. From 2011 a regional STEMI network have
      been formally activated in Piedmont. The aim of our registry is to monitor the activity of
      the STEMI network in the large suburban area of Novara (population of about 800.000
      subjects).

      Novara STEMI network depends on the 118 service (the same of 911 in USA). When a call for
      suspected MI is processed, an Ambulance capable of transmitting a 12D ECG to the Hub Center
      is sent to the patient domicile. If the ECG and history suggest STEMI and transport time
      <90min, the patient is given aspirin and sent to Hub Hospital for primary PCI. If transport
      time is estimated >90min thrombolysis with TNK is performed in ambulance and the patient is
      sent to Hub Hospital for rescue PCI or re-evaluation in case of reperfusion.

      Inclusion criteria: all patients with STEMI admitted to Novara Hospital (3rd level Hub with
      Cardiac Surgery Facility). No exclusion criteria.

      Patients will be divided for comparisons in 2 groups (Group A: people admitted to hospital
      through the STEMI network. Group B: people admitted for STEMI through the Emergency
      department of the Novara Hospital or via secondary trasports regulated by Spoke Hospitals).

      Quality factors: recording of time from symptoms onset and 1st medical contact, time from 1st
      medical contact and coronary angiography (door to needle time) and time from 1st medical
      contact and mechanical reperfusion (door to balloon time), angiographic indexes of
      reperfusion (baseline and postprocedural TIMI flow, blush grade, corrected TIMI frame count),
      trends for ST elevation resolution,trends for troponin and CK-MB dismission, baseline and
      postprocedural echocardiography. Clinical outcomes will be successful reperfusion,
      in-hospital cardiac mortality, in-hospital reinfarction and in-hospital stent thrombosis.
      Moreover patients will be followed up clinically for at least 1 year (outcomes: cardiac
      mortality, reinfarction, symptoms/ischemia driven target vessel revascularization).
    
  