
    
      Radiofrequency ablation is the primary treatment for atrial and ventricular arrhythmias
      resistant to medication. However, the absence of assessment of injury creation during
      radiofrequency application is an important issue in that it can result either in recurrences
      of arrhythmia requiring redo procedures when an inadequate lesion is created, or on the
      opposite in serious complications when the lesion created is too large and extents to
      extra-cardiac territory that should be preserved. The imaging team of the IHU-Liryc develops
      new methods in cardiac MRI in view of diagnostics (improve spatial and temporal resolution,
      dynamic 3D imaging or contrast improvement) and therapeutics. Hence, one of the objectives of
      the IHU-Liryc is to improve ablation procedures by radiofrequency of cardiac arrhythmias in
      order to make them more effective (Real-time visualization of the thermal lesion, allowing
      application of the sufficient energy needed for a transmural lesion), and safer avoiding
      excessive lesion responsible for perforation and extension to extra-cardiac structures. This
      is based on thermometric imaging by MRI which allows a real time visualization of tissue
      temperature in all the myocardium with sufficient spatial and temporal resolution to
      characterize the induced thermal lesion. MRI thermometry was developed during the last decade
      and successfully applied clinically over a wide range of organs (the uterus, the brain, the
      liver, the kidneys) for direct monitoring of thermal treatment of various pathologies
      (fibroids Uterus, bone metastasis, liver cancer). This innovative technic was not applicable
      to cardiac arrhythmias due to the respiratory and cardiac movements whose rhythms can be
      irregular, as well as thermal noise generated by blood flow on images. Today, our team has
      developed and preclinically validated a new rapid MRI method dedicated to cardiac
      thermometry. All patients who give their oral agreement to participate to the study will have
      added to their examination some acquisition sequences. The maximum additional time due to the
      specific acquisitions of the study will be 5 minutes, over an average clinical examination
      time of 45 minutes. No follow-up or visit of end of treatment will be performed, the end of
      patient participation in this research corresponding to the end of the MRI examination.
    
  