
    
      Infection continues to cause significant morbidity in burn patients. Among critically ill
      patient populations, burn patients have some of the highest rates of device related
      infections. The loss of integument accompanied with the immunosuppression of the burn injury
      makes burn patients highly susceptible to infection. Despite the use of daily hydrotherapy,
      topical antimicrobials and early surgical intervention, sepsis frequently occurs. The burn
      wound is a major source of nosocomial infections. The standard burn wound dressing at UIHC
      consists of silver sulfadiazine cream and an outer dressing of woven, porous gauze. A newer
      version of woven, porous gauze, KERLIX AMD, Covidien, Mansfield, MA, offers additional
      protection for wounds that require dressing or packing. KERLIX AMD differs from plain gauze
      only in its impregnation with 0.2% polyhexamethylene biguanide (PHMB). PHMB is chemically
      related to chlorhexidine gluconate (CHG) which is a biguanide. PHMB has been used as a broad
      spectrum antiseptic in products such as pool cleaners. Further, PHMB is a broad spectrum
      biocide that is active against a wide range of pathogens that includes MRSA, VRE, Candida
      albicans, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, multi-drug resistant Acinetobacter as well as many other
      pathogens. Clinical exposure is several orders of magnitude less than that associated with
      acute toxicity (6.46 mg/PHMB/kg v 400 mg PHMB/kg). Clinical use of KERLIX AMD has shown a
      decrease in wound colonization and a decrease in surgical site infections in multiple wound
      types. We hypothesize that Kerlix AMD dressing will decrease the incidence of nosocomial
      infections in our burn patients.

      Upon admission to the burn unit, all patients with open wounds will have their wounds dressed
      with KERLIX AMD Gauze. Patients will then be approached to have their data collected and
      analyzed for the study. Only patients consenting to the study will have their data collected.

      The gauze will be applied directly to all open torso or extremity wounds over a layer of
      Silver Sulfadiazine immediately after admission to 8JC. The gauze will be used until wounds
      no longer require dressing. There will be no restriction on the use of topical antibiotics,
      although Dakin's solution will be restricted. Studies have shown that Dakin's solution
      deactivates the PHMB.( Tyco Healthcare Group LP) There will be no restriction on the outer
      layers of the wound dressing or the frequency of dressing changes.

      When 108 burn subjects have completed enrollment, the study will be stopped and the data
      analyzed. Historical infection data will be obtained by reviewing the charts of the last 324
      burn patients (with LOS>48 hours) prior to study commencement. Historical data will be
      compared to the KERLIX AMD gauze study data. All data analyses will be conducted by a
      biostatistician. Infections will be defined by modified Centers for Disease Control (CDC)
      criteria.10
    
  