
    
      Background:

        -  Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocyte (TIL) administration and high dose interleukin (IL)-2
           following lymphodepletion can mediate durable complete responses in patients with
           refractory melanoma. Obstacles to administration of this therapy include failure to
           establish TIL in vitro for about 20% of patients, long delays between tumor resection
           and TIL establishment resulting in poor TIL attributes for therapy and patient
           ineligibility due to progression, and requirements for large numbers of feeder cells for
           TIL expansion to therapeutic numbers.

        -  The K562 cell line was engineered to express the 4-1BBL costimulatory molecule and CD64
           (the high affinity Fc receptor for loading with antibodies such as OKT3). The
           K562.CD64.4-1BBL Engineered Cells with Costimulation Enhancement (ECCE) replaced up to
           75% of feeder cells in large scale TIL expansions. ECCE added to tumor cell suspensions
           provided costimulation in trans resulting in rapid and reliable lymphocyte growth even
           from tumors with no TIL growth under standard conditions.

        -  A cloned K562.CD64.4-1BBL-7F11 ECCE line was produced under Good Manufacturing Practice
           (GMP) conditions and a master cell bank has been generated. An optimized protocol was
           established to rapidly expand (REP) young TIL using minimum feeders and 7F11. These ECCE
           REPed TIL retained tumor recognition and some other attributes of standard TIL, but
           differed from standard TIL by containing fewer CD4+ cells and more natural killer cells.

      When 7F11ECCE were added directly to single cell tumor suspensions, young TIL cultures were
      reliably generated even from patients who otherwise would not have a standard young TIL
      culture for treatment.

      Objectives:

      Primary objectives:

        -  In cohort 1, to evaluate whether young TIL that are rapidly expanded using 7F11 ECCE to
           replace some feeder cells and administered with IL-2 in patients following a non
           -myeloablative conditioning regimen will result in clinical tumor regression in patients
           with refractory metastatic melanoma.

        -  In Cohort 2, to evaluate whether young TIL generated using in trans costimulation with
           7F11 ECCE in patients for whom standard young TIL did not grow can mediate tumor
           regression after a nonmyeloablative conditioning with high dose IL-2 in patients with
           refractory metastatic melanoma.

        -  Determine the toxicity of ECCE young TIL in these treatment regimens

      Eligibility:

      Patients who are 18 years of age or older must have:

        -  metastatic melanoma;

        -  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status 0 or 1

        -  One or more lesions 2 cm or greater suitable for resection for TIL culture

      Patients may not have:

        -  Concurrent major medical illnesses;

        -  Any form of immunodeficiency;

        -  Severe hypersensitivity to any of the agents used in this study;

        -  Contraindications for high dose IL-2 administration.

      Design:

        -  Patients will undergo resection to obtain tumor for generation of autologous young TIL
           cultures.

        -  Parallel TIL cultures will be established using a) the standard technique with IL-2 only
           and b) the Engineered Cells with Costimulation Enhancement (ECCE) protocol using
           irradiated K562.CD64.4-1BBL-7F11 (7F11) cells.

        -  After 10 to 20 days cultures will undergo evaluation for TIL establishment. Standard TIL
           will be used preferentially and patients who have TIL established by standard methods
           will be assigned to Cohort 1

        -  Cohort 1:

             -  TIL will undergo ECCE REP by exposure to OKT-3, IL-2, feeder cells and irradiated
                7F11.

             -  Patients will receive a non-myeloablative lymphocyte depleting preparative regimen
                of cyclophosphamide (60 mg/kg/day intravenous (IV)) on days -7 and -6 and
                fludarabine (25 mg/m^2/day IV) on days -5 through -1.

             -  On day 0 patients will receive the infusion of autologous young TIL and then begin
                highdose aldesleukin (720,000 IU/kg IV every 8 hours for up to 15 doses).

             -  Clinical and immunologic response will be evaluated about 4-6 weeks after
                treatment.

             -  Using an optimal two-stage Phase II design, initially 18 patients will be enrolled,
                and if three or more of the first 18 patients have a clinical response (partial
                response (PR) or complete response (CR)), accrual will continue to 35 patients,
                targeting a 30% goal for objective response.

        -  If standard young TIL fail to grow then ECCE young TIL will be evaluated and patients
           who have ECCE TIL available will be assigned to Cohort 2 .

        -  Cohort 2:

             -  Cultures from patients in Cohort 2 will be evaluated for ECCE TIL establishment. If
                adequate ECCE TIL are available, TIL will undergo ECCE REP by exposure to OKT-3,
                IL-2, feeder cells and irradiated 7F11.

             -  Patients will receive a non-myeloablative lymphocyte depleting preparative regimen
                of cyclophosphamide (60 mg/kg/day IV) on days -7 and -6 and fludarabine (25
                mg/m^2/day IV) on days -5 through -1.

             -  On day 0 patients will receive the infusion of autologous young TIL and then begin
                highdose aldesleukin (720,000 IU/kg IV every 8 hours for up to 15 doses).

             -  Clinical and immunologic response will be evaluated about 4-6 weeks after TIL
                infusion.

             -  Using a small optimal two-stage Phase II design, initially 9 patients will be
                enrolled, and if one or more of the first 9 patients has a clinical response (PR or
                CR), accrual will continue to 24 patients, targeting a 25% goal for objective
                response.

        -  If TIL cultures were not established by either standard methods or ECCE young TIL
           protocols, patients will be eligible for re-resection and evaluation of TIL from a
           different site.
    
  