
    
      Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory autoimmune demyelinating disease of the central
      nervous system (CNS). Over the course of the disease there is usually accompanying axonal
      degeneration and brain volume loss. It is the most common cause of neurological disability in
      young adults, with an average age of onset between 20-40 years of age. There are an estimated
      107,000 people living with MS in the United Kingdom (UK), with an incidence of 203.4 per
      100,000. The aetiology is unknown but is thought to be an interplay between genetic and
      environmental factors.

      MS is an unpredictable condition with varying symptoms depending on the location of damage
      within the central nervous system. MS is classified into three different phenotypes;
      relapsing remitting MS (RRMS), secondary progressive MS (SPMS) and primary progressive MS
      (PPMS). RRMS is the most common form of MS at the time of diagnosis, accounting for 85% of
      cases. It is characterised by relapses, followed by complete or partial recovery know as a
      remission. A relapse is defined as 'patient-reported symptoms or objectively observed signs
      typical of an acute inflammatory demyelinating event in the CNS, current or historical, with
      duration of at least 24 hours, in the absence of fever or infection'. In people with RRMS,
      the average relapse frequency is 1.1 per year. Incomplete remissions from a relapse can
      result in the accumulation of disability. Within 10-15 years 80% of people initially
      diagnosed with RRMS will transition to SPMS which is characterised by far fewer or no
      relapses due to less inflammation, but a progressive increase in disability due to
      neurodegenerative processes. Ten to 15% of people are diagnosed with PPMS, which is defined
      by a gradual increase in disability from onset, and usually no relapses.

      There is no known cure for MS. Disease modifying therapies (DMT's) can alter the immune
      response which helps control inflammatory activity but their impact on the neurodegenerative
      processes remains unclear. Steroids are frequently used to treat relapses and consequently
      the majority of research into relapses has focused on examining their effectiveness and mode
      of delivery. Steroids can speed up the rate of recovery from a relapse but do not change the
      level of disability that may occur as a result of the relapse. The majority of improvement in
      disability following a relapse has been shown to occur within two months but some symptoms,
      such as arm function, can take up to 12 months.

      The most commonly reported symptoms during a relapse are fatigue, lower limb weakness,
      sensory disturbance and impaired mobility. An MS relapse can result in a sudden change in
      physical or cognitive symptoms, often impacting on a person's ability to function with
      family, friends and work. In the UK, a survey of people with MS (PwMS) on their experience of
      relapses found that 67% of people in paid employment took time off sick and 66% of people
      required additional support to undertake routine daily tasks following a relapse.

      Management of relapses and exacerbations is one of the eight key priorities in the NICE
      Clinical Guidelines for MS. The guidelines state people having a relapse or exacerbation
      should be assessed to see if they need additional symptom management or rehabilitation, and
      whether their care needs have changed. The guidelines also recommend regular exercise but
      does not provide specific advice on whether exercise should be undertaken during a relapse.
      In order for PwMS to self-manage effectively whilst they are having a relapse, they need to
      be given clear information on what they can do to help with their recovery.

      Physical activity, which can be defined as 'any bodily movement produced by skeletal muscles
      that results in energy expenditure', is frequently recommended for PwMS as a way to manage
      symptoms, improve function, optimise quality of life and reduce the risk of secondary
      disorders related to inactivity such as heart disease and stroke. Despite physical activity
      and exercise being promoted as a way to improve symptoms of MS, PwMS typically engage in
      lower levels of physical activity compared to the general population. Investigating ways to
      increase activity levels in PwMS is therefore imperative for their long-term health.

      There have been a number of studies that have improved our understanding of what helps PwMS
      to be physically active and what difficulties PwMS encounter. A systematic review of 19
      qualitative research studies on physical activity in MS found that the main perceived
      barriers to being physically active were environmental factors, such as lack of facilities
      for disabled people and minimal or conflicting advice from health care professionals, and
      personal barriers, including fatigue and fear. Having a relapse was not cited as barrier. The
      main facilitators of physical activity have been reported as environmental, including peer
      support and type of exercise and internal feelings including a sense of accomplishment.
      Perceived benefits included maintaining physical function, social participation and ability
      to self-manage. Perceived adverse consequences included increased fatigue and feelings of
      frustration or inadequacy when exercising. This systematic review gives a clear overview of
      the barriers, facilitators, benefits and consequences of physical activity in PwMS but does
      not provide evidence for how this is affected by a relapse which is a point at which PwMS
      have new or worsening of current symptoms and have expressed feelings of fear and anxiety. In
      a more recent qualitative study, investigating what PwMS need and want in relation to
      exercise promotion from healthcare providers, those who were classed as 'sufficiently active'
      reported wanting advice on how to modify exercise in order to maintain activity levels during
      a relapse.

      Despite the wealth of literature documenting the benefits of exercise for PwMS, there is a
      paucity of evidence about exercise within the context of relapses. Being physically active
      has been associated with reduced incidence of relapses, while the occurrence of adverse or
      serious events associated with exercise for PwMS has been shown to be similar to that of the
      general adult population. Most research studies involving physical activity or exercise have
      recent relapse as an exclusion criterion and if participants have a relapse during the study
      period they are excluded.

      There have been two randomised controlled trials evaluating the effectiveness of
      multidisciplinary therapy (which included exercise) and steroids, compared to steroids alone,
      which found that multidisciplinary therapy was superior in terms of neurological recovery,
      functional performance and quality of life. The therapy was individually tailored in these
      studies which makes it difficult to examine which aspect of the rehabilitation resulted in
      improvements. Exercise has been shown to be safe outside of the relapse period but little is
      known about the safety of exercise during a relapse and when physical activity should be
      reintroduced following a relapse. Consequently, the advice given to people about when to
      re-engage with physical activity is anecdotal and potentially unclear.

      There has been one qualitative study investigating the impact of physical activity on MS
      symptoms, relapse and disability identity. This study interviewed 15 PwMS to understand the
      role that physical activity and exercise had on participants daily life, during relapses and
      the how this was associated with their disability identity. The study did not attempt to
      investigate the barriers and facilitators to physical activity following a relapse. The
      results did reveal contradictory findings about the role of exercise in relapses, with some
      people expressing the belief that exercise could prevent future relapses or that being
      cardiovascularly fitter would minimise the effect of future relapses, whilst others
      attributed the cause of their relapse to doing too much exercise. A limitation of this study
      is that PwMS recruited to the study had previously participated in exercise research, which
      may have biased the sample towards more physically active participants. Further research is
      needed into understanding the attitudes of PwMS in the UK to physical activity following a
      relapse and to explore what helps or hinders them to be physically active following a
      relapse. This information will help guide advice health professionals may offer and help
      direct future research into physical activity and exercise following MS relapses.

      The proposed study would involve interviewing people with MS who have recently had a relapse
      to understand more about their attitudes to physical activity and what the barriers and
      facilitators are to being physically active following a relapse. The participants will be
      recruited from the MS relapse service at the National Hospital for Neurology and neurosurgery
      (NHNN) which is part of University College London Hospitals (UCLH). The results from this
      study will help develop our understanding of physical activity in the context of relapse and
      will inform future research into physical activity and exercise following MS relapses.

      The aim of this research study is to understand the attitudes of PwMS to physical activity
      following a relapse, including factors that help them to be active and barriers to physical
      activity.

      It is important to learn more about the beliefs and experiences of people engaging in
      physical activity following a relapse as PwMS report conflicting information from health care
      professionals. A review of comments on MS internet forums suggests PwMS would like to have
      more information in relation to physical activity and exercise following a relapse:

      'How is one to make sense of the role of exercise during a relapse?' 'When is a return to
      exercise recommended and for who?' 'How much exercise and what type of exercise [following a
      relapse]?' 'What can I expect if I exercise [following a relapse]?'

      PwMS have also commented that:

      'Overdoing exercise can bring on a relapse and will definitely slow down recovery from one.'
      'I assumed that anything other than stretching and yoga would prolong recovery.' 'I felt very
      tired in relapses; exercise would have been very difficult as I needed to save energy for the
      basic activities of everyday living.' These comments represent conflicting advice on physical
      activity and exercise following a relapse and demonstrate that PwMS will benefit from clearer
      advice. However, it is an area with limited evidence to provide people with the answers to
      their questions. The information obtained from this study will develop our understanding of
      the attitudes, barriers and facilitators to physical activity following a relapse and will
      inform the direction that future research into physical activity and exercise following MS
      relapses should take.
    
  