
    
      Percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PNL) is an appropriate first-line alternative for the
      management of kidney stones that are larger than 2 cm in diameter and that do not respond to
      extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (SWL) [1,2].

      Percutaneous renal access is the most important step in PNL, and the adequacy of access
      directly affects the success and complication rates of this procedure.

      Among C-arm fluoroscopy, computed tomography (CT), and ultrasonography (US), C-arm
      fluoroscopy is the most commonly used imaging technique to access the intrarenal collecting
      system [3-4].

      Various fluoroscopy techniques have been described for achieving a good access. One can use
      fluoroscopy or ultrasonography or a combination of both for reaching the target calyx. Each
      of it has its advantages and disadvantages, and no consensus exists showing the superiority
      of one or the other [5].

      Triangulation and ''eye of the needle'' (or bull's eye) techniques are two common methods to
      obtain proper percutaneous renal access under fluoroscopy guidance [6-7].

      Multiplanar fluoroscopic imaging is essential in both techniques to make a proper renal
      puncture.

      Biplanar access is based on mediolateral and cephalad-caudal movements of the needle, with
      the depth of the puncture adjusted based on different fluoroscopic projections, including
      oblique, vertical, and 30° positions [6, 8].

      Most published studies of PCNL have focused on evaluating the effect of patient- and
      stone-related factors such as success rate, extent of bleeding, complication rate,
      fluoroscopic Screening times (FSTs), and operative time on outcomes. [9-10]

      The imaging modalities used for guidance by urologists or radiologists during percutaneous
      renal access and renal access procedures have also recently been analyzed and compared in
      terms of outcomes and complications.[11-12]

      These studies, however, have not considered the effect of percutaneous renal access technique
      on outcome. Although the triangulation and the bull's-eye techniques have been evaluated and
      compared using a biologic model in a published study [13], no clinical study comparing these
      techniques has been performed.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the impact of percutaneous renal access technique on
      outcomes of percutaneous nephrolithotomy in management of renal stones by comparing the
      Triangulation and ''eye of the needle'' (or bull's eye) and the stone targeted technique .
    
  