
    
      There is abundant research identifying the value of music in improving quality of life for
      older adults in residential faculties. This work suggests that there are at least two
      critical factors that contribute to the success of music-based interventions for older
      adults: familiarity, and active participation in the production of the music. With these
      elements in mind, the investigators are proposing to develop a choral singing program
      comprised of familiar music, introduced to residents at a Long-term care (LTC) facility
      through individualized engagement with the songs, leading to weekly group participation run
      by a professional musician at the Bonne Bay (Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada) Long-term
      Care Facility.

      Specific development of the choral program itself will be done through a co-design process
      involving staff, residents, and care partners during the intervention. In general the
      intervention will have residents work with professional musicians to select a few songs that
      the residents will perform with the professional musician at the end of the week. The
      specific development will determine three crucial issues for the intervention: 1) what music
      is appropriate for the initiative? 2) what individualized engagements with the songs are
      appropriate to each resident? 3) what modes of participation in the group events are
      appropriate to each resident? The key factor with this co-design are that the music and the
      level of engagement will be tailored to the individual resident.

      The program will run over a full quarter in (July, August, September) allowing the
      investigators to establish meaningful comparisons of secondary, quantitative data already
      collected at all long-term care facilities on a quarterly basis. This data includes the
      medication administration (medication administration records: MARS), behavioural episodes in
      residents with dementia (dementia observational system: DOS), and the resident assessment
      inventory minimum data set (RAI-MDS). Pre and post intervention data will be assessed for
      participating residents at the Bonne Bay Long-term care facility. Pre-intervention data will
      be collected for three years before the intervention to establish an appropriate baseline for
      the intervention. The impact of the intervention on residents of the unit will also be
      assessed through qualitative data. Interviews with residents or their care partners will
      elicit the perceived benefits and challenges to participating in a music intervention program
      from the participants' point of view. Care-partners will be identified by nursing staff
      and/or the resident themselves as an individual who regularly helps with day-to-day living
      needs of the resident. Care partners will only be interviewed when the cognitive abilities of
      the resident prevent conducting an interview with them. All participants in the study will be
      de-identified using a code system that allows us to intersect quantitative and qualitative
      data in pursuit of a more rigorous view of potential impacts. This code system will involve
      randomly assigning each participant a number. A master database connecting the name and the
      number will be maintained in a password protected file on a password protected computer in
      Dr. Zendel's lab. Research staff will use this master database under the supervision of one
      of the data custodians during the de-identification process.

      This intervention will also be studied from the staff perspective. While there are few
      studies investigating the perceptions of staff in the implementation of music intervention in
      healthcare settings, those that are published document the importance of considering the
      staff perspective and the impact of this perspective on the overall success of this form of
      intervention. A 'pre/post' interview process will engage how the music intervention was
      perceived by staff, particularly regarding workload, role in the intervention, strengths and
      challenges of the intervention, and the impact on overall work environment. Gaining an
      understanding of the staff perspective on the implementation of this intervention will prove
      invaluable to the overall feasibility of the initiative.

      A final layer of inquiry will interview the musicians themselves, exploring a sense of
      meaning and value gained through participation in the process, distinctions the musicians
      make between music and music as intervention, how the musician defines and relates to their
      practice as musicians, what and how that has shifted, what relationship the musician felt
      emerged between themselves and the residents with whom they worked?

      Basic demographic information including age, date of birth and sex will be recorded as part
      of each interview (residents/care partners, music staff and LTC staff). Demographic
      information will also be collected from the residents chart.
    
  