
    
      Colitis is the generic term that refers to an inflammation of a segment of the colonic tract
      confirmed by computed tomography. This pathology represents approximately 100-150 admissions
      per year in the Division of Digestive Surgery of the University Hospitals of Geneva.

      The aetiologies of colitis are numerous and include all pathologies having the ability to
      cause the inflammation and thickening of the colon wall. Colites are classified according to
      their aetiologies into: infectious colitis (bacterial, parasitic or viral), inflammatory
      chronic bowel diseases (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease, others), ischaemic colitis and
      iatrogenic colitis (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, others). The aetiologies of
      colitis affect therapeutic care, since patients with infectious colitis will improve with
      appropriate antibiotics, those with inflammatory chronic bowel disease will require the
      introduction of an immunosuppressive therapy, and those with ischaemic colitis will only need
      a supportive treatment and a careful evaluation to detect any progression to bowel
      perforation that would prompt for surgery.

      Therefore, numerous investigations are performed to determine the precise aetiology of
      colitis.

      At the University Hospitals of Geneva, as well as in other centres, a microbiological
      analysis of faeces (routine PCR assay looking for Shigella spp., Salmonella spp. and
      Campylobacter spp.; PCR for Clostridium difficile as well as cultures for Vibrio spp. and
      Yersinia spp. (in option)) are performed in first intention. If these assays yield to the
      absence of a potential pathogen, a colonoscopy is performed to look for: 1) a tumour, 2) a
      chronic inflammatory bowel disease or 3) an ischaemic colitis. Patients in whom no aetiology
      can be found to explain the colonic inflammation are given a diagnosis of undetermined
      colitis.

      However, the respective prevalences of the different aetiologies of colitis remain
      surprisingly unknown. Similarly, no diagnostic tool or clinical score allow to quickly
      determine or at least stratify the exact cause of colitis in patients admitted in the
      Emergency Ward and to direct them to the appropriate therapeutic care. As a consequence, all
      patients admitted with a diagnosis of computed tomography-proven colitis are subjected to
      broad-spectrum antibiotics associated with a 5-10 days hospitalisation for monitoring and
      investigations. Patients with negative microbiological examination of the stools will benefit
      from an early colonoscopy, a procedure that carries significant risks of complications and
      generates high costs. Moreover, the difficulties in the early identification of patients
      requiring endoscopy for suspected inflammatory chronic bowel disease or cancer may delay or
      even contribute to miss these diagnoses, especially if the acute phase of inflammatory
      chronic bowel disease has passed.

      Considering the lack of evidences regarding the therapeutic care of colitis, we plan to
      constitute a cohort of 200 patients admitted for a first episode of computed
      tomography-proven colitis at the University Hospitals of Geneva. We will collect data related
      to 1) the history, clinical and para-clinical presentations at admission, 2) the results of
      the aetiological investigations; and we will complete the investigations by performing 3) a
      detailed microbiological examination of the stools using an accurate and rapid multi-array
      PCR assay (FilmArray, Biofire Diagnostics, Salt Lake City, USA), as well as 4) a dosage of
      faecal calprotectin (a marker of bowel inflammation).

      The aims of the present study are to describe the presentation and aetiologies of colitis,
      and to develop diagnostic methods to guide patients admitted for acute colitis to the
      appropriate therapeutic care, with the objective to generate savings by shortening hospital
      stays and by better prescribing additional tests, including colonoscopy. We therefore think
      that an adequate and early patient stratification has important medical and economical values
      in this setting.

      We expect: 1) to diagnose a higher proportion of infectious colitis than currently reported,
      and this within a shorter turnaround time, a finding that could serve as a basis to discuss
      and implement a reduction in the rate of colonoscopies, 2) to identify predicting factors,
      including faecal calprotectin, which would help distinguishing patients who require an
      endoscopic evaluation from others, among patients with negative microbiological examination
      of the stools.
    
  