
    
      Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) is an acute inflammatory lung injury associated
      with a high pulmonary vascular permeability, leading to acute respiratory failure. Positive
      pressure mechanical ventilation,improves survival but might lead to ventilator-induced lung
      injury (VILI) and right ventricular failure. This hemodynamic effect is more important when
      compliance is decreased, especially in ARDS.

      The use of long protective ventilation (with low tidal volumes and low plateau pressures) has
      improved prognosis of ARDS in adult patients. However, tidal volume and plateau pressures do
      not always reflect the lung deformation and the stress induced by the ventilation; these
      variables depend on the characteristics of the patient's respiratory system. Therefore,
      management focuses on ventilation strategies according to these characteristics.

      Among tools used to evaluate respiratory physiological parameters, the esophageal pressure
      measurement is easily feasible at the bedside, and well estimates pleural pressure and
      pulmonary distension. During invasive ventilation, transpulmonary pressure (PL) can be
      obtained with the difference between the airway pressure and the esophageal pressure.
      Calculation of transpulmonary pressure in ARDS allows optimal ventilator management of adult
      and children treated for ARDS.

      Although individualized ventilation techniques have shown some benefits in ARDS, studies have
      failed to show that survival could be improved by such strategies. This lack of efficacy
      could be partly explained by the hemodynamic impact of ventilation-induced pulmonary
      distension. It therefore seems essential to combine a robust assessment of right ventricular
      function with measurements of transpulmonary pressure in order to know the real hemodynamic
      impact of positive pressure ventilation in ARDS in adults and children.

      The primary objective is to test the impact of transpulmonary pressure on right ventricular
      functionin ARDS adults and children.

      Secondary objectives are :

      i) to compare thresholds of transpulmonary pressure associated to right ventricle failure
      between children and adults ii) to assess if there is an association between transpulmonary
      pressure and morbidity and mortality.
    
  