
    
      Background: preterm infants (PT) spend their first weeks of life in the Neonatal Intensive
      Care Unit (NICU) where they are exposed to conditions with different effects on child
      development including long-term alterations in epigenetic regulation. Recent studies document
      that these epigenetic changes are associated with behavioral modifications, such as altered
      stress reactivity at 3 months and 4 years. A growing number of studies suggest that
      protective Developmental Care (DC) procedures (e.g., breastfeeding, skin-to-skin contact
      (SSC), maternal containment) positively impact neurophysiological and behavioral adaptation
      of PTs with long-term effects. Moreover, structural factors of the NICU, such as the
      organization of the unit space based on Open-Bay rather than Single Family Rooms could impact
      the child's neurobehavioral development and the parent's well-being. For example, a study on
      the impact of the Single Family Room shows improved medical and neurobehavioral outcomes for
      the infant at discharge and increased maternal involvement. However, the Single Family Room
      literature also reports mixed results with some studies finding increased parent involvement
      but no effect on child growth and some showing increased parent stress.

      Primary aim: to evaluate the methylation status of target genes (e.g., BDNF, SLC6A4, OXTR,
      NR3C1) in association with exposures to DC practices during NICU hospitalization in PT
      children, compared with a sample of FT children.

      Secondary aim: to investigate the relationship between preterm/term birth, DC practices (PT
      only), maternal touch in the postnatal period, epigenetic status and brain response to
      soft/soft stimulation during fMRI, at 2 months of age (corrected for prematurity in PT
      children), controlling for characteristics of the NICU of provenance (NICU Hospital of Monza:
      Single Family Room vs NICU Hospital of Lecco: Open-Bay).

      Planned Activities:

      Methods

      The project is characterized as observational, micro-longitudinal and is structured in two
      phases:

      - PHASE 1: FROM BIRTH TO DISCHARGE FOR PT CHILDREN; TIME OF BIRTH FOR FT CHILDREN)

      At the time of birth, both PT and FT will have their cord blood collected (methylation at
      birth) using non-invasive methods. Only for PTs at the time of discharge will be performed a
      second blood draw at the same time as the routine pre-discharge checks. In addition, at this
      stage, the mother will fill out some questionnaires about her mood and will be obtained
      information on pregnancy and childbirth (gestational age, birth weight, length and head
      circumference of the child at birth, type of delivery, duration of hospitalization, presence
      of perinatal diseases) and socio-anagraphic variables. Finally, only for the PT group, during
      hospitalization in the NICU, the following data will be collected on the negative and
      positive experiences to which PTs are exposed during hospitalization, specifically:

        1. number of pain-related stress procedures (e.g.: number of withdrawals, central
           insertions, invasive and non-invasive mechanical ventilation) obtained from the
           patient's medical record;

        2. time spent doing DC procedures (e.g.:, total time spent in which the child is attached
           to the mother's breast, total time spent in holding, total time spent in kangaroo care)
           obtained through the use of the "closeness diary" implemented in electronic format, in
           the form of an APP.

      At the end of the NICU admission, only for PT children, a second peripheral blood sampling
      (methylation at discharge) will be performed at the same time as routine pre-discharge
      checks. At the end of hospitalization, mothers of PTs will complete the same questionnaires
      completed at birth and in addition will be asked to complete questionnaires on the experience
      of stress and support received from staff during hospitalization in the NICU.

      - PHASE 2: AROUND 2 MONTHS OF AGE OF THE CHILD (CORRECTED AGE FOR PT) The children of both
      groups (PT and FT) and their mothers will go to the IRCCS "E. Medea" for a Functional
      Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) examination. The fMRI session will be conducted according
      to a recent study on the neural correlates of maternal affective touch in FT infants. The
      fMRI scan will be conducted by researchers and clinicians experienced in the use of MRI in
      pediatric settings. Prior to the fMRI session, all parents will be adequately briefed with
      respect to the MRI-related procedure and the scanning protocol will be viewed with the
      parents and staff will confirm the absence of safety risks. To minimize the potential risk
      and harm to infants caused by unnecessary sedation, fMRI will be performed during natural
      sleep and no sedation will be performed. Infants will be wrapped, fed, and scanned. To
      promote falling asleep, infants will be changed and fed by their mother and given time for
      them to fall asleep and then moved into the scanner. All infants will be fitted with hearing
      protection. In the event that the infant wakes up during the scan, the mother will be asked
      to attempt to put the infant back to sleep and if this occurs, the scan will be attempted
      again. Standard hearing protection will be given to the parents who will be allowed to remain
      in the scanning room for the duration of the acquisition session. The scan will be observed
      by control room staff. The entire procedure was structured in accordance with the guidelines
      for conducting fMRI in healthy child samples. After the fMRI, a 10-minute video recording of
      the mother-child interaction will be made. During the video recording, the child will be
      placed in a comfortable infant seat and the mother will be asked to sit in front of the child
      and interact with him/her for 5 min. Baby and mother's behavior and interaction will be coded
      using the Global Rating Scales mother-child interaction coding system and maternal touch
      coding using the Maternal Touch Coding System.
    
  