
    
      Chronic pelvic pain is a highly prevalent debilitating disease with negative impact on the
      quality of life and productivity of women. The estimated prevalence of CPP is 3.8% among
      women aged 15-73 years, ranging from 14% to 24% among women of reproductive age, with a
      direct impact on their marital, social and professional life .

      A specific diagnosis for CPP is often difficult; no diagnosis is made in 60% of patients .
      Treatment of these patients remains a challenge due to the diverse clinical signs and
      phenotypes. Several non-surgical as well as surgical strategies exist. However, many of the
      therapy approaches seem to have only limited effect in managing CPP . Additionally, many of
      the recommended medical and surgical interventions have a potential for harm in a proportion
      of women . Accordingly, an alternative therapeutic approach is desirable.

      Dry cupping is considered to be a noninvasive and inexpensive technique, used worldwide to
      treating patients with pain syndromes . It is in fact a type of physical therapy which is
      applied by the specialists of acupuncture or other individuals. It improves the subcutaneous
      blood flow and, as a result, stimulates the autonomic nervous system and reduces the pain .
      The application of suction on selected acupoints produces hyperemia or hemostasis, which may
      result in a therapeutic effect .When compared to acupuncture, cupping therapy is a
      non-invasive therapy with relatively shorter treatment duration and less treatment cost .

      Recent studies have examined the efficacy of dry cupping on acupoints for various
      pain-related conditions. They showed good results . However, no studies up to date has been
      evaluated the effect of dry cupping in treating CPP. Therefore, this study is the first one
      which aims to investigate the effect of dry cupping on women suffering from CPP. This study
      may expand the role of physiotherapy in woman's health
    
  