
    
      Introduction:

      Smartphones are widespread and in 2015 as much as 82% of the Norwegian population were owners
      of a smartphone. Recommendations has been pointed out in a new report from the Norwegian
      Board of Technology; health service should facilitate so that patients can follow up their
      health from home and simultaneously receive necessary help from the health service. The
      Norwegian Directorate of health points in a national action plan for e-health that evidence
      based digital tools in combination with an increase of competence will make it possible to
      reach health political goals such as quality levels, patient safety and an effective use of
      resources.

      Across diseases adherence to treatment is one of the most important modifiable factors wich
      decreases the treatment effect. As much as 30-50% of patients do not adhere to recommended
      treatment. Adherence to treatment is complex and it depends on many factors; the patient, the
      patient surroundings (social support, the function of the health service, availability and
      resources) and characteristics with the disease and the corresponding treatment. World Health
      Organization (WHO) points to adherence to treatment as a global challenge and supports
      political decisions and research interventions that will increase adherence. Furthermore,
      adherence is considered to be a huge challenge in treatment for lifestyle changes such as
      smoking cessation, diet changes, training and physical activity. A meta-analysis (n=42 000)
      documented that "mixed mode of delivery interventions", where traditional techniques for
      behavior change was combined with digital tools, proved more effective than the use of
      traditional techniques for behavior change alone. Another meta-analysis (n=20 000) confirms
      this conclusion; therapy, guidance and conversation has an increased effect when it is used
      together with dedicated digital tools (6).

      Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality globally. Cardiac
      rehabilitation (CR) including exercise training are effective to reduce morbidity, mortality
      and modifiable risk factors such as physical fitness, cholesterol, triglycerides and blood
      pressure. The main goal for CR is to establish exercise training and other lifestyle changes
      as permanent changes in the patient's life. Many studies have shown that cardiac patients do
      not reach the therapeutic goals regarding secondary prophylaxis one year after participating
      in CR. In other words; patients are not able to maintain the new lifestyle after CR and their
      risk profile goes back to base. Changing a lifestyle is known to take time, and we believe
      that the patients need further follow-up beyond the time spent in traditional CR.

      To our knowledge very few studies, if any, evaluates the use of modern technology aiming to
      help the patients to maintain a new lifestyle after participating in CR. The investigators
      would therefore like to implement a randomized clinical trial (RCT) to evaluate the effect of
      the dynamic Application Vett® With regard to physical Fitness (peak oxygen uptake), one year
      after CR.

      Method:

        -  Design: The study will be a randomized clinical trial. Patients will be recruited from
           CR at Norwegian Institute of Sports Medicine (NIMI) and from Feiring. NIMI has an
           outpatient CR programme lasting for twelve weeks. Feiring has Institutional CR With two
           different durations at their programmes, whereas one of the programmes lasting four
           weeks an the other programme lasting for one week. The investigators will conduct a
           stratified randomization to ensure Equal number of patients from the different CR
           programmes into the intervention-group and the Control Group. Patients will be recruited
           when they finish CR.

        -  Intervention-group: In addition to usal care, patients in the intervention-group will
           get access to the application Vett®, as well as approximately one hour of training on
           how to use it and register personal goals together with study-coordinator. They will for
           a period of approximately twelve months have access to Vett® as well as personal
           follow-up through the app by a specialized physiotherapist. Vett® is an app developed by
           professor Kari Jorunn Kværner, doctor and specialist in cognitive training, guidance and
           counseling. Patients will be encouraged to set a minimum of two goals with associated
           tasks for the follow-up periode. Tasks will be the basis for reminders which the
           Application gives the patient. The patient decide when and how often reminders should
           come. The goals and tasks will be set according to the needs of each patient
           (individualized). The follow-up is individualized and dynamic and targets the patient
           under evaluation directly. Vett® makes it possible to create and set individual goals
           (e.g. exercise or eating fish) with tasks and reminders, weekly evaluation of the
           individual goals and ask questions to the supervisor. The application also gives the
           opportunity to receive tailored and motivational feedback from the supervisor. The
           supervisor has access to an administrator interface where it is possible to monitor what
           the patients are registering in relation to their personal goals and tasks, as well as
           sending tailored and motivational feedback. In this study, the patients will receive
           tailored feedback based on their achievements on personal goals and tasks through
           e-mail. They will receive feedback every week for the first Three months, then they will
           receive feedback as often as they want based on the conversation when included to the
           study. They will also receive 1-3 motivational feedbacks/notifications every week. Any
           questions to the supervisor will be answered by two working days. In the event of
           receiving health related questions (e.g changing of medication or chest pain) the
           patients will be advised to contact their general practitioner (GP). One year after CR
           patients will be called for a check-up, including questionnaires and a cardiorespiratory
           Fitness test.

        -  Control-Group: Patients in the control-group will receive what is current practice. In
           addition they will be called for a check-up, one year after entering CR, including
           questionnaires and a cardiorespiratory Fitness test. To day, usual care consist of
           advice regarding how to maintain their New lifestyle (exercise training, physical
           Activity and heart-healthy diet) and further follow-up by their GP.

        -  Power calculation: With a significant Level of 5%, Power of 0,80 and a effect size at
           0,58 (Clinical important change as 3,5 ml/kg/min i VO2peak and a Standard deviation of 6
           ml/kg/min), 48 patients is needed in each Group. With an estimated drop-out of 20%, 115
           patients will be recruited to this study.

        -  Statistical analyzes: Both Parametric and non-Parametric analyzes will be used depending
           on the variables. Both intention-to-treat and per-protocol analyzes will be conducted in
           the effect-analyzes. T-test and variance analyzes will be used to investigate
           differences between Groups.

      This study will provide New knowledge about the use of modern Technology with an
      Smartphone-Application in the follow-up of Cardiac patients. If the Application proves to be
      effective, this study will give clinicians a digital and evidence based tool for longterm
      follow-up of patients where changing lifestyle is the primary treatment.
    
  