
    
      The study aims to investigate if Imatinib reduces intracerebral haemorrhage and oedema in
      stroke patients after IV thrombolysis and/or trombectomy. Two important complications of
      ischaemic stroke and its acute treatment are haemorrhage into the infarcted tissue and
      cerebral oedema. Leading to worsening functional outcome in survivors. Both are caused by a
      disruption of the blood brain barrier (BBB) by ischemia of the brain vascular endothelium and
      associated cells involved in maintaining the BBB. Imatinib can reduce the damage to the BBB
      and hence reduce the formation of oedema and haemorrhage.

      The study is a phase III randomised, double-blind placebo-controlled parallel-arm trilal of
      patents with acute ischaemic stroke. Assessing the Clinical variables at baseline and after 3
      months.

      Primary objective:

      To investigate if Imatinib (800 mg / day) treatment initiated within 8 hours of symptom onset
      and given for 6 days improves functional outcome at three months after acute ischaemic stroke

      Secondary objective:

        1. Investigate if Imatinib treatment improves functional outcome at three months in acute
           ischaemic stroke patients treated with iv thrombolysis

        2. Investigate if Imatinib treatment improves neurological outcome at three months after
           acute ischaemic stroke

        3. Investigate if Imatinib treatment improves neurological outcome at three months in acute
           ischaemic stroke patients treated with iv thrombolysis

        4. Investigate if Imatinib reduces the frequency and grade of ICH in patients with acute
           ischaemic stroke treated with iv thrombolysis

        5. Investigate if Imatinib reduces the frequency and grade of cerebral oedema in patients
           with acute ischaemic stroke treated with iv thrombolysis

        6. Examine serious and non-serious adverse events in patients treated with Imatinib

        7. Investigate if Imatinib reduces mortality at 3 months after acute ischaemic stroke

        8. Investigate if Imatinib reduces mortality at 3 months in acute ischaemic stroke patients
           treated with iv thrombolysis
    
  