
    
      Analgesic efficacy of trans abdominis plane block in women undergoing Cesarean section: a
      randomized controlled trial.

      Introduction:

      Cesarean section is considered as one of the most commonly performed surgery worldwide. Based
      on the data from 121 countries, the trend analysis showed that between 1990 and 2014, the
      global average CS rate increased 12.4% (from 6.7% to 19.1%) with an average annual rate of
      increase of 4.4%.Its incidence in 2010 and 2013 was 41.9% and 48% respectively which was
      contrary to the rate of C/S recommended by the World Health Organization as fifteen percent
      for year 2014 .Just like all other major abdominal surgeries, c section comes with severe
      postoperative pain ,which if not managed properly can not only leads to prolonged immobility
      and its associated adverse effects but can also affect mother-baby bonding, care of baby,
      breast feeding and may lead to chronic pain and post-partum depression Multiple modalities
      are available for managing this post cesarean pain. Mostly systemic opioids are used but they
      are often associated with a number of undesirable side effects such as nausea, vomiting,
      pruritus, constipation, and respiratory depression,sedation.Other than opoids, systemic
      NSAIDS such as ketorolac, acetoaminophen are also used but alone they may be insufficient to
      treat post cesarean pain. Other analgesic options currently being used include local
      anesthetic techniques (local anesthetic infiltration, neuraxial blocks) acetaminophen ,
      cyclooxygenase-2-specific inhibitors as well as analgesic adjuncts such as steroids, ketamine
      and α-2 agonists such as clonidine.

      Neruoaxial anesthesia such as lumbar or thoracic epidurals are also used but because of
      constant and strict monitoring ,they are not considered economical for patients as well as
      for hospitals. With recent advancements in regional anesthesia, some regional blocks are now
      being utilized for postoperative pain relief in c sections such as TAP blocks but their use
      is still limited because of nonavailability of sufficient data.

      Transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block provides analgesia by blocking nerves in anterior
      abdominal wall through introduction of a long-acting local anesthetic solution between the
      internal oblique and transversus abdominis muscles. Its use in c section is still limited
      ,but is considerd to be increased in future as is now been shown by several studies .

      One of these studies is done by Uma Srivastava and collegues which showed that cumulative
      tramadol usage during first 24 h after surgery was significantly reduced in women given TAP
      block in comparison to control group C (75 ± 22 vs. 168 ± 45 mg in groups B and C,
      respectively, P < 0.0001.

      As no local study is available and in the light of above mentioned studies, we proposed that
      with bilateral TAP block after c section you can provide better analgesia and improve
      patient's quality of life in postoperative period by reducing opoid usage and its associated
      side effects .

      OBJECTIVE:

      To compare TAP block in providing post cesarean analgesia with control group, in terms of
      mean reduction in postoperative use of opoids.

      OPERATIONAL DEFINITIONS:

      TAP block: injection of 20ml 0.25% bupvicaine given between internal oblique and transversus
      abdominis muscle on both sides of midline with no intervention in control group.

      VAS (visual analogue score) : VAS , a linear scale that identifies the pain by the
      self-report of patient, and it is considered as gold standard for evaluation of pain in
      conscious patients 7. VAS >4 trigger for inj tramadol 1mg/kg i/v.

      Analgesic consumption:- postoperative consumption of injection tramadol will be measured
      within 24hrs after surgery .

      HYPOTHESIS:

      TAP block is a safe and effective option to control postoperative analgesia after c section
      by reducing postoperative consumption of opioids.

      MATERIALS AND METHODS:

      Study design: Randomized control trial Sampling technique: Consecutive non-probability
      sampling Sample size: Using the study by Uma Srivastava at el, the results of which showed
      efficacy of TAP block in terms of cumulative tramadol usage during first 24 h after surgery
      in study group vs control group C as (75 ± 22 vs. 168 ± 45 mg in groups B and C ) and with
      the help of WHO sample size calculator, following calculations were made Level of
      significance: 5% Confidence interval: 95% Power of test: 80% Sample size=n= 6 patients in
      each group As sample size is very small, minimum 30 pts in each group will be used Group A:
      TAP block will be given Group B: no TAP block will be given Setting: Anesthesia department,
      Combined Military Hospital, Sargodha ,Pakistan. Duration: After approval from ethical
      committee Source: Admitted patient Patients will be allocated to two groups A or B, using
      lottery method. All patients will be assessed on day of surgery and written informed consent
      will be taken after explaining all the risks and benefits to patient.

      On day of surgery, patients will be prepared for surgery and spinal anesthesia as per
      institutional protocols. Every patient will be given 1.5ml of 0.75% bupivacaine intrathecally
      to provide anesthesia for c section by consultant anesthetist. During surgery no drug other
      than oxytocin and anti-emetic (if required) will be given. In group A, at the end of surgery,
      TAP block will be given via ultrasound guided subcostal approach on both sides of midline.
      After strict monitoring for next 15-20mins,pt will be shifted to PACU. Time of TAP block will
      be recorded as time 0.

      In ward , all patients will be given analgesia as per departmental protocol (injection
      ketorolac 30mg i/v TDS).In postoperative period intensity of pain and opioid consumption
      within 24hrs of surgery will be recorded. Performa till the application of TAP block will be
      filled by treating anesthetist, whereas remaining will be filled by trainee anesthesia.

      After collecting all data, data would be entered and analyzed using SPSS Version 16.

      Descriptive statistics will be used to calculate quantitative and qualitative variables. Mean
      and SD will be calculated for quantitative variables i.e. age weight, intensity of pain,
      dosage of opioids. Frequency and percentage will be calculated for qualitative variables i.e.
      gender. P value <0.05 will be considered statistically significant. All results would be
      presented as frequency tables. Effect modifiers like weight and age will be controlled by
      stratification and post stratification independent sample t test will be used.

      Independent t test will be used to compare group A and B in terms of mean usage of tramadol
      within 24hrs of surgery.
    
  