
    
      Acute exacerbations of COPD (AECOPD) negatively impact on patients' health status and disease
      progression, and increase patients' susceptibility to exacerbations, hospitalizations and
      death. Therefore, the treatment goals for patients with AECOPD are to minimize the negative
      impact of these events and prevent their recurrence.

      Pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) is the comprehensive intervention presenting the most
      well-established benefits in patients with stable COPD, thus, it would seem reasonable to
      consider PR as a management strategy for AECOPD. However, studies assessing PR role during
      AECOPD have shown conflicting results.

      Therefore, the main aim of this project is to assess the short-, mid- and long-term
      effectiveness of a patient-centered community-based PR programme during AECOPD. Secondarily,
      we aim to develop and implement a community-based PR programme for patients with AECOPD,
      specifically tailored to their self-reported and clinical needs; establish the minimal
      clinical important differences for PR in AECOPD for clinical and patient-reported outcome
      measures; and evaluate patients' perspectives and self-reported impact of the PR programme.

      A pilot study was performed between November 2016 and December 2017 to allow sample size
      calculation and adjustments to the protocol of the randomized controlled trial. Based on this
      pilot study, a sample size estimation was performed for the COPD Assessment Test to detect a
      moderate effect size (f=0.30), with 80% power, 5% significance level and moderate correlation
      among repeated measures (r=0.25). The minimum sample size estimation was 36 participants.
      However, as in respiratory interventions dropout rates are around 30-35%, a total of 50
      participants with AECOPD will be needed.

      The plan is to recruit approximately 50 voluntary patients with AECOPD via clinicians at
      hospitals and primary care centres. This study will enroll adult patients diagnosed with
      AECOPD according to the Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD)
      criteria.

      Patients will be recruited via the clinicians, who will provide a brief explanation about the
      study and inform the researcher about interested participants. Then, the researcher will
      contact interested participants and provide further information about the study, clarify any
      doubts and collect the inform consents. Patients will be eligible if they are: i) diagnosed
      with AECOPD according to the GOLD criteria; ii) included within 24-48h of the diagnostic; and
      iii) able to provide informed consent. Exclusion criteria will include: i) need for
      hospitalization; ii) other coexisting chronic respiratory diseases; iii) unstable
      cardiovascular disease; iv) musculoskeletal or neuromuscular conditions that preclude the
      performance of the assessments and/or treatment sessions; v) signs of cognitive impairment;
      vi) current neoplasia or immunological disease and vii) any therapeutic intervention in
      addition to standard of care.

      Patients who agree to participate will be randomly allocated to the conventional treatment
      group (control group) or the conventional treatment plus PR group (experimental group).

      Baseline data will be collected within the first 24-48 hours of the diagnosis of AECOPD. The
      researcher will collect sociodemographic, anthropometric and clinical data (e.g., number of
      exacerbations in the previous year); vital signs and peripheral oxygen saturation; symptoms
      (dyspnoea, fatigue, cough and sputum); lung function (spirometry); physical activity level;
      peripheral muscle strength (handgrip and hand-held dynamometer); functional status; exercise
      tolerance; impact of the disease and health-related quality of life.

      Patients in the control group will receive daily medical treatment prescribed by the
      physician (i.e., medication).

      Patients in the experimental group will receive daily medical treatment plus a
      community-based PR programme that will involve 6 sessions (2 times per week). The PR
      programme will consist of breathing retraining and airway clearance techniques, exercises for
      thoracic mobility, expansion and flexibility, cardiorespiratory exercise training, education
      and psychosocial support. This programme will be adjusted to each individual needs. After
      this period all measurements will be repeated. Furthermore, vital signs, peripheral oxygen
      saturation, dyspnoea and fatigue will also be collected before/during/after each session to
      monitor the intervention. Sessions will be conducted in properly equipped rooms or at
      patients' home and will last approximately 60 minutes.

      Additionally, after 2, 6 and 12 months, the researcher will contact all participants via
      phone calls to collect data about the number of recurrent AECOPD, healthcare utilization
      (e.g., unscheduled visits, hospitalizations) and mortality.

      Data analysis will be undertaken using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS)
      software and will include descriptive and inferential statistics. To analyse changes in
      outcome measures, data from baseline and after treatment assessments will be compare.
      Moreover, between group comparisons will also be performed for baseline, after intervention
      and follow-ups assessments. Effect sizes for the interventions will also be calculated.
    
  