
    
      Dengue viruses are endemic in most tropical and subtropical regions of the world with more
      than 2 billion persons at risk for acquiring dengue. There are four serotypes of dengue virus
      (DEN 1, DEN 2, DEN 3, and DEN 4) each capable of causing dengue illness ranging from mild,
      self-limited febrile illness to life-threatening disease. Because previous infection with one
      dengue serotype can increase the risk for DHF/DSS following infection with a different
      serotype, immunization would ideally provide immunity against all four dengue viral
      serotypes.

      Several live, attenuated dengue vaccines have been tested in Phase I and/or Phase II clinical
      trials. Although some have appeared promising in early trials, none have been able to meet
      the requirements for a safe and effective vaccine. Meeting these requirements has been
      particularly difficult when testing vaccines containing all four serotypes. The vaccine
      candidate in this study is live-attenuated rDEN4delta30, which will target the DEN4 serotype,
      it is a potential component for a future tetravalent dengue vaccine.

      This is a double-blind, random assignment, placebo-controlled study in healthy, adult
      volunteers. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of a single
      dose of DEN4 vaccine. Some participants will be receiving placebo as a comparative measure,
      to better assess vaccine-associated versus non vaccine-associated adverse events.

      To qualify for participation in the study, volunteers will undergo an eligibility screening
      which will include medical history, physical exam, hematology testing, liver and renal
      function testing, coagulation studies, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and hepatitis B and
      C screening, urinalysis, and screening for pervious flavivirus infection. Urine pregnancy
      testing will also be required for female volunteers.

      Duration of individual participation in the study is approximately 26 weeks following
      vaccination on Study Day 0. Volunteers will be randomly assigned to receive either
      rDEN4delta30 or placebo; 50 participants will receive the vaccine, 20 will receive placebo.
      On the day of vaccination, all volunteers will be reassessed by study personnel to ensure
      continued eligibility, vital signs will be taken, and a physical exam will be performed.
      Female participants will also have a pregnancy test and review of acceptable pregnancy
      prevention methods. Eligible participants will receive a vaccination of Study Day 0, followed
      by a 30 minute post vaccination assessment for adverse events. After vaccination, volunteers
      will be evaluated in the clinic approximately every other day for the first 16 days if study.

      During the course of study, volunteers will have blood drawn and clinical evaluations
      performed on Study Days 21, 28, 42, and 180 post-vaccination. All participants will be asked
      to record oral temperatures 3 times a day for the first 16 days post-vaccination.
    
  