
    
      General study design

        -  Subjects who exercise regularly will be instructed to exercise exactly 3 days before the
           experimental trial, and then abstain from their exercise training program until after
           the experiment is complete.

        -  Subjects will arrive to the Substrate Metabolism Laboratory (1210 CCRB) after at least a
           6h fast.

        -  After resting quietly in the laboratory for approximately 30min, Dr. Horowitz will
           collect a resting blood sample by venipuncture, as he has done in our other IRB approved
           protocols (e.g., HUM00029179). Briefly, Dr. Horowitz will wash his hands and put on
           gloves. The participant's skin will be disinfected at the venipuncture site with
           isopropyl alcohol. Single-use needles will be used for each participant and immediately
           discarded into a biohazard sharps container after use. After the blood draw, direct
           pressure will be applied to the site of needle insertion to avoid/reduce bruising and
           discomfort.

        -  Subjects will exercise (bike or treadmill) for 1h at a moderate exercise intensity
           (approximately 65% of their predicted VO2peak). This moderate exercise intensity has
           been used extensively by Dr. Horowitz's laboratory in previous exercise testing and
           training studies in both lean and obese individuals, and is well tolerated by both
           populations.

             -  During the exercise session, subjects will wear a heart rate monitor to ensure
                participants are exercising at the correct exercise intensity.

             -  Subjects will also use the mouthpiece and nose clip (described above) for ~5min at
                the beginning, middle, and end of exercise to verify they are exercising at
                approximately 65% of their predicted VO2peak.

             -  A study team member will be present with the participant at all times during
                exercise to ensure the comfort and safety.

        -  Immediately after exercise another blood sample will be collected.
    
  