
    
      The purpose of the study is to evaluate in detail the clinical and health economic outcomes
      from the MISSION COPD project. MISSION COPD is a quality improvement project funded by the
      Health Foundation, Foundation with additional funding from Pfizer, to trial an innovative way
      of finding and assessing patients with COPD and also case finding new diagnoses of COPD.

      MISSION-COPD will allow swift early specialist multi-disciplinary interventions in primary
      care to diagnose and treat those at greatest risk, consistent with the NHS England '5-year
      Forward View' calling for removal of traditional primary and secondary care barriers. MISSION
      COPD will target COPD patients with risk factors for exacerbations and deteriorating lung
      function as well potential new diagnoses of COPD.

      The aim of the study is to review the MISSION clinic model outcomes as well as performing
      qualitative interviews with patients who attended and staff who took part in the project.

      Up to 150 patients who attend the MISSION COPD clinic will be recruited along with
      approximately 20 health care professionals. The number of patients has been decided as the
      number that can be seen for the project in the MISSION COPD project time and budget.

      Participants will be either:

        -  Patients who attend MISSION COPD clinics - identified as having uncontrolled or
           potentially severe COPD or unrecognised COPD from GP records by the MISSION clinical
           team

        -  Health care professionals who attend the clinic in a clinical capacity.

      Retrospective quantitative analysis of the data collected during the MISSION clinics will be
      analysed looking for COPD phenotypes and contributing co-morbidities. The data collected at
      the initial visit and 3 and 6 month follow up questionnaires will be analysed looking for
      improvement in COPD control and quality of life following the patients' attendance at MISSION
      clinics.

      A self completion questionnaire will be filled in after the clinic by participants in the
      research study to assess their views on the clinic and where they would like changes to be
      made. A questionnaire will also be given to health care professionals to seek their views on
      the clinic.

      Qualitative interviews will be conducted with a sample of participants, willing to take part,
      to explore the experiences and acceptability of the participants and health care
      professionals. The interviews with health care professionals will explore their thoughts on
      MISSION and its strengths and weaknesses as well as any suggestions for improvement.

      This research is important as it will provide evidence to support the use of the MISSION
      clinic model for patients with COPD. It will also give us more information on the patient
      with COPD and any medical conditions related to their COPD so we can adapt our service to
      meet their needs.

      The telephone and group interviews will help us understand what we are doing right and what
      we are doing wrong with COPD care.
    
  