
    
      Laparoscopy has been adopted for advantages that include decreased adhesion formation,
      improved cosmesis, decreased post-operative pain, and shorter recovery times.

      The patient benefits of robotic surgery are thought to be essentially the same as
      conventional laparoscopy: decreased length of stay, decreased blood loss, decreased pain,
      quicker return to work, and improved cosmetic result through smaller incisions. In pediatric
      urology, there is evidence that robot-assisted pyeloplasty may be superior to open and
      laparoscopic approach with decreased length of stay, decreased narcotic use, and decreased
      operative times The overall reported conversion-to-open-procedure rate is low, comparable to
      the conversion rate in conventional pediatric minimally invasive surgery.

      Robotic surgical technology may have a role in pediatric minimal access surgery. Design
      features of robotic surgical platforms include motion scaling, greater optical magnification,
      stereoscopic vision, increased instrument tip dexterity, tremor filtration, instrument
      indexing, operator controlled camera movement, and elimination of the fulcrum effect. These
      robotic enhancements offer improvements to conventional minimal access surgery, permitting
      technical capabilities beyond existing threshold limits of human performance for surgery
      within the spatially constrained operative workspaces in children. There is evidence that a
      learning curve is encountered when adopting robotic surgery as demonstrated by decreasing
      operative times as case volumes increased

      At a stand-alone pediatric hospital, a robotic platform is often not available. Only a
      minority of pediatric hospitals have robotic systems given the limited number of procedures
      performed nationally. This is probably due to the costs of acquiring and maintaining a
      surgical robot coupled with the tendency for pediatric hospitals to have less income and
      fewer eligible patients to defray the fixed costs of the platform. A unique situation exists
      for pediatric surgeons in hospitals affiliated with adult care as robots may be available
      that are primarily used for adult subspecialties, most often urology. In this setup, the
      logistics may be difficult and the pediatric team must be flexible and mobile to accommodate
      the robot.

      Robotic surgery has higher costs than open and laparoscopic procedures. This is due to the
      high costs of purchasing and maintaining a robot, increased operative time, and costs of
      disposable surgical supplies.

      The specificity of this study is to evaluate the clinical safety and efficacy in a dedicated
      multidisciplinary pediatric program (gastrointestinal surgery, genitourinary surgery,
      thoracic surgery, ENT, cardiac surgery and microsurgery )and to evaluate the relative cost of
      robotic surgery.
    
  