
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with newly diagnosed
      glioblastoma treated with Toca 511 at the time of tumor resection followed by Toca FC in
      combination with standard of care (SOC) treatment to patients with newly diagnosed
      glioblastoma treated with SOC after tumor resection. (Phase II) II. To compare the overall
      survival (OS) from time of randomization of all patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma
      treated with Toca 511 at the time of tumor resection followed by Toca FC in combination with
      SOC treatment to patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma treated with SOC after tumor
      resection. (Phase III)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety of each arm as administered in this study. II. To compare the OS
      between arms (only for phase II part of the study). III. To compare the PFS between arms
      using Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) (only for phase III part of the study).

      IV. To evaluate the objective response rate (ORR) in patients with measurable disease at the
      post-surgical scan.

      V. To evaluate the effect of IDH mutation status on survival outcomes between arms.

      VI. To evaluate the PFS and OS by extent of resection. VII. To evaluate the effect of MGMT
      methylation status on survival outcomes between arms.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the duration of response (DoR) in patients with measurable disease at the
      post-surgical scan using mRANO.

      II. To evaluate the effect of corticosteroids administration on efficacy of Toca 511 and Toca
      FC.

      III. To optimize quality assurance methodologies and processes for radiotherapy and imaging.

      IV. To determine if there is a tumor-microenvironment signature based on ribonucleic acid
      (RNA) sequencing that is associated with a selective increase in benefit from the addition of
      Toca 511 and Toca FC.

      V. To compare regional genomic heterogeneity and molecular profiles, as measured by RNA
      sequencing and methylation analyses between arms.

      VI. To compare quality of life (QOL), as measured by the European Organization for Research
      and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) and Brain
      Cancer Module (BN20), between arms.

      VII. To compare health utilities, as measured by the EuroQoL 5-Dimension 5-Level (EQ-5D-5L),
      between arms.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Beginning on week 5 following standard of care surgery, patients undergo radiation
      therapy over 30 fractions 5 days per week for up to 6 weeks, and receive temozolomide orally
      (PO) once daily (QD) for up to 49 days. At the discretion of treating physician, patients may
      also receive novoTTF-100A (Optune) device 0-7 weeks following radiation and temozolomide
      treatment. One month following completion of radiation therapy, patients continue to receive
      temozolomide PO QD on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive vocimagene amiretrorepvec via intracranial injection during surgery
      on day 1. Beginning on week 5 following surgery, patients receive extended release
      flucytosine PO three times daily (TID) for 7 consecutive days every 7 weeks. Patients also
      undergo radiation therapy and receive temozolomide as in arm I. After completion of radiation
      therapy and at the discretion of the treating physician, patients may continue to receive
      extended release flucytosine PO TID for 7 consecutive days every 8 weeks in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up until progression then, every 3
      months for 1 year, every 4 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  