
    
      Preoperative anesthesia consultations (PACs) are a key moment in the perioperative care
      journey. During the PAC, the doctor assesses the patient's state of health (allowing an
      assessment of the perioperative risk), establishes the anesthesia protocol and writes the
      preoperative prescriptions. PAC also helps inform and educate patients to reduce their
      anxiety.

      Indeed, if the perioperative care pathway and the risks associated with anesthesia are poorly
      understood, there is an increased risk of preoperative anxiety, poor compliance with
      preoperative prescriptions, and therefore potential cancellation of the surgical
      intervention.

      In many countries, preoperative PACs are performed by nurses trained and supervised by
      anesthetists. These PACs take longer than a consultation carried out by a doctor alone, but
      would on the one hand have a positive effect on patient education and, on the other hand,
      ultimately reduce the time and costs associated with the PAC . On the other hand, the impact
      of PACs performed by nurses supervised by physicians on the perioperative experience of
      patients and on the rate of cancellations of scheduled interventions has not yet been
      demonstrated.

      Since 2013, so-called "optimized" consultations (PAC carried out by a state-certified nurse -
      IDE - supervised by an anesthesiologist) have been carried out at the Adolphe de Rothschild
      Foundation (Paris), for patients having a scheduled surgery intervention. cataract under
      locoregional or general anesthesia. First, the IDE collects the patient's history and
      treatments and informs him of the perioperative care pathway. In a second step, the doctor
      performs the pre-anesthetic medical examination, completes the medical examination and writes
      the appropriate pre and postoperative prescriptions. This method of consultation made it
      possible to optimize medical time while providing complete, even better, information to the
      patient.

      That is why optimized PACs may improve the patient's perioperative experience and reduce
      preoperative cancellations regardless of the type of surgery. programmed.
    
  