
    
      Chronic kidney disease (CKD) has a prevalence of 10% in the general population and up to 20%
      in high-risk groups, such as patients with diabetes. Despite the widespread availability of
      renal replacement therapy in the western world, mortality of patients with end-stage renal
      disease (ESRD) is still high. The life expectancy of patients with renal replacement therapy
      in Austria is reduced by more than 50%.

      Patients on renal replacement therapy exhibit an increased cardiovascular mortality (10-30
      fold higher than in the general population) associated with accelerated vascular
      calcification. The KIDNEY DISEASE IMPROVING GLOBAL OUTCOMES (KDIGO)-work group introduced the
      term CKD-Mineral and Bone Disorder (CKD-MBD) which describes a clinical syndrome encompassing
      mineral, bone, and calcific cardio-vascular abnormalities that develop as a complication of
      CKD. This syndrome emerges as a result of a declining kidney function and is characterized by
      changes of circulating levels of parathyroid hormone (PTH), 25-hydroxyvitamin D
      (25(OH)D),1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25(OH)2D), other vitamin D metabolites and fibroblast
      growth factor-23 (FGF-23). The ability of the failing kidneys to excrete phosphate is
      diminished and hyperphosphatemia occurs. High phosphate levels together with calcium as well
      as low concentrations of fetuin A, the main calcification inhibitor under physiological
      conditions, lead to increased vascular and extravascular calcification and renal bone
      disease. Another important calcification inhibitor is the vitamin K2-dependent matrix
      Gla-protein (MGP). Dialysis patients exhibit a low vitamin K intake and suffer substantially
      from vitamin K deficiency. Insufficient vitamin K intake leads to the production of
      non-carboxylated, inactive MGP and deficiency of carboxylated MGP may contribute
      substantially to the development and progression of arterial calcification. Bacterial
      infection and sepsis, although decreasing over the last decades, also account for up to 20%
      of deaths in ESRD-patients and are the second most common cause of mortality and
      hospitalization. Mortality due to sepsis is 100 - 300 times higher in dialysis patients as
      compared to the general population. The mechanisms of the increased susceptibility to
      infection are unclear but recent studies suggest that in patients with ESRD, innate immune
      response is defective. One reason for defective innate immunity might lie in an increased
      risk for endotoxemia. Hemodialysis (HD)-induced regional splanchnic ischemia leads to
      increased gut permeability and consecutive endotoxin translocation. This possibly results in
      alterations in gut microbiome composition.

      Recently profound alterations of the composition of the gut microbiome in ESRD have been
      shown. In ESRD subjects, more Firmicutes, Actinobacteria and Proteobacteria and fewer
      Sutterellaceae, Bacteroidaceae, and Lactobacillaceae were observed relative to controls. The
      frequent use of antibiotics, phosphate binders and an often polypragmatic drug consumption
      has a considerable impact on the microbiome of ESRD-patients.

      These alterations of gut microbiota can impact on several mechanisms in ESRD. Gut bacteria
      produce vitamin K and the microbiome composition might therefore play a pivotal role in
      providing enough vitamin K for a sufficient carboxylation of MGP, a potent inhibitor of
      arterial calcification. Treatment with vitamin K antagonists, for example, has been
      associated with a 10 fold increased risk for the development of calcification and
      calciphylaxis, a life threatening calcifying arteriolopathy in CKD-patients. Furthermore the
      gut is a potential source of endotoxin in patients with ESRD, due to translocation of
      bacterial products across the gastrointestinal barrier. In ESRD the presence of endotoxin is
      an independent predictor for mortality. Ultrafiltration during hemodialysis treatment leads
      to critical ischemia in the splanchnic vascular bed, thus adversely affecting the integrity
      of the gut barrier. Disruption of gut barrier function in ESRD allows translocation of
      endotoxin and bacterial metabolites to the systemic circulation, which contributes to
      inflammation and uremia and prompts progression of the disease. Furthermore, subclinical
      inflammation in ESRD-patients has been shown to promote progression of cardiovascular disease
      as well. The gut microbiome also impacts on glucose metabolism and plays a critical role in
      obesity and the development of insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes. Protein fermentation
      by gut microbiota generates toxic metabolites and many of the known uremic toxins are of
      intestinal origin, including p-cresol and indoxyl sulfate. Modulation of the microbiome can
      contribute to the reduction/elimination of uremic toxins.

      Improving the poor prognosis of ESRD patients is an ongoing challenge. An increased awareness
      of the limitations in conventional dialysis techniques has renewed interest in alternative
      therapeutics in recent years. An unmet clinical need for adjuvant therapeutic strategies
      persists in patients whether renal transplantation is intended or not. Supplementation of
      probiotics and thereby targeting the intestine, an important source of endotoxin and uremic
      toxins, might be a promising approach to partly overcome the high morbidity and mortality in
      ESRD patients. Probiotics are living beneficial microorganisms, able to gastroduodenal
      passage and maintain viability throughout the gut. Feasibility of gut microbiome modulation
      in ESRD was shown in animal and human settings. However, so far, it is unknown to what extend
      probiotics are able to re-establish gut microbiome homeostasis in ESRD. Furthermore the
      effects of a probiotic intervention on cardiovascular risk factors, inflammation, gut barrier
      and uremia have not been studied in detail yet.
    
  