
    
      Recent studies have shown that depression is characterized by a change in olfactory and
      emotional perception resulting in a decrease of the perception of positive stimuli (odors and
      facial expressions) and an increase in perception of negative stimuli (odors). Moreover, it
      has also been shown in healthy subjects that the presence of minor depressive symptoms leads
      to a decreasing of olfactory sensitivity. However, odor discrimination was not impaired in
      these subjects. This observation suggest the presence of a change in "targeted" olfactory
      perception in people with depressive symptoms without reporting major depression. In
      addition, studies in subjects with olfactory disorders (following respiratory tract
      infections or following Parkinson's disease) have shown an improvement in olfactory function
      after daily training with odors during 12 weeks. Therefore, the hypothesis is that an
      olfactory training could improve the overall olfactory functioning and the emotional
      perception of the subjects presenting minor depressive symptoms and of the depressed
      patients.

      The main objective is to study the effect of daily olfactory training on the emotional state
      and emotional perception of the subject. The effect of the training will be evaluated using
      three types of evaluations: (1) a clinical evaluation and the psychometric scales, (2) the
      investigation of the olfactory function and (3) the study of the emotional perception.

      The secondary objectives are:

        -  The identification of olfactory parameters and emotional valences associated with minor
           depressive symptoms.

        -  The study of the link between the subjective and objective emotional response on the one
           hand, and the link between olfactory function, emotional perception and emotional state
           on the other hand in depressed patients and in individuals with minor depressive
           symptoms.
    
  