
    
      Dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and a P2Y12 receptor inhibitor represents the standard
      of care treatment for the prevention of major adverse cardiovascular events in patients
      undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Currently, 3 oral P2Y12 receptor
      inhibitors (clopidogrel, prasugrel, and ticagrelor) are available for clinical use.
      Clopidogrel remains the most broadly used P2Y12 receptor inhibitor. However, it is well
      established that clopidogrel-induced antiplatelet effects is suboptimal in many patients who
      are thus exposed to an increased risk of adverse cardiovascular events. Studies have shown
      that genotypes of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2C19 enzyme, which is a key determinant of
      clopidogrel metabolism, contribute to these findings. In fact, clopidogrel is a prodrug that
      requires bioactivation by the CYP2C19 enzyme. Approximately 30-40% of individuals have the
      loss-of-function (LOF) CYP2C19 genotype and cannot sufficiently convert clopidogrel to its
      active form, thereby gaining little to no benefit from the drug. Prasugrel and ticagrelor are
      alternative agents whose effectiveness is not dependent on CYP2C19 genotype. A boxed warning
      on the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved clopidogrel labeling warns of reduced
      effectiveness in patients with the LOF genotype and recommends alternative therapies in these
      patients. Guidelines from the Clinical Pharmacogenetics Implementation Consortium (CPIC)
      specifically recommend prasugrel or ticagrelor over clopidogrel for patients with a LOF
      CYP2C19 genotype who undergo PCI. In turn, these recommendations have led to the use in
      clinical practice of genetic testing of CYP2C19 genotypes as an aid to clinicians in
      determining therapeutic strategies for patients undergoing PCI. However, the uptake of
      genetic testing in real-world clinical practice has been limited by the availability of
      assays able to provide genetic results in a timely fashion. The availability of an assay
      recently approved by the FDA, SpartanRX, which provides results within one-hour facilitates
      performing genetic testing as a clinical test in real-world practice. We therefore propose to
      1) examine the feasibility of implementing CYP2C19 genotyping using SpartanRX as standard of
      care for patients undergoing cardiac catheterization at UF Health Jacksonville providing the
      opportunity for clinicians to embrace genotype-guided antiplatelet therapy in those who
      proceed to PCI and 2) determine if CYP2C19 genotype-guided antiplatelet therapy reduces the
      risk for major adverse cardiovascular outcomes after PCI.
    
  