
    
      [Statistical analysis plan for the DIFFUSION trial]

      SETTING

      Two videos will be uploaded on YouTube through a new account created for this study. The
      uploaded videos will be embedded in two independent websites with white background. A
      computer programme has been created to collect the data of access to the videos.

      International journals in obstetrics and gynaecology published in 2013 and 2014 will be
      sought for participant recruitment. The authors of the articles published in the journals who
      met the inclusion criteria will be assigned ID numbers and randomised to receive either the
      intervention or control video. Randomised participants will be sent a unique web address
      (URL) of the video that they are allocated to by e-mail via a mass e-mailing service,
      Campaign Monitor. Each URL will be linked to the participant's ID number in the database.
      They will be asked to watch the video and forward it to their colleagues if they find it
      helpful. If a randomised participant forwards their URL to another person, and that person
      clicks on it, the click will be recorded against the participant's ID number in the computer
      programme. Therefore, if there are multiple accesses from the same ID number, it is either
      because the participant watched the video more than once or because the participant forwarded
      the URL and other people watched the video.

      This trial will be coordinated from the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine
      (University of London) and conducted worldwide online.

      SAMPLE SIZE AND STATISTICAL POWER

      Two main factors determine the number of patients needed in a trial. These are the estimated
      event rate and size of the treatment effect. The investigators will power the trial for our
      main outcome: percentage of participants that forwarded the video at least once in each arm.

      ESTIMATED EVENT RATE: Based on other studies, baseline e-mail forward rate was assumed to be
      10%.

      SAMPLE SIZE AND SIZE OF INTERVENTION EFFECT THAT SHOULD BE DETECTABLE: Assuming the change
      from baseline is 7.5% (75% increase from 10% to 17.5%), the sample size required for this
      study was calculated. The calculation suggested 1000 participants, 500 per group, are
      required to test the null hypothesis at the 5% significance level with 90% power. We learnt
      from the pilot trial that around 14% of e-mail recipients click on the link and watch the
      video. In order to get 1000 participants to watch the videos, 7000 participants will be
      required given the video viewing rate of 14%.

      CRITERIA FOR EVALUATION

      All participants randomly assigned to one of the videos will be analysed together, regardless
      of whether or not they watched the video, on an intention to treat basis. This analysis is to
      examine the effect of the intervention in a practical scenario. In addition, only those who
      watched the videos will be analysed on a per-protocol basis to estimate the efficacy of the
      intervention.

      RANDOMISATION

      An independent statistician will randomly allocate the ID numbers of the participants to
      either the intervention or the control groups using a computer programme. Allocation will be
      concealed to a person who will recruit participants. Randomisations were balanced 1:1.

      BLINDING AND UNBLINDING

      As two videos are apparently different, participants cannot be blinded in this trial.
      However, each participant is not sent the other video so in principle they cannot tell if
      they received a video with more or less emotional content. The study coordinator who will
      conduct data analyses is masked to the allocation. The data will be unblinded after this SAP
      is submitted to the ClinicalTrial.gov and all data analyses have been completed. The data are
      kept in a password-secured online archive (Google drive). Access to the data is limited to
      the trial coordinator and technical assistant who developed the computer programme for data
      collection.

      ANALYSIS PRINCIPLES FOR FINAL ANALYSIS

        -  Two different analyses will be conducted for the primary outcome on an
           intention-to-treat basis and a per-protocol basis.

        -  All tests will be two-sided, and the nominal level of α will be 5% for the main
           analysis.

        -  All statistical analyses will be unadjusted except where indicated.

        -  Missing values will not be imputed unless specified otherwise. Where the number of
           missing observations is substantial, the number of observations used in the analysis
           will be reported.

        -  P values will not be adjusted for multiplicity. However, the outcomes are clearly
           categorised by degree of importance (primary and secondary).

      DATA COLLECTION AND OUTCOME ASSESSMENT

      Every time someone clicks on a URL to access a video our computer program collects four
      variables: (a) ID number (b) IP address from which the URL is clicked, (c) date and time of
      access (recorded in Great British Time regardless of the country of the IP address) and (d)
      type of device (web browser, phone or computer device)

      Definition of access by the same person to a video:

      As there is no way to detect forwarding, accesses to the video by unique individuals will be
      counted as the closest indicator of forwarding. It is also impossible to precisely
      distinguish an access by a unique individual, in other words, to tell if the video was
      accessed more than once by the same person or by different people. Therefore, the
      investigators need to make assumptions based on the data collected by our programme. In the
      main analysis, the investigators will consider that accesses with the same ID number from the
      same IP address mean that a person watched the video more than once. Accesses with the same
      ID number from different IP addresses will be considered as accesses by unique individuals.
      The data of the other variables (time and type of device) will be considered in the
      sensitivity analysis. Multiple accesses with the same ID from the same IP address within five
      minutes will be counted as one access, allowing for the possibility that a person watched the
      video more than once because the video did not play the first time or the parson wanted to
      confirm the information in the video.

      CHARACTERISTICS OF PARTICIPANTS AND BASELINE COMPARISONS

      Description of the baseline characteristics listed below will be presented by intervention
      group. The countries which the participants are based in were categorised into low, middle
      and high income countries based on the classification by the World Bank. Discrete variables
      will be summarised by frequencies and percentages. Percentages will be calculated according
      to the number of participants for whom data are available. Where values are missing, the
      denominator (which is less than the number of patients assigned to the treatment group) will
      be stated in either the body or footnote of the corresponding summary table.

      Continuous variables will be summarised using standard measures of central tendency and
      dispersion, i.e. either a mean or a median with SD.

      DESCRIPTION OF ANALYSES

      The outcome assessor will be masked to the identity of each participant by using ID numbers
      instead of individual names or e-mail addresses.

      Accesses to the videos will be counted as a substitute for the measure of forwarding.
      Therefore, even if a participant forwarded the URL to another person, if the person does not
      click on the link, that forwarding will not be counted. This leads to the underestimate of
      the effect of the intervention.

      PRIMARY OUTCOME: A standard chi-square test will be used as the primary test of statistical
      significance of the effect of intervention allocation on the proportion of video forwarding.
      Frequencies and percentages per arm, and a risk ratio measuring the intervention effect and
      its 95% confidence interval (CI) will also be reported.

      SECONDARY OUTCOMES: Distribution of number of accesses generated by each participant will be
      compared. The difference in the means (SD) in each arm will be estimated in order to assess
      the effect of the intervention along with the P value. To test the statistical difference in
      distribution, Wilcoxon signed-rank test will be conducted. In case the distributions are
      complex, the data will be stratified into a few groups and chi-square test will be conducted
      to test the statistical difference in distribution.

      After assessing the distributions, a t-test and Mood's median test will be conducted to test
      the statistical difference in the mean and median of the number of access to the videos that
      each participant generated respectively.

      SENSITIVITY ANALYSES: The effect of the intervention may vary according to the definition of
      an access by a unique person. Therefore, the investigators will conduct sensitivity analyses
      for all outcomes using two different definitions of an access by a unique person: most
      conservative definition and most liberal definition.

      The possible largest effect of the intervention and the difference in all the outcomes
      between the two groups will be estimated using the most liberal definition of forwarding.
      Likewise, the possible smallest effect of the intervention and the difference in all the
      outcomes between the two groups will be estimated using the most conservative definition.
      With the most liberal definition, the investigators will count all accesses as those by
      different persons. With the most conservative definition, the investigators will count
      accesses as those by different persons only if the data from all the categories are
      different.
    
  