
    
      Cow's-milk protein (CMP) is the leading cause of food allergy in infants and young children
      younger than 3 years (Sicherer SH.2011) (Rona RJ, et al. 2007).According to a recent
      meta-analysis, the self-reported lifetime prevalence of cow's milk protein allergy (CMPA)is
      6% (range: 5.7-6.4) and the rate of CMPA prevalence defined by the food challenge was 0.6%
      (0.5-0.8) (Nwaru BI, etal. 2014).Earlier reports estimated an incidence of 2-3% in the first
      year of life (Høst A. 2002).

      CMPA can induce a diverse range of symptoms of variable intensity in infants . Immediate
      reactions (early) occur from minutes up to 2 hours after allergen ingestion and are more
      likely to be IgE mediated, whereas delayed reactions (late) manifest up to 48 hours or even 1
      week following ingestion. The latter may also involve non-IgE-mediated immune mechanisms.
      Combinations of immediate and delayed reactions to the same allergen may occur in the same
      patient.(Shek LP, et al. 2005).

      Symptoms and signs related to CMPA may involve many different organ systems mostly the skin
      and the gastrointestinal and respiratory tracts. The involvement of two systems or more
      increases the probability of CMPA. Some symptoms are more likely to be present in children
      with a positive test for CMP-specific IgE (eg. Angioedema and atopic eczema); however, there
      is a large overlap. The same symptoms may appear in CMP IgE-positive and IgE-negative
      patients particularly in children with gastrointestinal manifestations (eg, allergic
      proctitis or proctocolitis) (Shek LP, et al. 2005).

      Due to the lack of other reliable diagnostic tests other than a food challenge with CM
      protein in infants suspected of suffering from cow's milk protein allergy (CMPA), an
      awareness tool has been developed to recognize cow's milk related symptoms in infants and
      young children for use by primary healthcare providers. It may help in increasing the
      awareness and the recognition of cow's milk related symptoms. This tool will help in making
      decisions and correct management. It would be appreciated by the parents because it will
      avoid both over and under-diagnosis and also shorten the duration of distress of the infants
      and parental anxiety. Delayed diagnosis of CMPA has a negative impact on the physical
      development of children (Robbins KA,et al. 2014) (Vieira MC, et al. 2010) A Cow's
      Milk-related-Symptom-Score (CoMiSS) is a score that considers general manifestations,
      dermatological gastrointestinal and respiratory symptoms. It was developed to be used as an
      awareness tool for cow's milk related symptoms . It can also be used to evaluate and quantify
      the evolution of symptoms during therapeutic interventions (Vandenplas Y, et al.2015) The
      CoMiSS score has been shown to be reliable tool in increasing awareness of primary health
      care physicians to more accurately suspect cow's-milk-related-symptoms.. The findings do
      suggest that a CoMiSS of >12 may be a good cut-off value to select infants presenting
      symptoms related to cow's milk protein. The results of the pooled analysis confirm that the
      CoMiSS may be a sensitive and specific awareness tool for health care professionals to select
      infants suspected to present with cow's milk related symptoms. A validation trail is still
      needed to use the score as a diagnostic tool. (YvanVandenplas,et al.2017)
    
  