
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the safety and tolerability of polatuzumab vedotin (Pola) added to rituximab,
      ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide (PolaR-ICE) as first salvage therapy for relapsed or
      refractory (R/R) diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). (Safety Lead-in) II. Evaluate the
      anti-tumor activity of PolaR-ICE as first salvage therapy for R/R DLBCL as assessed by the
      complete response rate after 2 cycles. (Phase 2)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the overall response rate to PolaR-ICE as first salvage therapy for R/R DLBCL.

      II. Evaluate the progression-free and overall survival of patients who received PolaR-ICE as
      first salvage therapy for R/R DLBCL followed by autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT)
      and single-agent Pola consolidation after ASCT.

      III. Evaluate the CR rate after Pola consolidation among those who were partial response (PR)
      at ASCT.

      IV. Evaluate the toxicity of PolaR-ICE salvage therapy and that of Pola consolidation after
      ASCT.

      V. Assess the rate of stem cell mobilization and collection failure in patients with R/R
      DLBCL who receive PolaR-ICE as first salvage therapy.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the kinetics of circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) after PolaR-ICE as
      first salvage therapy for R/R DLBCL followed by ASCT and single-agent Pola consolidation
      after ASCT.

      II. Assess possible biomarkers of response to PolaR-ICE in patients with R/R DLBCL.

      III. Examine the association between clinical outcomes (response, progression-free survival
      [PFS]) and pathological tumor characteristics.

      IV. Examine the association between clinical outcomes (response, PFS) and circulating tumor
      (ct)DNA characteristics (mutation profile, kinetics of clearance).

      OUTLINE:

      SALVAGE THERAPY: Patients receive polatuzumab vedotin intravenously (IV) on day 1, rituximab
      IV on day 1, etoposide IV on days 1-3, carboplatin IV on day 2, and ifosfamide IV on day 2 or
      days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 2-3 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve complete response, partial
      response or stable disease by cycle 2 day 15 (C2D15) may receive 1 additional cycle of
      PolaR-ICE IV.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Within 30-60 days after ASCT, patients receive polatuzumab vedotin IV
      on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3-4 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, and then
      periodically for up to 2 years.
    
  