
    
      The treatment of acute and subacute thromboembolic and local thrombotic ischemic lesions of
      the ilaco-popliteal segments in the lower extremities has undergone considerable changes over
      recent years. The standard modality of surgical thrombectomy with the Fogarty balloon
      catheter technique for acute arterial occlusions has been replaced by percutaneous catheter
      techniques, i.e. percutaneous aspiration thrombectomy (PAT) for thrombus aspiration.
      Alternatively, catheter-directed pharmacologic thrombolytic therapy with or without
      additional catheter aspiration is used, particularly if the occlusion is already a few days
      or weeks old. These techniques obtain the best results in acute occlusions of less than 2
      weeks' duration.

      Both techniques have limitations such as the application of fibrinolytic substances and
      technical, impossibility of rapid and complete thrombus extraction. Therefore various
      mechanical devices have been introduced which involve maceration or fragmentation and removal
      of thrombus. The two categories of devices for mechanical thrombectomy (MT) are: (1)
      rotational recirculation devices which work by the vortex principle, such as the Amplatz
      thrombectomy catheter (ATD, Microvena, White Bear Lake, MN) or the Arrow-Trerotola PTD (Arrow
      International, Reading, PA); and (2) hydrodynamic (rheolytic) recirculation devices which
      operate on the principle of the Venturi effect, such as the Hydrolyser (Cordis, Johnson and
      Johnson, Miami, FL), Oasis (Boston Scientific, Galway, Ireland), and the Angiojet (RTC;
      Possis Medical, Minneapolis, MN) [5-10]. These devices are not suited for subacute occlusions
      of more than 7-14 days' duration. Recently, a new rotational mechanical thrombectomy
      catheter, the Straub Rotarex / Aspirex (Straub Medical, 7323 Wangs, Switzerland) has been
      introduced. This device combines the two essential effects of mechanical clot fragmentation
      and removal of the fragmented clot material from the vessel by negative pressure. Two studies
      using the Rotarex system with 38, resp. 98 patients showed a primary patency rate of 62%,
      resp. 54% at 6 months and described the Rotarex / Aspirex systems as an efficient and quick
      technique for revascularization of acute femoropopliteal de novo occlusions. A more recent
      publication dating from 2011 reports results from using Rotarex® catheters for treatment of
      in-stent reocclusions of femoropopliteal arteries. In 78 patients, the restenosis rate was
      calculated as 18.4% after 12 months.

      The purpose of this Belgian multi-center study is to follow-up patients after recanalization
      with the Rotarex®S catheter system (Straub Medical) for acute and subacute femoropopliteal
      stent occlusions.
    
  