
    
      Although adolescents spend an increasing amount of time with their friends, parents remain an
      important source of support and continue to play a key role in the lives of their
      adolescents. The extensive work in this area has resulted in parentbased intervention (PBI)
      efforts to prevent or reduce adolescent alcohol use. Research has shown that teens whose
      parents received a PBI reported less alcohol use and fewer alcoholrelated consequences up to
      9-month follow-up relative to controls. However, one major limitation of PBIs is that they do
      not currently take into account the large role that social networking sites (SNS) play in
      adolescents' lives and in relation to their alcohol use. Most (90%) adolescents are on SNS,
      and their Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter profiles include alcohol content. Thus,
      adolescents are making and exposed to SNS alcohol displays, and these displays are associated
      with high-risk cognitions and alcohol use. Research has argued that existing parental
      mediation techniques grounded primarily on television/film media have fundamental
      inadequacies when applied to more interactive media such as websites, social media, and
      mobile apps as they do not account for the interactivity, immersive virtual environments, and
      mediated communication innate to SNS. Further, most PBIs are presented in static manual form.
      The investigators are unaware of any study to date that has developed and tested an
      interactive PBI about alcohol use and the role of SNS in adolescent alcohol use. As such, the
      investigators propose to develop and refine an interactive PBI designed to reduce both
      high-risk SNS cognitions and alcohol use among adolescents. This application responds to
      PA-18-067 "Pilot and Feasibility Studies in Preparation for Drug and Alcohol Abuse Prevention
      Trials" as it aims to establish feasibility and acceptability of the newly developed
      interactive PBI that focuses on the role of SNS in adolescent alcohol use as well as to
      determine preliminary effect sizes for future studies. The specific aims are as follows: Aim
      1: Develop and refine an interactive PBI targeting the influence of SNS on high-risk SNS
      cognitions and alcohol use among adolescents. Interactive PBI content and text message
      prompts will be developed through focus groups, which will inform a new interactive PBI to be
      tested in a pilot study (Aim 2). A total of 16 focus groups (8 parent, 8 teen) will be
      conducted with 8-10 people in each group with parents only being in focus groups with other
      parents and teens being only with other teens. Focus groups will occur in two phases whereby
      an initial sample of participants (4 parent and 4 teen focus groups) will engage in parent
      and teen specific focus groups (split by age of teen-15-17 and 18-20) in which they will be
      asked to view and interact with the interactive SNS PBI and generate additional PBI content.
      Based on focus group data from the first round of focus groups, revisions will be made for
      use in the remaining 8 focus groups (4 parent, 4 teen). Aim 2: Conduct a pilot study with
      parents and their adolescents aged 15-20 from the Dallas/Fort Worth (DFW) area to determine
      feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary effect sizes (to estimate power and sample size
      for a future R01 application). Parent/teen dyads (N=100) will be randomized to interactive
      PBI (n=50) or active control (n=50) with a 1- and 6-month follow-up. Parents in the
      interactive PBI condition will receive the interactive web-based SNS PBI with text message
      prompts developed and finalized through Aim 1 focus groups. Parents in the active control
      condition will receive an emailed copy of the Surgeon General's Call to Action: A Guide for
      Families. General Hypotheses (parent and teen). The investigators hypothesize that the
      interactive SNS PBI will be feasible (i.e., number of eligible participants, number of
      parents who gave consent, number of teens who gave consent, length of time to achieve planned
      recruitment and enrollment goal, rate of study completion and rate of study attrition) and
      acceptable (i.e., proportion of parents and teens who find the intervention acceptable; ease
      of viewing and interacting with interactive PBI content; relevance of material; finding
      content helpful, beneficial, important; ratings of individual web-based modules and text
      messages of the PBI; the proportion of parents and teens who would recommend the study to
      other families, and the proportion of parents and teens who found the interactive PBI to be
      favorable overall) relative to active control. The investigators further hypothesize that
      teens and parents in the interactive PBI condition will report more positive communication
      about alcohol and SNS at the 1- and 6-month follow-up relative to active control. Parent
      Hypotheses: The investigators hypothesize that at 1- and 6-month follow-up, parents in the
      interactive PBI condition will report greater knowledge about alcohol as well as the role of
      SNS in alcohol use relative to active control. Teen Hypotheses: The investigators hypothesize
      that teens in the interactive PBI condition will report less drinking, fewer alcohol-related
      negative consequences, less favorable attitudes toward posting about alcohol on SNS, greater
      perceived vulnerability to the risks of posting alcohol displays on SNS, and decreased
      normative perceptions about how many teens post alcohol displays on SNS relative to active
      control at 1- and 6-month follow-up.
    
  