
    
      A critical need exists for an evidence-based program to ameliorate the impact of family
      stress and conflict on the overall well-being of parents and TD siblings, as well as
      individuals with IDD. Our objective in this study is to test the efficacy for parents, TD
      siblings, and children with IDD of an adaptation of the psycho-educational and communication
      training approach used in a previously validated prevention/intervention program for
      community families, and to examine the mechanisms associated with change processes that occur
      as a result of the 4-week program. Our long-term goal is to increase the availability and
      affordability of empirically-supported family-systems approaches to reduce family stress and
      conflict in families of individuals with IDD. Our central hypothesis is that participation in
      the program will support the identified needs of families with a child with IDD, improve the
      well-being and adjustment of parents, increase emotional security and adjustment for TD
      siblings, and be associated with improvements in adaptive functioning for individuals with
      IDD. This central hypothesis is supported by promising qualitative evidence and preliminary
      analyses from an ongoing pilot study using the adapted curriculum included in the present
      proposal. Our rationale is that providing a family-systems approach to improving the family
      environment will support the well-being of each family member, including the child with IDD.
      The specific aims are: (1) determining the efficacy of the program for parents, (2a)
      determining the efficacy of the program for typically developing siblings, (2b) testing
      process models, guided by the Emotional Security Theory (EST; Davies & Cummings, 1994), to
      explain how and why and for whom and when changes occur as a result of the program, and (3)
      examining the impact of the program on individuals with IDD. Families (n=150) that include a
      child with IDD and a TD sibling between 11 and 17 years of age, will be randomly assigned to
      one of two groups: (1) parent and typically developing sibling intervention, or (2) resource
      only control. Multi-method assessments of all family members will be obtained at pre- and
      post-intervention visits, and 6-month and 1-year follow-ups. The approach is innovative
      because it addresses multiple family members' needs, tests theory about explanatory models
      for program impact, and utilizes a brief, psycho-educational format and a RCT design to
      evaluate its efficacy. This research is significant because it will create an inexpensive
      model program for family-system-level interventions for families of children with IDD,
      benefiting parents, siblings and the child with IDD, including evaluations of program
      effectiveness in standing community centers.
    
  