
    
      Preeclampsia is a multi-systemic disorder. Despite its seriousness, the aetyology remains
      unknown. Current theories include abnormal placentation, cardiovascular maladaptation to
      pregnancy, genetic and immune mechanisms, angiogenic factors and an enhanced systemic
      inflammatory response. Poor placental perfusion leading to wide spread maternal endothelial
      dysfunction is accepted as a major mechanism.

      The trophoblastic invasion of maternal vessels results many changes in extracellular matrix,
      which gives rise to high uteroplacental vessel distensibility to accommodate the increased
      blood flow. So, İn normal pregnancy, there is a wide spread vasodilatation, with increased
      arterial compliance and reduced peripheral vascular resistance.In preeclampsia, however,
      trophoblastic invasion is reduced, leading to incomplete modification of maternal spiral
      arteries and therefore to decreases in placental perfusion.

      Pre-eclampsia is accompanied by an extensive remodelling of the ECM of the umbilical cord and
      placenta. Pre-eclamptic Wharton's jelly contains higher amounts of glycosaminoglycans in
      comparison to control tissue.

      Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are a family of proteolytic enzymes that degrade various
      components of the extracellularmatrix (ECM). These enzymes play an essential role in
      physiological states such as tissue remodeling, morphogenesis and wound healing anda lso in
      pathological processes such as tumor cell invasion and metastasis.

      A Disintegrin And Metalloproteinases (ADAMs) and ADAMs with Thrombospondin motifs (ADAMTS)
      are proteinases closely related to Matrix Metalloproteinases (MMPs). Dysregulation of
      ADAMsexpression has beenreported in differenttypes of pathologies such as cancer,
      osteoarthritis, neurodegenerative inflammation or asthma.

      Some authors suggestted that ADAM-8, -9, -10, -12, -15, -17, and ADAMTS-1 might play roles in
      uterus remodeling during the periimplantation period and ADAMTS-12, independent of its
      proteolytic activity, plays a critical role in human trophoblastic cell invasion in vitro.

      Human umbilical cord is an extra-embryonic structure linking the mother and fetus during
      pregnancy In the umbilical cord two arteries and one vein are surrounded by a collagen-rich,
      myxomatous substance, called Wharton's jelly (WJ) that protect the umbilical vessels against
      extension, bending, twisting and compression.

      The extracellular matrix (ECM) of WJ is very copious and contains significant amounts of
      hyaluronic acid and some sulphated glycosaminoglycans (GAGs). İts interesting that Wharton's
      jelly contain a low number of cells but large amounts of collagen and GAGs. Wharton's jelly
      plays also an important role as a storage for some compounds, such as growth factor. Previous
      studies demonstrated that both human umbilical cord serum and tissues contain large amounts
      of IGF-I and IGF-binding proteins (BPs), mainly BP-1 and BP-3.

      Structural alterations in the human umbilical cord can cause adverse fetal consequences. ECM
      dynamics can result from changes of ECM composition, for example, because of altered
      synthesis or degradation of one or more ECM components, or in architecture because of altered
      organization. Pre-eclampsia is accompanied by an extensive remodelling of the ECM of the
      umbilical cord.

      İt found that significant increase in collagen content in the umbilical cord arteries and
      vein and premature replacement of hyaluronic acid by sulfated GAGs both in the UCAs and in
      Wharton's jelly in preeclampsia. Pre-eclamptic Wharton's jelly contains higher amounts of
      glycosaminoglycans in comparison to control tissue.

      The role of ADAMTS in the pathology of pre-eclampsia has not been studied until now. We
      therefore decided to compare the ADAMTS composition of the umbilical cord and placenta from
      newborns of mothers with pre-eclampsia with those with normal pregnancy.
    
  