
    
      1. BACKGROUND AND SETTING

           1.1. INTRODUCTION

           Concurrent (chemo-) radiotherapy (CRT) is the current standard of care for patients with
           locally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). The proximity of
           important functional structures with the tumour makes treatment however highly complex.
           Treatment related toxicity can be severe with xerostomia and dysphagia gravely
           complicating the patient's quality of life. The use of altered fractionation schedules
           and/or concurrent chemotherapy has resulted in substantial gains in loco-regional
           control, leading to significant improvements in overall survival. Although the prognosis
           of patients treated with RT for locally advanced HNSCC is continually improving, there
           are still a high number of locoregional failures.

           Using highly conformal radiotherapy the investigators can increase the therapeutic index
           by giving higher doses to the more radio-resistant parts of the tumour while maintaining
           or even reducing dose to the surrounding tissues. Functional imaging can help us to
           define these radio-resistant subvolumes and help us to delineate the gross tumour volume
           (GTV) better in the future. Positron emission tomography (PET), Diffusion weighted
           magnetic resonance imaging (DWI) and Dynamic contrast enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI) can give us
           further insight in the tumour's underlaying biological and microstructural
           characteristics. However, at the moment the investigators are not sure how to interpret
           the different imaging parameters obtained from these functional imaging modalities.
           Therefore, the investigators want to correlate the imaging parameters with the
           pathological characteristics of the tumour. On the other hand the investigators want to
           correlate the GTV defined on the functional imaging modalities with the pathological
           GTV, and see if these modalities can help us to delineate the GTV more accurately in the
           future.

           1.2. IMAGING MODALITIES

           1.2.1. FDG-Positron Emission Tomography (FDG-PET)

           Increased glucose metabolism is a fundamental characteristic of many malignant tumours,
           including HNSCC. Positron emission tomography (PET) after injection of radioactively
           labeled 2' fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) can help us measure and quantify this metabolism
           in tumours, using the standardized uptake value (SUV). Several studies have correlated
           high SUV prior to treatment with significantly worse outcome in HNSCC. Furthermore it
           appears that most local recurrences occur within the FDG-PET defined GTV. The molecular
           base for this is not completely understood.

           Proliferating tumour cells consume glucose at a high rate and release lactate and not
           CO2. This way they omit the mitochondria driven oxidative phosphorylation of glucose
           from the production of ATP (=Warburg-effect). Several molecular parameters have been
           associated with this glycolytic switch, such as activation of the hypoxia induced HIF1α
           and the increased presence of GLUT glucose transport proteins. So far no clear
           correlation was found between the presence of hypoxia and FDG-uptake.

           1.2.2. Diffusion-weighted Magnetic resonance imaging (DWI)

           Diffusion weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DWI) can characterize tissues based on
           the random displacement of water molecules. In biological tissues this displacement is
           limited by underlying tissue-specific barriers and this difference can be quantified and
           visualized using apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) values. A study on 165 patients in
           our centre with HNSCC demonstrated that the pre-treatment ADC value is a strong and
           independent prognostic factor for outcome. Patients with a high ADC value respond worse
           to ionizing radiation than patients with a lower ADC value. There is currently no clear
           explanation why tumours with a higher cellular density are more radiosensitive than
           tumours with a low density. A number of microscopic features effect water diffusivity in
           tissue (presence of necrosis, cellular density, inflammation, integrity of cellular
           membranes). Many of these also affect the radio- and chemosensitivity of the tumours.

           1.2.3. Dynamic contrast enhanced Magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI)

           Dynamic contrast enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI) is a non-invasive imaging modality which has
           been developed and evaluated for the characterization of vascular properties of tissues.
           Adequate oxygen supply is essential for the effectivity if ionizing radiation. However
           tumor angiogenesis is far from perfect and newly formed vessels display permeability,
           tortuosity and a generally poor functionality. These vascular properties could provide
           us insight in the aggressiveness and radiosensitivity of the tumor. Dynamic computed
           tomography (CT) has demonstrated that perfusion measurements can predict outcome in head
           and neck cancer after radiotherapy. Similarly quantitative assessment of DCE-MRI has
           also been correlated with response to ionizing radiation in patients with HNSCC. A
           recent trial on a limited number of patients correlated certain DCE-MRI parameters with
           intratumoural hypoxia. However, so far no spatial correlation has been done.

        2. STUDY OBJECTIVES

           2.1. PRIMARY OBJECTIVES

           The main objective of this study is to correlate DWI, DCE-MRI and FDG-PET with the
           spatial distribution of hypoxia in patients with head and neck cancer.

           2.2. SECONDARY OBJECTIVES

           A. To correlate findings on functional imaging with intrinsic molecular parameters
           depicting proliferation, hypoxia and glucose metabolism.

           B. To validate the use of the hypoxia markers and the 15-gene hypoxia gene expression
           classifier.

           C. To compare tumour volume as derived from pathology with the volumes delineated on the
           several anatomical and functional imaging modalities.

        3. STUDY DESIGN

           The target group for this trial is patients with a histologically proven squamous cell
           carcinoma of the larynx, eligible for surgery, staged T3-4. Prior to treatment patients
           will undergo an FDG-PET/CT and MRI with DW and DCE, dedicated for optimal visualization
           of the primary tumor and analysis. The imaging modalities will be performed as close to
           the surgery as possible (PET/CT one week before surgery; MRI one day before surgery).

           Prior to treatment, three slices on the imaging modalities will be selected by a
           radiologist based on their visual quality and heterogeneity of functional parameters.
           These regions of interest will be compared to different histopathological parameters on
           the resection specimen. The radiologist will also select regions, based on DWI and DCE
           parameters, who are suspect to be hypoxic. From these regions a biopsy will be taken.

           After total laryngectomy, the resection specimen will be oriented, and biopsy material
           will be obtained from the regions in the tumour that have been selected on the imaging
           modalities The rest of the specimen will be fixed in formaldehyde. To account for the
           shrinkage of the tumour due to fixation, the resection specimen will be placed in a
           cardboard box with an agarose solution and scanned with an MRI with T1w/T2 images. From
           this a shrinkage factor will be calculated comparing the delineated T1 and T2 weighted
           images.

           After fixation the tumour will be cut up into macroslices with a thickness of about 5mm.
           On each macroslice tumour volume will be delineated. Using this, the pathological tumour
           volume will be determined taking into account the previously determined shrinkage
           factor. This pathological volume will be compared to the tumour volume delineated on the
           imaging modalities. On the different pre-surgery functional imaging modalities, 4
           separate observers will delineate the GTV. The different volumes will be compared and
           overlap will be calculated after 3D specimen reconstruction and registration.

           The GTV obtained from the functional imaging will be correlated with the pathological
           tumor volume of the resection specimen. This information will give us more insight into
           the true power of the investigated functional imaging techniques in determining tumour
           volume. This is important to assess the role of functional imaging modalities in
           treatment planning in the future.

           At the three levels, chosen by the radiologist on the imaging modalities, 4µm thick
           slices will be taken. On each level an immunohistochemical staining will be carried out
           (GLUT-1, CA-IX, HIF-1α, VEGF and KI 67 staining will be performed ).

           IHC will be scored according to a semiquantitative scoring system using a field analysis
           where each field will be assigend a score of 1-4 according to the approximate area of
           immunostaining (0:0%, 1:1-5%, 2: 5-15%, 3: 15-30% and 4: >30%.

        4. SAMPLE SIZE Twenty patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx, planned to
           undergo total laryngectomy, will be included.
    
  