
    
      Traumatic injuries to peripheral nerves are a frequent finding after hand trauma. High
      morbidity after nerve injuries mainly affects the younger and working population, with
      consequent decrease in life quality and productivity .

      Even in direct nerve repair and microsurgical nerve coaptation, regeneration is often
      suboptimal with incomplete target reinnervation. Suboptimal outcome is attributed to axonal
      degeneration, fibrotic scar formation, and neuromas at the site of injury.

      The use of adipose tissue has become very popular in tissue engineering and reconstructive
      surgery in recent years. It is proposed as a "regenerative tool" for various tissues,
      including peripheral nerves, because it offers an effective and minimally invasive procedure
      for obtaining stem cells.

      Unprocessed fat grafting can provide a simple approach to improve peripheral nerve
      regeneration by means of neoangiogenesis & inflammatory response modulation. Furthermore, it
      serves as a good protective barrier in peripheral nerve surgery, reducing fibrosis and
      adhesions.

      A recent study advocated by Tuncel et al, concluded that combined use of autologous fat graft
      with surgical repair methods induced significantly better regeneration in rats [3]. In
      another study by Kilic et al, using adipose tissue flap in a crush injury model in rats was
      found to be superior to other groups in myelin thickness, nerve fiber density, axon count,
      and functional recovery at 4 weeks. They concluded that fat tissue seems to promote nerve
      regeneration because of its stem cell content.

      To our knowledge, no prior studies have examined the use of fat graft in peripheral nerve
      repair in humans. So, the investigators proposed this clinical study to evaluate the outcomes
      of primary nerve repair combined with autologous fat graft in peripheral nerve injuries.
    
  