
    
      Estrogen receptor positive (ER+) breast cancer is the most common cancer and the most
      frequent cause of cancer-related death in women in the Western World. Cyclin-dependent kinase
      4 and 6 (CDK 4/6) inhibitors improve outcome, when added to standard first- and second-line
      endocrine therapy. However, they also add patient- and financial burden due to (long term)
      increased toxicity and hospital visits. Therefore, benefits of additional CDK 4/6 inhibitors
      should be weighed against their burden. Tools to support such treatment decisions by patients
      and providers are currently lacking. Whole body heterogeneity of ER expression, measured by
      16α-[18F]fluoro-17β-estradiol (FES)-PET scan and 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-PET scan was
      related to time to progression on combined treatment in previous work. Therefore in SONImage
      a baseline FES-PET is added to conventional work up, in 100 patients with ER+ MBC who will
      receive first line endocrine treatment ± CDK 4/6 inhibition within the SONIA study. The
      objectives are 1. to correlate PFS1 (according to SONIA criteria) to baseline FES/FDG-PET
      heterogeneity; 2. to assess interaction between baseline FES/FDG-PET heterogeneity, treatment
      allocation, and PFS1 (according to SONIA criteria); 3. to correlate response measurements of
      individual lesions to baseline FES/FDG heterogeneity and detailed FES/FDG imaging features;
      4. to develop a multivariable model to predict individual PFS benefit to first-line AI ± CDK
      4/6 inhibition, based on detailed FES/FDG image features and standard clinicopathological
      information, in n=100 SONIA patients; 5. to validate this prediction model in two independent
      patient cohorts with baseline FES/FDG-PET scans (Dutch IMPACT-MBC trial; international
      ET-TRANSCAN trial). This molecular imaging based multivariable prediction model may provide a
      unique measure of benefit of adding CDK 4/6 inhibition to first-line endocrine treatment,
      allowing patients and providers to weigh individual benefits and (long term) burden for
      optimized treatment decisions. Particularly for the approximately 25% of patients with ER+
      MBC who have an excellent- or poor outcome despite CDK 4/6 inhibition in the first-line, this
      could have profound implications, as they may refrain from combined treatment. Ultimately,
      this could potentially contribute to FES/FDG-PET based treatment decisions in clinical
      practice, reduction of unnecessary toxicity and costs, while improving patient outcome and
      QoL.
    
  