
    
      Intensive care patients face health issues that extend beyond their critical illness. A
      specific area where critical illness may adversely affect the well-being of survivors is
      increased bone turnover during critical illness, and accelerated bone loss in subsequent
      years. Critical illness bone loss begins in the first days of critical illness, occurs in
      both men and women, and is greatest in post-menopausal women. Loss of bone mineral density is
      significantly greater at both the femur (-2+4.0% vs -0.7+1.1%, p=0.001) and spine (-2.9+4.1%
      vs -0.2+1.1%, p<0.001) in women in the year after critical illness compared to age-matched
      controls. One year after critical illness, 80% of women aged 50-years or greater are
      classified as osteoporotic or osteopaenic, compared to 71% of the approximately 3.7 million
      Australian women aged 50 year or greater. This population is most likely to suffer the major
      consequence of accelerated bone loss, fragility fracture, and the associated morbidity, loss
      of quality of life, and economic cost. Older women who survive critical illness have a
      significantly higher fragility fracture rate compared to community age-matched controls
      (Intensive Care Unit 4.33 vs control 2.81 per 100 patient years, adj HR 1.7 (95% CI 1.1-2.5),
      p=0.02).

      Bone antiresorptive therapies are effective at reducing bone loss and decreasing fracture
      risk in non-critically ill populations. Zoledronic acid and denosumab represent
      antiresorptive agents with established efficacy in non-critically ill women, and are
      potential target interventions able to be delivered during critical illness. Denosumab is a
      human monoclonal antibody directed against Receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-Β
      ligand, a central stimulator of osteoclast activity, and is effective for prevention of
      fractures and bone loss in osteoporosis and malignancy. Zoledronic acid is a bisphosphonate
      class agent that binds to bone and suppresses bone resorption by entering osteoclasts and
      inhibiting the enzyme farnesyl pyrophosphate synthase, resulting in disruption of osteoclast
      attachment to bone surface. In addition to skeletal effects, there are possible mortality
      benefits associated with the use of antiresorptive medications in populations with increased
      bone loss.

      There is currently insufficient high-quality evidence to support routine, early use of
      antiresorptive medications in critically ill women. The Bone Zone trial is a phase III
      multi-centre randomised placebo-controlled trial of 450 women aged 50-years or greater
      requiring intensive care admission for more than 2 calendar days, to determine the effect of
      denosumab or zoledronic acid on the prevention of bone loss in the year after critical
      illness.
    
  