
    
      Patients: They were selected as consecutive patients.

      The entry criteria was: age between 14 and 60 years, confirmed diagnosis of Behcet's Disease,
      absence of major organ involvement (eye, brain, lung, and cardio-vascular involvement),
      having at least one active symptom, and no treatment for at least one month. Patients were
      explained the study design and they gave a signed written consent. During the two phases of
      study, if a major organ involvement appeared, the patient was moved out of the study. All
      patients fulfilled the new International Criteria for Behcet's Disease.

      Method: patients were randomized at the study entry to take either colchicine or placebo. At
      4 months, they were crossed over. Those who were taking colchicine went on placebo and those
      on placebo went on colchicine. Each patient tried therefore, both colchicine and placebo. The
      primary outcome was the effect of colchicine on the disease activity index, the IBDDAM
      (16-17). To calculate the overall IBDDAM of the baseline, the IBDDAM of the last 12 months
      (prior to the study) of each manifestation was calculated and added together. The overall
      disease activity index was then divided to the number of months (12 months) to have the mean
      activity index per month. IBDDAM was then measured every 2 months (in the middle and at the
      end, in each arm of the study). The total IBBDAM of the 4 months was then divided by 4 to
      have the mean activity index per month. The secondary outcome was to see how the individual
      symptoms responded to colchicine (IBDDAM of each manifestation).

      Statistical analysis: The analysis was done by the intention to treat method. As the
      difference between IBDDAM before and after treatment had normal distribution Student T test
      for paired samples were used to evaluate the outcome in the colchicine and the placebo group.
      As the Levene's test showed the homogeneity of variance, ANOVA (one way) was used to test the
      effect of treatment (colchicine and placebo) and gender on patients' outcome. The dependent
      variable was the difference between IBDDAM (before and after the treatment). The independent
      variables were the treatment, and the gender. SPSS 15 was used for all statistical
      calculations.
    
  