
    
      1. Background:

             -  A great deal is known about the impact of UVB and short wavelength UVA on
                pigmentation. Most sunscreens only protect against UVB and portions of UVA.
                However, it is not clear if other components of the spectrum of sunlight, not
                currently protected by sunscreens, are capable of eliciting pigmentation. Very
                little is known about the impact of long wavelength UVA and visible light on the
                time course to pigmentation, the quality of pigmentation and durations of this
                change in pigment if any. This has implications on the use of sunscreens to inhibit
                pigment production and the treatment of conditions that are aggravated by sun
                exposure such as melasma.

             -  The impact of visible light (400-700 nm) on melanogenesis was studied by Porges et
                al in 1988 . The threshold dose for IPD with visible light was between 40 and 80
                J/cm2, while the threshold dose for "persistent" pigmentation was greater than or
                equal to 80 J/cm2 (1).

        2. Study objective:

           -To determine the impact of long wavelength UVA and visible light on immediate and
           delayed pigment production of melanocompetent individuals.

        3. Study design:

             -  Patient to serve as their own control. Patient must be melanocompetent (skin
                phototypes IV to VI) with no history of vitiligo, melasma or photosensitivity. The
                symmetric back or forearm will be used as a control of the irradiated area. Two
                phototherapy delivery system will be developed for the study: 1) A targeted visible
                light phototherapy device, 2) A targeted long wavelength UVA device.

             -  Pigmentation will be assessed by visual exam, fluorescent and reflectance
                spectroscopy at 6 timepoints: immediately after irradiation, 30 minutes after
                exposure, 1 hour after exposure, 1 day after exposure, 1 week after exposure and 2
                weeks after exposure.
    
  