
    
      Advances in surgical techniques and anesthetic care have resulted in a substantial reduction
      in peri-operative morbidity and mortality in the elderly. However, post-operative cognitive
      dysfunction (POCD), as well as episodic post-operative delirium, are still recognized as
      significant complications following surgery in the elderly. Post-operative cognitive
      dysfunction is characterized by impairment of memory, concentration, language, comprehension,
      and social integration. Conversely, post-operative delirium is characterized by intermittent,
      short-term impaired cognition, disorientation, and abnormalities in memory and perception,
      which has been shown to lead to increased morbidity and mortality, delayed functional
      recovery, and prolonged hospital stays. Elderly patients are particularly sensitive to the
      central nervous system effects of many peri-anesthetic drugs, including benzodiazepines,
      barbiturates, opioids, and volatile anesthetics, which may play a role in POCD and consequent
      patient outcomes. Randomized clinical trials have demonstrated no difference in the recovery
      of cognitive function between commonly used volatile anesthetic agents.

      Several simple, bedside tests are available to assess cognitive function and differentiate
      between cognitive dysfunction and an episode of delirium. The Confusion Assessment Method
      (CAM) is a standardized rating of delirium that has been validated and has high
      inter-observer reliability. The CAM criteria are the most commonly used method for diagnosing
      delirium in hospitalized patients. The Mini-Mental Status Examination (MMSE) and the
      Abbreviated Mental Test are tools used to assess cognitive function at the bedside.

      Lidocaine is one of the most commonly used sodium-channel blockers in the medical
      armamentarium. It has long been used for its local anesthetic and anti-arrhythmic properties,
      and has been studied as an adjunct to general anesthesia. While lidocaine is cardio-toxic in
      excessive doses, the therapeutic and toxic levels are well-documented and wide, making
      lidocaine a drug with a favorable safety profile. Randomized clinical trials have shown
      perioperative lidocaine infusions to decrease postoperative pain scores, reduce postoperative
      opioid requirements, shortens hospital stays, improves postoperative recovery and fatigue
      score when administered as an adjuvant during surgery. Lidocaine has analgesic,
      antihypertensive, and anti-inflammatory properties. To date, no clinical trials have been
      conducted to establish the relationship between lidocaine infusions and postoperative
      recovery, particularly cognitive function, in elderly orthopedic surgery patients. It is
      therefore the aim of this study to evaluate the effects of lidocaine infusion on
      postoperative cognitive function in elderly patients having general anesthesia for orthopedic
      surgery, and to assess whether intraoperative lidocaine infusion decreases postoperative
      opioid usage and improves recovery.
    
  