
    
      The benefits of exercise for individuals with Parkinson disease (PD) have been well
      documented; however, individuals with PD living in rural and underserved urban settings are
      largely unable or unwilling to participate in group exercise programs due in large part to
      their distance from such programs and financial considerations. Additionally, community based
      programs which provide social support and engagement have been shown to benefit elderly
      individuals as well as individuals with pathology, but are equally unattainable to this
      group. Taking the exercise to these individuals via telemedicine or tele-exercise may be an
      ideal means of delivering this type of intervention.

      The long-term goal of this project is to improve outcomes for underserved populations of
      individuals with Parkinson disease (PD) by providing access to in-home physical activity via
      a telehealth approach. Approximately one million Americans currently live with a diagnosis of
      PD and it has been estimated that delaying the progression by 20% would result in a $75,891
      savings per individual based on reduced health care costs, income maintenance, increased
      duration of life and improved quality of life. However, individuals with PD of lower
      socioeconomic status, people of color and rural dwelling seniors have been critically
      underserved by clinical and academic programming resulting in poorer health outcomes.

      These two studies will examine: 1) the Reach, Effectiveness, Implementation and Maintenance
      and 2) the optimal delivery method for an in-home exercise intervention program for
      individuals with PD living in underserved communities. A managed and meaningful exercise
      intervention will be delivered that not only addresses the benefits of physical activity for
      individuals with PD, but also offers a social connection to research staff outside of the
      participant's typical caregiver(s).

      Study 1

      SPECIFIC AIM 1: Examine the reach and maintenance of an in-home cycling program for
      underserved individuals with PD. Reach will be assessed by examining the demographic
      characteristics of the individuals enrolled and through the administration of a questionnaire
      on objective and subjective socioeconomic status to better understand their level of
      accessibility to services, perceived barriers and economic status. The investigators will
      also explore the implementation of a health coach to promote effective maintenance of the
      program after the 6-month intervention. Finally, two interviews will be conducted to better
      understand strengths and weakness of the program and to better address the needs of the
      participants in future studies.

        -  Hypothesis 1a: Demographic characteristics including race and socioeconomic status of
           the enrolled participants will not statistically differ from the characteristics of the
           state of WI.

        -  Hypothesis 1b: Feedback from participant interviews will inform future delivery of the
           in-home cycling program.

      SPECIFIC AIM 2: Determine the effectiveness of a 6-month in-home, progressive, tele-exercise
      cycling program and 3-month health coach follow-up for underserved populations of individuals
      with PD.

        -  Hypothesis 2a: Participants will improve performance of activities of daily living from
           baseline to posttest. These effects will be maintained at 3-month follow-up.

        -  Hypothesis 2b: Participants will significantly improve measures of gait and balance
           performance and non- significantly improve fall rate from baseline to posttest. These
           effects will be maintained at 3-month follow-up in the group piloting implementation of
           a health coach, but not in solo follow-up group. Falls data will allow for effect size
           calculations for future applications.

        -  Hypothesis 2c: Activity level as measured by an activity monitor will increase from
           baseline to posttest. This effect will be maintained at 3-month follow-up in health
           coach group, but not in the solo group.

      Study 2

      SPECIFIC AIM 1: Determine whether incorporation of social interaction during physical
      activity significantly improves task adherence and increases task stamina as compared to solo
      cycling.

        -  Hypothesis 1a: Those individuals participating in socially engaged cycling will complete
           a significantly greater number of cycling sessions than individuals in the solo cycling
           group.

        -  Hypothesis 1b: Individuals in the social cycling group will cycle for longer durations
           at each session than solo cyclists, despite the long term goal being 30 minutes per
           session for both groups.

      SPECIFIC AIM 2: Determine whether incorporation of social interaction during physical
      activity significantly improves activities of daily living, fall rate and quantity of
      movement for individuals with PD. The primary variables for this aim are Performance
      Assessment of Self-care Skills Assessment scores, gait velocity and step count.

        -  Hypothesis 2a: Socially engaged exercise will result in significantly greater
           improvement in measures of instrumented activities of daily living (IADL; as measured by
           the Performance Assessment of Self-care Skills (PASS) assessment) as compared to solo
           cycling.

        -  Hypothesis 2b: Fall rate will be non-significantly improved with socially engaged
           cycling but not with solo cycling. Weekly calls will be placed to both groups to record
           fall rate. Falls data will allow for effect size calculations for future applications.

        -  Hypothesis 2c: Overall activity level, as measured by an activity monitor, will increase
           with socially engaged cycling but not with solo cycling.
    
  