
    
      STUDY DESIGN. From June 2003 to August 2004, we screened consecutive patients referred for
      endovascular treatment of the SFA due to intermittent claudication or chronic critical limb
      ischemia for enrollment in a randomized single-institution trial. Patients who were potential
      candidates for percutaneous intervention were discussed twice weekly in a consensus meeting
      of angiologists, vascular surgeons and interventional radiologists prior to being considered
      for trial enrollment. The protocol was approved by the institutional ethics committee, and
      patients provided written informed consent.

      The clinical criterion for study entry was symptomatic peripheral artery disease (PAD) with
      either severe intermittent claudication (Rutherford class 3) or chronic critical limb
      ischemia with rest pain (Rutherford class 4) or ischemic ulcers (Rutherford class 5)1.
      Anatomic inclusion criteria, based upon findings on biplane DSA at the time of intervention,
      were a >50% stenosis or occlusion of the ipsilateral SFA with a target lesion length above
      30mm, and at least one patent (<50% stenosis) tibio-peroneal run-off vessel. Exclusion
      criteria were acute critical limb ischemia, previous bypass surgery or stenting of the SFA,
      untreated inflow disease of the ipsilateral pelvic arteries (>50% stenosis or occlusion), and
      known intolerance of study medications or contrast agent.

      STUDY END POINTS. The primary study end point was the binary rate of restenosis in the
      treated segment within 6 months postintervention by computed tomography angiography (CTA) or
      digital subtraction angiography (DSA). Restenosis was defined as a >50% lumen diameter
      reduction in the worst angiographic view at the most narrow site within the limits of the
      treated segment plus the adjacent ten millimeters proximal and distal to the treated segment.

      Secondary end points were

        1. anatomic outcome parameters: binary restenosis >50% by duplex ultrasonography (3, 6 and
           12 months); angiographic degree of restenosis (% diameter reduction at 6 months);
           occurrence of stent fractures by biplane X-ray (6 and 12 months);

        2. clinical outcome parameters: Rutherford stage of PAD and maximum walking capacity on the
           treadmill (24 hours, 3, 6 and 12 months); amputation and death (until 12 months);

        3. hemodynamic outcome parameters: resting ankle brachial index (ABI) (24 hours, 3, 6 and
           12 months).

      Evaluation of all follow-up data and adjudication of primary and secondary end points were
      performed by two independent blinded observers. Discordances were resolved in consensus with
      a third blinded investigator.

      INTERVENTIONS. Interventions were performed percutaneously from an antegrade or an
      over-the-bifurcation approach using 6 French sheaths. Biplane DSA was performed using two
      views at least 30° apart to evaluate lesion morphology, inflow disease and run-off. For
      precise documentation of the location of the lesion and the site of intervention a ruler was
      fixed at patients´ thigh with the distal end exactly overlapping the upper edge of the
      patella.

      After successful wire passage through the target lesion, patients were randomly assigned to
      either primary stent implantation or PTA with optional secondary stenting, using computer
      generated random digits with randomization by blocks of four and sealed envelopes.
      Stratification criteria were claudication versus critical limb ischemia, and length of the
      target lesion (≤ versus > 60 mm).

      In the stent group, primary stenting without predilation was performed except in patients
      with very tight stenoses or heavily calcified lesions that did not allow primary passage with
      the stent introducer device. Stents were implanted to extend 10 mm proximal and distal to the
      margins of the target lesion. When multiple stents were required, the margins of the stents
      were overlapped for 10 mm. Postdilation after stenting was performed strictly within the
      stented segment with up to 10% oversizing of the post-dilation balloon.

      In the PTA group the minimal time for each balloon inflation was 2 minutes at 10 to 12
      atmospheres. After dilation of the entire target segment, biplane control angiograms were
      obtained. In cases with a suboptimal primary result, defined as a residual stenosis >30% or
      presence of a flow limiting dissection in the worst angiographic view, a second prolonged
      balloon dilation (>2 minutes) of the target segment was performed. In patients with a
      persistent suboptimal result after the second balloon dilation, secondary stenting was
      performed.

      For stent implantation in both groups, self-expandable nitinol stents (Dynalink / Absolute,
      Guidant, Santa Clara, CA) with a nominal diameter of 6 mm were used. Biplane angiograms were
      performed after the intervention in both treatment groups, using the same angles and
      magnifications as the baseline angiograms.

      MEDICAL THERAPY. All patients received aspirin 100mg daily indefinitely and clopidogrel 75 mg
      daily for 3 months postintervention. Aspirin and clopidogrel were initiated at least 2 days
      prior to the intervention in most patients; otherwise a loading dose of 300 mg clopidogrel
      was given during the intervention.

      SURVEILLANCE PROTOCOL. Examinations were performed at baseline and at 24 hours, 3 months, 6
      months and 12 months after randomization, including staging of PAD by Rutherford1,
      measurement of resting ABI, treadmill exercise testing (3.2 km/h at 12° slope), and color
      duplex ultrasonography16. At 6 and 12 months X-rays in two planes were obtained for
      evaluation of stent fractures.

      Angiographic evaluation of restenosis at 6 months was performed using either 16 slice CTA or
      conventional intra-arterial DSA. CTAs were performed on a "Somatom Sensation 16" 16-row,
      multi-slice CT scanner (Siemens Medical Systems, Erlangen, Germany). The accuracy and
      specificity of multi-slice CT with automated reconstruction has been reported to be
      comparable to intra-arterial DSA17-20. All patients with a suspected restenosis (>50%) by CTA
      underwent a conventional DSA with confirmation of the diagnosis. We performed DSA rather than
      CTA as the initial imaging procedure in patients with a planned ipsilateral or contralateral
      (re)intervention at the 6-month follow-up visit.

      STATISTICAL METHODS AND SAMPLE SIZE CALCULATION. A sample size of 100 to 110 patients was
      estimated to be necessary assuming 6-month restenosis rates of 50% in the PTA group3 and 25%
      in the nitinol stent group11. A two-sided p-value of 0.05 was considered statistically
      significant and a power of 80% was required with a 10% maximum drop-out rate. Data analysis
      for primary and secondary study end points was performed according to the intention-to-treat
      principle. A secondary as-treated (per-protocol) analysis compared the results of stent
      implantation (primary or secondary) vs. PTA alone with respect to the primary study end
      point.

      Descriptive data are given as means ± SD, or, for non-normal distributions or censored data
      sets, as medians with interquartile ranges (range from the 25th to the 75th percentile), and
      were analyzed by Mann Whitney U tests. Proportions were compared by Chi square statistics
      with Yates' correction or exact tests, as appropriate. Kappa statistics with 95% confidence
      intervals were used to assess agreement between angiography and duplex ultrasound.
      Multivariable logistic regression analysis was applied to assess the association between
      treatment and restenosis and to adjust for potentially confounding factors. We converted the
      odds ratios derived from the multivariate model to risk ratios (RR) with 95% confidence
      intervals (CI). Multiplicative interaction terms and log likelihood ratio tests were used to
      test for interactions. Calculations were performed using Stata release 8.0 (Stata Inc.
      College Station, TX, U.S.).
    
  