
    
      The overall purpose of this study is to develop an improved gait analysis system for the real
      time acquisition, calculation and interpretation of joint kinematic and kinetic information
      using linked segment body model animation to display and visually depict deviations from
      normal motion and joint function.

      Subjects will be studied using the standard protocol used for patient evaluations in the
      Rehabilitation Medicine Human Motion Laboratory (GBO13 V AH). The standard protocol includes
      the routine collection of kinematic data, kinetic data, foot pressure data and, in selected
      cases, electromyography information. All collected raw data will ultimately be processed for
      relevant biomechanical parameters and utilized to build either a Normative Database or
      Non-Normative Database from which selected cases maybe extracted for teaching purposes, pilot
      data or software development. The project is not designed to test specific hypothesis and as
      such statistical analysis are not planned.

      To acquire kinematics data, infrared reflective markers are taped over the joints of the
      lower extremities, trunk, and arms. The reflective markers are used in conjunction with the
      optoelectronic kinematic motion analysis system (Vicon) to allow acquisition of 3D motion
      data for the limb and trunk segments of subjects. Joint kinetics are determine from ground
      reaction forces measured by force plates embedded into the floor of the gait laboratory and
      requiring no specific subject setup. Foot pressure data is obtained by Fscan. Mylar pressure
      sensitive strips are placed in the shoe or residual limb. The strip is connected to a
      datalogger and battery pack that will be put on a belt and worn over the shoulder or on the
      waist. When electromyographic data is required, surface electrodes are placed over the motor
      point regions of selected muscles of the lower extremities.

      After placement of markers and recording electrodes, the subjects will be instructed to walk
      down the gait lab runway over the force platform. Simultaneous kinematic, EMG and force plate
      data is collected. Between 3 and 10 strides of data are collected depending on the degree of
      variability in the gait pattern. When assistive devices ( canes etc.) or orthotic devices are
      used, the subject may be asked to ambulate with and without the gait aid.

      Since the patients recruited for this study will have abnormalities in their gait, the most
      significant risk is falling. Therefore, subjects will be screened to ensure that they can
      ambulate independently over level ground. During testing, standby assistance will be present
      to help subjects in cases of balance loss. The risks for normal subjects are negligible.
    
  