
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate and compare the progression free survival rate after randomization in the two
      treatment arms (nivolumab versus [vs.] observation).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine and compare the overall survival rates in the two arms. II. To determine and
      compare the incidence of non-relapse mortality in the two arms.

      III. To evaluate the toxicities of nivolumab as maintenance.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To analyze programmed cell death (PD)-ligand (L)1 expression on acute myeloid leukemia
      (AML) cells from peripheral blood and/or bone marrow samples at diagnosis if available and at
      the time of study enrollment.

      II. To monitor AML minimal residual disease (MRD) by Wilms tumor 1 (WT1) polymerase chain
      reaction (PCR) at enrollment and at subsequent defined time points in the nivolumab-treated
      and control groups.

      III. To perform an exploratory analysis on the frequencies, absolute numbers and subsets of T
      cells (including regulatory T cells) in the nivolumab-treated and control groups with an
      emphasis on activation markers.

      IV. To perform deep sequencing of T cell receptor (TCR)-alpha and TCR-beta chains on
      polyclonal T cells at baseline and at subsequent time points in the nivolumab and control
      groups.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes once every 2 weeks.
      Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 46 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients undergo standard of care clinical observation for up to 2 years. Upon
      disease relapse, patients may cross-over to Arm I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 2 years, every
      6 months for 1 year, and then yearly thereafter.
    
  