
    
      Extensive research has been conducted in the use of mild hypothermia as a neuroprotectant in
      acute brain injury in animal models with studies having been initiated as far back as the
      1950's. However, little work had been done in the area of therapeutic hypothermia and cardiac
      arrest.

      In the early 80's, the Pittsburgh group resurrected the work with the induction of
      hypothermia in animals. The discovery of mild resuscitative hypothermia provided evidence
      that the main mechanism by which hypothermia can help resuscitate the brain after
      normothermic cardiac arrest is a synergistic effect of the suppression of deleterious
      chemical cascades, energy loss depolarization, calcium influx, excitotoxicity, free radical
      reactions, membrane failure, DNA fragmentation, and damage to the mitochondria).

      Recently, the study "Mild hypothermia to improve the neurologic outcome after cardiac arrest"
      from the Hypothermia After Cardiac Arrest Study Group (New Engl J Med 2002;346:549-556)
      reported the results of a multicenter randomized controlled clinical trial that evaluated the
      effect of mild systemic hypothermia on mortality and functional outcome after resuscitation
      from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest due to ventricular fibrillation or tachycardia. Two
      hundred and seventy three patients were randomly assigned to standard normothermic or
      hypothermic management. Cooling to a target core body temperature of 32ºC to 34ºC was
      accomplished with the use of a specialized bed which delivers cold air over the entire body.
      Temperature was maintained in the target range for 24 hours after the start of cooling,
      followed by passive rewarming over 8 hours. Outcome was assessed at 6 months with a five
      point scale similar to the Glasgow Outcome Scale, dichotomized to classify independent
      patients with minimal or moderate disability to those who were dependent and severely
      disabled, vegetative, or dead. The results demonstrated a favorable neurological outcome in
      55% of the 136 patients treated with hypothermia, compared to 39% of the 137 patients treated
      with normothermic management (risk ratio 1.40, 95% confidence interval 1.08 to 1.81, P=.009).
      . Mortality was also reduced with hypothermic management, from 41% in the hypothermia group
      to 55% in the normothermia group (risk ratio 0.74, 95% confidence interval 0.58 to 0.85,
      P=.02). In 19 patients (14%), the target temperature could not be reached. Complications did
      not differ significantly between the two groups, although there were trends toward increased
      rates of sepsis and bleeding with hypothermia.

      Based upon the body of published evidence to date, the Advanced Life Support (ALS) Task Force
      of the International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation (ILCOR) made the following
      recommendations in October 2002 (Resuscitation 57 (2003) 231-235):

        -  Unconscious adult patients with spontaneous circulation after out-of-hospital cardiac
           arrest should be cooled to 32-34°C for 12 -24 hours when the initial rhythm is
           ventricular fibrillation (VF).

        -  Such cooling may also be beneficial for other rhythms or in-hospital cardiac arrest

      The study is a prospective, randomized, multi-center, pilot study of the Arctic Sun System
      used as adjunctive therapy in patients resuscitated post cardiac arrest.

      Patients who meet the inclusion criteria and for whom informed consent has been provided by
      an authorized representative/family member will be randomly assigned to either the control
      group (traditional cooling blankets and ice) or the experimental group (Arctic Sun
      Temperature Management System).

      Patients will be cooled to a target range of 33.5°C to 33.9°C. The patient cooling will
      continue for 24 hours (from the initiation of cooling) and then gradually rewarmed to 36.0°C
      over approximately 6 to 12 hours.
    
  