
    
      In general, the investigators expect an increase in positive mental health in the
      multicomponent positive psychological intervention (MPPI) group. This effect should be
      present at the assessment points one month and six months after training. Furthermore, the
      increase in positive mental health in the MPPI group is expected to be larger than in the two
      control groups (cognitive intervention targeting dysfunctional thoughts [CIDT], waitlist).
      Furthermore, the investigators hypothesize participants to benefit from the MPPI in terms of
      other constructs related to mental health, i.e. self efficacy, happiness, wellbeing, positive
      emotions, and life satisfaction, in the long term. This increase is expected to be larger in
      the MPPI than in the two control groups. A decrease in depressive symptoms is hypothesized to
      occur in the MPPI as well as in the CIDT group.

      The sample under investigation will be a community sample. All participants can attain the
      training for free and there is no payment for participation. One week before the first
      training day, the random allocation to the three groups will take place. Two days before the
      first training day, all participants are asked to fill out another survey through a link sent
      to them via e-mail. This survey comprises all outcome measures. The same procedure is carried
      out one day after, one month after and six months after the first training day. After the
      last assessment time point, the training for the waitlist control group will be conducted.

      The target sample size is 300 participants (100 per group). The investigators will attempt to
      recruit more participants, assuming that not all will complete the study, especially the
      assessment after six months.

      The investigators used the software program G*Power to conduct a power analysis. The goal was
      to obtain .95 power to detect a small effect size of .1 at the standard .05 alpha error
      probability. The investigators extended the calculated sample size of 264 participants to a
      target sample size of 300 participants as there was no study before that compared an online
      multicomponent large-group one-session training to enhance positive mental health with an
      online large-group one-session intervention targeting dysfunctional thoughts. Therefore, the
      effect size for the comparison of these two groups could be smaller than f = .1.

      The primary outcome measure will be analyzed with a 3x2 repeated measures ANOVA.

      For all other outcome measures, the investigators will use 3 x 4 between-within repeated
      measures ANOVAs (rmANOVA) to analyze the results. The first factor is a between-subjects
      factor that comprises the three groups MPPI, CIDT and waitlist control group. The second
      factor is a within-subjects factor reflecting the four assessment time points two days before
      the intervention, one day after the intervention, one month after the intervention and six
      months after the intervention. This analysis will be conducted for positive mental health,
      life satisfaction, affect, generalized self-efficacy, happiness, wellbeing, stress
      perception, positive and negative aspects of mental health, depression, anxiety and stress,
      social support and media-related variables. Before these analyses are carried out,
      correlations among the outcome measures are calculated. If outcome measures correlate
      significantly high (above .5), they will be first analyzed together in a between-within
      repeated measures MANOVA to control for alpha-error accumulation. After that, the separate
      analyses will be conducted. Furthermore, there will be paired comparisons between each of the
      three groups, reducing the first between-subjects factor in the between-within rm(M)ANOVA to
      two levels. For each group, rmANOVAs will be conducted to analyze the change of outcome
      variables over time entailing paired contrasts between the assessment time points.
    
  