
    
      The Glasgow Blatchford Score (GBS) was developed in 2000 to identify very low risk patients
      who would not need any intervention and were of low risk of rebleeding and death. The GBS
      used objective clinical parameters that could be easily obtained in the emergency department
      and did not use any endoscopy findings as parameters. Unlike the Rockall score which was
      designed to identify high risk patients, the GBS was used to identify low risk patients who
      could be safely discharged from the emergency department without endoscopy and studies have
      shown it to be superior in this regard. The main limitation of GBS is its low specificity
      with only 4-8% of all patients presenting with upper gastrointestinal bleeding stratified as
      low risk. Furthermore, the GBS was derived from a Scottish gastrointestinal bleeding registry
      and may not be applicable to the local population.

      Suitable patients attending the Accident & Emergency Department for symptoms of upper
      gastrointestinal bleeding will be identified and recruited by the Accident & Emergency
      physicians. Patients presenting to Endoscopy Centre after admission will also be recruited to
      collect clinical data.

      Univariate analysis was carried out on the development set using Pearson's chi-square method
      to examine the association among the factors on the outcome. Variables significantly
      associated with 30 day re-attendance rate in univariate analyses (P<=0.1) will be entered in
      multivariate logistic regression models. Risk factors which retained significance in
      multivariate analyses will be selected for incorporation into the risk score. A weighting
      will be assigned to each independent variable in the risk score, applying the corresponding
      adjusted odds ratio (AOR). The risk score for each subject is the sum of all the risk
      factors. To evaluate the predictive ability of the scoring system, a receiver operating
      characteristic (ROC) curve was constructed and the area under the curve (AUC) was delineated.
      A concordance (c)-statistics was used to reflect the discriminative ability of the prediction
      tool.

      Cost-effective economical model will be used in cost effective analysis of the use of early
      discharge strategy.
    
  