
    
      The preterm infant who is not only born early but also did not grow well in the womb is at
      double jeopardy for developmental disabilities. The literature indicates that the fetus who
      has not gained weight properly nor is showing expected head growth in the womb [symmetrical
      intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR) or small for gestational age (SGA) status] will not
      only require significantly longer stays in the newborn intensive care unit (NICU) and grow
      more poorly than the appropriately grown prematurely born infant, but will also show
      significant disabilities later on in terms of fine and gross motor skills, cognitive function
      activity, language abilities, abstract reasoning, concentration, attention, mood and
      temperament. IUGR exerts an independent adverse effect on the developmental outcome of
      preterm infants.

      Given the importance of the last 4 months of gestation and the first 2 years post term for
      brain growth and development, and given the relationship between cerebral development and
      behavior which is a two-way street and a dynamic feedback system, the particular
      vulnerability of SGA children to environmental factors indicates that there are grounds for
      the hypothesis that appropriate support and intervention for severely SGA preterm infants and
      their families might ameliorate dysfunction.

      The general purpose of the proposed project is to develop and test a model of ameliorative
      neuropsychoeducational intervention in the NICU in support of the developmental outcome of
      severely SGA preterm infants and their families. The specific hypotheses to be tested are as
      follows:

        1. High risk severely SGA preterm infants cared for in the NICU with the support of a
           neuropsychoeducational model of intervention will show:

             1. At 2 weeks post term, more well-regulated autonomic, motor, state organizational
                and attentional functioning

             2. At 9 and 24 months post term:

                  -  More well-regulated autonomic and visceral functioning with less colic and
                     improved eating patterns and weight gain

                  -  More well-regulated motor system performance

                  -  More well-regulated state organization, including sleep and awake organization

                  -  More well-regulated cognitive and attentional functioning in various domains,
                     including visual-motor integration, spatial planning, attentional planning,
                     expressive and receptive language function, abstract verbal reasoning, short
                     term memory and continuous performance regulation

                  -  More well-regulated executive function capacities

                  -  More well-regulated affective emotional functioning

        2. Parents whose infants receive the support of a neuropsychoeducational model of care will
           show:

             1. At 2 weeks, 9 and 24 months post term, enhanced appreciation of their infant as an
                individual

             2. At 9 and 24 months post term, more sensitively attuned input in support of their
                child's functioning, more competent parenting strategies, and a greater sense of
                effectiveness in parenting the child.

      The population will consist of severely small for gestational age preterm infants admitted to
      the NICU and randomly assigned to a control and experimental group.

      Effectiveness of the experimental treatment for the experimental group will be tested at
      three systematic outcome points in various domains. The domains assessed include (1) medical
      outcome; (2) neurobehavioral outcome; (3) neuroelectrophysiological outcome; and (4) family
      outcome. The outcome points for infant and family are 2 weeks, 9 and 24 months after expected
      due date.

      The study is expected to demonstrate intervention effectiveness in improving IUGR preterm
      infants' neurodevelopment. It is anticipated that the results will set the stage for a model
      of caregiving and intervention that lives up to the mandate that every child is entitled to
      an environment, care and education appropriate to his or her specific needs. The model can
      then be used in other nurseries to provide improved outcome for preterm populations.
    
  