
    
      This research study is a Phase I clinical trial, which tests the safety of an investigational
      drug or drugs and also tries to define the appropriate dose and combination of the
      investigational drugs to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the drugs are
      being studied but have not been approved by the FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration).

      In this study, the combination of durvalumab and tremelimumab is considered to be
      investigational and as such has not been approved for this or any cancer.

      -- Durvalumab and tremelimumab are immunotherapy drugs that may stop cancer cells from
      growing by activating the immune system. The immune system is one of the body's natural
      defenses against the growth of cancer cells. AstraZeneca has evaluated the effectiveness and
      side effects of both durvalumab and tremelimumab individually for many cancer types,
      including lung, head and neck cancer, and melanoma. These types of immunotherapy drugs are
      also being studied in ovarian, endometrial and cervical cancer. In addition, AstraZeneca has
      studied the combination of durvalumab and tremelimumab in participants with lung and
      pancreatic cancers. Based on these studies, AstraZeneca has determined the dosing, schedule
      and expected side effects for the 2 study drugs when delivered together.

      In women with recurrent or metastatic gynecologic cancer, radiation therapy is often used to
      help with symptoms, such as bleeding, pain or swelling. Clinical reports have shown that
      radiation treatment can increase the body's response to an immunotherapy drug against tumors
      both within and outside the radiation field. This study is the first in which the combination
      of durvalumab, tremelimumab and abdominal or pelvic radiation is given to humans. The
      investigators hope that this combination with radiation will lead to a better treatment
      response to the immunotherapy drugs.

      The investigators will also look to see if participants whose tumors contain a particular
      genetic make-up have a better response to immunotherapy and radiation treatment.
    
  