
    
      The improvement of the care pathway of oncology patients through Clinical Pharmacy activities
      for outpatients (such as pharmaceutical consultation) should be implemented and evaluated.

      In order to improve the care pathway of patients on anticancer oral therapies, the
      investigators suggest in this research project to integrate into the medical care a "Clinical
      Pharmacy follow-up" for the patient at the hospital in the form of "pharmaceutical
      consultations". These pharmaceutical consultations carried out in coordination with the
      hospital clinical teams also aim to make the link between the hospital and community
      pharmacists. These pharmaceutical consultations were initiated in Marseille and Grenoble
      University Hospitals in order to know the special needs of patients under oral
      chemotherapies. However, the impact of these pharmaceutical consultations in a population of
      patients receiving ambulatory oral therapy remains unknown and needs to be evaluated using
      objective criteria such as the rate of adverse events which the consequences are considerable
      both for the patient and the society.

      These observations prompted us to establish a randomized controlled study with the objective
      of assessing the impact of the Clinical Pharmacy consultations in cancer patients treated
      with oral anti-cancer therapies on the general care management: occurrence of serious adverse
      events (primary outcome).

      This bicenter, prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, open-label, two-parallel group
      study is performed to assess the efficacy of pharmaceutical consultations in the experimental
      group (full clinical medication review) and pharmaceutical interviews in the control group
      (Patient Therapeutic Education for oral anticancer drugs only). Depending on the result of
      the randomization the patient will find himself in one of those 2 parallel arms:

        -  Control group: standard course + short pharmaceutical interviews (therapeutic education)

        -  Experimental group: standard course + long pharmaceutical consultations (including full
           clinical medication review and therapeutic education)

      Control group: therapeutic education through short pharmaceutical interviews

      The patients allocated in the control group will have a "classic" course of treatment. They
      will receive the best medical care and will be offered to participate in the therapeutic
      education program in place in the participating centers including:

        -  An educational assessment consisting on evaluating the patient's educational needs.

        -  Group workshops entitled "Disease and drugs", "Dietary and sports activity", "Psychology
           Workshop" during which the patient will be able to participate in order to get all the
           information he needs.

        -  Individual therapeutic education sessions to specifically and personally highlight
           certain non-pharmaceutical educational needs identified at the time of the educational
           assessment.

      Moreover, in the control arm, a systematic "short pharmaceutical interview" with an average
      duration of 15 minutes will be proposed to patients at the initiation of treatment, at D15
      after the prescription (considered as the date of inclusion) at M1 and then every 3 months
      (M3, M6, M9 and M12):

        -  Dosage, including the maximum dosage for modular taken drugs

        -  Duration of treatment

        -  User precautions

        -  The necessary information to drug use

        -  Any special precautions to be taken and any information relevant to the good
           understanding of the treatment by the patient

        -  Biological analyzes necessary for the initiation, monitoring, and pursuit of certain
           treatments

      Experimental group: Clinical Pharmacy through Long Pharmaceutical Consultations In this
      experimental group, patients will receive the same course of treatment as the patients in the
      control group, including the D0 short pharmaceutical interview, with the same prerogatives of
      acceptance or rejection of participation in the TPE program. Short pharmaceutical interviews
      from D15 to M12 will be replaced by long pharmaceutical consultations of 30 to 60 minutes.
      The latter consisting in a full clinical medication review and incorporating the pedagogic
      aspects addressed in the short pharmaceutical interviews but for all therapeutic drugs taken
      by the patient. Additional consultations are possible on the request of the oncologist and/or
      patient. The consultations carried out at the request of the oncologist and/or the patient
      will be counted.

      The first part of the pharmaceutical consultation focuses on a complete clinical medication
      review including:

        -  Establishment of the patient profile: medical history, drug allergies and intolerance,
           comorbidities, age, understanding capacities, organizational capacity…

        -  Establishment of the list of current treatments (cancer treatment, treatment of
           comorbidities, self-medication, other products). The effective use of drugs will be
           discussed with the patient.

        -  Study of health behaviors:

             -  Concerning self-medication (reasons, active ingredients, doses, etc.) and
                alternative medicine

             -  Addictions (smoking, alcohol...)

             -  Drug adherence

        -  List and grade (NCI version 4) of clinical signs and laboratory abnormalities:

             -  The biological data will be obtained on the basis of biological test results
                addressed to the oncologist and all other test results provided by the patient

             -  Clinical signs will be obtained from patient questioning The second part of the
                consultation is to achieve firstly a pharmaco-therapeutic analysis of the treatment
                (level 3 pharmaceutical analysis according to the criteria of the French Society of
                Clinical Pharmacy) in order to detect problems with drugs as classified by the
                French Society of Clinical Pharmacy (18).

      The third step of the consultation consists on providing "pharmaceutical interventions"
      following the pharmaco-therapeutic analysis (18).

      These pharmaceutical interventions might concern the prescribers, the other caregivers, or
      the patient himself. These interventions will be done in the absolute respect for the French
      Code of Public Health. All these interventions will be documented, tracked, and evaluated,
      particularly in terms of acceptance by prescribers.

      Sample size Both centers have the necessary number of patients needed to ensure the proper
      recruitment required for the study.

      The annual throughput of the AP-HM is about 300 patients. Targeted diseases as part of this
      research project are gastrointestinal tumors (GIST, colorectal), neuroendocrine, renal,
      gynecological, urological (prostate) and skin (melanoma) cancers. The annual throughput of
      Grenoble University Hospital is more than 70 patients. Targeted diseases are renal tumors,
      breast and colorectal cancers.

      The number of subjects to be included required is determined from the primary endpoint,
      namely the rate of adverse events of grade III-IV. Data from the current practice in the main
      center (AP- HM) and from the literature estimate this rate at 35%.

      The majority of adverse events related to drugs being preventable, the investigators estimate
      a decrease of 20 points in this rate in the experimental arm, that is to say a rate of 15%.
      166 subjects (83 per group) are needed for a power of 90% and an alpha risk of 5%. To
      compensate the potential lost of the out of sights (estimated around 15%), the investigators
      will include 190 subjects in total.

      The sample size was determined to obtain 90% power to detect a 20 percent difference in
      between the 2 groups, as this difference is considered to be clinically significant. In
      accordance with previous studies (26-31), the investigators hypothesized that the occurrence
      of the primary endpoint will be at 35% in the control group. With the threshold for
      statistical significance set at a p-value of 0.05 (two-sided alpha), these calculations
      showed that 166 patients are needed (83 per group). Assuming that potentially 15% of patients
      will be lost to follow-up, a total of 190 individuals need to be included.
    
  