
    
      In 2002, the Thai Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) launched the National Access to
      Antiretroviral Program for People living with HIV/AIDS (NAPHA) with the aim of providing
      treatment to all Thai patients who needed antiretroviral treatment. By the end of 2005,
      80,000 HIV-infected Thais were treated in the NAPHA program, including about 6,000 children.
      The antiretroviral treatment regimen consists of three antiretroviral drugs (ARV). The
      first-line regimen used in NAPHA are mainly generic drugs produced by Thai government
      pharmaceutical organization (GPO), including a fixed-drug combination of stavudine,
      lamivudine, and nevirapine (GPOvir);and a fixed-drug combination of zidovudine, lamivudine,
      and nevirapine (GPOvir-Z). Majority of patients respond very well with first-line
      regimen(1,2), however about 15% of patients have drug resistance to first-line regimen and
      require second-line regimen(3). The protease inhibitors (PIs) is used as a second-line
      regimen, however there are limitations in terms of cost and metabolic complications(4).

      Lopinavir/ritonavir is the most widely use protease inhibitors in children because of its
      high efficacy and a syrup formulation that easy to use in small children. There is evidence
      supported that the recommended dose according to US-FDA or EU guidelines resulting in much
      higher plasma blood level in Thai children. Data from 19 Thai children demonstrated Cmin of
      5.9 mg/L compare to 3.4 mg/L in US children when use the same dose (the minimum acceptable
      Cmin is 1.0 mg/L) (5,6). There is a study HIVNAT019, which demonstrated acceptable LPV plasma
      concentration and treatment outcome in Thai HIV-infected adult when use reduced dose of LPV/r
      266mg/66 mg compare to standard dose of 400mg/100mg (7).

      Therefore, the study of pharmacokinetic of low dose of LPV/r in Thai HIV-infected children is
      very important to assess the safety and efficacy of this strategy. This will lead to
      appropriate ARV dose in children to reduce long-term adverse events, and also reduce the ARV
      cost.
    
  