
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the safety and tolerability of abiraterone acetate in postmenopausal women
           with estrogen receptor- or androgen receptor-positive advanced or metastatic breast
           cancer. (Phase I)

        -  To determine the recommended phase II dose of this drug in these patients. (Phase I)

        -  To evaluate the clinical benefit rate of this drug at 24 weeks in these patients. (Phase
           II)

      Secondary

        -  To study the pharmacokinetics of this drug in these patients. (Phase I)

        -  To determine the endocrine impact of this drug on the pituitary-adrenal-gonad endocrine
           axis. (Phase I)

        -  To estimate the duration of objective tumor response in these patients. (Phase II)

        -  To correlate response rates and duration of response with the endocrine profile in these
           patients. (Phase II)

        -  To determine overall survival of these patients. (Phase II)

      Tertiary

        -  To enumerate and molecularly characterize circulating tumor cells.

        -  To identify normal genetic variations that predict resistance to this drug using
           pharmacogenomic analysis.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I study followed by a phase II study. Patients enrolled
      in the phase II portion of the study are stratified according to hormone receptor status
      (estrogen receptor [ER]-positive and any androgen receptor [AR] status vs AR-positive and
      ER-negative).

      Patients receive oral abiraterone acetate once daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28
      days for 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood samples are collected periodically and analyzed for pharmacokinetic assays (phase I
      only), pharmacodynamic assays, circulating tumor cells, and pharmacogenomic analysis.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 28 days.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK.
    
  