
    
      1. research background Electrocardiography (ECG) is the most important diagnostic tool for
           rapid detection of acute coronary syndrome, and should be performed and interpreted
           promptly on appearance of symptoms. Early detection of ST-elevation myocardial
           infarction (STEMI) on a 12-lead ECG, within 10 minutes after the first medical contact
           before hospitalization not only minimizes the time taken for diagnosis and reperfusion
           therapy but also increases the chances of patient survival and preservation of
           myocardial function.

           However, it is challenging to perform a 12-lead ECG promptly using the standard 12-lead
           ECG system for several reasons. First, it is difficult to identify the landmarks for the
           10-electrode configuration of the standard ECG. Second, electrodes on the extremities
           often cause artifacts due to body and muscle movements. Moreover, most of the standard
           12-lead ECG systems have cables connected to the precordial and limb leads, which
           frequently get entangled and disorganized, and can be difficult to manage.Most
           importantly, its accuracy is dependent on the operators' experience; not just that of
           the nurses or emergency medical technicians, but also of cardiologists.These
           difficulties might increase the time taken to perform an ECG especially in pre-hospital
           situations.

        2. Objective The purpose of this study is to determine the difference of timely acquirement
           of 12-lead ECG using two different systems and the difference of hospital delay in ED
           between two groups.

        3. Design : Randomized controlled trial

        4. Setting : ED at the Samsung medical center

        5. Enrollment : 36 patients who visited the ED with chest pain

        6. Intervention Standard 12-lead ECG will be performed at the time of visiting ED to the
           participants with chest pain.

      ED physicians will prescribe to perform second and third 12-lead ECG in every 15 minutes.

        1. Control group : Second and third 12 lead ECG will be taken using standard 12-lead ECG
           device as a doctor's order.

        2. Study group :Second and third 12 lead ECG will be taken using patchy-type 12-lead ECG
           device as a doctor's order.

      7. scoring To measure, interval from the anticipated time to take 12-lead ECG to the time
      actually performed will be measured. The duration from the anticipated time to the time of
      verification by physician will be also measured.

      8. study period The experiment ends when patient who agreed to participate in the study
      discharged the ED.
    
  