
    
      In this study, investigators intend to assess the safety and document local and systemic
      toxicity to the folate binding protein (FBP) peptide vaccine E39 + GM-CSF given in the
      adjuvant setting. Investigators also intend to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and
      optimal biologic dose (OBD) for the peptide vaccine, as well as evaluate the in vivo cellular
      immune response to the vaccine. Time to recurrence in the vaccinated patients vs. matched
      controls will be tracked.

      The primary endpoints are the safety and optimal dosing of the vaccine to induce an in vivo
      peptide-specific immune response. The clinical endpoint is time to recurrence from date of
      enrollment.

      The study will be a multicenter, phase I/IIa trial of the FBP peptide E39 + GM-CSF. The
      target study population is female civilian and military health care beneficiaries over the
      age of 18 years with a diagnosis of ovarian, endometrial, fallopian, or peritoneal cancer who
      have undergone primary surgical and medical therapies, are post-menopausal or have surgically
      induced menopause, and are currently without evidence of disease. Disease-free subjects after
      standard of care multi-modality therapy will be screened and HLA typed since the E39 vaccine
      is specific for HLA-A2+ patients (approximately 40% of the US population). HLA-A2-patients
      will be followed as prospective clinically matched controls for recurrence.

      HLA-A2+ patients who meet all other eligibility criteria will be tested for biomarkers that
      indicate progression/recurrence of ovarian and advanced uterine cancer FBP. FBP+ and HLA-A2+
      patients will be vaccinated with the FBP peptide (E39) and GM-CSF. HLA-A2-negative patients
      and those individuals who are eligible to receive the vaccine but who decline will be
      followed clinically as matched controls for disease recurrence/progression.

      Treatment will begin within one month of the subject enrollment in the study and confirmation
      of eligibility. The 1 ml by volume vaccine will be administered intradermally in 0.5 mL
      inoculums at two different sites within 5 cm of each other. A total of six vaccinations will
      be given every 3-4 weeks and will be administered in the same lymph node draining area. The
      dose escalation scheme is for three patients to receive each of the doses: 100, 500, and
      1,000 mcg of peptide. Patients will be enrolled consecutively. An additional three patients
      may receive a given a dose depending on the presence of dose limiting toxicity (DLT). Prior
      to the fourth vaccination, each patient will be assessed for liver, renal, and hematopoietic
      function. If organ function is stable and no DLT is seen, then the patient will continue with
      the series. After the last patient in a given dose group has completed the third inoculation
      and organ function is proven stable, then the next dose group will be initiated. Optimal
      biologic dose (OBD) is defined as the minimum dose of the vaccine that gives the most optimal
      and lasting in vivo immunologic response to the vaccinated peptide. Up to 15 patients will be
      vaccinated at the OBD.

      Additionally, the E39-vaccinated patients will be randomized to receive either E39 or J65 (an
      attenuated version of E39) as a booster to promote long-term E39-specific immunity. The
      clinical endpoints are long-term FBP immunity, time to recurrence from date of enrollment and
      5-year survival rate. Those individuals who are eligible to receive the vaccine, but who
      decline and all HLA-A2- patients will be followed clinically as matched controls for disease
      recurrence/progression

      Subjects will be followed for safety issues, immunologic response and clinical recurrence.
      Subjects will be monitored 48-72 hours after each inoculation for reaction to the inoculation
      as well as documentation of any adverse effects experienced. Immunologic response will be
      documented with both ex vivo phenotypic and functional assays as well as in vivo delayed type
      hypersensitivity (DTH) reactions. All patients will be followed for a total of 5 years to
      document disease-free status.

      The investigators intend to enroll up to 60 patients will be enrolled study-wide (15-24 in
      the vaccine arm, up to 36 in the control arm). With accrual beginning in April 2012
      enrollment of the last patient is anticipated to occur in December 2014 followed by a
      five-year follow-up period. The duration of the trial is expected to be seven years.
    
  