
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess the feasibility of treating high-risk neuroblastoma patients, age 365 days - 30
      years, with a) an induction block of meta-iodobenzylguanidine labeled with iodine-131
      (131I-MIBG [iobenguane I 131]) delivered after multi-agent chemotherapy, and b)
      post-induction busulfan/melphalan (Bu/Mel) consolidation therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the tolerability of treating high-risk neuroblastoma patients, age 365 days - 30
      years, with a) an induction block of 131I-MIBG therapy delivered after multi-agent
      chemotherapy, and b) the tolerability of receiving post-induction Bu/Mel consolidation
      therapy with autologous stem-cell rescue (ASCR), and local radiation therapy.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the response rate after a regimen of induction chemotherapy and 131I-MIBG and
      after a consolidation regimen of Bu/Mel with ASCR and local radiation therapy.

      II. To describe the relationship of tumor norepinephrine transporter (hNET) expression with
      radioiodinated MIBG uptake, at diagnosis as well as with tumor response.

      III. To assess the relative reliability of 123 I-MIBG and fludeoxyglucose F-18
      (18FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET) imaging in assessment of tumor activity at
      diagnosis, and prior to surgical resection.

      IV. To compare detectable tumor burden on the pre-surgical resection radioiodinated-MIBG
      diagnostic scan and the immediate post-MIBG therapy 131I-MIBG scan.

      V. To test for the relationship of occurrence of sinusoidal obstruction syndrome (SOS) to
      Bu/Mel or to whole-body radiation dose or delayed radiation clearance due to 131I-MIBG.

      VI. To analyze busulfan pharmacokinetics as measured by area under the curve (AUC) and relate
      exposure to SOS incidence.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive 5 courses of induction therapy.

      Courses 1-2: Patients receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) over 15-30 minutes and
      topotecan hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5. Patients undergo peripheral blood
      stem cell (PBSC) collection after course 2.

      Course 3 and 5: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1-4 and etoposide phosphate
      IV over 1-2 hours on days 1-3. Patients undergo surgery to remove remaining tumor following
      course 5.

      Course 4: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 1-6 hours on days 1-2 and vincristine
      sulfate IV over 1 minute and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 24 hours on days 1-3.

      Treatment repeats every 21 days for a total of 5 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients without progressive disease proceed to
      iobenguane I 131 induction therapy beginning 3-6 weeks after course 5. Patients receive
      iobenguane I 131 IV over 90-120 minutes on day 1.

      SURGERY: Patients undergo surgery after course 4 or before consolidation therapy.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Within 10-12 weeks from the date of iobenguane I 131 infusion,
      patients receive busulfan IV over 2 hours every 6 hours on days -6 to -3 and melphalan IV on
      day -1.

      AUTOLOGOUS STEM CELL RESCUE: Patients undergo infusion of PBSC on day 0.

      RADIOTHERAPY: Beginning no sooner than 42 days after peripheral blood stem cell infusion,
      patients undergo 12 fractions of external-beam radiotherapy (2 dimensional [D], 3D-conformal,
      or intensity-modulated) to all areas of residual disease, primary tumor site, and involved
      nodal disease.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Beginning 66 days after transplantation, patients receive isotretinoin
      orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 6 courses.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year, every
      6 months for 4 years, and then annually for 5 years.
    
  