
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare time to disease progression in patients receiving THERATOPE vaccine to
      that of women receiving control vaccine. II. Compare survival in patients receiving THERATOPE
      vaccine to that of patients receiving control vaccine. III. Document the product safety
      profile in these patients. IV. Measure the anti-STn, anti-OSM, and anti-KLH antibody titers.
      V. Evaluate the impact of THERATOPE STn-KLH vaccine on health-related quality of life in
      these patients.

      OUTLINE: The study design is a prospective, double-blinded, randomized study. Patients who
      have completed first-line chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer and have either
      nonprogressive disease or no evidence of disease following completion of first-line
      chemotherapy (includes bone marrow transplants and stem cell rescue) will be randomized to
      either the THERATOPE vaccine or the control vaccine. Patients are stratified at entry
      according to disease status (i.e., either no evidence of disease or nonprogressive disease)
      and whether or not they are receiving hormonal therapy for metastatic disease while on study.
      Arm I: Patients receive intravenous cyclophosphamide on day -3, followed by 4 subcutaneous
      vaccinations with THERATOPE STn-KLH vaccine combined with Detox-B Stable Emulsion at 0, 2, 5,
      and 9 weeks. Arm II: Patients receive the control treatment of intravenous cyclophosphamide
      on day -3, followed by 4 subcutaneous vaccinations with keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH)
      vaccine combined with Detox-B Stable Emulsion at 0, 2, 5, and 9 weeks. Patients with stable
      or responding disease may receive the THERATOPE STn-KLH vaccine or control without Detox-B
      Stable Emulsion at weeks 13, 17, 21, and 25. Patients without unacceptable toxic effects or
      disease progression may continue on maintenance therapy at 3 month intervals.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Over 120 sites in North America, Europe, and Australia/New Zealand will be
      participating in the study. A total of 950 women (475 per treatment arm) will be enrolled
      into the study.
    
  