
    
      Primary aims: To determine if diagnostic ultrasound is an appropriate screening test (high
      sensitivity and at least moderate specificity) and non-inferior to x-ray for diagnosis of
      acute stress fracture of the lower extremity.

      Secondary Aims: To determine what grade(s) of acute stress fracture that x-ray and ultrasound
      are capable of detecting reliably and accurately.

      Population: Subjects will be recruited from the Sports Medicine clinic at the University of
      Virginia Health System in the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation. Subjects
      will have suspected acute stress fracture of the lower extremity and will be age 14 years and
      older. Anatomic locations included in this study are as follows: all bones of the foot and
      ankle, tibia, fibula, and femoral shaft. Patients with suspected stress fracture of the
      femoral neck will be excluded due to the difficulty of appropriate ultrasound evaluation
      secondary to depth as well as the potential for significant morbidity if not diagnosed
      properly. We estimate that the Sports Medicine clinic diagnoses approximately 12 acute stress
      fractures per month per physician amongst the three physician's clinics involved in this
      study. Therefore, our anticipated number of subjects over a 6 month period will be at least
      216 patients.

      Design: In this double-blind , prospective clinical study, subjects suspected to have an
      acute stress fracture of the lower extremity will be recruited from Sports Medicine Clinic
      (conducted by two physicians boarded in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation and one
      physician board in Family Medicine and all boarded in Sports Medicine). When patients present
      to one of three physicians in Sports Medicine Clinic with a suspected acute stress fracture
      of the lower extremity, they will be offered the opportunity to enroll. Subjects will be
      required to have already undergone the initial step of the traditional diagnostic algorithm
      with x-ray of the suspicious region on the day of enrollment. All subjects will then be
      scheduled to undergo diagnostic ultrasound at a separate appointment with ultrasound
      procedure performed by a blinded clinical physician boarded in Physical Medicine and
      Rehabilitation, competent in performing and reading diagnostic ultrasound. All patients will
      then undergo a confirmatory MRI of the region of concern. Subject recruitment and data
      collection are expected to be completed over a six-month period. A statistician in the
      Department of Public Health at the University of Virginia will be performing statistical
      analysis. We plan to analyze findings using a McNemar chi-square test to evaluate for
      significant differences between the sensitivities of ultrasound and x-ray in diagnosing acute
      stress fracture of the lower extremity. All x-ray and MRI obtained for this study will be
      read by a Radiologist board certified in Musculoskeletal Radiology.

      Diagnostic ultrasound performance: The physician performing the ultrasound will be blinded to
      the results of the x-ray and MRI. The physician performing the ultrasound will be informed of
      the bone in question (ex. Tibia) and will be able to perform a focused history and exam. The
      bone in which acute stress fracture is suspected will then be scanned throughout its length
      in two orthogonal views. The criteria for diagnosing acute stress fracture on ultrasound
      include displaying 2 out of 3 of the following: hypoechoic periosteal elevation of cortical
      bone, visible cortical disruption, hyperemia surrounding the periosteal lesion on power
      Doppler. The ultrasound physician will then be asked to make a determination whether the
      ultrasound study is positive for acute stress fracture or negative/indeterminate.

      Statistical Analysis/Power Analysis: Sensitivity and specificity of diagnostic ultrasound and
      x-ray were calculated. MRI was used as the gold standard confirmatory test. Positive
      predictive value and Negative predictive value were also calculated for comparison. A priori
      power analysis determined a sample size of 186 was needed to obtain a power of 80%. The
      primary aim will be analyzed using a bootstrap test to compare the x-ray sensitivity to the
      ultrasound sensitivity. In order to account for the paired nature of the data, the bootstrap
      sampling will be at the subject level and will draw pairs with the x-ray and ultrasound
      outcomes associated with individual subjects. A statistician from the University of Virginia
      was hired for all statistical calculations.

      Subject Recruitment: Subjects presenting to the Sports Medicine clinic with suspected acute
      stress fracture of the lower extremity on initial presentation will be offered participation.
      Participation includes an additional clinic visit with a separate physician to perform a
      diagnostic ultrasound of the area of concern in addition to the standard work up they would
      receive for their presenting complaint. Informed consent was obtained at the time of study
      enrollment. Subjective will be offered ultrasound evaluation as well as follow up
      confirmatory MRI. The cost of follow up MRI is included in the study to prevent selection
      bias based on insurance coverage for MRI. The costs associated with the additional clinic
      visit for diagnostic ultrasound is also included in the study budget.
    
  