
    
      In the setting of research in ischemic cardiomyopathy, the CARIM cohort aims to meet the
      expectation and strategy of Aviesan (Alliance nationale pour les sciences de la VIE et de la
      SANté) since it will address the underlying pathophysiology of the determinants of MI injury
      and its impact on follow-up, in addition with the potential confounding clinical and
      biological factors. Therefore, CARIM cohort will offer a great opportunity of describing the
      interactions between myocardial infarction and surrounding environment (clinical, social and
      professional). This cohort will use complementary state of the art approaches (cardiac
      imaging including Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance and echocardiography, biomarkers,
      proteomic, genetic and pharmacogenetics) with strong interactions between the different
      partners. Therefore CARIM cohort should help to obtain a modeling of the determinants of the
      MI size.

      We expect that CARIM cohort will provide new imaging or biological markers that may bring
      early information regarding the severity of lethal reperfusion injury.

      By optimizing the knowledge on infarct injury in addition with a 5-year clinical and
      echographic follow-up, this cohort will better stratify the prognosis after MI and will
      therefore give new insights in identifying patients at higher risk of left ventricular
      remodeling and subsequent heart failure. It will therefore help and emphasize prevention
      messages and patients' education. The aim is to translate this information directly into
      patient care by using the science generated by this project to develop new management
      guidelines and novel clinical tools (confounder-annotated database, imaging and biological
      biomarkers). This cohort may have additional impact in patient care by adapting the treatment
      to patient-related confounders (age, diabetes...), genetic polymorphisms and thus
      personalizing health care to individuals.

      3.2 MAIN OBJECTIVE

      Our main objective is to create a prospective cohort of 2,000 patients (CARIM cohort) with a
      first myocardial infarction and undergoing reperfusion therapy in order to evaluate the
      impact of patient-related confounders on myocardial infarct size and LRI in order to further
      design a modeling of myocardial infarct size.

      For this purpose, CARIM cohort will be associated with the creation of a non-invasive cardiac
      imaging data-bank (MRI and echocardiography) in addition with a large bio-bank relying on
      existing biological certified platforms (i.e. BRC network).

      This cohort will provide a population of first acute MI, optimally characterized in terms of
      comprehensive clinical and angiography phenotype, specifically characterized by CMR in terms
      of infarct size and LRI and by echocardiography in terms of myocardial regional function and
      left ventricular remodeling.

      3.3 SECONDARY OBJECTIVES

        1. Evaluate the specific impact of myocardial infarct injury on myocardial regional
           function and left ventricular remodeling (defined by an increase in LV end-diastolic
           volume > 20% between week 1 and month 12 post-MI by echocardiography).

        2. Evaluate the power of the myocardial infarct injury in predicting cardiovascular events
           (rehospitalizations, reinfarction, occurrence of HF, transplantation, arrhythmias,
           death) in a 5-year patient follow-up.

        3. Test the value of established or newly identified plasma/serum biomarkers to identify
           LRI and to predict post-MI LV remodeling and progression towards CHF during a 5 year
           follow-up.

        4. This cohort aims ultimately at defining the profile of the MI patient population to be
           used for future trials implementing new protective interventions targeting LRI.
    
  