
    
      20 pediatric participants from three clinical sites (Colorado, Nemours, and Stanford) will
      take part in the Pediatric Transitional Study Session to assess the efficacy, safety, and
      reliability of the insulin-only configuration of the bionic pancreas in regulating glycemia
      in pediatric subjects in a more supervised setting prior to beginning the true outpatient
      study. The Pediatric Transitional Study Session will consist of a multi-center, two-period,
      random-order, cross-over, pilot study in 20 pediatric participants 6-17 years old with T1D (~
      6 adolescent participants at Colorado 12-17 years old, ~ 6 pre-adolescent participants at
      Nemours 6-11 years old, and ~ 8 pediatrics subjects at Stanford 6-17 years old). Insulin
      therapy for each participant will be administered (i) in one period using the iLet in the
      insulin-only configuration with the iLet pigtail adapter and the iLet ready-to-fill insulin
      cartridge, the Contact Detach infusion set, the Dexcom G5 CGM, and the insulin analog that
      they use for their usual care (either Humalog or Novolog), and (ii) in the other period using
      the participant's own usual care (UC), where each participant will wear a Dexcom G5 CGM. Both
      experimental periods will be followed by round-the-clock, remote, telemetric monitoring for
      hyperglycemia (> 300 mg/dl for ≥ 90 minutes) and hypoglycemia (< 50 mg/dl for ≥ 15 minutes).
      The two experimental periods will each span 5 days, including 4 nights (e.g. Monday-Friday).
      A washout period of ~ 3 days in duration will separate the two experimental periods of the
      Pediatric Transitional Study Session.

      Both study periods will be conducted in the same clinically supervised setting during each of
      the 5 days and at home under parental supervision or other overnight companion who is
      available to serve as an emergency contact during each of the 4 nights. Parents/guardians
      must be present (i.e. in the house or building) while the participant is home and sleeping
      and will serve as the contact person for overnight alerts. During the daytime in the
      Pediatric Transitional Study Session, participants of each cohort will be with the clinical
      study staff at each of the three clinical sites and will engage in common activities such
      that meals and activities can be well-characterized and supervised. For further
      quantification of stress due to exercise, activity monitors will be worn by all of the
      participants in both periods of the study. In terms of physical activity, diet, and remote
      monitoring for hypo- and hyperglycemia, parity will be maintained between both study periods.

      All 20 pediatric participants in the Pediatric Transitional Study Session will use insulin
      pump therapy for their usual diabetes management. The Dexcom G5 CGM will serve as the input
      CGM to the iLet for all 20 pediatric participants. The cohort of 6 adolescent participants at
      Colorado and 6 pre-adolescent participants at Nemours, and 8 participants at Stanford might
      overlap or might not overlap in time.
    
  