
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the concentration of interleukin-13 PE38QQR immunotoxin that produces
           histologic evidence of toxicity to tumor and the corresponding toxic effects of this
           drug when administered via continuous intratumoral infusion prior to second resection in
           patients with recurrent resectable supratentorial malignant glioma.

        -  Determine the toxic effects of this drug when administered via continuous peritumoral
           infusion, at concentrations determined in objective I, after second resection in these
           patients.

        -  Determine any toxic effects of increasing the duration of continuous peritumoral
           infusion of this drug, at concentrations determined in objective II, after second
           resection in these patients.

        -  Determine the time to progression and survival of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study.

        -  Pre-resection therapy (initial cohorts of patients only): Patients undergo stereotactic
           biopsy of brain tumor followed by stereotactic placement of 1 intratumoral catheter on
           day 1. Patients with histologically confirmed malignant glioma receive interleukin-13
           PE38QQR immunotoxin via continuous intratumoral infusion over 48 hours on days 2 and 3.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of pre-resection interleukin-13 PE38QQR
      immunotoxin until the histologically effective concentration (HEC) is reached or maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The HEC is defined by pathologic observations. The MTD is
      defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting
      toxicity. After the HEC is reached or MTD is determined, up to 6 additional patients are
      enrolled at selected dose levels to study safety and tolerability. Subsequent cohorts of
      patients are not treated with a pre-resection infusion.

        -  Resection (all patients): Patients undergo maximal resection (en bloc, if feasible)
           followed by placement of 2-3 peritumoral catheters (4 days after completion of
           pre-resection infusion for the initial cohorts of patients and at study entry for
           subsequent cohorts of patients).

        -  Post-resection therapy (all patients): Beginning on the second day after resection,
           patients receive interleukin-13 PE38QQR immunotoxin via continuous peritumoral infusion
           over 96 hours.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of interleukin-13 PE38QQR immunotoxin until
      the previously-defined HEC is reached or MTD is determined, whichever occurs first. If
      dose-escalation is stopped after HEC is reached, then three additional cohorts of patients
      receive escalating durations (5, 6, or 7 days) of post-resection infusion. If dose escalation
      is stopped after the MTD is determined, then the duration of post-resection infusion is not
      escalated.

      Patients are followed every 8 weeks.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 25-50 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  