
    
      We conducted a large-scale multi-centre retrospective case-control study. Approximately a
      total of 1080 volunteers aging 40-75 in three independent cohorts, discovery cohort,
      validation cohort 1, validation cohort 2, will be recruited from 10 hospitals throughout
      China. Among them, 530 subjects in both discovery cohort and validation cohort 1 were from
      Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine Renji Hospital from August to December in
      2018. Around 550 participants will be enrolled in validation cohort 2 from nine hospitals in
      China.Each cohort recruits both patients diagnosed with GC (GC group) and gender, age and
      body mass index (BMI)-matched healthy-control (HC) individuals diagnosed with chronic
      gastritis by histopathology). Individuals enrolled were either asymptomatic undergoing upper
      GI endoscopy screening or went to GI clinic with digestive symptoms. Subjects in HC group are
      conducted colonoscopy within 0.5 year before or after upper endoscopy. We collect gastric
      tissue biopsies and stool samples from gastric cancer patients and healthy-controls. First in
      the discovery cohort, which will recruit 20 subjects, 13 pairs of both cancerous &
      noncancerous gastric tissues and pre-operation feces in GC group will be collected. 7
      subjects provide their paired mucosal biopsies and stools in HC group before examination. 16S
      ribosomal RNA gene sequencing will be used to select the synergistically differential
      bacteria species as well as find out microbial compositional distinction and diversity from
      both tissue and stool samples between GC and HC group. Second, the validation cohort 1
      recruiting a total of 510 subjects (294 GC patients and 216 HC individuals), 217
      pre-operation faecal specimens and 141 fresh tissues (cancerous & noncancerous tissues) from
      GC group, and 127 faecal samples and 124 gastric biopsies will be collected. Quantitative PCR
      (qPCR) will be used to validate the high-throughput sequencing results in discovery cohort in
      a single center. Among them, 35 objects in HC group and 64 patients in GC group will provide
      their paired tissues and feces. Third, in validation cohort 2, we are going to enroll
      volunteers from multiple geographic locations to confirm our results. 550 stool samples will
      be collected to further validate the accuracy, sensitivity and specificity of the cut-off
      value analyzed from validation cohort 1. All results of laboratory tests including tumor
      markers CEA, CA199,CA724 were obtained from the electronic query system. The GC stages will
      be assessed by the TNM system according to AJCC Version 4.2017 based on surgical records,
      histopathology and radiographic images (eg. PET-CT, abdominal enhanced CT). All subjects will
      sign up informed consent form before sample collection. The protocol of present study was
      approved by Ethics Review Committee of all participating hospitals.
    
  