
    
      Settings: 4 African (Cameroon, Guinea, Uganda, Zambia) and 2 South-East Asian (Cambodia,
      Vietnam) countries.

      Sample size : 1330 patients (665 in each arm). Follow-up : 48 weeks after entry in the trial
      (TB treatment initiation).

      All participants will initiate antiretroviral therapy (ART) 2 weeks after starting TB
      treatment. In each country, the chosen ART regimen will be the same in both arms. According
      to the first-line regimen recommended in each country, the ART combination will be
      TDF/3TC/EFV 600 mg, or TDF/3TC + double-dose DTG.

      The primary objective is to estimate the impact of an intensified initial phase of TB
      treatment on mortality at 48 weeks among HIV-infected adults and adolescents hospitalized for
      TB with CD4 ≤ 100 cells/μL in comparison with standard TB treatment.

      The secondary objectives are to estimate the impact of an intensified initial phase of TB
      treatment, in comparison with the standard TB regimen, on:

        -  Mortality at weeks 8 and 24

        -  Adverse events, including

             -  All grade 3 and 4 events

             -  Selected grade 2 events of interest

             -  Drug-related adverse events

             -  AIDS-defining illnesses

             -  Paradoxical TB-associated immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS)

        -  TB treatment success

        -  TB recurrence

        -  ART response in terms of virological success and immunological response

        -  Adherence to TB treatment and ART

        -  Peak plasma concentrations of rifampicin and isoniazid (and its N-acetyl-metabolite) at
           day 3, day 7 and week 2

        -  Plasma concentrations of efavirenz and dolutegravir at week 4 (i.e. 2 weeks after the
           onset of ART).

      A pharmacokinetic sub-study of rifampicin and isoniazid will be carried out in 72 voluntary
      patients (6 patients/arm/country) at the second week of the main study.
    
  