
    
      Infections in critically ill patients are a major healthcare problem and an important source
      of morbidity and mortality. Since critically ill patients often have altered pharmacokinetics
      (PK) compared to non-critically ill patients there is a substantial risk that present
      standard dosing regimens of antibiotics lead to suboptimal outcomes for patients on the ICU.
      To prevent the risk of inadequate dosing in ICU patients, it is important to fully understand
      the PK of antibiotics in this vulnerable group so that dosing regimens can be optimized.

      Although PK of piperacillin has been well studied in healthy volunteers, non-critically ill
      patients and more recently the critically ill, there are still gaps of knowledge in the PK of
      piperacillin-tazobactam in ICU patients. Especially when focusing on the influence of renal
      function and on the PK of tazobactam.

      Both piperacillin and tazobactam are excreted primarily by the kidneys via glomerular
      filtration and tubular secretion. Elimination half life of piperacillin-tazobactam increases
      with decreasing renal function. Substantial changes in renal function are common in ICU
      patients. Due to these changes PK targets are often not reached. This indicates the need to
      define the best predictor for piperacillin-tazobactam clearance in ICU patients in order to
      improve drug dosing. The use of combined filtration markers together, cystatin C and
      creatinine, can improve precision in estimating GFR (eGFR).

      In a multi-centre, observational, open-label study the investigators aim to define PK of free
      drug concentrations of both piperacillin and tazobactam in ICU patients and define a PK model
      for estimation of renal function that most accurately predicts piperacillin and tazobactam
      clearance.

      Patients will receive standard care, as stated in the product characteristics or according to
      local protocols. Minimally invasive blood sampling for pharmacokinetic analysis will be
      retrieved through a central venous catheter or an arterial line. Full pharmacokinetic curves
      will be taken for individual patients on the intermittent dosing regimen and limited sampling
      will be taken for individual patients on the continuous dosing regimen. A total of 40
      patients will be included.
    
  