
    
      Pain and Self-Reported Function

      Knee pain will be assessed with an 11-point numeric pain rating scale (NPRS) where 0
      represents 'no pain' and 10 represents 'worst imaginable pain'. Self-reported physical
      function will be assessed using the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis
      Index (WOMAC) for each knee separately. The WOMAC assesses the impact of knee osteoarthritis
      on multiple domains-pain, stiffness, and disability. A composite score (0-100 scale) will be
      used for analysis.

      Range of Motion

      Knee range of motion (ROM) is a direct measure of joint mobility following TKA. Knee ROM will
      be measured in the supine position both actively and passively using a long-arm goniometer.
      Goniometry has been shown to be a reliable measure of knee ROM after TKA.

      Quadriceps Strength and Activation Testing

      Maximum voluntary isometric quadriceps strength and quadriceps activation will be assessed
      before surgery and at week 3 using an electromechanical dynamometer (Humac Norm, CSMI) and a
      doublet interpolation test. Patients will be seated on the electromechanical dynamometer with
      their hips flexed to approximately 85° and their knees flexed to 60°. Two 3" by 5"
      self-adhesive neuromuscular stimulation electrodes will be placed over the motor points of
      the rectus femoris and the vastus medialis. A Grass S48 stimulator with a Grass Model SIU8T
      stimulus isolation unit will be used to deliver 600 µs doublet pulses. A Biopac MP150WSW
      system will be used for data acquisition during testing with sampling frequency of 300 Hz.

      Following two warm-up contractions, a practice maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC)
      will be performed against the dynamometer's force transducer. Visual torque targets will be
      set on the feedback monitor at slightly higher torques than produced during the practice MVIC
      trial. Trials will be repeated until maximal torque is within 5% of the previous attempt.
      Torque from quadriceps MVIC will be normalized to body weight for between-subject
      comparisons.

      Voluntary activation of the quadriceps muscle will be assessed using the doublet
      interpolation technique, where a supramaximal stimulus will be applied by a Grass S48
      stimulator during an MVIC and immediately afterwards while the quadriceps muscle is at

      rest. Normalization of the force from the superimposed doublet to the resting doublet allows
      for comparisons of quadriceps activation across individuals and lower extremities.

      Timed-Up-and-Go

      The timed-up-and-go (TUG) test is a responsive, valid, and reliable functional measure of
      basic mobility and dynamic balance. The examiner measures the time, in seconds, required by
      the patient to a) rise from an arm chair; b) walk 3 meters; c) turn and walk back to the arm
      chair; and d) return to the seated position.

      30-second Sit-to-Stand Test

      The 30-second Sit-to-Stand test (30STS) is a responsive, valid, and reliable functional
      measure of lower extremity strength after TKA. This test counts the number of times a patient
      can rise to a full standing position in 30 seconds. The test starting position is sitting on
      an armless chair with seat plate 17 inches from the floor. Patients rise from this position
      with hands placed on opposite shoulders. If the patient must use his/her arms to stand, the
      test is stopped. If the patient is over halfway to a standing position when 30 seconds have
      lapsed, this counts as a stand.

      Bioimpedance Spectroscopy

      Bioimpedance spectroscopy (BIS) is a reliable, responsive measure of swelling that has been
      validated in observational studies of individuals after TKA. The RJL Systems Quantum®
      (Clinton Township, MI) bioelectrical impedance device delivers a 2.5 µA alternating current
      at a frequency of 50 kHz. The tissue impedance to this current is displayed in Ohms (Ω) and
      is recorded at a precision of 1 Ω. The level of impedance met by the current reflects the
      composition of the tissue, but will also fluctuate with the presence of swelling in the lower
      extremity. Lower levels of impedance represent the increased fluid content present with
      greater levels of swelling. Measuring the impedance of both the involved and uninvolved limb
      allows for calculation of a ratio (W-involved limb: W-uninvolved limb). To measure impedance,
      a four-wire measurement method will be used. The most proximal electrode pair will be placed
      10 and 20 centimeters above the superior patellar pole. The most distal electrode pair will
      be placed at a point bisecting the medial and lateral malleolus, and also 10 cm distal to
      that point along the second ray of the foot. New electrodes will be used for each testing
      session, and skin will be cleaned with an alcohol swab prior to electrode placement.
    
  