
    
      Shivering is a frequent complication following SA. It is distressing and unpleasant
      experience for patients. The incidence of shivering has been reported to be about 36-85%
      after SA. It is more common in TURP that may be due to absorption of large amount of
      irrigating fluid at room temperature. Shivering may occur as a response to hypothermia.
      However, it may also occur in normothermic patients. SA impairs the thermoregulation system
      by inhibiting tonic vasoconstriction below the level of anesthesia through sympathetic and
      somatic neural blockade. With internal redistribution of heat from the core to the peripheral
      compartment, the loss of thermoregulatory vasoconstriction results in increased heat loss
      from body surfaces in excess of metabolic heat production. Excessive shivering can result in
      an increased oxygen demand up to 400% of normal and induce metabolic derangements such as
      hypoxemia, lactic acidosis and hypercarbia. Therefore, shivering may cause problems in
      patients with low cardiac and pulmonary reserves.

      Considering these undesirable consequences of shivering, measures to prevent in the
      postoperative period are important. Various drugs have been investigated for the prevention
      or treatment of postoperative shivering, including meperidine, ketamine, tramadol, doxapram
      and dexmedetomidine.

      Dexmedetomidine is an α 2-agonist that decreases vasoconstriction and shivering thresholds
      and when administered with meperidine additively reduces the shivering threshold in healthy
      volunteers. Intraoperative dexmedetomidine reduces postanesthetic shivering as does
      meperidine after surgery.

      One bolus dose of dexmedetomidine 1 μg/kg with or without continuous infusion was used in the
      previous antishivering studies. Dexmedetomidine also has sedative and analgesic effects in
      the postoperative period. Patients who received an intraoperative injection of
      dexmedetomidine were more sedated after surgery than those who received placebo. This can be
      a disadvantage particularly for patients undergoing outpatient surgery.

      Addition of intrathecal dexmedetomidine to heavy bupivacaine 0.5% was more advantageous than
      fentanyl with special regard to its analgesic properties in diabetic surgical patients. Few
      studies have been done to evaluate the efficacy of intrathecal dexmedetomidine in attenuation
      and prevention of shivering in TURP.

      We aimed to compare the efficacy of intrathecal versus intravenous dexmedetomidine in
      attenuation and prevention of shivering in TURP under spinal anesthesia in a randomized
      controlled trial.
    
  