
    
      Although several arterial access routes may be employed during percutaneous coronary
      intervention (PCI), the femoral arterial site has been the most commonly used (1). However,
      during femoral artery interventions, many patients experience pain and discomfort during the
      removal of catheters previously inserted into the femoral region (2,3). Previous literature
      also provides evidence that both vasovagal responses and local vascular complications may
      develop when the pain induced by catheter removal is not effectively controlled (3-5);
      therefore, it is important to reduce the pain experienced by patients undergoing this
      procedure (6).

      Pain caused by the removal of a femoral catheter may be controlled by using pharmacological
      methods such as treatment with morphine sulfate or lidocaine infiltration (2,3). However, it
      is also been observed that such approaches may cause complications such as increased
      bleeding, laceration of catheters, infection and temporary nerve injury (7-9). Pain may be
      also be controlled using non-pharmacological methods, which are patient-specific and aim to
      establish empathic communication with healthcare staff (10-13). Non-pharmacological methods
      used for pain control provided positive effects such as reduced anxiety and psychological
      support; notably, patients have expressed satisfaction with such non-pharmacological methods
      (14).

      Cold application is a non-pharmacological method of pain control (6). Being one of the oldest
      and easiest forms of treatment, cold-application increases the threshold of pain and reduces
      the conduction velocity of nerve fibres transmitting pain stimuli from the peripheral to the
      central nervous system (15). Demir et al. (10) investigated the effect of cold application
      upon pain caused by the removal of a chest tube and revealed that cold application reduced
      pain intensity and delayed patient requests for a second analgesic. In a further study by
      Ertug et al. (11), cold application was highly effective in reducing the pain caused by chest
      tube removal. Cold application also confers other advantages, such as ease of application,
      the lack of serious side effects and low cost (16).

      Aim and Hypothesis of the Study This study aimed to determine the effect of cold application
      to the femoral region upon pain levels of patients receiving PCI. Our hypothesis was that
      cold application would reduce (1) the pain score associated with removal of a femoral
      catheter after PCI, (2) the behavioural responses of discomfort associated with removal of a
      femoral catheter after PCI and (3) the incidence of adverse reactions associated with removal
      of a femoral catheter after PCI.
    
  