
    
      Based on a large number of studies conducted in pre-clinical models of muscular dystrophy and
      heart failure, this study is being undertaken to explore the safety and efficacy of
      Carmeseal-MD™ (P-188 NF) on endpoints associated with cardiovascular, pulmonary and
      musculoskeletal function. These preclinical studies indicate that Carmeseal-MD™ acts to
      stabilize fragile cell membranes thus maintaining cell function and preventing fibrosis,
      necrosis and apoptosis in animal models of muscular dystrophy.

      This is a single arm, open label trial that is designed to provide a first evaluation of
      Carmeseal-MD™ in non-ambulatory patients with DMD. It assigns up to ten (10) patients to
      receive a fixed dose of 5 mg of P-188 NF per Kg patient body weight (adjusted individually
      for each patient at baseline visit) injected subcutaneously once-a-day for 52 weeks. The
      first 3 enrolled subjects (Group 1) will be at least 18 years of age and up to 25 years of
      age. Enrollment of Group 2 will begin after a review of Group 1 safety data through 28 days
      of dosing of Carmeseal-MD™. Group 2 will include subjects that are at least 12 years of age
      and up to 25 years old. Evaluations will be for Carmeseal-MD™ administered in addition to the
      current standard of care therapies and interventions such as corticosteroids, ACE inhibitors,
      ARBs, beta blockers, bronchodilator medications and airway clearance, cough assist and
      non-invasive ventilation devices.

      The major hypothesis for the trial is that measures of function of skeletal and cardiac
      muscle that decline over the course of the disease will either remain stable or improve with
      P-188 NF treatment when a decline would be expected. To assess these possible beneficial
      effects, comparisons are planned between pre- and post-treatment on measures of function for
      the various body systems affected by DMD.
    
  