
    
      Proton beams can be used to deliver a high dose of radiation to the treatment area while
      sparing surrounding normal tissues. Capecitabine is a drug that interferes with the growth of
      cancer cells.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have what are called "screening
      tests." These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this
      study. You will have a complete physical exam. Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for
      routine tests. Urine will be collected for routine tests. Chest x-rays and computed
      tomography (CT) scans of the abdomen (stomach area) and pelvis will be done. Women who are
      able to have children must have a negative blood or urine pregnancy test.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive radiation
      therapy 1 time a day, for 5 days in a row (Monday-Friday) for 6 -7 weeks (30-35 treatments in
      all). You will take the chemotherapy drug, capecitabine, by mouth 2 times a day, at morning
      and night, on each of the days that you receive radiation therapy. These pills will not be
      taken on Saturday or Sunday. These pills should be taken within 30 minutes of eating and with
      a full glass of water.

      During the study, every week you will have a physical exam and blood (about 2 teaspoons) will
      be drawn to check for side effects from chemotherapy and radiation therapy. You will be asked
      about any side effects you are experiencing.

      You will be evaluated by a surgeon 4-6 weeks after the completion of treatment. Those with
      tumors that can be surgically removed will have surgery to remove the tumor 6-8 weeks after
      completion of treatment, as they would for the standard of care for their disease.

      You will be taken off study if the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      Two (2) weeks after completing radiation therapy, you will have a follow-up visit. At this
      visit, you will have a physical exam. Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be collected for routine
      tests. You will be asked about any side effects you are experiencing. Six (6) weeks after
      completing radiation therapy, you will have a follow-up visit. At this visit, you will have a
      physical exam, chest x-ray, and CT scan of your abdomen and pelvis. Blood (about 2 teaspoons)
      and urine will be collected for routine tests. You will be asked about any side effects you
      are experiencing.

      After finishing treatment, you will have a follow-up visit every 3 months for the first 2
      years, and every 6 months after that. At each visit, you will have a physical exam. Blood
      (about 2 teaspoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests. You will have a chest
      x-ray and CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis. You will be asked about any side effects you are
      experiencing.

      One (1) year after you finish treatment, you will also have a colonoscopy or sigmoidoscopy.
      You will receive a separate consent for these procedures.

      After participation in the study is over, you will have follow-up evaluation as needed for
      standard of care.

      This is an investigational study. Capecitabine is FDA approved for treating colon cancer
      after surgery, and for treating metastatic colorectal cancer. The use of capecitabine with
      proton beam therapy in this study is investigational. About 50 patients will take part in
      this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  