
    
      The question of lymph node sampling and/or involvement in pulmonary metastasectomy remains
      controversial. The performance of lymph node dissection during pulmonary metastasectomy is
      infrequent and varies between institutions. Of all the patients in The International Registry
      of Lung Metastases only 4,6% of patients underwent lymph node dissection. In a recent survey
      by Internullo and colleagues amongst the members of European Society of Thoracic Surgeons 55%
      perform mediastinal lymph node sampling whereas 33% perform no nodal sampling at all. The
      rate of lymph node involvement varies between primary tumours.

      Several studies from groups that systematically perform mediastinal lymph node dissection in
      conjunction with pulmonary metastasectomy have been published and in all studies the presence
      of lymph node metastasis emerges as an ominous prognostic factor. Ercan and colleagues found
      a 3-year survival of 69% for patients without lymph node involvement versus 38% in patients
      with positive lymph nodes. Saito and colleagues reported a 5-year survival of 53,6 for
      patients without hilar or mediastinal node involvement versus 6,2% at 4 years for patients
      with positive nodes. Bölükbas and colleagues reported a 5-year survival of 59% for patients
      without lymph node involvement in contrast to 23% for patients with lymph node involvement.

      The rate of lymph node involvement is reported between 20-43% and risk factors for lymph node
      involvement include 2 or more metastases, prior liver metastases, rectum cancer and size of
      metastases .

      Most of the above mentioned authors are in favor of mediastinal lymphadenectomy but also
      stress that the evidence available is not solid enough to make firm recommendations. In
      conclusion the literature is quite limited and of low-level evidence.

      In remains unclear whether the complete removal of mediastinal lymph nodes is associated with
      a survival benefit or merely allows for a more accurate postoperative staging and guidance
      for additional oncological treatment. Thus, the aim of the following proposed study is to
      examine whether or not systemic lymph node dissection during pulmonary metastasectomy is
      associated with a survival benefit.

      Hypothesis:

        1. Systemic mediastinal lymphadenectomy during pulmonary metastasectomy with curative
           intent for colorectal carcinoma (CRC) is feasible and safe.

        2. Systemic mediastinal lymphadenectomy during pulmonary metastasectomy with curative
           intent for CRC is associated with improved survival compared to only pulmonary
           metastasectomy.

      Design:

      Prospective, randomized, controlled trial. No lymph node dissection versus systemic
      mediastinal lymph node dissection with en-bloc resection of lymph nodes and fatty tissue in
      station 2,4,7,8, 9 and 10 on the right side and 5,6,7,8, 9 and 10 on the left side during
      pulmonary metastasectomy for CRC.
    
  