
    
      Post-operative nausea and vomiting (PONV) is one of the most frequent and distressing
      complications of anesthesia. Patients often rate that PONV is worse than postoperative pain.
      PONV alone is one of the leading causes for delayed discharge and unpleasant experiments.
      Although PONV is not always life-threatening, persistent cases can result in dehydration,
      esophageal rupture, aspiration and potential death. The massive ingested blood and the
      additional issue of an altered diet (full liquids) due to a short period of jaw
      immobilization may be associated with a higher prevalence of PONV after orthognathic
      surgeries.

      Although most of antiemetic drugs can help prevent PONV, they cannot preclude vomiting
      resulting from irritating gastrointestinal stimuli such as blood in the stomach. Pharyngeal
      packs are thought to prevent the ingestion and aspiration of blood, cartilage and bone
      fragments during oral and maxillofacial surgeries. Whether pharyngeal packs can reduce the
      incidence of PONV is controversial. It is reported that pharyngeal packs are recommended for
      the purpose of preventing PONV in nasal surgeries. However, some authors suggest that
      pharyngeal packs have no impact on PONV or the prevalence of PONV is doubled during routine
      nasal surgeries. However, the population size in these studies is relatively small and the
      trials have significant methodological weakness. None of these trials totally addressed the
      issue of the pharyngeal packs on the PONV following nasal surgeries. Moreover, these studies
      include different types of nasal surgeries, not all of which can be assumed to have
      equivalent bleeding potential.

      Orthognathic surgeries performed maxillary and mandibular osteotomies and are assumed to
      involve massive blood loss. Orofacial swelling and swallowing blood is common in the early
      postoperative period after orthognathic surgeries. Whether pharyngeal packs can reduce the
      swallowing blood and PONV is unknown. Thus, The objective of this study is to determine
      whether pharyngeal packs can reduce nausea and vomiting in patients undergoing orthognathic
      surgery.
    
  