
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the false negative rate of PET/CT and/or sentinel lymph node mapping in the
      detection of positive lymph nodes in women with high risk endometrial cancers.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative
      predictive value of PET/CT and/or sentinel lymph node mapping in the detection of positive
      lymph nodes in women with high risk endometrial cancer.

      II. To determine if a molecular panel of estrogen-induced genes that we have previously
      identified from retrospective studies correlate with extra-uterine spread including lymph
      node metastasis at the time of surgical staging for endometrial cancer.

      III. To prospectively identify patterns of lymphatic spread of endometrial cancer.

      IV. To correlate cancer antigen 125 (CA-125) and WAP four-disulfide core domain 2 (HE4)
      levels with disease metastasis at the time of surgical staging and to explore the use of
      other serum biomarkers to predict recurrence.

      V. To prospectively collect morbidity and mortality data related to performing lymph node
      dissection including intra-operative and postoperative complications.

      VI. To determine whether metabolic parameters of the primary endometrial tumor on PET
      including tumor intensity (maximum standard uptake value [SUV] and peak SUV), metabolic tumor
      volume (obtained at a threshold of 40% of maximum and at a threshold of SUV=3), and total
      lesion glycolysis (expressed average SUV over the metabolic tumor volume) are predictive of
      locoregional or metastatic spread, and whether these parameters correlate with CA-125 and HE4
      levels.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo PET/CT prior to surgery. Patients then undergo intraoperative lymph node
      mapping with indocyanine green solution, given via superficial and deep cervical injection
      during full lymphadenectomy.
    
  