
    
      Objectives:

      The primary objective is to assess if there is disruption of circadian DA rhythms in cocaine
      addiction. The secondary objective is to assess if dopamine modulates the sensitivity of the
      brain reward network in a circadian dependent manner.

      Study Population:

      Non-treatment seeking cocaine abusers (moderate or severe cocaine use disorder as per DSM-IV
      or DSM 5) and healthy controls. Males and females will be included.

      Design:

      Participants will undergo two PET scans with [11C]raclopride using a bolus infusion paradigm
      to assess baseline D2R availability followed by an infusion to assess changes in DA as
      measured by [11C]raclopride s displacement following an intravenous injection of
      methylphenidate (MP). They will also undergo a total of 4 MRI scans, two after placebo and
      two after MP to assess the circadian variations in the sensitivity of the brain reward
      network. The two [11C]raclopride scans will be done on separate days at least one week apart,
      one in the morning starting between (7-9 AM) and one in the early evening (5-7 PM) and they
      will be followed by an MRI scan to assess the sensitivity of the brain reward network under
      the influence of MP in the morning (9-11AM) and in the evening (7-9 PM). For the Placebo MRI
      scans participants will be tested either on separate days or on the morning of the evening
      session or on the evening prior to the morning session. We will use the MRI scans to assess
      the sensitivity of the brain reward circuit to visual presentation of drug or food cues and
      to evaluate resting functional connectivity.

      Outcome Parameters:

      Main outcome measure is to assess if there are differences in DA release between the morning
      and the evening (displacement of [11C]raclopride binding after MP) and to determine if these
      diurnal patterns differ in cocaine addiction. Secondary outcome measures are: To assess if DA
      signaling correlates with reactivity of brain regions to exposure of food and drug cues and
      with functional connectivity of the reward network and to assess if the reactivity of the
      reward network shows circadian variability. We will also assess if differences in DA
      signaling between morning and evening correlate with circadian typology and with measures of
      spontaneous motor activity and with sleeping patterns.
    
  