
    
      The HINTS test (Head Impulse, Nystagmus, Test of Skew) is a clinical test composed of 3
      oculomotor examinations: the search for high frequency vestibulo-ocular reflex during a
      passive impulse of the head (Head Impulse test), the detection of a spontaneous nystagmus and
      a vertical divergence. It has been developed to evaluate patients with AVS defined as vertigo
      or acute and persistent dizziness sometimes accompanied by nausea or vomiting, and/or gait
      instability, and/or nystagmus, and/or intolerance to head movements. This time saving is
      important, as a complete neurological examination usually takes between 10 and 15 minutes.
      The presence of at least one of the three items of central locator value is sufficient to
      diagnose a central cause of AVS, including normal early brain imaging. Some studies suggest
      that absence of these three criteria does not require an emergency neuroimaging examination
      and allows ambulatory management of the patient, in search of a peripheral cause of the ENT
      sphere.

      The STANDING clinical algorithm (SponTAneous, Nystagmus, Direction, head Impulse test,
      STANDING) was proposed by Vanni in 2015 for diagnosis of the AVS central causes in
      emergencies in a one-year prospective Italian monocentric study. The STANDING algorithm
      consists of clinical elements that can be evaluated in about 10 minutes at the patient's
      bedside: two oculomotor examinations (Head Impulse Test and detection of a nystagmus),
      detection of ataxia and practice of release maneuvers.

      Currently, the patient management with isolated AVS in the emergency room lacks an ideal
      diagnostic clinical test: efficient, non-invasive, inexpensive and painless.

      The investigators would like to know what diagnostic performance of the HINTS test
      (sensitivity and specificity) is when it is performed by emergency physicians on a population
      of patients with isolated AVS in emergency room. They can thus either be part of non-urgent
      outpatient care in the event of suspicion of a peripheral cause of the ENT sphere, or part of
      rapid and aggressive inpatient neurological care in the event of suspicion of a central
      cerebral cause.
    
  