
    
      Renal dysfunction in patients who also suffer from end stage liver disease is associated with
      increased morbidity and mortality comparted to patients suffering from liver disease alone.
      If frank renal failure develops in a patient with cirrhosis and ascites, the median survival
      time from onset of renal failure is approximately 2 weeks. Kidney dysfunction may be
      transient, secondary to pooling of blood in the splanchnic bed and consequent reduction in
      renal blood flow. In this instance, liver transplantation and restoration of normal
      circulatory patterns will result in return of normal renal function.

      Currently, there is no diagnostic test to differentiate between temporary and permanent renal
      dysfunction in the presence of end stage liver disease. As a result, the number of combined
      liver-kidney transplant occuring has steadily increased. Slightly more than 20%(8 of 38) of
      the liver transplants performed by our service in 2004 have been combined liver-kidney
      transplants. The double procedure increases the length of anesthesia exposure and surgical
      time, and the presence of the transplanted kidney may require increased immunosuppression in
      comparison to a liver-only transplant.

      We plan to examine the role of angiogenic factors in the abnormal blood flow patterns known
      to be associated with hepatorenal syndrome.

      Specimen analysis: Circulating levels of cytokines and growth factors will be measured using
      commercially available ELISAs. Matrix metalloproteins will be measured by quantitative
      electrophoresis.

      Expression of A20 will be determined by extraction of total RNA from whole blood using Trizol
      and run in standard Northern blot methodology. RNA will by hybridized with [³²P]-dATP labeled
      A20 probes and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase(GAPDH) or β-actin probes to correct
      for uneven loading. Similar RNA extraction will be performed on liver tissue obtained at time
      of surgery. Microarray analysis will be performed on the extract to identify specific genes
      that may be involved in the pathogenesis of HRS.

      Results of laboratory analyses will be correlated with clinical parameters and attempts will
      be made to identify specific cytokines or up-regulated genes with particular phases or degree
      or renal dysfunction in patients with liver disease. Similar analyses will be performed in
      patients with other types of hepatic disease.
    
  