
    
      Transcranial direct current stimulation is a non-invasive neuromodulation technique that has
      been the subject of many recent investigations. There is a growing body of evidence to
      suggest that tDCS can enhance the efficacy of various therapies. However, progress in the
      field is slow: many studies suffer from reproducibility issues, or highly variable results,
      including stroke rehabilitation. It is feasible that much of the variance in experimental
      results can be explained by an inability to quantitatively track individual responses to tDCS
      in real-time, and personalize stimulation parameters for maximum effect.

      Monitoring the brain via EEG while tDCS is being administered is a potential pathway to
      determine neurophysiological markers capable of forecasting the intensity of a subject's
      response to tDCS. This research has not previously been attempted due to technical
      difficulties- namely, the electromagnetic interference that is associated with tDCS degrades
      EEG signal quality. Recent advances in electrode and amplification technology have made it
      possible to make EEG recordings simultaneously with tDCS.

      The investigators will attempt to determine whether specific EEG signatures can indicate the
      magnitude of a tDCS response. Subjects will receive either real or sham anodal tDCS to the
      hand representation of their left primary motor cortex.

      The efficacy of the tDCS protocol will be quantitatively determined using transcranial
      magnetic stimulation (TMS) to generate a motor-evoked potential (MEP) in the hand pre- and
      post-tDCS. Additionally, prior to, during, and following the tDCS protocol, we will record
      EEG event-related potentials (ERPs) in response to a finger-tapping (motor) task.

      The investigators aim to draw a correlation between the magnitude of MEP changes and pre- and
      post-tDCS and changes in recorded ERPs before, during and after tDCS in order to quantify the
      response to tDCS over the motor cortex. If EEG metrics can be used to gauge efficacy in
      real-time during tDCS administration, the investigators will gain significant insight into
      how to appropriately and quantitatively individualize tDCS dosage parameters for each
      patient.
    
  