
    
      Background

      Canagliflozin is a new oral drug for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), and is
      one of four recently FDA approved sodium glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors, which
      target renal glucose reabsorption and offer promising improvement in HbA1c. In the approval
      process, the FDA Advisory Committee reviewed data suggesting that canagliflozin increased the
      incidence of fractures. In addition, the drug induced changes in phosphate, bone resorption
      markers, parathyroid hormone (PTH) and vitamin D metabolism which might mediate the adverse
      changes in bone homeostasis. For a variety of reasons, the data on bone fracture risk are
      relatively limited. First, the drug s development program was focused primarily on
      demonstrating efficacy, and bone fractures were only one of many safety end-points which were
      monitored. Second, only a minority of patients (approximately 1%) experienced bone fractures
      in the course of the development program. Finally, there appears to be a lag time prior to
      the time increased bone resorption translates into a significant increase in the rate of bone
      fractures. We hypothesize that this class of drugs causes a cascade of hormonal changes
      induced by increased phosphorus reabsorption that leads to significant changes in fibroblast
      growth factor 23 (FGF23), PTH, and vitamin D metabolism which ultimately increase fracture
      risk.

      Aim

      The primary endpoint is to determine the effects of canagliflozin on bone health by
      evaluating changes in the area under the curve (AUC) of FGF23 during the first 24-72 hours.
      Secondary endpoints include the evaluation of canagliflozin on other biochemical parameters
      in the early phase (1 week) of drug administration during which we hypothesize a new steady
      state will be reached related to bone metabolism including PTH, 1,25 vitamin D, tubular
      reabsorption of phosphate (TRP), and carboxy-terminal telopeptide (CTX).

      Methods

      A randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled cross-over pilot study of healthy volunteers age 18
      years and older with a BMI of 20 - 30 kg/m2.

      Patients will be randomized to canagliflozin (300mg once daily) or placebo for 5 days and
      will be studied as inpatients (NIH Clinical Center metabolic unit). Serial blood and urine
      testing for 4 hours after daily drug administration and at 12 and 24 hours thereafter will be
      used to assess changes in the pre-specified endpoints. Each subject will be provided a diet
      containing fixed contents of phosphate, sodium, and calcium throughout the study, beginning 7
      days prior to the administration of drug (or placebo).
    
  