
    
      Although colorectal cancer (CRC) is preventable and curable if detected early, a large
      portion of the population is not current with screening recommendations. Many unscreened
      individuals 50 years of age and older do not receive health care system prompts to promote
      adherence to test preparation or completion. This study will assess the efficacy of a novel
      prompting intervention based on the concept of "implementation intentions". The intervention
      will be delivered through a partnership between patients, rural primary care physicians, and
      trained CRC information specialists (CRC-IS) and will focus on the 'recalcitrant' primary
      care population. A randomized design will test a comparison condition of a "no-partnership"
      system with generic information versus a "partnership" intervention system that specifically
      addresses each participants' CRC screening "implementation intentions" (the "when," "where"
      and "how" screening details). The study will be conducted with 600 patients eligible for CRC
      screening and recruited while presenting for care in a set of Research Network affiliated
      primary care clinics, or patient contact information gathered from in-house chart reviews.
      All participants who are not up-to-date on CRC screening, or not at high risk for CRC, will
      receive a baseline tablet PC-administered CRC assessment, or a letter of invitation from
      their PC physician to go online to the Healthy Living Kansas patient portal to complete the
      assessment. Completion of CRC screening at 60 days post index visit will be assessed through
      follow-up phone calls. Those not completing CRC screening after taking the assessment,(i.e.,
      recalcitrant participants) then will be randomized to either C (comparison
      group-"no-partnership") or CPI2 (active intervention-CRC-IS/ physician/patient partnership
      and implementation intentions-based communication concepts). Physicians will receive
      informational fax sheets summarizing all participant phone calls. A 120-day post
      randomization follow-up telephone call will assess the effects of implementation intentions
      communications and perceived CRC screening barriers encountered. The primary outcome will be
      CRC screening adherence at 120 days. Secondary outcomes will assess 120-day perceived
      barriers and advancement in screening decisional stage. This intervention will provide
      information on the utility of embedding an "implementation intentions" based behavioral
      intervention for promoting CRC screening among initially non-adherent primary care patients.
    
  