
    
      Although motor imagery (MI) has not yet been researched in the field of swallowing
      rehabilitation, the potential benefit is far reaching. Difficulty swallowing, or dysphagia,
      can occur in people who have a history of stroke, head injury, neurological disease (such as
      Parkinson's disease, ALS, etc.), and head/neck cancer. A person with dysphagia may have
      difficulty eating everyday foods and may require an altered diet, such as tube feedings or
      pureed foods. Because of this, having dysphagia is often associated with increased feelings
      of isolation and depression. Speech-language pathologists work with people with dysphagia to
      rehabilitate their swallow, with the goal of reducing their risk of choking and improving
      their ability to eat normal foods. The use of MI as a way to augment dysphagia rehabilitation
      has implications for patients who aren't safe to have any food by mouth as well as those who
      fatigue easily.

      This research study is a six-week treatment pilot study to determine the effect of motor
      imagery for tongue strengthening exercises on measures of tongue strength and swallowing
      pressure in typically aging older adults. Typically-aging older adults represent a group "at
      risk" for dysphagia secondary to sarcopenia of striated musculature important to swallowing.
      Participants at all study sites will be randomly selected into one of four groups: 1) placebo
      (active jaw open against resistance/close against resistance/lateralize/protrusion exercises
      with relaxation exercises), 2) active tongue exercises against resistance only, 3) active
      tongue exercises against resistance + motor imagery of tongue exercises against resistance,
      and 4) motor imagery of tongue exercises against resistance only. In some participants the
      investigators will also determine cortical activation patterns differences during motor
      execution and motor imagery of tongue exercises between the groups using near-infrared
      spectroscopy. The results of this study will inform refinement/further development of the
      mental practice protocol to use with patients with dysphagia in future studies.

      The research questions are as follows:

        1. Does a 6 week treatment of motor imagery tongue exercises with or without active tongue
           exercise improve tongue strength in healthy older adults compared to a 6 week treatment
           of placebo exercises and 6 week treatment of active tongue strengthening exercises?

        2. Does a 6 week treatment of motor imagery tongue exercises with or without active tongue
           exercise improve swallowing pressures in healthy older adults compared to a 6 week
           treatment of placebo exercises and 6 week treatment of active tongue strengthening
           exercises?

        3. Does a 6 week treatment of motor imagery tongue exercises with or without active tongue
           exercise alter cortical hemodynamic response patterns in healthy older adults compared
           to a 6 week treatment of placebo exercises and 6 week treatment of active tongue
           strengthening exercises? (JMU participants only).

      The investigators hypothesize, based on previous research, that the group receiving both
      active and MI treatment will make the most gains in all three measures, followed by the
      active only group, then the MI only group, then the placebo group (control).
    
  