
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        1. To determine if the perioperative PET/CT imaging (consisting of preoperative PET/CT
           imaging, specimen PET/CT imaging, and postoperative PET/CT imaging) combined with
           intraoperative use of the handheld gamma probe is feasible during a surgical procedure
           to resect malignancy.

        2. To evaluate if perioperative PET/CT imaging can assist in intraoperatively localizing
           tumor and verify complete resection of disease.

        3. To evaluate intraoperative detection of tumor sites using a handheld gamma probe after
           preoperative injection of 18F-FDG combined with preoperative PET/CT imaging.

        4. To evaluate specimen PET/CT imaging using the preoperative 18F-FDG dose for detecting
           presence of tumor within the specimen and for assessing surgical margins.

        5. To evaluate specimen MRI imaging for detecting presence of tumor within remnant tissue
           of appropriately selected resected specimens and for assessing surgical margins.

        6. To evaluate standard pathology sampling with image guided pathology sampling (using
           specimen PET/CT imaging) in order to determine if sensitivity and accuracy of pathologic
           evaluation may be improved with PET/CT image guidance.

        7. To compare activity of surgical specimen samples in a well counter and correlate
           activity with pathologic findings and tumor burden in order to determine if the concepts
           in the previous two specific aims can be utilized to benefit patients treated at centers
           without access to PET/CT imaging equipment.

      OUTLINE: Patients undergo pre- and postoperative fludeoxyglucose F 18 (^18FDG) PET/CT
      imaging. An intraoperative handheld gamma probe is used to detect ^18FDG-avid tissues.
      Resected specimens are assessed by ^18FDG PET imaging for intraoperative verification of
      complete tumor resection.
    
  