
    
      Mechanical complications must be carefully searched for in any patient with an acute coronary
      syndrome and signs of cardiogenic shock, as prompt diagnosis and immediate surgery often
      represent the only effective treatment for such ominous conditions.

      The management of patients with postinfarction mechanical complications requires the
      consideration of several factors: (i) the extremely poor prognosis without surgical
      treatment; (ii) the higher mortality risk associated with emergency surgery; (iii) the
      potential rapid deterioration of initially stable patients.

      Data from the Society of Thoracic Surgeons National Database demonstrated an average 43%
      in-hospital/30-day mortality for surgical treatment of ventricular septal rupture. Data from
      the same registry on papillary muscle rupture showed a 30-day mortality of 20%. Matteucci et
      al. recently reported a 36.4% mortality rate for free wall rupture from the large CAUTION
      multicenter study.

      Given the low incidence of these post-AMI mechanical complications, evidence-based
      therapeutic strategies remain controversial, and little is known on the early clinical
      results and late follow-up, with most information derived from small single-center
      experiences or national registries.

      Therefore, we started the "Mechanical complications of acute myocardial infarction: an
      international multicenter cohort study" - (Caution Study 1), a retrospective, international
      multicenter clinical trial aimed at evaluating the survival, postoperative outcome and
      quality of life of patients undergone cardiac surgery for post-infarction mechanical
      complications starting from 2001.

      The ongoing COVID-19 pandemics, however, has put an overwhelming pressure on the healthcare
      systems of many European countries. Such a situation has potentially led to delayed and
      impaired access to appropriate treatment for patients affected by other severe,
      non-COVID-19-related conditions, including cardiovascular diseases. This resulted in a
      reported lower admission, but higher mortality rate for AMI patients.This situation might be
      explained by many factors, including unavailability of early reperfusion therapy and late
      hospital presentation of AMI patients due to a general anxiety related to the COVID-19
      contagious risk of the hospital environment. As a matter of fact, during this year of
      pandemics, several case reports suggested a new, significant surge of post-AMI mechanical
      complications, sometimes describing patients admitted in too severe conditions to consider
      surgical repair a viable option, and therefore inevitably undergone an unfavorable outcome.

      Therefore, we decided to involve the large network of European centers already participating
      to the "Caution Study 1", in order to study the impact of COVID-19 pandemics on the outcomes,
      incidence and treatments of post-AMI mechanical complications.

      "Mechanical complications of acute myocardial infarction: an international multicenter cohort
      study during COVID-19 pandemics" is a retrospective, international multicenter clinical trial
      aimed at evaluating the trend of incidence, types of treatment and survival of patients
      admitted to hospital with a diagnosis of post-infarction mechanical complications.
    
  