
    
      80 adults between the ages of 20 and 60 years and with a BMI ≥ 23 kg/m2 was initially
      enrolled. The subjects had not taken any supplements or medications, including anti-diabetic
      drugs, anti-hypertensive drugs, steroids, or hormonal products, during the previous 4 weeks.

      This study had a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind controlled design. Each subject
      was randomized to either the Intervention group or the Control group. The subjects in the
      Intervention group were administered with 4 capsules (2 g) each of powdered red ginseng
      (6-year old , rootlets) 40 minutes before breakfast, lunch and dinner, totaling 12 capsules
      (6 g) per day, for 12 weeks. The subjects in the Control group were given the same quantity
      of placebos also three times a day for 12 weeks.

      Blood samples after a 12-h fast were taken at baseline and 12 weeks after randomization.
      Blood samples were taken after at least 8 hours of fasting for general blood test,
      biochemical test and lipid test. Each subject's diet was monitored by a semi-quantitative FFQ
      at baseline and after 12 weeks. Participants were asked to report the frequency of
      consumption of 53 food items contained in the semi-quantitative FFQ over the 2 weeks prior to
      administration by an experienced dietitian. Excessive drinking was defined according to the
      guidelines of the National Institute Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism when more than 14 glasses
      (alcohol 196 g) are consumed for male and 7 glasses (alcohol 98 g) for female. Physical
      activity was assessed using the International Physical Activity Questionnaire at baseline and
      after 12 weeks. We expressed physical activity levels as MET-minute. METs are multiples of
      the resting metabolic rates. A MET-minute is computed by multiplying the MET score of an
      activity by the minutes performed. MET-minute scores are equivalent to kilocalories for a 60
      kilogram person.
    
  