
    
      Specific Aim 1. To quantify the risk of kidney damage and the relationship to particulate
      matter exposure among first responders to the WTC attack.

      Urine samples will be collected on 2 occasions for albumin and creatinine. The investigators
      will define clinically relevant albuminuria as a UACR ≥30 mg/g. If, as hypothesized, the
      investigators find that albuminuria is more common among WTC responders, this simple and
      non-invasive measure may be useful in monitoring programs to identify responders at increased
      risk for adverse outcomes. eGFR will be calculated using the Chronic Kidney Disease
      Epidemiology Consortium (CKD-EPI) equations.

      Specific Aim 2. To examine the relationship between kidney damage and cardiac structure and
      function among first responders to the WTC attack.

      Cardiovascular Disease Risk Screening In order to identify an independent relationship
      between CKD and cardiac dysfunction, the investigators will comprehensively evaluate
      potential confounders. Participants will undergo an evaluation of traditional CVD risk
      factors as accounted for in both the Framingham Risk Score and Reynold's score (medical
      history, medication use and baseline risk for CVD: smoking status, family history of
      premature coronary disease, blood pressure, heart rate, height, weight, waist, hip and neck
      circumference). Laboratory evaluation will include: lipid panel, complete blood count, HbA1C,
      serum creatinine and cystatin C. Standard questionnaires on chest pain, shortness of breath,
      depression, sleep apnea and stress, IPSS.

      Specific Aim 3. To explore potential mechanisms for kidney and cardiovascular damage among
      first responders to the WTC attack.

      An established marker of systemic inflammation, serum hsCRP, will be measured in all
      participants. Flow-mediated dilatation, a validated non-invasive measure of endothelial
      function, will be measured in a subgroup of participants. Heavy metal assays will be
      performed and will be compared between participants with and without evidence of kidney
      damage (albuminuria or decreased eGFR) or proximal tubular dysfunction.
    
  