
    
      Korea is entering an post-aged society with an increase in single-person households, and as
      the average life expectancy increases, the increase in the population exposed to chronic
      metabolic diseases requires basic dietary solutions for life seeking physical, mental and
      social well-being. As a result of a survey conducted by the Korean Health Insurance
      Corporation (2010), medical expenses for chronic metabolic diseases were estimated at
      15,233.8 billion won, with 54.3% of adults with chronic diseases, 68.7% in their 50s, 83.7%
      in their 60s, and 91.3% in their 70s or older. This trend continues to increase, resulting in
      an increasing social burden. Our researchers focused on functional lipids which provide
      specific health benefits when ingested to prevent these chronic diseases. Omega 3 is an
      essential fatty acid that can not be synthesized in the body, maintaining the structure of
      cells in the human body, helping smooth metabolism. It also inhibits the aggregation of
      platelets and lowers the risk of coronary artery or cardiovascular disease by lowering the
      level of neutrality, it has been reported to have an inflammatory mitigation effect. Omega 6
      has been reported to cause increased inflammation and ulticaria, asthma, cardiovascular
      disease side effects when intake is increased. In this context, the recommended ratio of
      omega 3 and omega 6 is reported to be within 1:4.

      A diet of which omega-3 to omega-6 ratio is below 1:4 was developed by Agricultural entity
      Green Grass Co., Ltd. for prevention of sarcopenia and chronic metabolic disease.

      Subjects assigned to the test group receive a total of 4 weeks HMR medifood and consume a
      regular diet for the next four weeks after having a wash-out period for a total of two weeks.
      On the other hand, subjects assigned to the control group would be able to consume a regular
      diet for the first four weeks and take HMR medifood for the next four weeks after having a
      two-week wash-out period.
    
  