
    
      Background: Colonoscopy is not a perfect test. It misses a substantial number of neoplastic
      lesions and has some risk of missing cancer. Nearly all work on detection during colonoscopy
      has focused on the withdrawal phase of the examination. Thus, colonoscopy is typically
      performed by rapidly passing the instrument through the loops and bends of the colon in order
      to reach the tip of the cecum, and then performing a slow withdrawal in which the tip of the
      instrument is systematically deflected, and the mucosa is careful cleaned and suctioned, to
      expose all of the colonic mucosa for viewing.

      Many experienced colonoscopists recognize that small polyps seen incidentally but not removed
      during insertion are sometimes quite difficult to find during withdrawal. The reason for this
      observation is probably because the colon is in a very different anatomical conformation
      during endoscope insertion and withdrawal. During insertion, the colon is in its natural
      conformation in which the sigmoid and transverse colon has several sharp bends or flexures,
      and the overall length has not yet been shortened. In this phase, the colon is often
      significantly stretched because of the formation of loops and bends in the colonoscope. This
      greatly affects the conformation of the colonic wall visualized proximal to the instrument
      tip. During withdrawal, the colon is shortened and pleated over the colonoscope, with
      successive regions of the colon being inspected as they slip off the end of the instrument.
      Thus, segments of visualized colon are often much straighter during withdrawal than during
      insertion. The insertion and withdrawal phases, therefore, expose somewhat different sections
      of the mucosal surface to the colonoscope and inspection on insertion and withdrawal are,
      quite possibly, complementary.

      Aims: This randomized, controlled trial will compare the additional effect on the rate of
      adenoma detection of mucosal inspection during colonoscope insertion, with inspection during
      instrument withdrawal, in patients undergoing colonoscopy for colorectal cancer screening or
      surveillance.

      Study procedure: In this study, we plan to investigate whether a specified interval of
      inspection during insertion can increase overall adenoma detection. We will conduct a
      randomized controlled trial, in which patients will be randomized to have all of the
      inspection performed during the withdrawal phase (as is usual care) versus having several
      minutes of examination specifically devoted to inspection during insertion.
    
  