
    
      Participants assigned to the intervention group will receive a high-intensity spinal
      strengthening group exercise program for 1 hour twice per week for 12 weeks, with home
      practice. The exercise program is outlined below in Table 2. The participants assigned to the
      control group will be receive usual care and be enrolled in a waitlist group. A physical
      therapist will teach the high-intensity spine strengthening exercise intervention sessions.
      Additionally, physical therapy graduate students will attend all exercise sessions to help
      ensure the safety of all participants and maintain a ratio of no more than five participants
      to one teacher. Participants in the control group will crossover to the spinal strengthening
      exercise group after 12 weeks and receive the intervention for 12 weeks.

      All potential participants will be screened initially with a medical screening exam, and
      their primary care provider will be contacted by the study physician for approval for study
      participation. The participant will sign the medical release giving their primary care
      provider permission to release medical information to the study physician. The primary
      outcome will be change in Cobb angle of kyphosis over 12 weeks calculated from measurements
      taken from lateral spine radiographs and change in the Physical Performance Test (PPT). The
      investigators will also assess the effect of the exercise intervention on the secondary
      outcomes of physical function, strength and quality of life. The investigators will also use
      dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) to determine bone mineral density before the study
      intervention. Study participants will receive an actigraph to measure physical activity
      throughout the study.

      For participants in the control group who crossover to the exercise intervention group at 12
      weeks will receive an additional lateral spine radiograph at the end of the intervention.

      Both groups will receive a copy of the study exercise DVD at the end of the study.

      Table 2. Exercise Intervention Exercises Spinal strengthening exercises (20 mins)10-12
      repetitions at 70-80% 1RM Progress from 0 - 5# or theraband Spinal mobility exercises (10
      mins) Passive 30 second hold Warm-up (10 mins) Increase core temperature with aerobic warm-up
      on bike/treadmill Prone trunk lift to neutral Spine mobilization on roller Quadruped arm/leg
      lift Standing shoulder flexion/thoracic extension Cool-down (5 mins) Bilateral latissimus
      pull-down on roller Quadruped thoracic extension mobilization Neck and upper extremity
      stretches Sidelying rotation and extension Spinal alignment (15 mins) Transversus abdominous
      strengthening Training in bilateral and single leg stance Lower extremity stretches Wall
      push-ups with spine in neutral Training sit-to stand, squats, lunges Diaphragmatic breathing
    
  