
    
      Previous studies have shown that a person with type 1 diabetes is less likely to suffer the
      long term microvascular complications of diabetes (eye, kidney and nerve damage) if they
      strive to achieve as near normal a blood glucose as possible. Unfortunately the tighter the
      blood glucose control is, the more likely the subject is to suffer episodes of hypoglycemia.
      Hypoglycemia is often the aspect of diabetes management most feared by people with diabetes
      and may cause more anxiety than the threat of advanced complications.

      For many people with diabetes the problem of hypoglycemia is compounded by the development of
      the syndrome of hypoglycemia unawareness. One aspect of hypoglycemia unawareness is
      impairment of the hormones normally released as blood glucose falls. Hypoglycemia triggers a
      release of such insulin antagonists as epinephrine, norepinephrine, glucagon, growth hormone
      and cortisol. These hormones act synergistically with the autonomic nervous system to raise
      blood glucose, counteracting insulin and restoring normoglycemia. These homeostatic
      mechanisms are also responsible for some of the early symptoms of low blood glucose,
      providing a warning to insulin-treated diabetics as glucose falls. A number of studies
      including research from this unit have established that strict metabolic control is
      associated with impairment of the normal counterregulatory response to hypoglycemia and a
      loss of hypoglycemia awareness.

      The brain is central to the recognition of hypoglycemia and the coordination of the
      counterregulatory response. Neural tissue depends mainly on glucose for its energy supply. As
      circulating glucose falls beneath the level needed to maintain glucose transport across the
      blood-brain barrier, a variety of defense mechanisms are activated, including symptoms of
      cognitive dysfunction. However, the precise nature and causes of the adverse CNS effects of
      hypoglycemia are not well understood.

      Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) provides a tool to measure the effects of
      hypoglycemia on the patterns and magnitudes of neuronal activation in the human brain, in
      both normal and diabetic subjects.
    
  