
    
      Concussion Syndrome (CS) and TBI are common injuries producing temporary and long-term damage
      to impact brain function. Symptoms are sometimes transient, sometimes long-term depending on
      severity and/or repetitive damage. Signs varying from recurrent headaches, mental fog,
      emotional changes to physical signs of loss of consciousness, amnesia to behavioral change
      (irritability, loss of concentration ability, etc.), cognitive impairment (slow reaction
      times, memory loss), and recurring sleep disturbances.

      Common causes include sports injuries, automobile accidents, falls, blunt trauma to head, and
      explosive/blast injuries from production of acceleration injuries

      Treatment often involves monitoring, physical rest, limiting cognitive activities (such as
      computing, video games, texting, and studying). Most often a single episode usually resolve
      or improve (particularly in recurring headaches) within 3-4 weeks. It is estimated that
      >6/1000 occurrence rate apply. Repetitive injuries seem to make the person more susceptible
      to additional damage, particularly with injury precedes resolution of an earlier damage.
      There appears also to make persons to require a lesser impact to produce the same degree of
      severity. It is becoming more recognized that repeated concussions increase the risks in
      later life for dementia, Parkinson's and severe depressions.

      Most serious signs to evaluate are loss of consciousness, seizures, worsening headache,
      diplopia/pupil changes, loss of recognition, vomiting, focal neurological problems, and
      change of personality.

      There is no consensus definition of concussion or TBI. Most concussions are considered in the
      mild TBI (mTBI) group, and are rarely demonstrate structural brain damage when in the acute
      to subacute state. Late brain MRI changes are difficult to clearly point to or identify the
      specific areas of presumed damage.

      This study is intended to examine safety and efficacy of parenteral introduction of AD-cSVF
      in cases of CS and TBI, and categorically examine the outcomes according to the elapsed time
      from original concussive event. No delineation of those having recurrent damage and injuries
      are made within this study.
    
  