
    
      Pediatric renal transplant patients face a lifetime of immunosuppressive therapy that place
      them at high risk for potentially life-threatening infection by primary varicella zoster
      virus (VZV). Treatment for acute episodes of VZV infection is possible but expensive and
      provides no long-term protection. Furthermore, therapy to overcome VZV infections can lead to
      renal graft rejection.

      Varivax has proven safe, immunogenic, and effective in the normal host and has been
      recommended for universal administration in the general population at age 12 months. It is
      not currently labeled for use in immunocompromised patients. However, recent studies in
      pediatric leukemia and pediatric renal transplant patients suggest that attenuated live
      vaccine can confer protection with minimal adverse events even in the presence of
      immunosuppression, providing encouragement for more careful studies of VZV immunization in
      renal transplant patients. This study aims to quantify the safety and immunogenicity of
      Varivax in the population of pediatric renal transplant patients least susceptible to VZV
      infection, i.e., those on minimal maintenance immunosuppression and at least 1 year out from
      transplant.

      Patient enrollment is staged to allow study physicians to closely monitor patients for signs
      of disseminated varicella reactions or graft rejection. Initially only 1 patient will be
      enrolled in the study. If the first patient reaches Week 8 without a severe adverse reaction,
      3 study centers will then enroll 3 additional patients. If 8 weeks later these 3 patients
      have had no severe adverse reactions, the same 3 study centers will enroll 3 more patients.
      At the end of this period, having ascertained the safety of the vaccine in the first 7
      patients, the study will be opened to the remaining centers. Patients receive 2 doses of
      Varivax 6 to 8 weeks apart. Each week for 6 to 8 weeks after the first vaccine dose, the
      patient undergoes venipuncture and clinical assessment to characterize renal graft and liver
      function and identify any signs of varicella infection. Additional telephone follow-up occurs
      on Day 4 and twice weekly thereafter. Parents or guardians monitor the patient for evidence
      of rash or fever and immediately report any rashes or fevers to study physicians. If, after 6
      to 8 weeks, the patient demonstrates no severe reactions to the vaccine and requires no
      antiviral therapy, the patient receives the second vaccine dose. The patient again receives
      weekly on-site and telephone follow-up for 6 weeks. Other visits occur 9 weeks and 14 weeks
      after the second vaccine dose and 1 year after the first vaccine dose. At these visits the
      patient undergoes venipuncture and clinical assessment to identify potential rejection events
      or varicella infection and to characterize VZV antibody responses and cytokine changes in
      response to the vaccine.
    
  