
    
      This trial is taking place in Los Angeles, CA among patients from primary care practices
      within the UCLA Health System, using 2x2x2 factorial design, nested in a parallel 2-arm
      trial.

      Sub-optimal vaccination rates are a significant problem in the U.S., despite their
      effectiveness in preventing morbidity and mortality from vaccine-preventable illness. For
      influenza specifically, annual epidemics of influenza cause substantial morbidity in the U.S.
      with up to 40,00-80,000 deaths/year and many hospitalizations, emergency and outpatient
      visits, and significant costs.

      Reminder/recall (R/R) messages, sent by phone, mail or other modality, can improve child and
      adult influenza vaccination rates. However, the majority of pediatric or adult primary care
      practices to not conduct R/R. Barriers are lack of finances, personnel, and algorithms to
      identify eligible patients.

      A technological breakthrough that might overcome these barriers involves patient portals--
      secure, web-based communication systems, embedded within electronic health records (EHRs),
      for patients and providers to communicate with each other via email and the internet. Portals
      are used by about half of Americans and half of UCLA patients.

      This randomized controlled trial will assess the effectiveness of reminders messages,
      encouraging influenza vaccination, sent to patient portal users on increasing influenza
      vaccination rates within a health system by randomizing patients to two groups: 1) two-thirds
      of patients will receive reminder letters, 2) one-third will not receive reminders.

      Patients in the reminder arm will be further randomized (separately) for three additional
      components: 1) direct appointment scheduling, 2) pre-commitment prompts and 3)
      pre-appointment reminders.

      Direct scheduling: The convenience of scheduling an appointment for influenza vaccination may
      increase the likelihood that patients receive an influenza vaccination. Patients receiving
      reminders will be randomized to receive one of two types of reminder letters: 1) one half
      will receive flu vaccine reminder letters with a link to the MyChart direct appointment
      scheduling page and 2) one half will receive flu vaccine reminder message without the direct
      appointment scheduling link.

      Pre-commitment: Another potential influence on the decision to vaccinate is pre-commitment.
      Previous studies suggest that, upon being prompted, indicating an intention to do something
      increases the likelihood of following through. Patients will be randomized to one of two
      groups: 1) one half will receive pre-commitment prompt at the beginning of influenza
      vaccination season and 2) one half will not receive a pre-commitment prompt. The
      pre-commitment prompt asks whether the patient intends to receive influenza vaccine, and
      where and when they plan to get the vaccine.

      Pre-appointment flu reminders: Finally, a missed opportunities for vaccination occurs when
      patients are eligible for vaccination but are not offered a vaccine at their medical
      appointment. Pre-appointment reminders, sent in advance of an upcoming appointment,
      encouraging the patient talk to their doctor about influenza vaccination, may increase the
      likelihood of that patient receiving a vaccine. Patients will be randomized to one of two
      groups: 1) one half will receive modified pre-appointment reminders that mention influenza
      vaccination and 2) one half will receive the standard pre-appointment reminders for an
      upcoming appointment (no mention of influenza vaccination).
    
  