
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for 70-90% of primary liver cancers, which is the
      third most common cause of death from cancer worldwide; over half a million new cases are
      diagnosed worldwide each year. Hepatic resection has been established as one of the most
      effective and safe therapeutic options for HCC. However, recurrence, particularly metastatic
      recurrence, is one of the major obstacles to long-term survival. Several adjuvant treatments
      have been used to prevent recurrence after surgery, but their effectiveness remains
      controversial. Fluorouracil (FU), an antimetabolite, is a commonly used chemotherapeutic
      agent, with activity in a variety of solid tumors including those of the head and neck,
      breast, prostate, pancreas, liver, and genitourinary and gastrointestinal tracts.
      Capecitabine (Xeloda; Roche), a novel prodrug of 5-FU, is an orally administered
      tumor-selective cytotoxic agent that is converted to 5-FU by three enzymes. Capecitabine has
      the advantages of convenient oral administration and of mimicking the effect of protracted
      intravenous (i.v.) 5-FU. Capecitabine is currently approved by the FDA for use as first-line
      therapy in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer when single-agent fluoropyrimidine
      therapy is preferred. The drug is also approved for use as a single agent in metastatic
      breast cancer patients who are resistant to both anthracycline- and paclitaxel-based regimens
      or in whom further anthracycline treatment is contraindicated. Our previous study found that
      PD-ECGF mRNA was highly expressed in human HCC and particularly in portal vein tumor thrombus
      as compared with noncancerous liver tissues. Capecitabine inhibits tumor growth and
      metastatic recurrence after resection of HCC in highly metastatic nude mice model. The effect
      of capecitabine may be attributed to the high expression of PD-ECGF in tumors. The antitumor
      activity of single-agent capecitabine was modest in patients with HCC, including those with
      cirrhosis. Von Delius et al reported that capecitabine was found to be safe for treatment of
      patients with HCC, including those with compensated cirrhosis. On the basis of previous
      findings, we designed a randomized, controlled trial to test the hypothesis that adjuvant
      postoperative chemotherapy with capecitabine can prevent tumor recurrence after radical
      hepatic resection in patients with HCC. Because capecitabine is administered orally, we
      considered that this treatment would be clinically useful if its effectiveness could be
      confirmed.
    
  