
    
      Management of atypical ductal hyperplasia (ADH), atypical lobular hyperplasia (ALH), and
      lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) diagnosed by breast needle core needle biopsy is
      controversial. Current practice is to recommend excisional biopsy to rule out malignant
      lesions, which have been reported in more than half of cases in some series. No consistent
      clinical, pathologic, or radiologic factors have been identified to select patients who do
      not require surgical excision. This is due, in part, to overlap in the mammographic features
      of benign and malignant lesions. Furthermore, reliance on mammography for surveillance of
      these high-risk patients is problematic. This highlights the need for a complementary imaging
      modality to improve the radiologic distinction between benign and malignant tumors and
      improve post-biopsy surveillance.

      We are evaluating a new semiconductor-based gamma camera which we call Molecular Breast
      Imaging (MBI) which improves resolution by a factor of 2-3 compared to conventional gamma
      cameras, and, unlike mammography, is not affected by breast density. Preliminary clinical
      studies (IRB 0-1761-01)) have shown that scintimammography (SM) using Tc-99m sestamibi and
      the CZT camera (CZT-SM) has a high sensitivity and specificity for the evaluation of small
      (5-10 mm) lesions seen on mammography. We hypothesize that the MBI will reliably distinguish
      lesions that require excisional biopsy from lesions that do not. A secondary aim is to
      compare the role of MBI with mammography in post-biopsy surveillance.

      We aim to enroll 50 Mayo patients who have received a diagnosis of ADH, ALH, or LCIS on core
      biopsy, who have not yet undergone excisional biopsy, and who consent to undergo MBI of both
      breasts. For images in which there is discordance with mammographic findings, ultrasound will
      be used to determine if additional abnormalities warrant excision. Using pathologic
      correlation, we will determine: 1) If residual foci of ADH, ALH, and LCIS are visible on MBI
      images; and 2) If MBI images can reliably predict contiguous or separate foci of malignant
      lesions in either breast.
    
  