
    
      Trial of Feedback on Blood Use (TOFU)

      Background & Rationale Many studies have demonstrated substantial variability in blood use
      among both physicians and hospitals, suggesting the need to standardize transfusion practices
      and reduce unnecessary transfusions.To that end, national regulatory agencies in many
      countries require that hospitals monitor local blood use. However, the utility of this
      monitoring is unclear. A small number of prospective studies aimed at improving physician
      transfusion behavior have been published, but well-supported, generalizable findings are
      currently lacking. The proposed study will test the hypothesis that providing feedback of
      individual blood use data to transfusing physicians will reduce unnecessary RBC transfusions.
      A limited number of studies conducted in a range of settings have examined whether audit and
      feedback can improve physician practice and clinical outcomes. Results have been mixed. The
      proposed study would represent the first attempt to rigorously assess the impact of
      audit/feedback on changing transfusion practice.

      The recently completed FOCUS trial presents a unique opportunity in that it provides
      high-quality data on which to base transfusion practice recommendations for a specific
      patient population. In the FOCUS trial, 2016 adult patients with a history of or risk factors
      for cardiovascular disease undergoing surgical hip fracture repair were randomized to be
      transfused with RBCs for a Hgb <10 g/dL (liberal group) or for symptoms of anemia and/or a
      Hgb <8 g/dL (restrictive group). The primary end point was the ability to ambulate
      independently at 60 days, and key secondary endpoints included 30-day and long-term
      mortality, myocardial infarction, and stroke. No significant difference was observed in any
      end point, demonstrating that -- as in the earlier TRICC trial -- a restrictive strategy was
      as safe as a liberal transfusion strategy. An earlier multicenter RCT similarly showed no
      difference in the rate of silent myocardial ischemia among 260 knee and hip surgery patients
      randomized to be transfused for a Hgb <8 g/dL or <10g/dL. With no demonstrable benefit of
      transfusing at a higher Hgb, and given the high costs and multiple risks of transfusion,
      adoption of the lower (8 g/dL) transfusion trigger in hip surgery patients seems logical. A
      small preliminary study was conducted at 9 BEST institutions. Each participating institution
      contributed data on a minimum of 10 consecutive patients who underwent total hip replacement
      surgery during 2010-11. Out of 186 patients, 63 (34%) were transfused postoperatively. 41/122
      (34%) of the postoperative RBC units were transfused at a pretransfusion hemoglobin of > 8
      g/dL, suggesting that a practice improvement opportunity exists.

      Research Question In orthopedic surgeons performing adult elective hip surgery, does
      providing individual feedback data on transfusion practice in the context of the FOCUS trial
      data reduce postoperative RBC utilization compared with providing no feedback?

      Primary Hypothesis Providing individual feedback on transfusion practice to orthopedic
      surgeons performing adult hip arthroplasty will reduce elective RBC transfusions in the
      postoperative period.

      Study Population:

      The unit of study is orthopedic surgical attending physicians who perform hip arthroplasty.

      There is no restriction by underlying causal orthopedic factors (e.g. arthritis or traumatic
      fracture), or whether surgery is primary or secondary/revision.

      Clinical Trial Design:

      Study type: Two-arm, multicenter, cluster-randomized controlled clinical trial.

      Subjects: Each cluster will be comprised of the set of orthopedic surgeons that perform hip
      surgery at a single study site.

      Procedures: Baseline blood use in hip arthroplasty cases will be assessed for each surgeon
      for the 3-month period just prior to the start of the intervention phase. Baseline blood use
      measurements on each surgeon will consist of:

        1. Hip arthroplasty cases (n).

        2. Total postoperative RBC units (n) transfused to hip surgery patients. (Here,
           "postoperative" is defined as the interval beginning the day after surgery
           ("postoperative day 1") and ending when the patient is discharged from the hospital or
           at postoperative day 14, whichever comes first.

        3. Pretransfusion hemoglobin levels.

      Baseline characteristics for each orthopedic center will also be collected:

      Facility type (e.g. academic hospital, community hospital) Orthopedic surgeons performing hip
      surgery (n) Annual number of hip surgery procedures (n)

      Prior to randomization, the site PI will provide a brief educational presentation to the
      orthopedic surgeons at each site. The presentation will consist of a standardized 10-minute
      PowerPoint presentation reviewing the data from the FOCUS study and the recommended RBC
      transfusion trigger of 8 g/dL (or symptomatic anemia) based on that data. The presentation
      will also cover published data on hemoglobin levels and postoperative rehabilitation/quality
      of life measures8. The surgeons will be advised that a study of blood use in hip surgery will
      be commencing, and that they may be randomized to receive feedback about their individual
      postoperative. Clusters of orthopedic surgeons will then be randomized to either the Control
      arm (no feedback) or Intervention arm (monthly feedback).

      The intervention phase will be conducted for 12 months. Surgeons randomized to the
      Intervention arm will be given feedback at the end of each month. The feedback will be
      provided in the form of a standardized email report sent by the site PI to each surgeon
      individually. The monthly feedback report will show:

      The number of hip surgery cases performed and postoperative RBCs transfused by each surgeon
      for the month.

      The percentage of postoperative RBCs transfused at a Hgb above or below 8 g/dL by each
      surgeon for the previous month.

      The percentage of postoperative RBCs transfused at a Hgb below 8 g/dL by each surgeon,
      trended over time.

      In the reports, surgeon names will be anonymized (e.g. Surgeon A, B, C etc.) However,
      individual surgeons will be told which data is their own, so that they may compare themselves
      with their peers. No blood utilization data will be reported to the Control arm surgeons.

      Measurements: For data collection purposes, each attending orthopedic surgeon will be
      assigned a letter code. Surgeon identity will be kept confidential within each site, and will
      not be shared with other sites or the Data Coordinating Center.

      Data collection: The following information will be collected for each patient:

      Patient Study Number Age/Gender Surgical procedure (primary or reoperative hip replacement,
      hip fracture) Surgeon study number Date of surgery Date of discharge Postoperative RBC
      transfusions (number of units and date) Pretransfusion Hgb levels (g/dL) Hgb (g/dL) at
      admission/discharge

      Data will be collected using electronic CRFs completed by each site. If desired, sites may
      first record data on an optional paper CRF, then upload the data electronically. The feedback
      reports will be generated by a central data coordinating center. The feedback reports will be
      emailed to each site PI monthly for subsequent email distribution to the local orthopedic
      surgeons. Surgeon names and patient identifiers will be maintained locally at each site and
      will not be shared with the data coordinating center or with other study sites. Read receipts
      will be used for emailed reports to the surgeons; site PIs will track the number of feedback
      reports read or not read each month by surgeon.
    
  