
    
      Only limited data exist to guide physicians on transitioning patients onto biologic agents
      once conventional systemic agents have been found to be inadequate. Most Phase III regulatory
      studies for biologics, including ustekinumab, required washout periods of between one and
      three months between previous therapies and the start of study agent. Although advantageous
      from a methodological perspective, this approach does not appear to mirror real-world
      clinical practice, in which clinicians and patients are unwilling to go without treatment for
      extended periods. As a result, physicians appear to employ several arbitrary strategies when
      transitioning their patients. Two commonly used approaches are: Initiation of biologic
      therapy with immediate cessation of previous conventional systemic therapy or Initiation of
      biologic therapy with overlap and gradual reduction of previous conventional systemic
      therapy. Some physicians opt for the first strategy to minimise the risk of drug-drug
      interactions. Others opt for the second strategy to minimise the risk of symptomatic
      worsening between cessation of previous treatment and the onset of action of biologic agents.
      This study aims to compare safety, efficacy and quality of life outcomes associated with
      these two strategies, with follow-up for 52 weeks. The primary objective of this exploratory
      trial is to evaluate the comparative safety through week 12 of two treatment transition
      strategies in patients with inadequate response to methotrexate: discontinuation of
      methotrexate with immediate initiation of ustekinumab versus initiation of ustekinumab with
      overlap and gradual dose reduction of methotrexate over 4 weeks. Secondary objectives of the
      study include evaluating the safety, efficacy, and quality of life through Week 52. The focus
      of the trial is on estimation rather than on hypothesis testing and, therefore, no formal
      hypothesis testing is planned. The primary endpoint is the proportion of patients
      experiencing one or more treatment-emergent adverse events (AEs) through Week 12 within each
      treatment transition arm. All proportions will be accompanied by an estimated 95% confidence
      interval. This is a phase IIIB/IV multicentre, open label, two-arm, randomised study, lasting
      56 weeks (including a screening period). The primary endpoint is assessed after 12 weeks of
      treatment (Week 12). All treated patients will be followed for safety and efficacy through
      Week 52. Patients will be stratified according to their body weight to ensure a similar
      distribution of patients >100 kg between the two treatment arms. Approximately 4 weeks prior
      to study start, all patients who provide consent for participation will be screened according
      to the requirements of the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Patients who meet all of the
      inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria will enter the study. During the
      Screening Phase, patients will continue their current treatment schedule and dose for
      methotrexate, with folic acid if prescribed. At Week 0, prior to the first dose of
      ustekinumab, patients will be randomised 1:1 to one of the two treatment arms described
      below. Patients will be stratified according to their baseline body weight (=<100 kg or >100
      kg) to ensure a similar distribution of patients >100 kg between the two treatment arms.
      Patients eligible for the study will be men and women aged 18 years or older with moderate to
      severe plaque psoriasis who have a Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) >=10, who have
      failed or are intolerant to methotrexate therapy. Patients entering the study must be
      receiving methotrexate at a dose of 10-25 mg/week, and should have been receiving
      methotrexate for at least 8 weeks prior to screening. Approximately 576 patients will be
      included in the study from approximately 100 sites in 20 countries. In both treatment arms,
      Patients weighing ≤ 100 kg will receive ustekinumab 45 mg at Weeks 0, 4 and 16. Patients who
      achieve a PASI 75 response at Week 28 and 40 will continue receiving ustekinumab 45 mg at
      Week 28 and 40. Patients who fail to achieve PASI 75 response at Week 28 will receive
      ustekinumab 90 mg at Week 28 and 40. Patients who achieve a PASI 75 response at Week 28, but
      fail to achieve PASI 75 response at Week 40 will receive ustekinumab 90 mg at Week 40.
      Patients > 100 kg will receive ustekinumab 90 mg at Weeks 0, 4, 16, 28 and 40, regardless of
      achievement of PASI 75 response. Consideration will be given to discontinuing treatment in
      these patients if they show no response at Week 28. At Week 0, all eligible patients will be
      randomised to one of the following treatment regimens. The methotrexate dose reduction regime
      will depend on the dose of methotrexate at screening. All patients will stop methotrexate
      regardless of the final dose after 4 overlapping weeks (Weeks 0, 1, 2 and 3). The last dose
      of methotrexate will be given within the 7 day period before the second dose of ustekinumab.
      Safety evaluations will include physical examination, body weight and waist circumference,
      pregnancy testing, vital signs, clinical laboratory testing with full blood analysis and
      biochemistry, skin assessment for suspicious malignant lesions, Tuberculosis (TB) assessment,
      adverse events review and collection. Efficacy evaluations, including Psoriasis Area Severity
      Index (PASI), Nail Psoriasis Severity Index (NAPSI) and Physician's Global Assessment (PGA),
      will be carried out. Evaluations to assess changes in quality of life, including the
      Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI), Hospital Anxiety Depression Score (HADS), EuroQol-5
      dimensional questionnaire (EQ-5D) and Patient Benefit Index (PBI), will be carried out.
    
  