
    
      BACKGROUND

      An important aspect of wound bed preparation for healing or grafting is the recognition that
      wounds often have underlying pathogenic abnormalities that cause necrotic tissue to
      accumulate. Therefore, in order to facilitate wound progression, repeated removal of necrotic
      tissue may be necessary as long as the wound is chronic. Debridement is defined as the
      removal of nonviable material, foreign bodies, and poorly healing tissue from a wound.
      Although surgeons recognize the importance of debridement, few data have been generated in
      randomized trials to support its use. Traditionally, debridement has been undertaken as a
      single therapeutic step within defined time frames. The most direct form of debridement is
      surgical excision. Although this may be applicable for acute wounds, it is unlikely to remove
      the necrotic burden that may continually accumulate in a chronic wound. Although there are
      other forms of debridement including enzymatic and biologic; in the case of non-healing
      wounds, the form of debridement with the most compelling evidence of healing efficacy is
      autolytic debridement , Therefore, for patients who are poor candidates for surgical
      debridement or have limited access to a surgeon, autolytic debridement may be considered an
      effective form of continuous debridement.

      2.1 Primary Objective

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the non-inferiority of MEDIHONEY® Gel
      (Active Leptospermum Honey-ALH Gel) compared to (Santyl) Collagenase, two FDA
      cleared/approved treatments, with respect to the percent reduction of necrotic (including
      slough and eschar) tissue in the wound at the end of 14 days +/- 2 days.

      2.2 Secondary Objective

      The secondary objective of this study is to compare the two treatment groups with respect to
      the percent reduction from randomization for necrotic tissue (including slough and eschar) at
      weeks 1, 3 and 4 +/- 2 days.
    
  