
    
      As life expectancy increases and acute cardiac mortality decreases, the incidence of chronic
      heart failure (HF) continues to rise, and despite this, conceptual advances in the treatment
      of chronic heart failure have not increased substantially over last few decades. One
      intracellular component of heart failure progression is mitochondrial bioenergetic
      dysfunction. Although the mechanism underpinning this is not completely understood, recent
      metabolomics data demonstrated an incomplete flux of metabolites through oxidative
      phosphorylation (OX PHOS) in HF. In parallel, data has shown that hyperacetylation of
      mitochondrial bioenergetic enzymes, with the concomitant blunting of enzymatic activity is
      evident in HF. Putting these together, an emerging hypothesis implicates excessive
      acetylation of mitochondrial proteins with the subsequent blunting of bioenergetic enzyme
      function, as a mechanism underpinning incomplete flux through OX PHOS resulting in HF
      progression.

      In parallel with cardiac bioenergetic deficiency chronic HF subjects display disrupted
      skeletal muscle OX PHOS, which is thought to contribute towards overall fatigue and reduced
      exercise tolerance. Interestingly exercise training in HF subjects improves skeletal muscle
      mitochondrial OX PHOS capacity and subject activity levels. Exercise training additionally
      increases activity of the mitochondrial regulatory deacetylase sirtuin enzymes SIRT1 and
      SIRT3, in parallel with improved skeletal muscle OX PHOS capacity. At the same time
      HF-associated disruption in skeletal muscle metabolic function activates skeletal muscle
      cytokine production. These inflammatory programs, in turn, are proposed to contribute towards
      impaired functional capacity in HF. Interestingly, and mirroring improved OX PHOS following
      exercise programs in HF studies, exercise training similarly reduces skeletal muscle
      inflammatory effects.

      Biochemical and bioenergetic consequences of impaired mitochondrial OX PHOS leads to
      decreased NAD+ levels, which exacerbate mitochondrial dysfunction by inactivating the NAD+
      dependent sirtuin enzymes. Experimental studies using NAD+ precursors to increase NAD+
      production have been shown to normalize NADH/NAD+ ratios and activate Sirtuin enzymes,
      resulting in enhanced OX PHOS with beneficial effects in numerous systems including skeletal
      muscle and in the blunting of inflammation.

      In this pilot study we will directly assess the effect of the NAD+ precursor, nicotinamide
      riboside (NR) on skeletal muscle mitochondrial OX PHOS in HF subjects using: skeletal muscle
      Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy assessment of the rate of high energy phosphate
      recovery in response to submaximal exercise; assessment of the effect of NR on functional
      capacity using cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) to determine VO(2max) and anaerobic
      threshold; evaluation of the NR effect on serum metabolomics at rest and in response to CPET;
      and by measuring circulating cytokine levels pre- and post- NR administration. These studies
      would enable a more comprehensive assessment of the role for NR supplementation on skeletal
      muscle mitochondrial function in subjects with systolic HF
    
  