
    
      This protocol describes the screening process used by the National Institute on Drug Abuse
      (NIDA IRP) to assess potential research participants eligibility for entering protocols of
      either the NIDA/IRP. Through its clinical research protocols, the IRPs attempt to: elucidate
      the nature of drug abuse and addiction; determine the potential use of new therapies, both
      pharmacological and psychosocial; and decipher the long-term effects of drugs of abuse on the
      development, maturation, function, and structure of the brain and other organ systems. In
      support of the IRPs work, the scientific goal of this screening protocol is to assess
      potential research participants eligibility for the IRPs research studies. Screening will
      include medical and psychological tests and procedures. The data collected during screening
      are a unique and valuable source of information that aids in the IRPs missions. Therefore, a
      secondary goal of this protocol is to obtain data that characterizes the population of
      subjects contacting the IRPs about research participation and to analyze data so obtained,
      such as that on the prevalence and consequences of HIV/AIDS, viral hepatitis, and related
      diseases. The population screened includes male and female adolescents ages 13-17 for NIDA
      only and adults age > 18 for both IRPs. Screening procedures include standard medical and
      psychological tests and procedures are minimal risk. There is no direct benefit to subjects.
      Participants are paid for undergoing the screening process.

      Most genetics data will be collected under the aegis of other protocols and will be compared
      with data collected under this study. Some studies require genotyping to be done as part of
      screening. Those DNA samples will be stored so that if active or returning participants are
      screened for future studies requiring genotyping during screening an additional blood draw
      won t be required.
    
  