
    
      To examine the relationship between activities of daily living, attention and spatial working
      memory the investigators will have participants perform a range of clinical and experimental
      tasks over several sessions of testing. Below is an outline of the tasks to be used (attached
      are example of all tasks).

        1. Clinical Tests: Neglect screenings: (a) The Behavioural Inattention Test (BIT) which
           includes pencil-and-paper or computer tablet tests of line bisection, figure copying and
           cancellation to assess for neglect. (b) The VRLAT as a more sensitive means to detect
           Neglect. Participants are asked to navigate through a virtual reality with a joystick.
           They are instructed to name objects presented on both sides of the virtual path while
           avoiding colliding with the objects along the way. The task takes approximately 5
           minutes to complete. The Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA): a brief screening tool
           for mild cognitive impairment

        2. Spatial Attention Tasks: the covert orienting of visual attention task (COVAT), a
           computer task where participants fixate on a central point and detect targets presented
           at peripheral locations. Targets are preceded by peripheral cues that attract attention
           to one side or the other. Targets can appear at the cued location (i.e., a valid trial)
           or at the uncued location (i.e., an invalid trial). This task takes around 10 minutes to
           complete.

        3. Visual Working Memory Task (VWM): One to three coloured squares arranged vertically in
           right space are presented for 500 ms in a computerized task. Following a delay a probe
           stimulus (bold rectangle) appears. Participants have to use the mouse to click on a
           colour bar to match the colour of the target that has previously occupied the
           highlighted space. This task takes about 30 minutes to complete.

        4. Activities of daily living: The Frenchay Activities Index (FAI) is a short stroke
           specific questionnaire to assess functional status.

      To assess the effects of working memory training on neglect two groups of neglect
      participants will be assigned to separate training protocols outlined below. Outcomes
      measures will include the tests outlined above and the VWM tasks themselves that were used in
      training.

        1. Passive SWM training: the first group of participants will perform the VWM task
           described above, but do not actively engage in any specific component of the task (i.e.,
           they passively respond to the stimuli appearing on the screen).

        2. Active SWM training: the second training group will perform a task similar to the
           popular video game Guitar Hero. A sequence of virtual piano keys will be used on a
           tablet computer to simplify the game. Just as in Guitar Hero, a sequence of coloured
           targets, each corresponding to a specific piano key will gradually approach a target
           line at which point participants should hit the corresponding key of the virtual piano.
           A VWM component will be introduced to the task by presenting participants with a
           sequence of keys to touch followed by a brief delay. The investigators will manipulate
           load by changing the number of items in a given sequence (e.g., 1, 2, 3 and 5).

           After the delay participants will be required to repeat the sequence just presented by
           tapping the same keys on the tablet.

        3. Training regimes and outcome measures: Two different lengths of training will be
           employed for both groups; 2 and 4 weeks, implemented as a between subjects factor.
           Participants will complete the training protocol for half an hour once per day using the
           tablet computer.

      Outcome measures taken at 2 weeks, 4 weeks, 12 weeks include BIT, VRLAT COVAT, VWM, FAI.

      Neglect participants will be contrasted to two control groups: healthy age-matched controls
      (recruited through WRAP) and a group of right brain damaged (RBD) participants without
      neglect.
    
  