
    
      This is a Phase II single arm study of ON 01910.Na to be administered as a 2-hour infusion
      biweekly to patients with progressive ovarian cancer resistant to platinum-based therapy.

      The primary objective is to evaluate progression-free survival (PFS). The secondary
      objectives are to document other measures of outcome [objective response rate (ORR), duration
      of response, duration of stable disease, and overall survival (OS)], and tolerability of
      study drug.

      Thirty-seven (37) patients with progressive ovarian cancer resistant to platinum-based
      therapy will be enrolled in a single arm study and treated with ON 01910.Na administered as a
      2-hour infusion on Days 1, 4, 8, 11, 15 and 18 of a 28-day cycle. Patients will be treated
      until disease progression or withdrawal for other causes (unacceptable toxicity, patient or
      investigator decision) with ON 01910.Na. Toxicity will be graded according to the National
      Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE v3.0).
      Progression-free survival, objective response, duration of response, and duration of stable
      disease will be assessed using RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumor)
      guidelines, as well as overall survival. Grades 3 and 4 hematologic toxicities, grade >2
      non-hematologic toxicities will be monitored. A futility analysis will be performed after 17
      evaluable patients are enrolled and evaluated for overall objective response. If 3 or fewer
      objective response (CR and PR) are observed, the study will be closed to further accrual and
      deemed futile. An extension study for an additional 25 weeks with complete monitoring will be
      considered for patients who have not progressed by week 25.

      The ON 01910.Na dose to be used in this study (2-hour infusions of 2400 or 3200 mg twice
      weekly for 3 weeks of a 4-week cycle) was selected based on the maximum tolerated doses and
      activities documented in phase 1 protocols.
    
  