
    
      To identify the most disparate tacrolimus generic drug formulations among those currently
      approved in the United States. We will conduct systematic dissolution testing of the brand
      and all currently approved tacrolimus drug formulations using the FDA-recommended dissolution
      method. We propose to test and compare the 1mg capsule strength (3 production lots/
      manufacturer). In addition, we will compare the different formulations in terms of potency,
      purity and other quality attributes. This work will be carried out in the GMP-compliant
      facilities of The University of Iowa Pharmaceuticals and the University of Colorado. Based on
      these studies the two most disparate generic tacrolimus formulations (Generic Hi and Generic
      Lo) will be selected and compared with the Brand (PrografR, Astellas, Deerfield, IL) in the
      clinical trial.

      This is an open label, prospective, multicenter, randomized, replicate, six-period,
      three-sequence cross-over study to compare the steady state pharmacokinetics of PrografR to
      Generic Hi to Generic Lo in stable kidney and liver transplant subjects. The PK assessor will
      be blinded to the assigned treatment sequence and formulation. The person analyzing the
      levels and analyzing the results will be blinded to formulation sequence. Each subject will
      be randomized to one of the three sequences where Generic Hi and Generic Lo represent the two
      generics and B the brand, Prograf. The blood samples will be collected at C0 (before morning
      dose) and then 20, 40, 60(1hr), 80, 100, 120(2hr), 140, 160, 180(3hr) minutes, 4, 5, 6, 8 and
      12 hour after dosing with each formulation. Adherence will be monitored by patient diary,
      pill counts, and MEMS cap. Safety and efficacy parameters will be monitored weekly.

      This study will be carried out in full compliance with the rules of Good Clinical Practice
      (GCP) including development of an electronic database and monitoring plan.

      Resulting pharmacokinetic parameters will be analyzed by a variety of pharmacokinetic tests
      such as narrower acceptance intervals, individual and scaled average bioequivalence was well
      as population pharmacokinetics.
    
  