
    
      Patients with incurable disease who receive intensive treatment at EoL have worse quality of
      life (QoL) compared with those receiving symptomatic treatment. Also, a PC approach at an
      early stage in patients with unfavorable prognosis may improve patients' QoL and symptom
      control, may lead to prolonged survival and give patients and caregivers a more realistic
      perspective on the disease and prognosis. Further, there is documentation that caregivers of
      patients with advanced cancer are generally more satisfied and report less depressive
      symptoms with an early introduction of PC.

      These and related findings in the wake of a study (NEJM 2010) initiated the current debate
      and have made international stakeholders advocate a stronger integration of oncology and PC
      for patients with incurable cancer. Despite a rapid development of PC services during the
      last 15-20 years, there is still a distinct separation between oncology and PC in Norway as
      in other Western countries. This infers that the potential for optimal care during the last
      phase of life for those patients has not been fully explored, despite the documented
      advantages for both patients and caregivers. However, results from studies on integration of
      oncology and PC from other countries e.g. the USA, may not be directly transferable to
      Norway, given the different health care organizations, reimbursement issues and the different
      indications for and the high degree of hospice use.

      Information given to cancer patients and caregivers about the disease and its treatment is
      important at all stages of disease, and is crucial in relation to PC in order to facilitate
      shared decision making, and improve satisfaction with care, patients' sense of control, QoL
      and communication with patient and caregivers. As PC also aims to improve the QoL of
      caregivers waiting to include caregivers until patients are in their last weeks or days of
      life may not adequately address patient or caregiver distress. Further, the benefits of early
      integration of PC on caregiver's distress and QoL remain inconclusive.

      Thus, the overall aim of PALLiON is to improve the quality and efficacy of cancer care by
      implementing an early integration of oncology and PC in patients with advanced cancer who
      receive chemotherapy. The long-term objective is a change of today's oncology practice.
      Today, the method of referral to PC is most often based on care needs in contrast to
      referrals based on diagnosis and prognosis used in the RCTs that have documented favorable
      results. As we know that the timing of referral is important to optimize the benefits of PC,
      we aim to change this practice.

      The implementation method in PALLiON is a complex intervention consisting of a) a structured
      educational program for oncologists, palliative care physicians and nurses, b) standardized
      care pathways with a systematic integration of oncology and palliative care for each of the
      included cancer diagnoses, and c) systematic use of Eir - an electronic assessment tool for
      patient-reported outcomes (PROMs), in the standardized care pathways, combined with
      evidence-based treatment recommendations in the clinical consultations.

      The design makes it possible to evaluate the effect of an early integration of oncology and
      PC at the institutional and patient levels between the intervention and control arms.
      Further, a potential effect of the intervention at each of the centers in the intervention
      arm can be evaluated by comparing the post-intervention data with historical data e.g. on use
      of chemotherapy, number of re-admissions / emergency admissions in the very last stages of
      life as appropriate.
    
  