
    
      Study Drug:

      Dalteparin is designed to thin the blood and block blood from clotting. This may lower the
      risk of VTE.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the flip of a coin) into 1 of 2 groups. There is an equal chance of being assigned to
      either group.

      Group 1 will receive dalteparin.

      Group 2 will not receive a study drug.

      During this study, all study participants will be routinely checked for VTE by ultrasounds
      and CT scans.

      You may also receive standard therapies for preventing VTE. This may include blood-thinning
      drugs while you are in the hospital, getting up and moving around at least 5 times per day,
      and/or wearing special stockings or boot-like devices designed to put pressure on the feet.

      Genetic Research Testing:

      Before starting your therapy (at baseline), blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn and stored
      for genetic testing. Researchers want to use DNA (the genetic material in cells) to look for
      markers that may be related to having a high risk for developing blood clots. The samples
      will be processed and stored at MD Anderson. Once this study ends, the DNA will be tested
      further in Dr. Futreal's laboratory and/or may be shipped outside to Illumina Sequencing
      Services (San Diego, CA) for genetic research. The samples will be deidentified before
      shipping.

      Before your samples are sent to the outside laboratory for banking, your name and any
      personal identifying information will be coded to protect your privacy. The outside
      researchers will not have access to the codes that link the samples to your identity.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are in Group 1, you will receive dalteparin by injection under your skin, once a day
      for 16 weeks. You and/or your caregiver will be taught how to perform injections.

      Study Visits:

      At every study visit, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs (blood
           pressure, heart rate, temperature and breathing rate).

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

      About every 2 weeks after chemotherapy starts until Week 16, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will
      be drawn for routine tests. This test may be repeated more often if the doctor decides it is
      needed.

      Before each new cycle of chemotherapy during Weeks 1-16, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be
      drawn for routine tests to check the function of your liver and kidneys.

      At Weeks 8 and 16 (+/- 7 days), the following procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have an ultrasound of your legs to check for blood clots.

        -  If the doctor decides it is needed, you will have CT scans to check the status of the
           cancer. Researchers will also check your chest CT scans to look for blood clots in the
           lungs.

      Length of Study Participation:

      You may remain on study for up to 16 weeks. You will be taken off study early if blood clots
      occur or you experience intolerable side effects.

      Follow-Up Phone Calls:

      This study has a 3-year follow-up period. In Year 1, you will receive a follow-up phone call
      from the study staff in the first month and then at Months 3, 6, 9, and 12. In Years 2 and 3,
      you will be called every 6 months.

      The study staff will ask about your overall health. In the first phone call, you will also be
      asked about any side effects that may have occurred.

      This is an investigational study. Dalteparin is commercially available and FDA approved for
      use in preventing VTE that may occur for other reasons. Those reasons include abdominal
      surgery; surgery for a hip fracture, hip replacement, or knee replacement; and illnesses
      causing patients to be unable to move around.

      Dalteparin is also commercially available and FDA approved to treat VTE in cancer patients.
      However, it is investigational to use dalteparin to prevent VTE in cancer patients receiving
      chemotherapy.

      Up to 87 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  