
    
      Ulcerative Colitis (UC) denotes a phenotype of chronic inflammatory bowel disease (IBD),
      where inflammation is localized to the colonic mucosa, and extends from the rectum proximally
      in varying extents. The disorder is thought to result from an inappropriate activation of the
      mucosal immune system by antigens derived from both the host epithelium and the enteric
      flora, in genetically susceptible individuals. UC is strikingly heterogeneous with respect to
      age of onset, anatomical extent and disease course, with some experiencing chronically active
      severe disease, while others have intermittent periods of clinical remission and disease
      exacerbation. Patients' therapeutic responses vary. The reasons underlying such variability
      are not well understood. Although it has been widely hypothesized that several genes may
      influence the development of UC, and modify its phenotypic expression and severity, to date
      there are few confirmed examples of such relationships.

      It has been postulated that the 5-aminosalicylate drugs exert their anti-inflammatory effect
      locally at the intestinal mucosa. Mechanisms likely include inhibition of 5-lipoxygenase
      resulting in decreased production of leukotriene B4, scavenging of reactive oxygen
      metabolites, prevention of up-regulation of leukocyte adhesion molecules, and inhibition of
      Interleukin 1 (IL-1) synthesis. Though multiple studies have shown the efficacy of
      aminosalicylates in inducing and maintaining remission in adults with UC, there are few data
      in children.

      Corticosteroids (CS) have been the mainstay of treatment of severe UC since efficacy was
      first demonstrated in the 1955 randomized controlled trial by Truelove and Witts. Recent
      practice guidelines developed in adults support their use because of rapid onset of action
      and significant efficacy though CS dependency is noted. Though no controlled data on their
      use have been reported in children they are frequently used in this population. A recent
      report from investigators leading the prospective Pediatric IBD Collaborative Research Group
      Registry described 97 subjects with a diagnosis of UC and a minimum of 1 year follow-up; 79%
      received CS. At diagnosis 81% of CS treated patients had moderate/severe disease, and 81% had
      pancolitis. Clinically inactive disease, determined by physician global assessment, was noted
      in 60% at 3 months following CS therapy, but by one year 45% were considered CS dependent
      despite the frequent use of immunomodulators (IM). Among those children with initially
      moderate to severe disease in clinical remission at 3 months, about two-thirds had stopped
      the CS by one year.
    
  