
    
      Wounds are a widespread problem all around the world. From a practical purpose, wounds are
      divided in acute and chronic. Acute wound management depends on amount and type of tissue
      destruction. Therefore, acute wounds could be furthermore subdivided as simple wound where
      only skin is missing and complex wounds when some underlying structures are involved. Complex
      wounds may require free flap if wound beds are poorly vascularized, devascularized or
      underlying tissue wouldn't accept skin graft or biologically derived extracellular matrix
      (BDEM). Simple wounds, on other hand, would be managed in the past by skin graft or by local
      flap when feasible. These management strategies commonly result in unacceptable aesthetically
      and/or functionally (e.g. contracture, unstable wound) outcomes and will often require
      secondary reconstruction.

      The second class of wounds is the chronic wounds. Chronic wounds occur whenever the normally
      well-orchestrated reparative process does not proceed in a sequential and timely fashion from
      hemostasis and inflammation, through proliferation to remodeling. The process is necessarily
      complicated and can be delayed by many intrinsic and extrinsic factors along the way (1).
      Acute and chronic wounds pose a significant burden to patients, healthcare professionals, and
      the healthcare system, affecting more than 15.5 million patients and costing an estimated $
      500 billion annually (2-3). Based on their pathogenesis, there are four principle types of
      chronic wounds: venous ulcers, diabetic ulcers, arterial ischemic and pressure ulcers.

        1. Venous ulcers usually occur in the legs, account for the majority of wounds, and often
           affecting the elderly with prior history of deep venous thrombosis (DVT). Ulcers form
           eventually, when cells cannot keep with rate of degradation.

        2. Diabetic ulcers are seen in diabetic patients who are developing ulcers for several
           reasons. Neuropathy and micro-angiopathy are quite common, and these changes together
           with a reduced immunity set up the perfect storm for tissue breakdown in the lower
           extremities. Because of all these factors, exacerbated by impaired healing, even the
           smallest cuts or bruises can become dangerously infected.

        3. PAD, is a term that covers an array of medical problems caused by obstruction of the
           large arteries in the arms or legs. In the advanced form of PAD, critical limb ischemia
           (CLI) can occur, which is a leading cause of lower limb amputations. The Angiogenesis
           Foundation estimates that 1.4 million people in the United States have CLI, with an
           estimated 350,876 new cases diagnosed each year (2).

        4. Pressure ulcers comprise the fourth major type of wounds. These typically occur in
           people who are bedridden or whose mobility is severely limited. They are caused by a
           loss of blood circulation that occurs when pressure on the tissue is greater than the
           perfusion pressure in capillaries, thereby cutting off circulation, rendering tissue
           ischemic. The combination of anesthesia and paralysis is a potent inducer of tissue
           break down. Data from spinal cord units at Veterans Affairs Medical Centers show an
           alarmingly high prevalence and incidence of pressure ulcers in young soldiers paralyzed
           by spinal cord injuries.

      Over the past decades, little improvement has been made in reducing morbidity and disability
      from chronic wounds (3). The best available treatment for chronic wounds achieves only a 50%
      healing rate that is often temporary, with an unacceptably high recurrence rate. Among the
      many factors contributing to "stalling" of wound healing processes, impairment in the
      production of cytokines by local inflammatory cells and fibroblasts and reduced angiogenesis
      are crucial problems (4).

      The introduction of BDEMs has improved wound care significantly over the years. The most
      commonly used BDEM is a bovine derived collagen matrix. This bovine collagen matrix is a FDA
      approved wound care device comprised of a porous matrix of cross-linked bovine tendon
      collagen and glycosaminoglycan and a semi-permeable polysiloxane (silicone layer). The
      collagen-glycosaminoglycan biodegradable matrix provides a scaffold for cellular invasion and
      capillary growth (5). The use of the bovine collagen matrix can improve aesthetic and
      functional outcomes in complex wounds with full thickness skin defects and exposure of
      underlying structure such as muscle, tendons, vessels or nerves. Despite its clinical
      benefit, a significant problem exists due to the long period required for vascularization and
      regeneration, which requires 3 weeks as per the manufacturer. As a result, this not only
      increases the cost of wound management but also decreases income potential and quality of
      life.

      As research is being advanced in the field of wound care, stem cell therapy is emerging to be
      a promising approach to the treatment of both acute and chronic wounds. It is now known that
      bone marrow-derived stem cells (BMSC) are multipotential stem cells capable of
      differentiation into numerous cell types including fibroblast, muscle, brain, and cartilage
      (6). Among the cells found in BMSCs is a group called mesenchymal stem cells (MSC). MSCs are
      stromal cells that have been held in reserve with the ability to self-renew and also exhibit
      multilineage differentiation. MSCs are also found in fetal and adult tissues and have been
      isolated from umbilical cord, endometrial polyps, adipose tissue, and menstrual blood.
      Because they are readily available to harvest from various tissues, MSCs are an attractive
      choice in experimental and possible clinical applications.

      Recent clinical observations and small sample size studies report accelerated healing in
      difficult wounds by topical and regional applications of mononuclear cell preparations from
      autologous bone marrow. In the rat model, the application of systemic and local BMSCs have
      has resulted in improved wound healing through increased wound tensile strength, increased
      collagen, and faster wound maturation (7). However, bone marrow harvesting is painful, at
      times requires general anesthesia, and occasionally not feasible due to the debilitated state
      of the patients. It is thus, extremely desirable to use off-the-shelf, commercially
      available, allogeneic, mesenchymal stem cells.

      NuCel (NutechMedical, Birmingham, AL USA) is a FDA approved allograft containing MSCs derived
      from human amnion and amniotic fluid and is currently being used in different clinical
      settings including orthopedic surgery and in neurosurgery as grafts. Amnion-derived MSCs have
      been reported to have high trans-differentiation and angio-vasculogenic properties (8). NuCel
      stem cells are immune privileged as the do not express major histo-compatibility complex
      class II and has lower expression of MHC class I compared with adult bone marrow derived stem
      cells. NuCel contains five types of collagen and fibronectin which are factors involved in
      the wound healing process. Moreover, they are less ethically controversial due to the
      abundance of waste placenta.

      Multiple studies have shown that pluripotent stem cells can increase and speed up
      vascularization of BDEM and significantly decrease the time to BDEM maturation (6-8). As a
      result, there is potential for this application to decrease the cost of wound management and
      increase quality of life.

      In summary, we propose to test definitively, the safety and effectiveness of just such
      allogeneic MSCs, NuCel, in promoting the healing of acute and chronic wounds. NuCel consists
      of a special class of human stem cells that have the ability to express a range of
      therapeutically relevant proteins and other factors, as well as form multiple cell types. We
      propose a pilot study is to be conducted at the Georgia Regents University. It is a
      prospective, randomized, controlled trial with the aim to generate Level I and II evidence on
      the effectiveness of amniotic stem cells using a collagen matrix as a carrier in enhancing
      healing of wounds.

      The goal and design of the current proposal is to establish a practical protocol which has
      the potential to not only accelerate the translation of advances in knowledge into new
      standards of care for wound management, but also is safe, FDA approved, and inexpensively
      accessible to address some of the most pressing needs in today's wound healing field. The
      main objective of the current proposal is to use amniotic MSC to speed up maturation and
      integration of collagen matrix in the wound bed and shorten total time needed for wound
      healing. This can potentially result in a saving of hundreds of millions of dollars to the
      healthcare system. The outcome of this proposal will accelerate translation of greater
      medical capabilities to patients using a novel, safe and creative intervention.
    
  