
    
      Background A majority of HIV-infected children die by two years of age without antiretroviral
      therapy (ART). Unfortunately, diagnosing HIV in this age group is complex as it requires
      virologic testing. This has served as a barrier to younger HIV-infected (HIV+) children
      accessing ART in resource-constrained generalized epidemic countries. Malawi, a high
      HIV-prevalence country in sub-Saharan Africa, implemented a national early infant diagnosis
      (EID) program utilizing virologic testing with dried blood spots (DBS) DNA PCR technology in
      2007 to address this gap.

      In coordination with the national EID program in 2008, we implemented a routine HIV testing
      strategy within the pediatric inpatient ward at Kamuzu Central Hospital (KCH) that
      incorporated DBS. While our initial program results have been encouraging, we have observed
      that only 50.2% of DBS recipients have returned for their test results after hospital
      discharge, draining resources and reducing the potential impact of definitive virologic
      testing and early diagnosis. DBS technology is a contributing factor to low patient follow-up
      as it requires burdensome transport and lengthy processing by highly trained laboratory
      personnel, requiring patients to return several weeks after testing for their results.
      Currently in Malawi, as is the case throughout sub-Saharan Africa, definitive virologic
      testing that provides test results prior to hospital discharge is not routinely available.

      Two alternatives that could potentially strengthen EID and pediatric ART access are the
      routine use of presumptive diagnosis (PD), or a clinical HIV diagnostic algorithm in young
      children, as an adjunct to DBS and definitive inpatient virologic testing that provides
      results before hospital discharge ("expedited PCR") instead of PD and DBS. This research
      proposal primarily aims to validate PD testing as well as assess the impact of PD and
      expedited PCR upon patient outcomes within the established inpatient pediatric HIV testing
      system at KCH.

      RESEARCH QUESTION TO BE ADDRESSED BY THIS PROPOSAL Is presumptive diagnosis, as an adjunct to
      dried blood spot DNA PCR, a valid approach for diagnosing HIV in hospitalized Malawian
      children younger than 12 months of age, and how does this strategy, compared to an expedited
      inpatient virologic diagnosis, affect patient outcomes?

      RATIONALE FOR RESEARCH

      Globally, an estimated 2.2 million children younger than 15 years of age were HIV-infected in
      2007, with approximately 90% living in sub-Saharan Africa. Malawi, a sub-Saharan African
      country of 13.2 million people, reports an adult HIV prevalence of 11.9%. While 91,000 HIV+
      children were estimated to be living in Malawi in 2007, less than 8% of all Malawian children
      have ever been HIV tested. Additionally, HIV+ children comprised just 8% of all national ART
      recipients, well below the 2014 goal of 15%. To address this gap, Malawi approved the routine
      offering of HIV testing, or provider initiated HIV testing and counseling (PITC), in line
      with global recommendations in 2007. While there is a high HIV prevalence in hospitalized
      Malawian children and current guidelines support routine inpatient HIV testing, no clear
      implementation strategy for hospitals has been offered.

      Substantial percentages of HIV+ infants suffer from high mortality without early infant
      diagnosis (EID) and ART initiation, irrespective of CD4%, leading to the recommendation that
      all HIV+ children younger than 1 year of age should be universally initiated on ART. Despite
      the simplification of ART eligibility in this age group, diagnosing HIV remains complex.
      Maternal HIV antibodies can circulate in the blood stream of children until 12 months of age,
      confounding HIV antibody test results unable to discriminate between the mother's and child's
      antibodies. Accordingly, DNA PCR testing that detects HIV proviral DNA is the gold standard
      for HIV diagnosis in this age group. To date the PCR technology utilized in EID programs
      throughout sub-Saharan Africa, including Malawi, is DBS. Malawi piloted an EID program
      starting in 2007 and approved a policy of universal ART for all HIV+ children younger than 1
      year of age in 2008. In Malawi, a uniform first line fixed-dose combination ART regimen of
      stavudine, lamivudine, and nevirapine is provided free of charge by the Malawian government
      for all eligible patients.The EID program has since expanded to 14 of 28 districts.
      Importantly, the national EID program identified the pediatric inpatient wards as a critical
      access point for routine DBS testing, but recently reported that few EID sites have
      established routine inpatient testing programs.

      KCH is a referral hospital with a 215 bed pediatric ward located in the capital of Lilongwe
      with more than 10,000 pediatric admissions annually. In 2007, less than 10% of pediatric
      inpatients at KCH were estimated to have accessed voluntary HIV counseling and testing (VCT)
      services offered by lay counselors (Pediatric Department, KCH, unpublished data). In January
      2008, we implemented a PITC program utilizing DBS testing in the KCH inpatient pediatric
      department in collaboration with the Baylor International Pediatric AIDS Initiative (BIPAI),
      KCH, and Lighthouse. The overall program objectives were to improve inpatient pediatric HIV
      diagnosis and care, establish EID as a routine inpatient service, and provide national
      guidance for inpatient pediatric PITC program expansion.

      Over the first 12 months of implementation, the PITC program offered HIV testing to 45.2% of
      admissions, or 10,245 mothers and their hospitalized children, representing a four-fold
      increase in comparison to pre-PITC estimates1. 98.7% of mother-child pairs accepted testing,
      and we observed the HIV prevalence of hospitalized children to be 8.5%, nearly two-fold
      higher than the estimated community pediatric prevalence of 4.8% in Malawi. Furthermore,
      73.9% of HIV+ hospitalized children had not yet accessed ART , despite over 70% of these
      patients clinically or immunologically eligible. The program also completed 476 DBS tests
      during the same time period, representing the highest volume EID site in Malawi, with 40.1%
      testing positive.

      Unfortunately, only 239 DBS recipients, or 50.2% of children tested, enrolled into outpatient
      care at the Baylor College of Medicine-Abbott Fund Children's Clinical Centre of Excellence
      clinic at KCH. Of these, 48.3% were initiated on ART a median of 2.4 months after DBS
      collection. Low follow-up has been experienced at other EID sites throughout Malawi. One
      contributing factor is the several weeks of processing time required for DBS samples. In
      Malawi, DBS tests are transported to and from central laboratories to be processed in higher
      volumes by sophisticated equipment and highly specialized laboratory personnel. Therefore,
      counselors instruct caregivers to return in at least one month for their child's DBS test
      results. If caregivers return for their child's results, they are then commonly re-referred
      for HIV care at another site, often at an even later date, further delaying evaluation for
      ART eligibility. Currently, a similar system exists at KCH. Despite substantial investment
      into EID, the processing and transport delays inherent to DBS have lessened the impact of EID
      and have resulted in a continued barrier to pediatric ART access in this age group.

      Two diagnostic alternatives that could reduce the delays complicating the current DBS systems
      are PD and point of care virologic testing. While PD is a less sensitive and specific
      diagnostic alternative to PCR, it requires limited resources and provides a strategy to
      immediately offer ART to hospitalized patients that fulfill PD criteria, avoiding the
      one-month wait time and resultant losses to follow-up. Malawi National guidelines recommend
      the use of PD to identify and initiate symptomatic HIV+ infants younger than 12 months of age
      on ART when PCR is unavailable. While the sensitivity and specificity of PD has been
      previously reported from Rwanda and Kenya, these studies are only partly applicable to Malawi
      due to the lower estimated malaria burdens in Rwandese children, and the mixture of
      inpatients and outpatients within the Kenyan study cohort. Both scenarios are likely to alter
      the reported sensitivities and specificities of PD as compared to Malawi, justifying the need
      to generate locally applicable data. To date, PD has not been widely practiced in Malawi, and
      data generated from this research could provide guidance to increase the usefulness of PD.
      The primary limitation to PD is that HIV-uninfected patients could be incorrectly started on
      ART. However, it is possible that such patients might still experience lower mortality and
      HIV transmission rates, with little adverse effects, as suggested by the recent outcomes of
      extended post-natal antiretroviral prophylaxis studies.

      Point of care virologic testing, on the other hand, has the potential to revolutionize
      pediatric HIV care as HIV+ hospitalized infants could receive same day, accurate diagnostic
      results, allowing immediate evaluation for ART eligibility and initiation. While no point of
      care virologic test has yet been approved for routine use, the enhanced laboratory services
      available at University of North Carolina Project (UNC Project) can offer HIV RNA PCR test
      results in less than 48 hours. "Expedited" virologic testing is likely to provide definitive
      HIV test results to nearly all hospitalized HIV-exposed infants prior to discharge, therefore
      replicating the affect that point of care virologic testing will produce in the hospitalized
      setting. Understanding how expedited PCR testing affects inpatient ART uptake, outpatient
      follow-up, and longer term outcomes, compared to the current standard of care, will be
      critical for further system development and strengthening in anticipation of future point of
      care test availability.

      This research proposal seeks to utilize the current inpatient pediatric PITC system
      established at KCH to validate PD within the hospital setting, as well as investigate patient
      outcomes utilizing current EID standard of care (PD and DBS) compared to expedited PCR.
    
  