
    
      The use of implantable cardiac devices has been exponentially increasing, and lead extraction
      has become a necessary procedure. But lead extraction has potentially serious complications,
      including venous or myocardial tear, cardiac tamponade, and even death. Powered sheaths, such
      as Excimer laser or a radiofrequency system, have been used for extraction of ICD or
      pacemaker leads. However, the Heart Rhythm Society (HRS) has stated that "possible predictors
      of major complications were implant duration of the oldest lead, female gender, ICD lead
      removal, and use of the laser extraction technique, multiple leads, and calcified leads".

      To reduce the risk of the lead extraction procedure and therefore reduce the number of
      abandoned leads, LeadExx had developed its system.

      The LC system is an active disposable system provided sterile for single use. The system is
      comprised of the following two main parts:

      a. Dilation Unit (DU) - (invasive, sterile) b. Control Unit- (CU) - (non-invasive, sterile
      fluid path) The physical connection between the units is achieved by 3 Luer locks that
      connect the CU Solenoids' output to 3 flexible tubes at the proximal end of the DU.

        1. Dilation Unit (DU):

           The dilation unit is an invasive sterile unit, comprised of a dilation tip and a
           connecting shaft. The unit is activated using a hydraulic mechanism.

           The dilation tip is threaded over the lead, inserted into the vessel together with its
           connecting shaft and while advancing along the lead, dilates the surrounding tissue and
           ultimately enables the lead removal from the vein.

        2. Control Unit (CU):

      The Control Unit is a non-invasive fluid path sterile unit, comprised of various off the
      shelf modules . The unit is being filled with sterile Saline just prior to its operation and
      by synchronizing the transfer of the Saline into the DU controls its advancement. I
    
  