
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. When compared to the current standard of ad hoc nutritional supplementation on an
      as-needed basis, scheduled enteral supplementation with Impact Advanced Recovery during the
      course of neoadjuvant therapy (for those in the planned trimodality group), preoperatively,
      and postoperatively will improve patient wellbeing by reducing weight loss (measured at
      baseline, preoperatively, and at postoperative follow-up) incurred during the course of
      therapy and will permit maintenance of patient performance status.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Decrease rates of a composite outcome that includes anastomotic leaks, ileus, major
      pulmonary events (pneumonia, reintubation, tracheostomy), wound infection, postoperative
      mortality, chyle leaks, and other postoperative complications.

      II. Improve overall survival. III. Return to pre-surgical activity level (measured by Eastern
      Cooperative Oncology Group [ECOG] at baseline, preoperatively, and at postoperative
      follow-up).

      IV. Decrease postoperative length of stay. V. Decrease incidence of esophagitis during and
      after radiation therapy. VI. Improve rates of completion of all planned neoadjuvant therapies
      (defined as receipt of a minimum of 41.4 Gray and two cycles of chemotherapy).

      VII. Improve rates of lymphopenia.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Maintain or improve serum levels of arginine, citrulline, and albumin, while maintaining
      or decreasing serum levels of asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) and C-reactive protein.

      II. Improve immune function using peripheral markers such as CD4 count, CD4:CD8 ratio, CD3
      zeta, myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), IL-6 (interleukin 6), and IL-7.

      III. Increase densities of tumor-associated immune cells (TAICs; including CD3+, CD8+,
      CD45RO+, CD57+, CD4+, FOXP3+, granzyme B+, CD68+, PD1+ cells) within the tumor tissue.

      IV. Reduce platelet-to-lymphocyte, monocyte-to-lymphocyte, and neutrophil-to-lymphocyte
      ratios as measured by routine clinical complete blood counts.

      V. Composition of intratumoral, peritumoral, and enteric microbiome.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients receive standard of care nutritional supplementation.

      GROUP II: Patients receive Impact Advanced Recovery PO or via feeding tube twice daily (BID)
      on days 1-7 for weeks 1, 3, and 5 during chemotherapy and radiation therapy before surgery.
      Starting 5-7 days before surgery, patients receive Impact Advanced Recovery PO three times
      daily (TID) until surgery. Within 2 days following surgery, patients may continue to receive
      Impact Advanced Recovery via feeding tube at the discretion of the treating physician.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up at 24 and 30 days.
    
  