
    
      Randomized, controlled, double-blinded, multicenter, phase I/II clinical trial to evaluate
      the safety of low-dose IL-2 and determine whether low-dose IL-2 therapy for one year, can
      prevent further loss of beta-cell function in patients with established T1D, (primary
      outcome). The study will carefully examine various effects of low-dose IL-2 on the immune
      system in patients with T1D, including effects on Treg and other cell subsets, and
      disease-specific autoimmune responses.

      Patients will be treated with ILT-101 or placebo. ILT-101 will be given at doses of 0.5
      million IU (body surface area <2 m2) or 1 million IU (body surface area >2 m2), via
      subcutaneous (s.c.) injections. Patients will receive a course of 5 daily injections (days
      1-5. Starting on day 15, patients will receive an s.c. injection (same dose) every 15 days
      for 1 year. Thus, patients will receive 29 injections during the first year of treatment. At
      the end of the first year, approximately half of those randomized to ILT-101 will continue
      receiving treatment every 15 days, until the end of the second year (23 doses). The other
      half will stop therapy and will be switched to a placebo.

      A group of patients will be randomly assigned to a placebo for the duration of the study.
      Patients to be included in this study are those diagnosed with T1D who would have had T1D
      from 4 months to 1 year at the time of randomization, who have a current or past
      demonstration of autoimmunity (using autoantibodies), and maintain preserved β-cell function,
      defined as an MMTT stimulated C-peptide >0.2 nmol/L. This population is chosen because it
      will extend the scope of therapy beyond the immediate time following diagnosis when most
      previous studies of immunotherapy in T1D have been conducted. This trial can further impact
      the field if a therapeutic benefit is shown when the disease is more established.
    
  