
    
      Phase I: Increase public awareness of the beneficial effects of smoking cessation on female
      smokers Five thousand leaflets on woman smoking cessation will be distributed to the Girl
      Guide, the University of Hong Kong and 40 secondary schools. For those who are not ready to
      join the training, they will be encouraged to help to increase the awareness of the
      importance of promoting smoking cessation by disseminating the leaflets to others, especially
      female smokers in the population.

      Phase II: Deliver a smoking cessation training curriculum for the female youth recruited
      through the Hong Kong Girl Guides Association, the University of Hong Kong and 40 secondary
      schools.

      The investigators aim to train 120-150 female youth (with the priority given to the Hong Kong
      Girl Guides Association) to be SCRA with better understanding on the needs and feelings of
      female smokers.The investigators will deliver a half-day SCRA training workshop to the female
      youth. In addition to the leaflets above, the investigators shall publicize the training
      workshop and recruit participants via bulk emails, newsletters and the homepage of the Hong
      Kong Girl Guides Association, the University of Hong Kong and 40 secondary schools. The
      investigators will draw on our experience in conducting smoking cessation training programmes
      for our existing projects such as Youth Quitline and Quit to Win Contests. In addition, the
      investigators shall train and empower participants how to deliver a brief smoking cessation
      advice to female smokers. For those who do not want to quit, they will be advised to reduce
      smoking as the first step towards quitting. Throughout the training, participants will be
      taught to deliver the "AWARD" approach: 1) Ask about smoking, 2) Warn the smokers that at
      least half will be killed by smoking, and the female specific harms due to smoking, 3) Advise
      to quit (or reduce) as soon as possible, 4) Refer to a cessation clinic or hotline, and 5) Do
      it again until they quit.7 At the end of the training workshop, participants should be
      capable of delivering brief smoking cessation and reduction advice to female smokers, and a
      referral system will be set up so that women who accept more intensive counselling can be
      referred to our and other more specialised smoking cessation services. Upon completion of the
      training, a certificate of attendance will be awarded to the participants.

      The outcomes of the training will be evaluated before and immediately afterwards, and 3- and
      6-month post training. A smoking-, tobacco control-, and smoking cessation and
      reduction-related knowledge, attitudes and practice (KAP) survey, 15 using a modified version
      of previous questionnaires which have been used to assess other smoking cessation training
      workshop,16 will be conducted.

      Additionally, there is increasing evidence that the Health Action Process Approach (HAPA) is
      helpful in explaining the psychological mechanisms in bridging the gap between intention and
      actual change in health behaviour.17 According to HAPA model, an individual's intention
      either to engage in a preventive measure or to modify risky behaviour in favour of a healthy
      practice, action plans and action control help the individual to structure a strategy for
      maintaining healthy practices and defeating other conflicting ideas.18 Adopting the HAPA
      model,17 intention, self-efficacy, and planning to provide smoking cessation and reduction
      advice will also be assessed.

      Phase III: Deliver a age and gender-specific smoking cessation advice

      The trained female SCRA will be encouraged to deliver "AWARD" to at least 2 female smokers to
      advise them to reduce and quit smoking. Self-help smoking cessation booklet designed by Hong
      Kong Council on Smoking and Health, a partner of our smoking cessation research team, will be
      provided. The trained youth ambassadors can identify and reach the target female smokers in
      the following ways:

        1. from their family members, relatives, friends, peers, schoolmates, or colleagues in
           workplaces;

        2. If the trained youth ambassadors cannot identify and reach target female smokers from
           (1), the investigators can refer female smokers to them through our other smoking
           cessation projects, such as Youth Quitline or Quit to Win project with the consensus
           from the female smokers
    
  