
    
      The overall purpose of the Project RAMP intervention is to find out what challenges make it
      hard for people living with HIV to keep their in-person clinic appointments. The
      investigators also hope to learn how much a mobile HIV treatment van may help patients who
      have been out of care for a minimum of 6 months, to re-start keeping regular clinic visits.
      The investigators also hope this information will help be useful in learning best practices
      for providing health care to people living with HIV.

      This study will recruit a total of 30 participants, 20 for the intervention and 10 for the
      usual care group. Participants will be recruited through bridge counselors at the partnering
      clinic, whose roles and responsibilities consist of finding and reaching out to patients who
      have been out of HIV care in an attempt to get them reengaged.

      Participants will have up to 5 study visits that are between 1- 4 weeks apart. Each visit
      will last about 1 to 1.5 hours. Participants will also be asked to participate in two in
      depth interview: a baseline interview at the start of the study that will ask questions about
      each participant's experience with their past clinic visits and an exit interview at the end
      of the study regarding their experience participating in the HIV mobile treatment program
      (Project RAMP). The pre-intervention visit (Visit 0) includes the first interview, providing
      some brief information about you, a urine pregnancy test for participants who are female, and
      a brief meeting with a financial technician who will help participants complete their
      insurance information. Intervention Visit 1 will include a nurse from the partnering clinic
      administering the video educational intervention, HIV medication adherence counseling, a
      health history form, blood draws for standard reengagement labs (CD4 count, HIV viral load,
      comprehensive metabolic panel, complete blood count with differential, rapid plasma reagin
      and HIV genotype). Specimens from these visits will be delivered to partnering clinic for
      analysis. Notes from the mobile visit will be shared with the study PI, who will in term
      communicate these notes with the assigned clinic provider of each participant. Visits 2-4
      will include a study nurse conducting additional blood draws if recommended by their assigned
      provider, and a review of adherence counseling and health history forms.

      At the end of each intervention visit, participants will be if they would like to make an in
      person clinic appointment. Those who decline at the end of intervention Visits 1-3 will be
      offered an additional field visit appointment. Those who decline an in person clinic
      appointment at the end of Visit 4 will move on to completing the exit interview in person at
      this time and will complete the study following the exit interview. Participants who schedule
      a clinic appointment will have their exit interview in person or via phone within 3 months of
      their clinic visit. All participants will be follow up to 6 months after their last study
      visit to to access their viral load, if this information is available.
    
  