
    
      The care practice standards related to infusion therapy (IT) are stipulated and regulated by
      US institutions, such as the Infusion Nurses Society (INS) and the Center for Disease and
      Control (CDC), and, in Brazil, by the Brazilian National Health Surveillance Agency (ANVISA).
      Within this topic, the investigators can mention peripherally administered IT through
      peripheral intravenous catheters (PIC) as the most used one, since this is less complex and
      less invasive, and it offers a lower risk of severe complications compared to central line
      IT.

      PIC placement, maintenance and removal procedures are not free of complications, and in order
      to prevent them, regulatory agencies publish formal recommendations. One of these refers to
      the time the PIC remains at the same site (residence time), which has been determined to be
      96 hours for the adult population, i.e., it should be removed and punctured again at another
      site, systematically, even if not showing any inflammatory sign within 96 hours.

      Following literature review, one can see that these recommendations are based on limited
      evidence, and supported by data from old studies. For this reason, the investigators discuss
      if employing a systematic and elective change procedure for adults would be the best option,
      as the investigators have taken some aspects into consideration, such as: Patient safety -
      The PIC dwell time at the placement site, as shown by research results, has increased
      throughout the decades to 24, 48, 72, and 96 hours. If the PIC change is performed on a child
      who, theoretically, is a less immune-competent patient as compared to adults, this is
      performed according to clinical signs, then the investigators can conclude that adopting the
      same procedure for adults would be safe. Peripheral venous depletion - Logic leads us to
      consider that the less the investigators puncture a patient, more access is available, and
      less outcomes with IT-specific complications occur. Patient satisfaction - With reduced
      exposures to painful and invasive events, the patient will also benefit from it. Few patients
      refrain from showing dissatisfaction when the PIC is to be placed again electively. Quality -
      Producing scientific evidence and adopting the best practices in hospital environments is
      practicing quality. Economic aspects - If these PIC changes were less frequent, they would
      necessarily imply less spending with inputs and devices, as well as less time spent by the
      team performing the procedure, which represents less cost and workload. Occupational safety -
      Studies show an estimated relationship between the occurrence of an accident with biological
      material and performing invasive procedures. Reducing the number of punctures performed by a
      professional, in addition to decreasing the workload, may reduce the exposure to risk and
      accidents.

      Research studies carried out mostly in Australia aim at showing that the systematic PIC
      removal and change do not bring benefits, when compared to change based on clinical
      manifestations. However, a systematic review study in 2010 did not find conclusive evidence,
      and suggested the development of other projects in several regions, of different natures and
      realities, so as to further mature the hypothesis. To support this, the INS has also formally
      stated that this theme is a research priority at this time.
    
  