
    
      Evidence shows that although clinical trials are aimed at producing new strategies for
      reducing cancer morbidity and mortality, participation remains sub-optimal for all
      populations, especially those from racial and ethnic groups. Although some interventions have
      been found to be effective at enhancing participation, few studies have tested tailored
      communication activities using innovative communication techniques (perceptual mapping) with
      aims to address barriers and facilitators for patients and facilitate more engaged
      discussions with their providers in real world settings.

      Participation in clinical trials is a serious and complex decision, and many patients of all
      races and backgrounds have limited knowledge and understanding of clinical trials as a
      treatment option. Although research has been conducted to explore the barriers to
      participation, there has been a call for more intervention research to address these
      barriers. A fundamental aspect of patient focused interventions is an exploration of their
      personal questions and concerns, without which it is difficult for patients to become
      empowered to participate in an informed or shared decision making process. However, there
      remains limited empirical research to suggest which messages are most salient to a diverse
      range of patients to improve decision making, and how decision tools can be tailored to
      enhance patient-provider communication. This research will provide insight into that process
      when the decision is participation in clinical trials.

      Evidence shows that ethnic and racial minorities are significantly underrepresented in
      clinical trials, which is critical to producing new strategies for reducing cancer morbidity
      and mortality for all populations. Recognizing the complexity of barriers to participation in
      clinical trials, research has focused on potential strategies to enhance participation.
      Interventions have shown that provider referrals of minority patients, community outreach,
      acknowledging and addressing issues of trust, flexibility in intervention methods, and
      population targeted materials are effective. Few studies, however, have tested tailored
      communication activities to address barriers and facilitators for patients using innovative
      communication techniques in real world settings - meaning ways these activities can be
      integrated into the healthcare workflow - or addressed the unique needs of racial and ethnic
      minorities.

      The mychoice communication tool begins to prepare patients to participate in a personal and
      tailored discussion with their provider about clinical trials as a potential treatment
      option. The tool is also customized to address the concerns of those least likely to
      participate, instead of providing a more general look at clinical trials- a common trait of
      other available tools. Previous research has shown that patient education before the first
      oncologist visit improves knowledge, attitudes, and preparation for decision making about
      clinical trials and integrating these tools into the clinical encounter is critical. In
      addition, using innovative communication techniques (perceptual mapping and vector modeling)
      to validate and explore notable messages across diverse cancer patients provided new insights
      into tailoring messages and personalizing patient/provider communication. Insight gained from
      validation of the intervention will improve the decision making process and inform a large
      scale integration of mychoice to affect patient perceptions and increase willingness to
      participate in clinical trials, especially in minority patients.

      In addition, Investigators will assess barriers to implementation when introducing the tool
      in diverse cancer centers, each with different protocols and patient populations, to inform a
      future proposal. Using the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Science (CFIR), one of
      the predominant implementation science research frameworks, we will focus on five domains:
      intervention characteristics, outer settings, inner setting, characteristics of individuals
      (patients and providers), and process. Implementation science is becoming an important
      component of intervention implementation and we aim to use this framework to ensure success.
    
  