
    
      Cataract surgery is the most frequently performed surgery in the NHS. Cystoid macular oedema
      (CMO, inflammation and fluid accumulation in the central retina) is the most common visually
      significant complication following cataract surgery occurring in 1-2% of cases. Many cases
      resolve with topical anti-inflammatory eye drops. However some cases do not respond and
      require more invasive treatment modalities eg injections into the eye. If CMO remains
      persistent this can lead to permanent visual loss. There is little current knowledge on what
      factors lead to persistence in some cases compared to others. Epiretinal membrane (ERM, a
      fibrocellular membrane that can form on the inner retina) can be associated with a similar
      cystoid macular oedema that often does not resolve until the ERM is removed surgically. This
      study aims to look at whether the presence of an ERM affects how long it takes for cystoid
      macular oedema to resolve following cataract surgery and the requirement for non-topical
      treatment modalities.

      A prospective, non-interventional, observational study design is proposed. Eligible
      participants would be identified at one of several participating NHS hospitals in the Wessex
      Deanery. Subjects with evidence of CMO post-cataract surgery and commenced on treatment would
      be included. Treatment choice is at the discretion of the reviewing clinician and independent
      of the study protocol. Investigations performed would be only those conducted as part of
      standard care. Presence of epiretinal membrane would be determined from review of the medical
      records. Case- records of eligible participants would be reviewed over a 12-month period to
      assess response to treatment and type of treatment(s) used. Based on current surgical data
      recruitment would be estimated to take 18 months to achieve the 165 eligible participants to
      achieve statistical power.
    
  