
    
      160 St. Jude families with a cancer patient who meets eligibility criteria will be enrolled
      on the study. Eligible St. Jude patients must be 17 years of age or younger at the time of
      enrollment. They must also be at least one month from initial diagnosis and in active
      treatment. The patient cannot currently be using tobacco, and he/she must live with at least
      one cigarette smoking adult who smokes in his/her presence. Both smoking and non-smoking
      parents are eligible to participate. The inclusion of non-smoking parents reflects the
      primary objective of the proposed study to reduce ETS exposure in the child's environment. We
      will evaluate the efficacy of an ETS intervention by using a randomized controlled trial
      design that incorporates an experimental intervention group (ETS) and a standard care control
      group (SCC). Parents in the SCC group will receive the standard advice with no additional
      intervention. The experimental group will participate in a three month, multi-component
      behavioral program focused on the reduction of the cancer patient's ETS exposure. The program
      will consist of three bi-weekly face-to-face coaching sessions followed by three bi-weekly
      telephone coaching sessions that will occur within the first three months following
      enrollment onto the study. Although telephone counseling sessions will be offered for parents
      who are not available in person, the face-to-face sessions are encouraged as much as
      possible. Parents in this group will receive physician feedback letters acknowledging their
      participation and progress at the start and end of the coaching phase, as well as, a
      follow-up telephone contact at five months. Self-report and biological measures will be
      obtained from all families during clinic visits at baseline and at three, six, nine, and
      twelve months. Reported ETS exposure and the child's urine cotinine levels will serve as the
      primary dependent variables. Other psychosocial and health outcomes will also be assessed.
      Children 10 years of age and older will complete a brief ETS exposure questionnaire that asks
      them to report on exposure in their environment. Parents in each group will be paid $10 for
      each set of study forms they answer. The total amount that a parent in the control group may
      receive is $50. Parents in the ETS intervention program will also receive $12.50 for each
      face-to-face and telephone coaching session in which they take part. The telephone follow-up
      call occurring at five months will not be compensated. The total amount that a parent in the
      ETS intervention group may receive is $125. Patients will receive a $10 hospital gift voucher
      for each urine sample they provide. The total amount that a patient may receive is $50 to
      $60. At the end of the study, parents who were assigned to the standard advice control group
      may receive the ETS intervention program without charge, if they so choose. Also, parents in
      both groups may choose to receive feedback about their child's urine cotinine results at the
      completion of the study.
    
  