
    
      A descriptive analysis of the sociodemographic characteristics of the intervention and
      control groups was done. Qualitative variables were expressed as percentages, and
      quantitative variables were summarised as the median and interquartile range.

      Shapiro-Wilk tests indicated that the dependent variables were not normally distributed (p <
      .05), so non-parametric statistical analyses were subsequently performed. The difference
      between the medians of the two patient groups was examined with the Mann-Whitney U test.
      Qualitative variables were compared with the chi-squared or Fisher's exact test, as
      appropriate.

      Being a quasi-experimental study, without randomization of patients, the existence of initial
      pre-intervention differences in the dimensions evaluated by the FIQ scale between the two
      patient groups was tested with the Mann-Whitney U test. For the dimensions that showed
      significant pre-intervention group differences, the medians of the post- and pre-intervention
      differences between the two patient groups were tested. For those dimensions of the FIQ that
      showed no pre-intervention differences, the post-intervention values were compared. The
      changes in the FIQ score and its dimensions before and after the intervention in both groups
      were assessed using the Wilcoxon test.

      Additionally, we carried out univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses to
      identify the relationships between the independent variables studied and the improvement
      variable (increase, or not, of at least 8.1 points in the FIQ score after the intervention).

      Finally, the sample was stratified by educational level (primary versus secondary/university
      studies) and age (younger than 60 years or 60+ years). The pre- and post-intervention scores
      were compared using the Mann-Whitney U test and the differences in each group were analysed
      with the Wilcoxon test.
    
  