
    
      Prospective, randomized, comparative, clinical, controlled study, that is approved by the
      Ethics Commitee of the University of Patras (10.12.2019) and takes part in the University
      Hospital of Patras. Depending on the supraglottic airway device (SGA)/ laryngeal mask airway
      (LMA) used to achieve intubation (Fastrach, I-gel, Protector), partcipants will be randomly
      allocated into three groups; Group A, B and C (Fastrach, I-gel, Protector respectively).

      In the preoperative setting, a complete preanesthetic evaluation will be performed, including
      a detailed airway assessment (prediction of difficulty in face mask ventilation, insertion of
      SGA/LMA and intubation).

      All patients are scheduled to undergo an elective surgery under general anesthesia. Before
      induction, all patients will be preoxygenated with FiO2 100% for at least 5 minutes. After
      induction, using rocuronium 0.6mg/kg to facilitate neuromuscular blockade, face mask
      ventilation follows.

        1. Group A- Fastrach: The intubating laryngeal mask airway (Fastrach) will be placed to the
           patients of this group. After the mask is correctly placed and patients are adequately
           ventilated, they will be intubated through the mask using its own endotracheal tube
           according to the blind technique insertion.

        2. Group B- I-gel: The supraglottic airway device (I-gel) will be placed to the patients of
           this group. After the mask is correctly placed and patients are adequately ventilated,
           they will be intubated through the mask using a fiberoptic bronchoscope to guide
           endotracheal tube's placement.

        3. Group C- Protector: The supraglottic airway device (Protector) will be placed to the
           patients of this group. After the mask is correctly placed and patients are adequately
           ventilated, they will be intubated through the mask using a fiberoptic bronchoscope to
           guide endotracheal tube's placement.

      In all groups (A, B, C) up to 3 attempts of SGA/LMA placement and up to 3 attempts of
      intubation are allowed to be made.

      In case of an emerging unpredicted difficult airway and a concurrent unsuccessful SGA/LMA
      placement, then the algorithm of the difficult airway will be immediately followed.
      Video-assisted laryngoscopy will be the first option rescue alternative.

      The time of the whole procedure from the beginning of SGA's/LMA's placement effort until the
      successful intubation will be recorded, along with the evaluation of the success rate of
      first intubation attempt.
    
  