
    
      Adolescent obesity is one of the major global health challenges of the 21st century.
      Currently, 35% of adolescents are overweight (BMI > 85th percentile), and one in six are
      diagnosed with metabolic syndrome. While the adoption and maintenance of healthful dietary
      practices has been identified as a high priority topic for future research, few enduring
      treatment strategies have been identified. The cause of adolescent obesity is
      multi-factorial; psychological and family factors largely contribute to this epidemic along
      with biological and environmental influences. However, the majority of standard weight loss
      programs fail to adequately address the impact of psychological factors on eating behavior
      and the beneficial contribution of parental involvement in making dietary change in
      overweight adolescent populations.

      Meditation-based programs may improve the efficacy of more established weight-loss
      interventions for adolescents by addressing key psychological variables affecting weight.
      Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) is a well-established, systematic patient-centered
      educational approach that uses training in mindfulness meditation to increase awareness of
      and the ability to respond skillfully to experiences that contribute to emotional distress
      and maladaptive behavior. The efficacy of MBSR in reducing psychological distress and
      symptoms of stress in adults has been consistently shown in controlled studies. Significant
      improvements in physiological measures related to metabolic syndrome including blood
      pressure, cholesterol, and glycemic control have also been demonstrated. Similar meditation
      programs have been successfully implemented with adolescents to address problems such as
      hypertension, depression, and eating behaviors. Furthermore, the recent expansion of
      mindfulness programs to include family relationships shows the immense potential for
      broadening the customarily individual focus of meditation-based interventions to include
      broader factors thought to influence adolescent health outcomes. This is important given that
      greater involvement of the family is thought to increase the effectiveness of interventions
      aimed at adolescent weight control, weight maintenance and weight loss.

      Recently, researchers have begun to modify the MBSR program specifically for populations
      attempting to make dietary health changes. One newly modified program for adults is Mindful
      Eating & Living (MEAL), a brief 6-session program designed to teach skills which can lead to
      increased awareness of eating, emotions, and judgment. Preliminary data from our own research
      with adults shows significant changes in eating behaviors and other obesity related problems,
      including reduced psychological distress, regulation of intake patterns, disordered eating,
      improved metabolic regulation, and weight loss.

      Although theoretically compelling, mindful eating interventions have never been examined with
      an overweight adolescent population. Thus, an unprecedented opportunity exists to develop a
      systematic program of research investigating a mindfulness approach to eating behavior and
      weight loss specifically tailored for adolescents and their families. This is critical given
      that adolescence is a period with special developmental considerations, and it is not clear
      that weight loss programs developed for children or adults are effective with adolescents.
      Interventions aimed at adolescent eating behaviors have met with mixed success, and it has
      been theorized that this may be due, in part, to an inadequate understanding of the factors
      (e.g. psychological and family-based) associated with eating behaviors among adolescents that
      need to be addressed in interventions. To address these gaps, this study proposes to
      systematically adapt, pilot, refine, and evaluate a developmentally appropriate Mindful
      Eating intervention for overweight adolescents based on the current protocol format taught in
      the adult MEAL program. We have designed a three-phase iterative development process that
      includes: 1) community key informant and consultant input; 2) beta-testing and further
      refinement of the program; and 3) formal pilot testing. Study aims include:

      Aim 1: Adapt a mindful eating intervention protocol (Mindful Eating -A) for an overweight
      adolescent population (BMI ≥ 85th percentile), ages 14-17. The intervention will be tailored
      to the unique developmental challenges of adolescence, suitable for use in applied community
      settings, and demonstrate feasibility and acceptability.

      Aim 2: Develop a 'family enhanced mindful eating -A' (Mindful Eating -A+F) intervention
      protocol that integrates a family systems perspective into Mindful Eating -A. The goal is to
      expand the focus of Mindful Eating -A to include family factors that influence adolescent
      eating behaviors. These include food-related parenting styles, food organization behaviors,
      family support, and the parents' own eating-related behaviors. Mindful Eating -A+F will
      demonstrate feasibility, and acceptability, and will be suitable for use in applied community
      settings.

      Aim 3: To examine the overall efficacy of the optimized Mindful Eating -A+F, relative to the
      Mindful Eating -A intervention. Within this examination, post-treatment and 3-month follow-up
      comparisons across the two treatment approaches will be made. Effect sizes within and between
      treatments will be assessed. We expect that Mindful Eating -A+F will show stronger and more
      enduring effects than Mindful Eating -A alone on adolescent outcomes. Primary outcomes
      include adolescent weight, BMI, and eating behaviors. Secondary outcomes include adolescent's
      markers of metabolic syndrome, psychological distress, family barriers, and mindfulness.
    
  