
    
      NAFLD is the most prevalent of all liver disorders and is the most common cause of chronic
      aminotransferase elevations in the United States. NAFLD also represents a major health threat
      worldwide, with a substantial impact on healthcare expenditures in the US and Europe. With
      the availability of highly effective ART, chronic liver disease has become a leading cause of
      non-AIDS related morbidity and mortality in PLWH. NAFLD is projected to become the leading
      cause of liver disease in the aging HIV population. The reported prevalence of NAFLD in PLWH
      without viral hepatitis co-infection ranges from 15-54% when assessed by imaging modalities
      and vibration-controlled transient elastography (VCTE), and is up to 73% in studies including
      liver biopsy, exceeding the reported prevalence of NAFLD in the general population. These
      prevalence figures vary as different modalities [computed tomography (CT), ultrasound, or
      Controlled attenuation parameter (CAP)] and criteria to define NAFLD were used. Further,
      current reports of NAFLD prevalence in PLWH are largely limited to single centers with small
      numbers of participants, inclusion of patients with concurrent HCV or limiting the study
      population to single sex or military personnel and their dependents. Systematic
      characterization of NAFLD in PLWH requires a large, representative, multi-ethnic,
      multi-centric cohort, which is currently lacking.

      While obesity, insulin resistance and other components of the metabolic syndrome have been
      reported in some studies to increase the risk for NAFLD in PLWH, they are not universally
      observed in all PLWH, as studies of men with HIV report lower incidence of hepatic steatosis
      and lower BMI compared to controls. The impact of HIV and ART on NAFLD risk has also been
      much debated, with some studies supporting a role for the duration of infection and ART
      agents used, and others showing no associations. Recent reports suggest a potential decrease
      in NAFLD/NASH frequency and severity with light to moderate alcohol consumption in the
      general population. While PLWH commonly report alcohol use, the effects of non-heavy alcohol
      consumption on NAFLD and NASH risk and severity have not been studied in this population.
      Similarly, while coffee consumption has reported benefits on NAFLD in the general population,
      this effect has not been explored in PLWH. Several genetic variants have been found to
      modulate the risk and severity of NAFLD in the general population (Primary NAFLD), such as
      PNPLA3, TM6SF2, FADS1, GCKR, MBOAT7, and HSD17B13. To date, only a few studies evaluated
      genetic variation as a risk for NAFLD and its severity in PLWH. Emerging studies suggest an
      important role for gut microbiome as well as circulating gut derived metabolites in
      modulating the severity of Primary NAFLD but similar studies are lacking in PLWH.

      OBJECTIVES

        -  To determine the prevalence of hepatic steatosis and NAFLD in a large, multicenter, and
           multiethnic cohort of PLWH.

        -  To enroll at least 1250 PLWH into a cross-sectional study. The presence of hepatic
           steatosis and NAFLD and advanced fibrosis will be defined based on clinical, diagnostic,
           and VCTE criteria. Core data collection will include clinical, demographic, behavioral,
           anthropometric and laboratory information.

        -  To evaluate the prevalence of alcoholic liver disease versus NAFLD and assess the
           effects of varying amounts of alcohol and other beverage consumption on the risk and
           severity of hepatic steatosis.

        -  To evaluate the relationship between host (age, sex/gender, race/ethnicity, obesity,
           genetic variants, gut microbiome, etc.), HIV disease (HIV-1 RNA level, CD4+ T cell
           count, HIV duration) and HIV treatment with ART (type and duration), and environmental
           (alcohol, coffee and other beverages, diet, physical activity, sleep, food insecurity)
           factors and the prevalence of hepatic steatosis and NAFLD in PLWH.

        -  To establish a robust specimen bank comprised of serum, plasma, genomic DNA as well as
           PBMC and stool at select sites.
    
  