
    
      Background How do health care professionals help children, help themselves? How do patients
      become active participants in their own care? The prevalence of chronic conditions, such as
      IBD, is increasing in Canada [1, 2]. Health care systems need to look for sustainable and
      effective solutions to improve patient care while reducing health care costs. Crohn's disease
      (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC), known collectively as IBD, are chronic relapsing and
      remitting diseases associated with significant medical (i.e., number of hospitalizations,
      frequent need for surgery, growth failure) and social (i.e., school absences, interference
      with pursuit of higher education) morbidity [3]. Medical and social morbidity of IBD are
      intertwined, and take a significant toll on the health-related quality of life (HRQOL) of
      these patients [4-6].

      IBD manifests during childhood or adolescence in 20% to 25% of patients [7]. This is a
      crucial time in children's development, both physically [8] and emotionally [9]. Children's
      relationships with family and peers change significantly over the course of their childhood.
      Normal social development sees children seeking more emotional support from peers over family
      members in their adolescent years [10]. However, adolescents with IBD do not follow this
      pattern [11] and tend to seek continued support from family members and rely on parents'
      coping strategies to deal with stressors [12]. With increased reliance on family support when
      dealing with a chronic illness like IBD, children may be faced with additional burden when
      their parents' are not able to offer them the emotional support they need or do not have
      coping skills that are effective enough to translate into increased care for their children.
      Despite this, no interventions (to the authors' knowledge) to benefit psychosocial
      functioning have been specifically studied in pediatric patients or families with IBD.

      Current medical intervention tends to focus exclusively on the disease, and does not focus on
      disease management and coping through self-management skills. Disease self-management
      involves -the interaction of health behaviours and related processes that patients and
      families engage in to care for a chronic disease‖ [13]. Studies in both the adult and
      pediatric chronic illness literature have shown that comprehensive interventions that augment
      medical treatments with self management therapy, lead to better medical outcomes and better
      quality of life than care that is strictly medically focused [4-6, 14-24]. These
      self-management studies are focused on chronic diseases such as diabetes, asthma and
      rheumatoid arthritis. There have been several small studies of psychological interventions in
      adult IBD patients with promising results, though issues with design limited the
      interpretation of the results [25-28]. Disease self-management is more than simple adherence
      to treatment guidelines - it also incorporates psychological and social management of living
      with a chronic illness.

      -It's something the investigators know intuitively, but it's also supported by evidence: A
      child's living conditions and experiences - the determinants of health - shape his or her
      physical health, development, and well-being, affecting not only childhood but the foundation
      of their health as adults [29, 30].‖ (Stepping it up Report, pg. 23, Health Council of
      Canada).

      Children's experiences (i.e. access to services), can be directly affected through disease
      self-management. Self-management training is often provided by tertiary care clinics, which
      includes disease education, and encouragement/support, usually at the time of diagnosis. Most
      care is given in concentrated sessions during crises times and is in response to a particular
      problem, which is not the best time to teach self-management skills. Families who are
      extremely distressed may, in rare cases, receive formal psychological therapy. Although most
      families receive excellent medical care in the tertiary care centres, the vast majority of
      patients do not receive comprehensive disease education and self-management therapy. Very few
      children with IBD receive comprehensive education and self management therapy even when they
      attend well organized tertiary care clinics.

      Geographic and financial concerns often limit access to psychosocial care and information
      sessions. In most areas of Canada, psychosocial treatment is available through private care.
      Psychosocial treatment is available for free through public institutions (Canada Health Act,
      1984); however, there are long waiting lists and significant time and financial-costs to
      patients. Parents would have to travel and take time from work, while children would miss
      school and other related activities, which may further prevent access to treatment. Many
      families are reluctant to see a psychologist, social worker or psychiatrist due to the social
      stigma attached to seeking psychotherapy. For some families, the entire process is perceived
      as blaming them for their problems [31].

      In the past 20 years, treatments aimed at teaching parents and children to change their
      attitudes or behaviour have been developed and evaluated by means of rigorous, randomized
      trials [32-41]. Although there is strong evidence that these psychosocial treatments work in
      reducing symptoms and increasing health related quality of life (HRQOL), they are typically
      delivered only in specialty clinics by highly trained personnel. Few therapists outside of GI
      clinics will be knowledgeable enough about the disease to effectively help patients and
      families integrate their psychological and medical care. Evidence from a large meta-analysis
      has shown that many self-management treatments can be given with as good or better outcomes
      by paraprofessionals following evidence-based protocols [42]. The use of web-based programs
      to deliver self-management care has taken off in recent years. Recent meta-analyses have
      found improved behavioural outcomes for adults using web-based self-management programs [43]
      and improvements in symptom and disease control for youth with health conditions [44].
      Web-based interventions have been found to be comparable to face-to-face treatments [45], and
      have demonstrated increased social support when programs utilize chat rooms. As Stinson et
      al. [44] state, many studies have not been able to determine the durability of treatment
      effects or the cost-effectiveness of these programs. The current research will attempt to
      address some of these shortcomings.

      Based on the lack of access to disease-specific care outside of existing medical
      intervention, the Mission is Remission® web-based intervention program was created in 2005 as
      a pilot study, for use by IBD patients and their families. This is a web-enabled evidence
      based home program of self-management, information, and social support for pediatric IBD
      patients aged 12-18, with a separate site for their parents. The site was accessed on a
      restricted-access web site, and participants worked through the program with help of a coach.
      The coaches worked in collaboration with gastroenterologists, nurses and a psychologist, but
      the coaches were not medical professionals. This served as an adjunct to routine medical care
      but not as prescribed medical therapy by the patient's physician or team. This
      individualized, interactive 12 session program incorporated multi-media tools for disease
      education and psychological interventions.

      The previous research program enrolled two groups of patients-those with inactive disease and
      those with active disease, and their parents [46]. Remission was induced in patients with
      active disease before beginning use of the Mission is Remission® site. Although participants
      demonstrated improvements in main outcome variables such as HRQOL, and Disease Knowledge,
      there was no true control group in this study such that statements around the effectiveness
      of the program in comparison to routine or standard care could not be made. Based on lessons
      learned from the first Mission is Remission® site, a new site was created, which was made
      possible from an IWK Auxiliary Grant. The expertise of the web-developer, who has been
      involved in the development of multiple sites for teens, was pivotal in guiding the site's
      development. The use of social networking, peer support, and parent-to-parent support was
      optimized through this process.

      The proposed research plans to randomize patients to receive either comprehensive care using
      the Mission is Remission® site or to receive routine care (i.e. regular hospital clinic
      visits, appointments with clinicians and other specialists as required).
    
  