
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the safety (as assessed by the day 100 non-relapse mortality) and
           feasibility of single or double umbilical cord stem cell transplantation in patients
           with hematological malignancies receiving graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis
           comprising tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil (MMF).

      Secondary

        -  To assess sustained donor engraftment, neutrophil recovery, platelet recovery, incidence
           and severity of acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and chronic GVHD, relapse rate,
           100-day all-cause mortality, overall survival, and immune reconstitution after single or
           double umbilical cord stem cell transplantation in patients with hematologic
           malignancies receiving graft-versus-host disease(GVHD) prophylaxis comprising tacrolimus
           and mycophenolate mofetil (MMF).

      OUTLINE:

        -  Conditioning: Patients receive myeloablative or reduced-intensity conditioning regimen
           according to age and prior treatment.

             -  Myeloablative conditioning (pediatric patients): Patients undergo total-body
                irradiation on days -7 to -4, and receive cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days
                -3 and -2, methylprednisolone IV twice daily on days -3 to -1, and anti-thymocyte
                globulin IV over 4 hours on days -3 to -1.

             -  Myeloablative conditioning (adult patients 18-40 years old): Patients receive
                fludarabine phosphate IV over 30 minutes on days -6 to -4, cyclophosphamide IV over
                1 hour on days -5 and -4, and undergo total-body irradiation on days -3 to -1.

             -  Reduced-intensity conditioning (patients over 40 and no more than 50 years old OR
                deemed ineligible for above myeloablative conditioning regimen due to previous
                treatment): Patients receive fludarabine phosphate IV over 30 minutes on days -6 to
                -2 and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day -6 and undergo total-body irradiation
                on day -1.

        -  Umbilical cord blood transplantation (UCBT): All patients undergo single- or double-unit
           umbilical cord blood transplantation (UCBT)on day 0.

        -  Graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis: Patients receive tacrolimus IV continuously or
           orally twice daily on days -2 to 180 followed by a tapering and mycophenolate mofetil IV
           or orally twice daily on days 0-100 followed by a tapering over the next 3 months.
           Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) IV or subcutaneously beginning on day 0* and
           continuing until blood counts recover.

      NOTE: *In adult patients receiving a reduced intensity transplant, G-CSF will be started when
      the total white cell count falls below 2.5 x 109/L.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed monthly for 1 year and then every
      2-4 months thereafter.
    
  