
    
      This study will test the effect of the Best Case/Worst Case intervention on receipt of
      palliative care and intensity of treatment at the end of life, quality of life, and quality
      of communication for older patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). This multi-site
      cluster randomized trial will enroll 320 participants who are making a dialysis initiation
      decision and receive care from a nephrologist trained to use the Best Case/Worst Case tool,
      or care from a nephrologist who has not been trained to use this tool (usual care). Randomly
      assigned nephrologists within each site will receive the intervention or waitlist control
      (upon study completion). Participants will be on follow up for up to two years after study
      enrollment via regular surveys and chart review. This study has three aims:

      Aim 1: To test the effect of the Best Case/Worst Case intervention on (1) receipt of
      palliative care and (2) intensity of treatment at the end of life for older patients with
      ESRD. Chart reviews will be used to determine whether participants have received at least one
      outpatient or inpatient palliative care consultation within 12 months of enrollment in the
      study. These consultations must be clearly marked as palliative care, provided by a clinician
      with palliative care training and have documented discussion of goals clarification, advance
      care planning, symptom management, coping, spiritual needs, or end-of-life care. To measure
      intensity of treatment received at the end of life, it will be determined whether
      participants have had an ICU admission within 30 days of death as a primary outcome and ICU
      admission, emergency room (ER) visit, or hospital admission within 30 days of death as a
      composite secondary outcome.

      Aim 2: To test the effect of the Best Case/Worst Case intervention on quality of life. The
      primary outcome for Aim 2 is quality of life as measured by the Functional Assessment of
      Chronic Illness Therapy -Palliative Care (FACIT-Pal Version 4) at baseline, and every three
      months for up to 2 years after study enrollment. The hypothesis is that the overall quality
      of life will decline over time as participants become more infirm. The average change in
      health-related quality of life over time which has been shown to decline less with the
      receipt of concurrent palliative care will be compared.

      Aim 3: To test the effect of the Best Case/Worst Case intervention on the quality of
      communication. To evaluate participant's assessment of nephrologist communication, the
      Quality of Communication (QOC) scale developed by Randy Curtis will be used. Unlike other
      measurements of physician communication that have high ceiling effects and limited ability to
      measure change, the QOC includes 7 items specific to end-of-life communication, which, if not
      performed by the clinician, are scored as zero. This will allow us to discriminate between
      quality of communication attributable to participant satisfaction (with high ceiling effects)
      versus content.
    
  