
    
      The trans-lamina cribrosa pressure difference (TLCPD), i.e. the difference between the
      intraocular pressure (IOP) and the intracranial pressure (ICP) has been suggested as a
      pathophysiological component in glaucoma. The theory is that high TLCPD, either due to
      elevated IOP or reduced ICP, can cause glaucomatous damage.

      Normal tension glaucoma (NTG) patients has been found to have a slightly reduced ICP when
      measured in horizontal position. However, in a previous study in healthy adult volunteers the
      investigators have measured TLCPD at supine, sitting and 9 degree head down tilt positions
      and found that the TLCPD was posture dependent, with the largest difference in the upright
      position. Since humans are upright approximately two thirds of the day, one can expect that
      TLCPD in a diurnal perspective is primarily influenced by the ICP in the upright position.

      In this study the TLCPD in different positions in patients with NTG will therefore be
      measured.

      The study will be carried out in three parts.

        1. TLCPD will be investigated by simultaneous measurements of IOP and ICP. For IOP the
           Applanation resonance tonometer (ART), developed by our research group, will be used.
           ART is independent of gravitation and possible to use in all body postures. In this
           study measurements will be performed in supine, sitting and head down tilt positions.
           ICP is measured continuously during the period of body position changes with a CELDA
           lumbar pressure measurement apparatus.

        2. Brain and eye MRI investigation will be performed at a 3 Tesla GE scanner with a new
           generation 32-channels head coil. The images will be used to measure the cross-section
           area, the blood flow velocity and the flow direction in the jugular veins, as well as
           the structural properties of the optic nerve and optic nerve head.

        3. Ultrasound imaging, using a high-resolution apparatus, will be performed to study the
           effects of postural changes on the blood flow velocity and the cross-section area of the
           right and left internal jugular veins and external jugular veins.
    
  