
    
      Hypertension is one of the most common world-wide chronic diseases, and it is one of major
      independent risk factors of atherosclerotic cardiovascular diseases (ASCVD) especially among
      middle-aged and elderly. Recently, a study indicates that in a normotensive elderly without
      cardiovascular diseases history, continuous RIPC for 30 days lowers systolic blood pressure
      for 6 mmHg and diastolic blood pressure for 3 mmHg. Another study shows a 7-day RIPC
      intervention improves endothelium-dependent flow mediated dilation(FDM) and cutaneous
      vascular conductivity(CVC) in 13 healthy young males. In addition, studies demonstrate that
      microRNA-126 and microRNA-34a are endothelial specific microRNAs which are expressed in human
      PBMCs. MicroRNA-126 is responsible for keeping the integrity of vascular endothelial,
      promoting the proliferation, mobilization, and migration of endothelial progenitor
      cells(EPCs), reducing arterial intimal hyperplasia, and reduce adhesion of neutrophils to
      vascular endothelial. In contrast, microRNA-34a is related to the aging of endothelial cells,
      which is found over-expressed in senile endothelial cells. Together the investigators use
      microRNA-126 and microRNA-34a to explore whether RIPC produces vascular endothelial
      protection effect. In summary, the investigators propose a hypothesis that RIPC might have a
      blood pressure lowing effect and protect vascular function both in Chinese healthy young
      adults and primary hypertensive patients. The term "primary hypertension stage I" indicates
      those with blood pressures ranging from 140 to 159 mmHg systolic and/or 90 to 99 mmHg
      diastolic. Accumulating evidences suggest that subjects with primary hypertension stage I are
      associated with higher incidence of ASCVD. However, there is no available data to investigate
      a nonpharmacologic therapy for primary hypertension stage I until now, and there is no
      prospective, randomized, controlled, single-blind clinic trial to investigate the effect of
      RIPC on blood pressure and its vascular protection effect. The investigators hypothesize that
      RIPC may lower both SBP and DBP, and it improves vascular function in Chinese healthy young
      adults and subjects with primary hypertension stage I. To address these assumptions, the
      present study is designed to study the effect of RIPC on blood pressure and its vascular
      protection effect, using FMD, PWV, central arterial pressure, RHI(EndoPAT) and the
      quantification of microRNA-126 and microRNA-34a in peripheral blood monocyte(PBMC) as
      indicators among Chinese healthy young adults and primary hypertensive patients stage I over
      a 1-month follow-up period.
    
  