
    
      Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD; n=64) will be recruited by
      convenience and, thereafter, included in this randomized controlled clinical trial. The
      execution of all the procedures involved in this study will be performed at the Laboratory of
      Research in Respiratory Physiotherapy (LFIP), located at the University Hospital of the State
      University of Londrina, Brazil. Prior to starting the exercise training program patients will
      be evaluated regarding: 1) physical activity in daily life (PADL) by the MoveMonitor
      (McRoberts, The Netherlands) and by the ActGraph (ActGraph, USA) for seven consecutive days
      during awake time; 2) lung function by plethysmography; 3) maximum ins- and expiratory
      pressures (MIP and MEP, respectively) by manovacuometry; 4) body composition by bioelectrical
      impedance; 5) Performance in activities of daily living (ADL) by the Londrina ADL protocol
      (LAP), a protocol recently developed at our laboratory, composed by five common activities
      usually performed by the patients in real life situations; 6) Maximum exercise capacity by
      the symptom limited maximum test on lower- (increase of 10 watts/minute at a cadence of 50-60
      rotations per minute [rpm]) and upper-limbs (5 watts/min at a cadence of 50-60 rpm) performed
      on cycle ergometer; 7) submaximal exercise capacity (endurance time) for the lower- and
      upper- limbs at 80% peak work of the respective maximum exercise capacity; 8) functional
      exercise capacity by the six-minute walk test and the six-minute pegboard and ring test; 9)
      peripheral muscle strength by the one-repetition maximum test (quantified in kg) of the knee
      extensors, hip abductors, elbow flexors and extensors, shoulder adductors, and dorsal
      muscles; and by isometric dynamometry (quantified by kgf) of the quadriceps; 10)
      Health-related quality of life by the Chronic Respiratory Questionnaire; 11) Health status by
      the COPD assessment test; 12) functional status by the London Chest Activity of Daily Living
      scale; 13) symptoms of anxiety and depression by the Hospital Anxiety and Depression scale;
      14) and dyspnea sensation in daily life by the Medical Research Council scale.
      Internationally applied protocols will be followed for all the above-mentioned procedures,
      and local reference values will be used when appropriated. After the evaluations, patients
      will be randomly allocated for the traditional exercise-training program (TET) or to TET plus
      additional upper-limb endurance exercise-training program group (AULET).

      After randomization, patients allocated to the TET group will perform lower-limb endurance
      exercise training on treadmill and on cycle ergometer. For the treadmill, patients will start
      exercising at 70% of the six-minute walk test average speed and, progressively, the intensity
      will be increased up to 110% of the six-minute walk test average speed until the last week of
      the program. For the cycle ergometer, the intensity will start at 60% of the maximum exercise
      capacity increasing up to 100% until the last week of the program.

      For the exercise performed both on treadmill and on cycle, patients will start exercising for
      10 minutes, aiming to achieve 20 minutes at the last week. In addition to the pre-schedule
      intensity-progression, the Borg scale (0 - 10) also will be used as auxiliary tool for
      guiding the exercise-intensity progression throughout the program. Additionally, patients
      will perform strengthening exercises for the knee-extensors, hip abductors and adductors,
      elbow flexors and extensors, shoulder adductors and dorsal muscles. For the strengthening
      exercises the intensity will start at 60% of the one-repetition maximum test increasing up to
      100%. For all muscle groups, strengthening exercises will start with three series of ten
      repetitions, and progression is intended to achieve three series of 15 repetition by the last
      week. In addition to the exercises that the TET will be submitted, patients in the AULET will
      perform additional upper-limb endurance exercises on arm-cycle ergometer, starting at 60% of
      the maximum exercise capacity, for ten minutes, progressing until 95% of the maximum exercise
      capacity for 20 minutes in the last week. Borg scale will be used as in the TET to guide
      exercise-training intensity progression for the upper-limb cycling. In both groups, vital
      sings (i.e., heart rate, arterial pressure and peripheral oxygen saturation [SPO2]) will be
      continuously monitored throughout exercise-training sessions. Noteworthy, for those patients
      developing exercise desaturation (i.e., SPO2 bellow 90% or a drop higher than 4%) oxygen will
      be offered at a dosage enough to increase peripheral saturation above the desaturation nadir.
      Patients composing both groups will also receive educational sessions about topics related to
      disease burden, treatment and self-management.
    
  