
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the efficacy of the combination of RUX (ruxolitinib phosphate) with AZA
      (azacytidine) in patients with myelofibrosis (MF) (primary myelofibrosis, post polycythemia
      vera myelofibrosis, or post essential thrombocythemia myelofibrosis [PMF, post- PV MF, or
      post - ET MF]) in achieving objective improvements in disease status.

      II. To determine the efficacy of the combination of RUX + AZA in patients with
      myelodysplastic syndromes/myeloproliferative neoplasms (MDS/MPN) including chronic
      myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML), atypical chronic myeloid leukemia (breakpoint cluster region
      [BCR]-c-abl oncogene 1, non-receptor tyrosine kinase [ABL1] negative: aCML), and
      myelodysplastic syndromes/myeloproliferative neoplasms, unclassifiable (MDS/MPN-U), in
      achieving objective improvements in disease status.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety of the RUX + AZA combination in patients with MF and MDS/MPN.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore time to response (TTR) and duration of response (DOR). II. To explore the
      effect of the combination on anemia and transfusion dependence in patients with MF and
      MDS/MPN.

      III. To explore the impact of baseline mutational profile on International Working Group
      (IWG)-Myeloproliferative Neoplasms Research and Treatment (MRT) response and overall survival
      in patients with MF and MDS/MPN.

      IV. To explore the impact of baseline anemia on overall survival in patients with MF and
      MDS/MPN.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I (MF): Patients with MF receive ruxolitinib phosphate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on
      days 1-28. Beginning course 4, patients also receive azacytidine subcutaneously (SC) or
      intravenously (IV) for 5 days. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 15 courses in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II (MDS/MPN): Patients with MDS/MPN receive ruxolitinib phosphate and azacytidine as in
      Arm I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days and up to 5 years.
    
  