
    
      Blood pressure (BP) is controlled in only 34% of patients with high BP, leading to
      unnecessary strokes, myocardial infarctions and other cardiovascular events. BP control can
      be improved with physician/ pharmacist collaborative management (PPCM). Our long-range goal
      is to achieve excellent BP control rates using PPCM that can be implemented in private
      practices in diverse communities. The objective of this application is to conduct a large
      multi-center clinical trial in clinics with geographic, racial and ethnic diversity to
      determine the extent to which the model is implemented. This practice-based research network
      (PBRN) is unique with a large minority population and great diversity in operation and
      community size. This prospective, cluster-randomized trial uses 27 clinics, matched and
      randomized to the active intervention (2 groups) or a control group in 648 patients.
      Following 9 months of the intervention, one intervention group will continue the intervention
      following 9 months while the other will discontinue it. We will also randomize 18 patients
      per clinic into a passive observation group (n=486) to determine if PPCM is implemented more
      broadly in the clinic. Patients in all three groups will be followed for 24 months. We will
      accomplish our objectives and test our central hypothesis by pursing the following aims:

      Aim 1: To determine if patients in clinics randomized to PPCM can achieve better BP control
      at 9 months compared to patients in clinics randomized to the control group.

      Primary Hypothesis: BP control at 9 months will be significantly greater in patients from
      clinics randomized to the two PPCM BP intervention groups compared to the control group.

      Aim 2: To determine if patients in clinics randomized to continuation of PPCM achieve better
      long-term BP control compared to patients in clinics randomized to discontinuation of PPCM
      after 9 months and to patients in control clinics.

      Our innovative approach addresses critical organizational barriers and challenges existing
      approaches to achieving better BP control. This study is novel because it will: 1) be the
      largest study to test this model, 2) use a cluster randomized design to include many more
      clinics than previously used, 3) use a diverse group of clinics with broad geographic
      distribution, 4) include large numbers of patients from minority groups to assess potential
      health disparities, 5) evaluate whether the effect can be sustained long-term, 6) include
      standardized BP measurements rather than error-prone office BPs, 7) minimize selection bias,
      and 8) evaluate a "passive observation group" to evaluate dissemination of PPCM throughout
      the practice. We expect that our study will find a 6-8 mm Hg difference in systolic BP which
      would lead to 20-30% fewer coronary deaths and 25-40% fewer stroke deaths if applied across
      broadly across similar settings.
    
  