
    
      Rationale. Recent guidelines state that pulmonary rehabilitation should be part of integrated
      care of patients with COPD and not limited to end stage disease. The investigators
      hypothesize that clinically stable COPD patients muscle atrophy, irrespective of the severity
      of airflow obstruction, show more pronounced long-term improvement in physical functioning
      and cardiometabolic risk profile after a rehabilitation programme including nutritional
      intervention (supplementation and counseling) than after a pulmonary rehabilitation programme
      without nutritional intervention, at acceptable costs. Nutritional supplementation focuses on
      enhancing the efficacy of the exercise training. Nutritional counseling aims at maintaining
      energy balance and modulating cardiovascular disease risk.

      Study design. The research aims will be addressed in a multi-centre, randomized, clinical
      trial.

      Phase A, Rehabilitation (4 months):

        -  Group 1: Supervised exercise training and 3 placebo nutritional supplements daily

        -  Group 2: Supervised exercise training and 3 nutritional supplements daily

      Phase B, Maintenance (8 months):

        -  Group 1: Exercise counseling (2x)

        -  Group 2: Exercise counseling (2x), nutritional counseling (5x) (and 1 nutritional
           supplement a day on indication)

      Phase C, Follow-up (3 months):

        -  Group 1: no intervention

        -  Group 2: 1 nutritional supplement a day on request

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation and benefits. This
      study aims to tailor pulmonary rehabilitation. Participants of group 1 are visiting their
      rehabilitation centre 3 times for study related measurements within 15 months (2 times
      feedback on physical activity, 1 measurement visit). Participants of group 2 will be asked to
      visit their rehabilitation centre for 6 times (1 measurement visit, 3 times nutritional
      counseling, 1 time for feedback on physical activity, 1 time for nutritional counseling and
      feedback on physical activity combined) within 15 months. For both groups baseline
      measurements and outcome measurements after rehabilitation are already included in the CIRO
      rehabilitation programme.
    
  