
    
      Women aged 25-29 years who have not attended for cervical screening 9 months after being
      called initially will be considered non-attenders and therefore eligible participants. GPs
      will identify non-attenders and pass lists to cytology Audit Officers. A group of age-matched
      non-attenders will act as controls. Potential participants/controls will be ramdomly
      allocated to each group as cases arise. Study packs containing: invitation letters,
      participant information, consent forms and HPV self-sampling devices/instructions with return
      sample packaging will be sent to non-attenders, 3 months after their GP final reminder, by
      the Audit Officers inviting them to participate in the study by collecting a vaginal
      self-sample for HPV testing. The letter will contain two options for non-attenders: 1.
      inviting them to book a normal screening appointment (non-participation); 2. inviting them to
      participate in the study by collecting a self-sample for HPV testing with either a swab or
      brush collection device. Potential participants for receipt of swab or brush will be
      randomised. The participant information sheet will explain the purpose of the study, how the
      test is conducted, by the woman and at the laboratory, how the results will be conveyed to
      the woman and her GP and the implications of the HPV test result. The consent form will seek
      permission from the woman to process the sample, report the results to the woman, her GP and
      the screening office. In addition permission for the research team to check the patient
      LabCentre database for subsequent cervical screening results in the event of the woman
      testing HPV positive.

      Women will return the self-sample to the Cytology laboratory, Altnaelvin in the pre-paid
      envelope provided. The sample will be HPV tested by the research team and the results sent to
      the woman, her GP and the screening office. Women who test HPV positive will be sent a
      results letter and advised to attend for cervical screening. The woman's GP will also be
      advised of the management recommendations. Women who test HPV positive will also be given a
      helpline number if they wish to discuss their result.

      The research team will be responsible for recalling women who test HPV positive for cervical
      screening. A reminder letter will be sent to women who test HPV positive if they have not
      attended cervical screening 3 months post self-sampling intervention. Women who test HPV
      negative do not require further investigation so will be reassured and encouraged to accept
      their next screening invitation.

      Women who have tested HPV positive but have negative cytology will be offered repeat HPV
      testing (GP collected sample) in 12 months and if this is still HPV positive the woman will
      be offered a further HPV test 12 months later. The research team will issue these invitations
      in conjunction with the woman's GP. Women with a persistent HPV infection will be referred to
      colposcopy by the research team.

      The number of women returning the self-sampling devices and the number of HPV positive women
      attending for subsequent cervical screening will be monitored by the research team. The Audit
      Officers will provide anonymised cervical screening uptake data for control groups in order
      to ascertain the proportion of cervical screening samples that were obtained as a result of
      self-sampling/HPV positivity. Outcomes will be measured at 6 and 12 months post intervention
      result.

      The study will last 18 months. The end of trial will be when the LabCentre database has been
      checked for cervical screening results obtained as a result of the intervention for all
      participants at the maximum time limit for return of self-samples plus 3 months to allow for
      return of HPV results to participants and recording of any cervical screening results on
      LabCentre.
    
  