
    
      This is a randomized (individuals assigned to study treatment by chance), open-label
      (identity of assigned study drug will be known), study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of
      ibrutinib when compared with temsirolimus in patients with relapsed or refractory mantle cell
      lymphoma (MCL) who have received at least 1 prior rituximab-containing chemotherapy regimen.
      Approximately 280 eligible patients will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio and stratified
      (grouped) by the number of prior lines of therapy (1 or 2 versus >=3) and simplified MCL
      International Prognostic Index criteria to receive either ibrutinib by mouth (Treatment Arm
      A) or temsirolimus intravenous infusion (Treatment Arm B). The study will consist of
      screening, treatment, and posttreatment phases. Data will be collected on disease response to
      the treatment, progression-free survival, overall survival, subsequent anti-MCL therapies,
      patient reported outcomes, and medical resource utilization. Tumor samples, blood collected
      at multiple time points, and a bone marrow aspirate will be evaluated to identify markers
      predictive of response or resistance to ibrutinib. Serial pharmacokinetic (study of what the
      body does to a drug) samples will be collected as detailed in the protocol. Safety will be
      monitored throughout the study. Disease evaluations will be performed every 9 weeks for up to
      15 months from the start of study drug, and every 24 weeks thereafter, until disease
      progression, death, or the clinical cutoff, whichever comes first. Patients who receive
      treatment with temsirolimus and have disease progression (confirmed by an Independent Review
      Committee) may be eligible to crossover and receive treatment with ibrutinib 560 mg orally,
      daily, on a 21-day cycle until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or study end. Data
      will be analyzed up to 3 years after the last patient is enrolled for the final follow-up.
    
  