
    
      With a growing number of elderly persons, geriatric depression - associated with important
      morbidity and mortality- is becoming a significant health problem. Given the risk of
      polypharmacy and increased side effects, alternative non pharmaceutical treatments such as
      repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) and transcutaneous direct current
      stimulation (tDCS) may offer a solution. Given our recent positive results with accelerated
      rTMS in the elderly depressed, we want to continue to develop non-invasive treatment
      stimulations. The FDA approved deep brain TMS (dTMS) technique may be a promising option,
      targeting the brain underneath the neocortex with potentially better response and remission
      rates. Therefore, in a sham-controlled randomized controled trial, we will treat 44 geriatric
      depressed patients with accelerated dTMS (5 sessions/day over 4 days only), and evaluate
      clinical efficacy and safety. One week after the last adTMS or sham treatment, all patients
      will have access to active treatment in a 3 week open label transcutaneous direct current
      stimulation (tDCS) with a home-use device. In this manner we can examine clinnical effect of
      tDCS in the adTMS-sham group as well as the possible maintenance effect of tDCS in the adTMS
      active treatment group. Because new introduced neuromodulation paradigms should be rigorously
      neurobiologically examined before applying them on a regular basis, this research will
      include multimodal brain imaging techniques to elucidate the working mechanisms of these
      applications in order to optimize response prediction and treatment. Gut microbes can
      influence human metabolism, nutrition, physiology and immune status. The
      "microbiota-gut-brain axis" entails a continues exchange of information between the gut and
      central nervous system. Several clinical and preclinical studies have emphasized the
      bidirectional role of microbiome disruption in depression and depression-like behavior. In
      the current project, we also will examine the effects of neurostimulation treatments on the
      gut microbiome.
    
  