
    
      This was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study consisting of a screening phase
      and 4 treatment phases. Eligibility was determined during a screening phase of 2 to 42 days.
      Patients receiving oral treatment with an antipsychotic other than non-generic aripiprazole
      entered Phase 1. Patients with a lapse in aripiprazole or other antipsychotic treatment at
      the time of study entry ("lapse" defined as > 3 consecutive days without medication) entered
      directly into Phase 2. During Phase 1 (oral conversion), patients were cross-titrated during
      weekly visits from other antipsychotics to oral non-generic aripiprazole monotherapy over a
      minimum of 4 weeks and a maximum of 6 weeks. During Phase 2 (a minimum of 4 weeks and a
      maximum of 12 weeks in duration), patients were assessed bi-weekly and stabilized on an oral
      dose of aripiprazole ranging from 10 mg to 30 mg daily. After stability criteria were met in
      Phase 2, patients entered the single-blind aripiprazole intramuscular (IM) depot
      stabilization phase, Phase 3. In Phase 3, patients were stabilized on aripiprazole IM depot
      for 12 consecutive weeks. Once the patient met the stability criteria, they were eligible to
      be randomized into the double-blind phase, Phase 4. Patients were randomized in a 2:1 ratio
      (aripiprazole IM depot vs placebo IM depot) stratified by region and last aripiprazole IM
      depot injection dose level in Phase 3. During Phase 4, patients were assessed for impending
      relapse/exacerbation of psychotic symptoms. If a patient was identified with impending
      relapse/exacerbation of psychotic symptoms, they were withdrawn from the trial and given the
      opportunity to enroll into an open-label aripiprazole IM depot trial, 31-08-248. Patients
      that completed Phase 4 (up to and including Week 52) had the option to enroll into an
      open-label aripiprazole IM depot trial, 31-08-248 (NCT00731549).
    
  