
    
      The investigators will conduct a phase IIa, single arm study using 2-3 weeks of oral LP
      treatment for 30 early stage I and II lung cancer patients before surgical resection of their
      tumors.

      Screening: Patients who have suspected early stage lung cancer will be recruited from
      Pulmonary and Thoracic Surgery clinics prior to diagnostic biopsy.

      Following informed consent, which includes allowing the investigators to collect and store
      some of the samples from the clinical diagnostic procedures as pretreatment samples, such as
      bronchoscopy, needle aspirations, etc., subject will be screened with history and physical
      examination (H & P), respiratory/general health questionnaires, food frequency
      self-assessment questionnaires, review of medical records, including radiographic imaging
      data, pulmonary function test (PFT), 12-lead EKG, clinical labs (complete blood chemistry
      panel, blood cell counts, PT, PTT). Most of these diagnostic tests will have already been
      obtained as a part of the clinical work up. However, new blood tests will be obtained if the
      last results were over 3 months ago). Blood samples and urine samples will be collected for
      research. Serum cotinine will be obtained to ascertain smoking status. A portion of the
      biospecimens (blood, urine, diagnostic samples) collected will be kept for future research at
      the NMVAHCS in an approved repository. A pregnancy test will be done for a woman who is able
      to have children.

      Intervention: (treatment with study medication). If stage I or II lung cancer is diagnosed
      from standard clinical practice, the qualified subject will be enrolled into the intervention
      study to receive 2-3 weeks of LP, taken by mouth once a day, until the lung cancer surgery.
      At the time of surgery, serial clinical samples, including bronchoscopic and various
      surgically resected tissues, blood and urine will be collected as post-treatment samples.
      Pre- and post-treatment samples will be compared to assess how well oral LP has been
      absorbed, and whether or not there are encouraging anti-cancer changes occurring in the cells
      and molecules in response to the LP treatment. Once enrolled for intervention, all subjects
      will be monitored with weekly phone follow up, the safety of LP will be monitored weekly
      using standard reporting tools (including the NCI common terminology criteria for adverse
      events Version 5.0 and adverse reaction questionnaires), as well as pre-surgery H&P and blood
      tests.

      Follow up: Post-surgery phone follow up will occur at 3-4 weeks, 6 months and annually for up
      to 4 years.
    
  