
    
      Does metformin lower the blood sugar level in patients suffering from exacerbations of
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)?

      COPD is the fourth leading cause of death worldwide, and a major cause of ill health. In the
      UK, it affects some 3.7 million people and causes over 30,000 deaths per year. It is usually,
      but not always, caused by smoking. Most people affected are over 65-years-old. Sufferers
      experience progressively worsening cough, sputum production, breathlessness and exercise
      limitation. This is punctuated by 'flare-ups' (exacerbations), when their symptoms worsen
      substantially. Approximately 25% of patients hospitalised for exacerbations die within a
      year, and over 50% within 5 years. There is a pressing need for new and improved treatments
      for COPD exacerbations.

      This study will assess the effect of metformin, a tablet medication, in COPD exacerbations.
      Metformin has been in common use for over 50 years in patients with diabetes, to lower the
      blood sugar level. In COPD exacerbations, the blood sugar level is often high, and the higher
      it is, the more likely the patient will have a poor outcome. This led us to speculate that
      lowering the sugar level with metformin may improve outcomes from COPD exacerbations.
      However, COPD and diabetes are quite different diseases, and the investigators do not know
      whether metformin will work as a sugar-lowering medicine in COPD exacerbations. The
      investigators need to confirm this before the investigators can perform larger studies to
      assess its effect on outcomes such as readmission and mortality rates.

      The investigators will test this medicine in a 1-month trial in patients hospitalised for
      COPD exacerbations. The target sample size is 69 patients, with a minimum of 48 patients
      required for primary endpoint analysis. Two-thirds of the patients will take metformin, and
      one-third a dummy (placebo) tablet. Neither the patients nor the researchers know who is
      taking which. The investigators will measure their sugar levels by regular finger-prick
      tests, and then compare the average readings in the two groups. The investigators will also
      assess the medicine's effects on other markers of blood sugar level, and carry out additional
      exploratory investigations on the effect of the medicine on clinical outcomes, markers of
      inflammation, and markers of oxidative/carbonyl stress and steroid responsiveness.
    
  