
    
      The impact of extra pulmonary manifestations of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)
      on physical performance and quality of life, together with the notion that plasma cytokines
      in COPD is not due to an overflow of inflammatory mediators from the lung compartment, raise
      interest in understanding the potential link between lung and systemic inflammation.

      Recent studies, performed in normal subjects using threshold breathing device [a simple
      method to increase respiratory resistance and inspiratory muscle load] have shown that
      ventilatory muscle activation during loaded breathing may prime reactive oxygen species (ROS)
      production, thus initiating an inflammatory response within diaphragm that results in
      systemic elevation of pro-inflammatory cytokines. These findings provide a sound working
      hypothesis about the origin of systemic inflammation in COPD. Endurance and task failure of
      inspiratory muscles can be challenged during inspiratory resistive breathing (IRB) exercise
      performed with either nonlinear or threshold loading devices [4-6], thus allowing to simulate
      resistive breathing caused by airway narrowing occurring during COPD exacerbations Therapy
      with mineral water is a widely used modality of physical therapy in countries rich in mineral
      water. Up to date, however, it is not considered among treatment options of chronic pulmonary
      disease by recent guidelines. Mud bath therapy has been acknowledged for its antioxidant and
      anti-inflammatory effects in several chronic diseases. Although full mechanisms of such
      effects have not yet been fully elucidated, previous in vivo studies on the effects of
      several anions on the duration of active state in skeletal muscle indicate that trace
      elements of thermal treatments, particularly iodide and bromide, may positively intervene in
      the setup and maintenance of this active state. These findings suggest that in COPD patients
      these elements may improve the loading and endurance of respiratory muscles and therefore
      blunt ventilatory muscle overactivation and the ensuing inflammatory cytokine response.

      In this study the investigators want to test two major hypotheses. First, that mud bath
      therapy reduces systemic inflammatory processes in COPD patients, increases respiratory
      muscle endurance and normalizes the ventilatory response. Second, that the increase in
      systemic inflammation after IRB exercise is blunted by mud bath therapy.
    
  