
    
      HCV recurs in the transplanted liver almost invariably. The clinical course is variable and
      ranges from no hepatitis to severe aggressive hepatitis with cirrhosis. Factors that affect
      outcome are high viral load prior to OLT, genotype, and immunosuppressive regimen. Recent
      studies indicate that the severity of recurrence is increasing with longer follow up, and
      longevity of both graft and patient is compromised by HCV. Viral load appears to be
      particularly affected by corticosteroids. The impact of mycophenolate mofetil and tacrolimus
      is not certain. The results of re-transplantation are generally poor and seem to be a
      non-cost beneficial way to deal with recurrence HCV cirrhosis. Additionally,
      re-transplantation deprives other patients from getting OLT in a timely fashion.

      Recent studies have shown that with intensive alpha interferon and ribavirin treatment, up to
      40% of patients can be cleared of virus as measured by PCR. Thus, despite the cost and side
      effects of this treatment, it appears justified to treat recurrence preemptively.

      Due to the deleterious effects of high dose Corticosteroids it seems logical to attempt to
      withdraw them as soon as possible from treatment. MMF is often incompatible with interferon
      and ribavirin treatment due to leukopenia and anemia. The same is true for sirolimus. Thus,
      most patients will eventually be treated with Tacrolimus monotherapy. Presently, numerous
      patients end up being treated with Tacrolimus monotherapy as part of the reduction in immune
      suppression, which occurs over time. There is, however, very little prospective data
      regarding Tacrolimus monotherapy and almost no data on the specific issue of monotherapy in
      HCV patients. Even less is known with respect to this type of treatment while using
      interferon and ribavirin.

      Our purpose in this protocol is to examine both the effect of preemptive antiviral treatment
      on recurrent HCV and the effect of Tacrolimus monotherapy in this setting. This may be
      important as more and more programs are turning to preemptive anti viral treatment and the
      issue of appropriate immune suppression becomes seminal to this discussion.

      Aims

        1. To determine the safety and efficacy of PEG interferon and ribavirin in the treatment of
           HCV recurrence after OLT.

        2. To determine the effectiveness and safety of maintenance dose of PEG interferon to delay
           progression of fibrosis and histologic damage, in non-responders to the initial regimen
           of PEG interferon and ribavirin.

        3. To determine the effect of early prednisone withdrawal in the rate of response to
           treatment with PEG interferon and ribavirin.

        4. To assess the feasibility of Tacrolimus monotherapy in patients undergoing treatment for
           HCV recurrence post transplant.
    
  