
    
      In this double-blind study, a nasal spray of either the drug (fentanyl -- an opioid
      analgesic) or placebo (normal saline) is administered before the procedure. There is a 50%
      chance that patients receive the drug or the placebo. In either case, local Lidocaine jelly
      is used as an anesthetic in the urethra. Each patient is compensated for time and traveling
      after the completion of his/her participation.

      Patients are asked to arrive between 7 and 11 PM on the evening prior to their procedure for
      an overnight admission to 5 East ward, on the 5th floor of the Harbor UCLA Medical Center in
      Torrance, California, United States. Once there, vital signs (blood pressure, pulse, oxygen
      saturation -- amount of oxygen in the blood, and breathing rate) is checked and an
      intravenous line is placed. Before, during and after the procedure, patients are asked to
      rate their pain on a scale of 0 to 10 with 0 being "no pain" and 10 being "the worst pain
      possible."

      Regardless of whether patients are assigned to receive fentanyl or placebo, they receive the
      standard of care for this cystoscopic procedure.

      Once in the cystoscopy room, patients receive the study drug by nasal (into the nose) spray.
      The study drug is supplied in a pre-filled syringe that contains either 100 mcg of fentanyl
      or placebo (normal saline with no active medicine in it). Once the study drug is given, the
      vital signs are closely monitored(checked) until the effect of drug wears off, usually
      between 2 and 4 hours.

      Blood samples are drawn on several occasions. This blood is used to see how much of the study
      drug (fentanyl or placebo) appears in the blood.

      Adverse effects: The well-known adverse effects of opioids may occur after nasal as well as
      conventional routes of administration; however, severe adverse effects such as respiratory
      depression or hypotension do not seem to occur in any appreciable frequency.

      Intranasal fentanyl has been used safely and effectively in many studies. There are no
      reports of any serious side effects with the small dose (100 mcg) that is being used in this
      study. Intranasal fentanyl is generally well tolerated with no serious adverse events. In
      cancer patients treated for breakthrough pain, the main treatment related side effects were
      nausea, vertigo, dizziness, constipation, and somnolence. For local side effects, fentanyl
      displays little local irritation, nasal discomfort or taste experiences. Nasal irritation,
      skin pain, nasal mucosa ulcers and dysgeusia have been occasionally reported as minor side
      effects.

      The following minor side effects have been reported with other forms of fentanyl (oral, patch
      or intravenous): anxiety; confusion; difficulty walking; dizziness; drowsiness; dry mouth;
      headache; itching; nausea and vomiting.

      The following severe side effects have not been reported with intranasal fentanyl but have
      been reported with other forms of fentanyl (oral, patch or intravenous): allergic reactions
      (rash; hives; difficulty breathing; tightness in the chest; swelling of the mouth, face,
      lips, or tongue); excessive dizziness; excessive drowsiness; fainting; fatigue;
      hallucinations; muscle rigidity; seizures; shock (changes in skin color); slow heartbeat;
      respiratory depression or slowed breathing; trouble breathing and feeling of weakness.

      Advantages to patients: If effective, less pain during and after the cystoscopic procedure
      and better tolerance of the procedure.

      Advantages to humanity: If effective, nasal fentanyl could be used as a means to reduce pain
      before and during cystoscopic procedures.

      These benefits may not happen and unexpected side effects may develop.
    
  