
    
      Methods:

      Sample preparation and analysis will include:

        1. Sample collection and immediate addition of protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche, Complete
           Protease Inhibitor Cocktail).

        2. Urine centrifugation and filtration for removal of cell debris.

        3. Protein precipitation by applying methanol/chloroform separation for removal of all
           possible non-proteinic substances.

        4. Protein digestion applying in-solution trypsin, pepsin, and Glu-C.

        5. Peptide separation using nano HPLC and different chromatographic approaches.

             1. Reversed phase (RP) separation of peptides and MS detection

             2. Separation of peptides using HILIC (hydrophilic Interaction Liquid Chromatography)
                for discrimination of polar peptides.

             3. In addition to RP and HILIC directly coupled to MS, digested peptides will be
                separated using multidimensional approaches. Weak anion exchange columns operated
                under HILIC conditions will be used to separate peptides carrying posttranslational
                modifications such as phosphorylation or acetylation, thus, increasing the dynamic
                range of detection. During this separation, fractions will be collected and
                re-injected onto the RP and HILIC with MS detection.

             4. All nano HPLC separations will be performed using biocompatible separation system.

      Mass spectrometric analysis of digested peptides will be performed using two different
      detection methods: ion-trap and the time-of-flight (qToF) MS. qToF mass spectrometric
      detection and analysis will also be used for the label-free quantitation of peptides and
      proteins detected in samples. All measurements will be performed in triplicate to provide
      corrections for technical variability of separation and ionization.

      General database search will be performed using the Human SwissProt Database in its actual
      version at the time of analysis. Data search will be performed using Mascot
      (http://www.matrixscience.com/) and X!Tandem (http://www.thegpm.org/tandem/) search machines,
      and the final data allocation and filtering by using Scaffold (www.proteomsoftware.com).

      Statistical analysis:

      Data analysis will be conducted with the bioconductor package limma. Before data analysis,
      data will be filtered by excluding proteins with measurements with a low interquartile range.
      Groups will be compared by moderated paired t-statistics adjusting for age. Adjustment for
      multiple testing will be done by Benjamini-Hochberg correction controlling the FDR at 0.05.
    
  