
    
      Meso Tetra (4-Carboxyphenyl) Porphine (TCPP) is a porphyrin that can label cancer cells by
      reacting to the increased number of low-density lipoproteins coating the surface of cancer
      cells and the porous nature of the cancer cell membrane, causing the cell to fluoresce under
      specific wavelengths of light. The primary objective of this clinical trial is to determine
      the the presence or absence of red fluorescent [ie, cancer] cells (RFCs) from deep-lung
      sputum samples using the CyPath® Early Lung Cancer Detection Assay from one cohort of
      Participants who are healthy. The results from this trial will be compared with two
      additional cohorts of Participants including individuals at high risk for lung cancer and
      individuals diagnosed with lung cancer. Collection of the sputum samples from high-risk
      individuals and lung cancer patients is complete (NCT00894127).

      Participants who satisfy the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be enrolled into the study and
      assigned to the healthy cohort. The sputum samples will be collected at the study site or at
      the Participant's home after explanation of the collection procedure by study staff. Samples
      will be identified with an identification number blinding the sample identity. Each subject's
      sputum specimen will be processed onto 13 microscope slides at the University of Texas Health
      Science Center of San Antonio (UTHSCSA) Laboratory. The UTHSCSA laboratory will process each
      sputum sample onto slides using the ThinPrep T2000 processor for use in the CyPath® Early
      Lung Cancer Detection Assay.

      Twelve slides from each sputum sample will be labeled with CyPath®. One slide will be used to
      preform PAP staining for the presence of macrophages. Macrophages are an indication that the
      sputum sample is from deep within the lungs. A cytopathologist will review the slide and
      record results on a specimen adequacy form. bioAffinity researchers who will be blinded as to
      the Participant's identity will perform the CyPath® labeling and scoring of the slides. The
      study results of the healthy cohort will be used for comparison with the results of a closed
      study in which the sputum from individuals at high risk of lung cancer and individuals
      diagnosed with lung cancer was compared.

      Findings of the CyPath® assay will not be used in the diagnosis or treatment of Participants.
    
  