
    
      Approximately 75% of people are living with a prevalent chronic disease like diabetes or
      hypertension. Despite this high percentage, there is a projected increase of 37% by 2030.
      There are approximately 795,000 people sustaining a stroke each year, in the United States.
      Surviving a stroke can cost an estimated $34 billion dollars a year in medical costs and loss
      of productivity. While there is a sharp decline in mortality rate following stroke, the rate
      of long-term residual impairments, disabilities and risk for developing high rates of
      secondary chronic conditions remains high. People living with a new stroke can also have
      chronic conditions in their past medical histories. Management of prior and new conditions
      may not become evident until the stroke survivor has returned to the community and are no
      longer receiving medical services. Additionally, management of chronic conditions, especially
      for people who now are recovering from a stroke, may require different management plans
      altogether. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention called for a public health action
      to address chronic illness. One type of community rehabilitation intervention method is
      self-management.

      Self-management was first developed for well-elderly with chronic diseases. These programs
      support individuals managing their independently managing symptoms as well as help with the
      emotional and physical stress associated with chronic disease. Multiple research reports
      conclude that self-management interventions improve health outcomes, help with management of
      self-identity and reduce health care costs.

      There are existing stroke specific self-management programs, however minimal reported
      research regarding the best way to implement and measure a stroke specific chronic disease
      self-management program to optimize health outcomes and improve quality of life. Recently, a
      qualitative study concluded that any stroke specific self-management program should include 3
      conceptual layers to address individual, external and environmental factors essential to
      enable successful implementation. The first conceptual layer is individual capacity or
      readiness to respond to the demands to self-management. The second is having external support
      for self-management. And the third is being in an environment that supports and facilitates
      success. Another study reported strong feasibility evidence for stroke specific
      self-management programs versus a standard program for community dwelling stroke survivors. A
      small study reported a program administered to stroke patients that led to changes in
      self-efficacy.

      Consistent with a feasibility study for implementing evidence based intervention, this
      project intends to address a need to bridge the translation gap between research evidence and
      clinical practice. This project intends to provide information to add to existing literature
      regarding implementation. Thus we plan to use the Determinant Framework, which will help
      specify determinants which act as barriers and enablers that influence implementation
      outcomes. Additionally, implementation theories will help us assess the implementation
      context, as we plan to use a checklist to evaluate factors influencing implementation across
      different domains (e.g. fidelity). This study also intends to provide preliminary data
      regarding efficacy in order to determine if a stroke specific program was superior to
      standard care.
    
  