
    
      This study is designed to compare the efficacy of topical ingenol mebutate (150 mcg/g once
      daily on a selected facial or scalp target area of 25 cm2, for 3 consecutive days) with
      cryosurgery (applied for a freeze time of 5 seconds, on each lesion included in an area of 25
      cm2 on face or scalp)

      This is a national, post-marketing (phase 4), on label, interventional, randomized trial.

      Subjects will attend a screening visit where they will be assessed for eligibility.

      Two areas of treatment in the same patient have to be identified (e.g. scalp and cheek or two
      different part of the balding scalp), than these two areas will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio:
      one will be treated with cryosurgery and the other one with Picato Gel.

      The cryosurgery will be performed in the same day during the visit (1 application for a
      freeze time of 5 seconds, on each lesion included in an area of 25 cm2 on face or scalp)
      Picato gel 150 mcg will be applied at home by the patient, according to current indication
      (RCP: 3 consecutive days for a total of three application in an area of 25 cm2) Subjects will
      be followed for 24 weeks (about 6 months) after the cryosurgery application (Visit 1).

      Adverse events and patient compliance will be recorded 7 days after cryosurgery application
      and 5 days after first Picato gel application (Visit 2). The number of AKs present within the
      treatment areas will be counted at Visit 1 (Baseline AK count) and at Visits 3 - 4 (AKcount).
      The data obtained will provide information on the effect of Picato gel versus Cryosurgery on
      recurrence rate of AKs.

      Furthermore, the trial will also provide data on the effect of Picato gel versus Cryosurgery
      on the appearance rate of new AKs.

      The final results for all subjects will be included in a Final Clinical Study Report in the
      original submission. This includes final results for all primary and secondary endpoints as
      well as 6-month recurrence and Adverse Event data.
    
  