
    
      Objectives:

        -  Principal: Study the distal arterial infusion in a patient population with mixed ulcers
           under compression leg with little elastic bands

        -  Secondary: To evaluate the safety of the little compression elastic band in a mixed
           population of patients with leg ulcers

      Methodology :

        -  Study non-interventional prospective single-center that evaluates professional practice
           from 25 patients with mixed leg ulcers and followed in the vascular medicine department
           of St. Joseph Hospital Group Paris.

        -  Applying a bit compression elastic bandages to a pressure level between 30 and 40mmHg.

        -  Anonymous data reports on the grid standardized collection, by a numbering system from 1
           to 30 and then captured on a computer file

             -  Age, risk factors and cardiovascular history of the patients,

             -  Age, ulcer description

             -  Palpation of pulse

             -  morphological vascular profile of patients with arterial and venous Doppler dating
                less than a year,

             -  Series following data before installation, 10 minutes after application and 24
                hours after installation of the inelastic compression:

                o Evaluation of tolerance:

             -  measurement of pain numeric scale (NS)

             -  description of the skin condition of the leg by a dermatologist, seeking signs of
                suffering skin after application of compression: possible appearance of erythema,
                cyanosis, purpura. A search particularly in areas of bony prominences and the banks
                of the ulcer.

                o distal arterial pressures of the compression carrier leg:

             -  IPS (systolic pressure index): ankle and arm pressures will be measured with a cuff
                and a continuous Doppler. GPI is calculated by dividing the lowest pressure at the
                ankle (at the dorsalis pedis or posterior tibial artery) by the humeral pressure.

             -  Transcutaneous Oxygen Pressure (TcPO2) o Measuring pressure exerted by low elastic
                bandages by Kikuhime® system.

      In case of bad tolerance of compression at any time after installation, the compression will
      be removed and the study stopped for the patient in question. Poor tolerance is defined by an
      increase in pain than or equal to 2 points on the digital scale.

      expected benefits for patients:

        -  Demonstration of good tolerance, defined as no worsening of the skin condition and the
           lack of increase in pain associated with inelastic compression.

        -  Demonstration of no worsening of arterial infusion by inelastic compression.

        -  Evidence of improved distal arterial hemodynamics (increased IPS and tcpO2) with a
           little elastic compression, which validate the results of the only study ever conducted
           on the subject.
    
  