
    
      Currently, verbal consultation is the widespread practice in presenting treatment options for
      basal cell carcinoma patients. This method, although personable and direct, is often
      incomplete and subject to variability.

      The Emory Department of Dermatology has created an educational video involving treatment
      options for patients with newly diagnosed basal cell carcinoma as part of routine clinical
      care. The purpose of this study is to determine the effectiveness of the video format in
      improving efficiency and workflow. Many studies have shown that multimedia tools improve
      patient education and have been more efficient than in-office verbal discussions alone. In
      addition, educational videos have been documented to increase patient satisfaction as well as
      decrease patient stress level and anxiety. Other advantages of educational videos are for the
      repetition and reinforcement that would benefit the patient.

      Moreover, with the utilization of video, patients will receive the same comprehensive
      information, making the delivery reproducible and controlled. With verbal communication,
      there is usually no standardized interaction between staff and patients to ensure that the
      patient is receiving all pertinent information regarding their options. For example, a study
      designed to examine retention rates for verbal and written instructions, including 10
      potential complications, in patients undergoing Mohs micrographic surgery showed an overall
      poor retention rate of only 26.5% just 20 minutes after being informed. It is obvious then
      that educational protocols need additional modalities in order to improve overall retention
      rates. This then suggests that information presented in video format increases knowledge
      retention in patients, even weeks after initial delivery of information.

      Study participants will be randomly assigned to the control (Group I) - or video- (Group II)
      group. Participants will be randomized by clinic. Patients randomized to Group II will
      complete a pre-video knowledge assessment followed by viewing of the BCC educational video.
      Patients will complete a post-video knowledge assessment following video viewing. Group II
      patients will then undergo discussion of treatment options with their physician as per
      standard of care. After the treatment discussion, Group II patients will complete an
      additional knowledge assessment. After the treatment visit is complete, patients will
      complete a satisfaction survey. Patients randomized to Group I will not view the educational
      video. Group I patients will complete a pre-knowledge assessment before their standard of
      care discussion of treatment options with their physician. Similar to Group II, patients in
      Group I complete an additional knowledge assessment after the treatment discussion and a
      satisfaction survey at the conclusion of the treatment visit.

      If there is failure of completion of a satisfaction survey in the dermatology clinic,
      patients (group I and group II) may be contacted via phone to complete the survey.

      Physicians will be recruited to complete a satisfaction survey at the end of the day only if
      they provided treatment to a Group II patient (patients who viewed the video).
    
  