
    
      With the urbanization of Taiwanese society, there are increasing numbers of people committing
      suicide by charcoal burning, making carbon monoxide (CO) encephalopathy a new pandemic
      phenomenon. In CO related parkinsonism, the clinical features included gait disturbances,
      mask face, rigidities and small steps. From literature searches, the CO related parkinsonism
      is related to white matter damages or decline in dopamine innervations. From our previous
      research results, the CO related neuronal damages would started from reversible or
      progressive white matter demyelination. For some patients, axonopathy or gray matter atrophy
      developed and became irreversible. The neuronal networks in determining development of
      Parkinsonism required to be established.

      In terms of neurotransmitter, most of the clinical data for Parkinsonism came from studies of
      idiopathic Parkinson's disease while the data of CO related Parkinsonism were limited to case
      reports. From neuropathology studies in idiopathic Parkinson's disease, dopamine deficits and
      decreased in monoamine transporters were observed well before the development of clinical
      features. Although there is linkage between CO related Parkinsonism and dopamine deficits,
      patients with CO intoxication had poor response to levodopa. The observation suggested the
      critical networks and neurotransmitters were still not well understood.

      18F-FP-(+)-DTBZ is a newly developed nuclear medicine tracer for monoamine transporter. The
      study purpose is to determine the clinical values of 18F-FP-(+)-DTBZ in the diagnosis of
      Parkinsonism in patients with carbon monoxide intoxication, regional distribution and its
      correlation with clinical parameters. This is a three-year prospective research. For each
      patient, the PET will be arranged twice, with an interval of 18 months. The regional
      distribuation of 18F-FP-(+)-DTBZ in relation to Parkinsonism severity and regional reduction
      patterns longitudially will be assessed in order to understand the regional neurotoxicity and
      the functional progression.
    
  