
    
      Myopia The frequency of myopia and high myopia are growing on a worldwide for causes that not
      cleared. Myopia is vision challenges due to rises the risk of pathologic ophthalmic changes
      such as cataract, glaucoma, retinal detachment, and myopic macular degeneration, all of which
      can cause permanent vision loss.

      High myopia was defined as an error of refractive above 8.0 diopters (D) or an axial length
      of 26.5 mm or more. Younger persons than 5 years, high myopia was defined by a refractive
      error of below- 4.0 D, and in children between 5 to 8 years, high myopia was defined by error
      of refraction below -6.0 D.

      The term of pathologic myopia," "high myopia," and "axial myopia" have been used as a same in
      the literature. Pathologic myopia was defined as chorioretinal atrophy (by META-PM study
      group classification) with/or the existence of posterior staphylomas. Pathologic myopia is an
      significant origin of vision loss global, affecting up to 3% of the people. The effect of
      myopic maculopathy on impairment of vision is critical because the maculopathy is often
      affect both eye , permanent, and usually affects individuals in productive years.

      Punctate inner choroidopathy Definition Punctate inner choroidopathy (PIC), classically
      bilateral and is considers one of "white dot syndromes" which usually presents with distinct
      ,multiple white-yellow lesions at posterior pole in the level of inner choroid and outer
      retina with a preference for young myopic female , without sign of old or recent anterior
      chamber or vitreous inflammation , with an increase the incidence of macular
      neovascularization (MNV).

      ETIOLOGY The underlying pathophysiology are not completely understood. Multiple evanescent
      white dot syndrome( MEWDS)-like findings have been presented after traumatic subretinal
      bleeding, choroidal rupture, and penetrating injury or with angioid streaks, ensuring antigen
      exposure is likely causative factor. The present of acute retinopathy in Pseudoxanthoma
      elasticum (PXE) is marked along angioid streaks (breaks in the Bruch membrane), in which
      contact of retinal, RPE, and the Bruch membrane antigens to the immune system which stimulate
      an autoimmune system.

      . Most inflammatory conditions in myopia are including the choriocapillaris. It can be
      suggested that weakness of the choriocapillaris due to anatomic changes in addition to
      unknown immunogenetic factors potentiate myopic eyes to primary inflammatory
      choriocapillaropathies.

      CLINICAL FINDINGS Symptom Vision was usually slightly affected until the lesions were
      subfoveal or choroidal neovascular membranes developed.(8) According to the study by
      Gerstenblith and colleagues, initial symptoms in PIC are mostly scotoma (91%), blurred vision
      (86%), photopsia (73%), floaters (69%), photophobia (69%), and metamorphopsia (65%). Loss of
      peripheral vision was reported in 26% of patients. The consequence variable from return to
      the normal to bilateral profound loss of vision .

      Sign Tools used in detecting and following PIC have involved fluorescein angiography,
      indocyanine green angiography, and OCT ,fundus autofluorescence (FAF) imaging and OCT
      angiography.

      Fundoscopic features Small (100-300 microns), yellow-gray lesions (12-25 in number) which
      usually limited to the posterior pole and scattered in a haphazard (or rarely, linear) form.

      The development of chorioretinal scars is frequency to occur as consequence at the sites of
      inflammation. Then, these scars become increasingly to well-defined ("punched out") and may
      come to be pigmented. These scars may progressively enlarge in size, leading to deterioration
      of symptoms over time.

      OCT finding:

      Stage I: minor irregularities change in the outer nuclear layer. Stage II: focal elevation of
      the retinal pigment epithelium/Bruch's membrane (RPE/BrM) complex with EZ and interdigitation
      zone disruption. Stage III: The lesion of moderate reflectivity breakdowns through the RPE
      and then grow to the dome of OPL through the photoreceptor layer. The RPE remain and BM at
      the break gradually disappear, exposing the choroidal part of the lesion. Stage IV: The
      lesion descends from the peak toward the choroidal part, subsequently a herniation of the OPL
      and inner retina (with a V-shaped change) through the defect in the RPE and BM. Stage V: The
      photoreceptor layer around the lesion is progressively missing with the drooping of the OPL
      and inner retina. This lead to V-shaped inward of the outer plexiform layer and inner retina
      into the choroid this is called "focal choroidal excavation .At the same time, RPE
      proliferation occurs (with posterior shadowing) to repair the RPE break so, the OPL framework
      reappear .

      BM (Bruch's membrane); OPL (outer plexiform layer;) RPE ( retinal pigment epithelium),
      SD-OCT( spectral-domain optical coherence tomography).

      fluorescein angiography (FA)& Indocyanine green angiography (ICG) FA in PIC patients show
      early hypofluorescence with late staining of inflammatory lesions, early hyperfluorescence
      can also happen, particularly if CNV is found. ICG shows midphase hypocyanescence at the
      posterior pole that may go beyond the lesions visible on FA and fundus.

      Fundus autofluorescence (FAF) Active PIC lesions show hypoautofluorescent spots with a
      hyperautofluorescent border that disappear as the lesions regress. Atrophic PIC lesions
      display to be hypoautofluorescent.

      Complication Serious visual loss occurs in about to 40% of patients mainly due to development
      of choroidal neovascularization (CNV). The Important associations of myopic choroidal
      neovascularization (MCNV) in highly myopic eyes with increasing levels of vascular
      endothelial growth factor or inflammatory cytokines and maculopathy lesions firmly indicate
      an association of inflammation in the cause of MCNVs.

      Management The PIC management is tricky for multiple reasons. The varying in seriousness of
      disease between patients make that ideal l treatment range from observation to
      immunosuppression or intravitreal anti-VEGF therapy. The judgment whether a patient is
      benefit from maintenance therapy is hard due to the need to sense of balance between the
      varying outcome of patients with PIC and the hazards of immunosuppression. Large number of
      patients with PIC have prolonged times without disease activity and may go into long-standing
      remission, although in others these stable stages may be interrupted by unpredictable,
      sight-threatening episodes. Also, the evidence base to recommend any treatment approach is
      inadequate There is large difference between patients. So, mediation is necessary to treat
      new or active inflammatory "PIC" lesions especially when threatening the fovea, and to handle
      secondary CNV. Also, addition, the situation of the other eye requires attention.

      The treatment options include local and systemic corticosteroids, systemic immunomodulatory
      drugs, intravitreal VEGF inhibitors (anti-VEGF), photodynamic therapy (PDT), argon laser, and
      submacular surgery.
    
  