
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare overall survival between patients previously treated with platinum-based
      chemotherapy and immunotherapy for stage IV or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer
      randomized to ramucirumab and MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) versus standard of care (SoC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare response rates between the arms, including complete response (CR) and partial
      response (PR) (confirmed and unconfirmed).

      II. To compare the disease control rate (CR, PR, confirmed and unconfirmed and stable disease
      [SD]).

      III. To evaluate the duration of response (DoR) among responders within each arm.

      IV. To evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicities within each arm. V. To compare
      investigator assessed-progression-free survival (IA-PFS) between the arms.

      VI. To evaluate the clinical outcomes (overall survival [OS], IA-PFS, response) by
      randomization stratification factors by comparing outcomes within the ramucirumab and MK-3475
      (pembrolizumab) arm, performing a sub-group analysis of the arms, and by evaluating an
      interaction between the factors and treatment arm.

      TRANSLATIONAL MEDICINE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate if PD-L1 expression levels are associated with clinical outcomes (OS, IA-PFS,
      and response).

      II. To evaluate if tumor mutation burden (TMB) as determined by the Foundation Medicine Inc
      (FMI) Foundation One panel is associated with clinical outcomes.

      III. To collect, process, and bank cell-free (circulating cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid
      [cfDNA]) at baseline and progression for future development of a proposal to evaluate
      comprehensive next-generation sequencing of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA).

      IV. To establish a tissue/blood repository to pursue future studies.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients may receive docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 10-30 minutes on day 1,
      gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8, pemetrexed IV over 10 minutes
      on day 1 (non-squamous NSCLC patients only), or ramucirumab IV over 60 minutes combined with
      docetaxel IV over 10-30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive ramucirumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive
      pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 35
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment (prior to disease progression), patients are followed up
      every 3 months for the first year, and then every 6 months for up to 3 years from date of
      randomization. After completion of study treatment (after disease progression), patients are
      followed up every 6 months for 2 years, then at the end of year 3 from the date of
      randomization.
    
  