
    
      Epigenetic and single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in genes may influence an individual's
      capacity for use-dependent plasticity, and hence their responsiveness to post-stroke
      rehabilitation. Understanding genetic variation gives clinicians a biological signal that
      could be used to predict who is most likely to recover from neural injury, to choose the
      optimal treatment for a patient, or to supplement rehabilitation therapy.

      Robotics demonstrated to be an effective rehabilitation treatment for functional and motor
      recovery after stroke and, on the basis of investigators' preliminary results, it seems to be
      an useful therapy to improve some cognitive functions. The identification of individual
      characteristics is crucial factor to better address this treatment and to develop more
      tailored patients' rehabilitation program.

      The characterization of the link between personal biology and rehabilitation treatment
      response will allow to define a model of Rehabilomics research as a translational framework
      for programs of precision rehabilitation and intervention research.

      In order to identify potential diagnostic and prognostic genetic biomarkers in post-stroke
      rehabilitation, the investigators will analyze the promoter methylation of BDNF and SLC6A4,
      two genes implicated in sub-acute stroke recovery. Moreover, the investigators will also
      detect BDNF rs6265 and SLC6A4 5-HTTLPR polymorphisms.

      Subjects will be evaluated at baseline (T0), after 30 sessions of rehabilitation treatment
      (T1) and, if possible, after other 30 sessions of rehabilitation treatment from T1 (T2).

      All patients will perform a robotic treatment of the upper limb (30 sessions, 5 times a week)
      using a set of robotic devices. Where possible, some patients will undergo further 30 robotic
      rehabilitation sessions after T1.

      Peripheral blood (6ml) will be taken from all subjects at three time points (T0, T1 and T2)
      during the rehabilitation treatment.

      Genomic DNA, obtained from peripheral blood will be analyzed to evaluate promoter methylation
      of BDNF and SLC6A4 using pyrosequencing analysis with PyroMark Q24 (Qiagen, Germany).

      Moreover, BDNF rs6265 polymorphism will be analyzed using HpyCH4IV restriction enzyme which
      identifies homozygous Valine/Valine, heterozygous Valine/Methionine and homozygous
      Methionine/Methionine.

      For the SLC6A4 5-HTTLPR polymorphism, the investigators will follow a specific protocol that
      identifies gene polymorphisms according to the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) fragment
      sizes: short [S; 486 base pairs (bp), 14 repeats], long [L; 529bp, 16 repeats], or extra long
      [XL; 612 or 654bp, 20 or 22 repeats].

      Genetic and epigenetic results will be correlated with:

      i) the effects of the robotic rehabilitation on the upper limb function and disability
      measured with the following clinical scales: Fugl-Meyer Assessment for Upper Extremity (FMA),
      to evaluate motor function; the Motricity Index (MI), to evaluate muscle strength; the
      Modified Barthel Index (mBI), to evaluate activities of daily living (ADL) and mobility.

      ii) the effects on cognitive functions measured with following cognitive tests: 1) Digit Span
      (attention/short-term memory involving strings/series of digits of varying length); 2) Tower
      of London (planning and problem solving); 3) STROOP test (Stroop Color and Word Test); 4)
      Symbol Digit Modalities Test (processing speed of visual stimuli); 5) Rey-Osterrieth Complex
      Figure Test (ROCF) (visuomotor integration).
    
  