
    
      Attention deficit with hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a common childhood mental disorder
      that affects 3% to 5% of all American children. Symptoms of ADHD commonly include inability
      to focus or exercise normal inhibition, and in some cases, aggressive behavior. Approximately
      33% to 50% of children with ADHD develop oppositional defiant disorder (ODD), and about 20%
      to 40% develop a conduct disorder (CD). These disorders are characterized by defiant,
      belligerent, and otherwise aggressive behavior. Treatment for ADHD generally includes use of
      stimulant medications that decrease impulsivity and increase attentiveness, such as
      methylphenidate (Ritalin) or dextroamphetamine (Dexedrine), but these do not always affect
      aggression. To treat aggression in ADHD, many physicians prescribe additional medications,
      including the mood stabilizing medication valproate and the antipsychotic medication
      risperidone.

      There is no clinical evidence proving that using multiple types of medications is safe and
      effective. This study will treat children with ADHD and aggression with a combination of
      stimulants and antipsychotic or mood stabilizing medications to determine whether the
      aggressive behaviors and ADHD symptoms are reduced without harmful side effects.

      This study has two phases. During the first phase, which will last 3 to 6 weeks, participants
      will be treated with normal ADHD stimulant medications. During the second phase, those whose
      aggressive behavior is not effectively suppressed by stimulant medication alone will then be
      randomly assigned to also receive valproate, risperidone, or placebo for 8 weeks. After 8
      weeks, children whose aggression persists will be switched from either valproate to
      risperidone or risperidone to valproate for another 8 weeks. Those on placebo will not switch
      medications. All participants will attend weekly monitoring visits for 11 to 16 weeks over
      the course of the study. At these visits, aggression levels and medication side effects will
      be assessed. Families will also meet with the researchers to discuss the child's progress and
      will attend behavioral counseling with a therapist.
    
  