
    
      Baseline Visit:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this research study, you will return to the
      clinic about a week later for the Baseline Visit. You will be instructed to fast (eat nothing
      and drink only water) for at least 8 hours before this visit.

        -  Blood (about 4-5 tablespoons) will be drawn for tests of your immune function, stress
           hormone levels, and blood sugar levels. After this blood test, you will be given
           breakfast.

        -  You will complete a pain assessment which involves you submerging your hand in cold
           water. Researchers will use your response to measure your pain tolerance.

        -  You will have electrocardiograms (EKGs) to check your heart function. The sensors will
           be attached at the beginning of the visit and then removed before you leave. You will be
           attached to the machine for several hours, but you will be able to be disconnected to
           take bathroom breaks, if needed.

        -  You will complete questionnaires about fatigue, mood, stress, social support, marital
           satisfaction, depression, and general demographics (age, race and so on). It should take
           about 1½ hours total to complete the questionnaires.

        -  You will complete a series of traditional neurocognitive tests (for example, tests to
           check your memory and thinking abilities). You will take these tests on the computer and
           with a pen and paper.

        -  Your blood pressure will be measured multiple times throughout the visit.

      Study Groups and Interventions:

      After the Baseline visit, you will be assigned to one of 2 groups. If you are in Group 1, you
      and your partner will take part in an 8-week Mindfulness-Based Relationship Enhancement
      (MBRE) intervention course designed to alleviate stress and other symptoms among couples. The
      MBRE course will consist of eight sessions taught by a professional Mindfulness instructor.
      The sessions will occur 1 time a week and last about 2½ hours each time. The MBRE course will
      consist of meditation and yoga techniques and handouts. The sessions will focus on teaching
      participants (all female breast cancer survivors and partners) the basics of Mindfulness
      Based Relationship Enhancement.

      Attendance at these sessions and completion of daily homework assignments requiring up to 45
      minutes per day are essential to the program.

      If you are in Group 2, you will receive self-help materials that have been previously
      developed by MD Anderson's Office of Public Education, the American Cancer Society, and the
      National Cancer Institute.

      Post-Intervention Follow-Up Visit:

      If you are in Group 1, you will have a post-intervention follow-up visit about 12 weeks after
      your Baseline visit (4 weeks after you finish your 8-week intervention sessions). If you are
      in Group 2, you will have a post-intervention follow-up visit about 8 weeks after the
      Baseline Visit. You will fast for 8 hours before a post-intervention follow-up visit.

        -  Blood (about 4 to 5 tablespoons) will be drawn to check your immune function, stress
           hormone levels, and blood sugar. After the blood is drawn you will be given breakfast.

        -  You will complete the cold water pain tolerance test.

        -  You will have electrocardiograms (EKGs).

        -  You will complete questionnaires about fatigue, mood, stress, social support, marital
           satisfaction, depression, and general demographics (age, race and so on). It should take
           about 1½ hours total to complete the questionnaires.

        -  You will complete a series of traditional neurocognitive tests.

        -  Your blood pressure will be measured multiple times throughout the visit.

      Cortisol Testing:

      After the Baseline and Follow-up Visits, you will be asked to give samples to measure
      cortisol, a hormone related to stress. You will place a small cotton tube in your mouth for
      about 2 minutes, or until the swab is completely soaked with your saliva. After this, you
      will place the swab back in the tube, and freeze the sample. You will be given containers to
      hold the samples when you freeze them, as well as to mark which day and time each sample was
      collected. You will take these samples 7 times a day (right when you wake up; about 30, 45,
      and 60 minutes after waking; and then at noon, 4:00 p.m., and 8:00 p.m.). Researchers will
      use these samples to measure the changes in cortisol throughout the day. You will collect
      these samples for 2 days during the week, and 2 days on the weekend. After you complete 4
      total days of collecting saliva samples after each visit, you will mail them back to MD
      Anderson in pre-paid envelopes.

      Program Satisfaction Evaluations:

      After the follow-up visits, the study staff will conduct individual interviews with a small
      group of participants. Interview questions will address participants' overall reactions to
      and satisfaction with the mind-body intervention, the impact they felt from social support,
      motivation, and their own ability for increasing physical activity and well-being. The study
      staff will also ask questions about both positive and negative effects of participating in
      the intervention. Interviews will be conducted by the PI or a trained research coordinator.
      All interviews will last no longer than 90 minutes and will be audio-taped using a digital
      recorder and transcribed. All audio files will be destroyed after they are transcribed.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 30 couples (60 participants) will take part in this research study. All will be
      enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  