
    
      SunBrite is a novel, evidence-based intervention for non-accidental trauma (NAT) that has
      not, as yet, been implemented in any health care setting. Current programs targeting NAT vary
      widely, and there is insufficient research to conclude that these efforts have reduced
      re-admission rates(12,13). EDs primarily screen for risk factors associated with child abuse,
      focusing on their role in reporting and developing forensic evidence for investigations but
      not on risk reduction. While such efforts as embedding child protection teams in trauma
      programs are a starting point, much more needs to be done to develop a standard of care and
      empirically demonstrate efforts that reduce the risk of subsequent injury.

      The overlap between non-accidental trauma (NAT) and inadequate caregiver supervision provides
      an opportunity to identify and intervene during earlier health care visits for children at
      risk for severe or fatal injury. Because head injuries account for over 80% of all suspected
      non-accidental injuries and over 90% of fatalities in the pediatric population, this
      intervention specifically targets all children ages 0-2 years who present in the Phoenix
      Children's Hospital (PCH) ED with a diagnosed head injury of any kind not resulting from a
      motor vehicle collision (MVC). These injuries include, but ae not limited to, abrasions,
      contusions, hematoma, ischemia, fractures, swelling or bruising. In this way, SunBrite
      expands the scope of detection for NAT to include injuries resulting from supervisory
      neglect.

      PCH will implement the SunBrite pilot protocol in collaboration with key community partners
      who will be extensively involved in project design, implementation, and evaluation. In
      preparation for study recruitment, PCH and its partners will formalize the SunBrite process,
      create a curriculum, draft training tools to support the fidelity of SunBrite, finalize study
      materials (e.g., worksheets, data collection forms, interview scripts, consent documentation,
      and logic model), and conduct professional training. Once development is complete, pediatric
      patient families will be enrolled into the pilot program.

      SunBrite study will utilize a simple, randomized, prospective study design, with 221 eligible
      pilot study participants randomized upon triage to one of two study arms: the control arm (73
      families) or the treatment arm (148 families). Families in the control group will receive
      treatment as usual (TAU), which includes reporting to child welfare agencies when
      appropriate. In the treatment group, the patient/family will receive the SunBrite protocol,
      whose components include a screening, a brief intervention based in motivational interviewing
      (MI) techniques, and referral to treatment. All abuse and neglect, no matter the study arm,
      will be reported in accordance with hospital policy, federal and state laws.

      All self-identified primary caregivers (legal guardians or parents) of children ages 0-2 who
      present in the PCH ED with a diagnosed intracranial injury will be automatically screened for
      eligibility. Caregivers will be initially screened by ED clinicians (e.g., physicians,
      nurse-practitioners) for eligibility based on age, injury (head), and method of injury (MOI)
      (non-MVC) using a standard clinical interview currently in place. All caregivers who screen
      positive based on these three criteria will then be deemed eligible for SunBrite. A trauma
      social worker will be notified by the ED that they have an eligible patient for consult. The
      social worker will meet the family and briefly describe the study and their eligibility. If
      they are willing to participate, the social worker will then obtain informed consent. All
      patient families will be fully consented in person in English or Spanish.

      The screening, brief intervention, and referral to treatment will occur in the ED in the form
      of an abbreviated social work consultation prior to discharge. A social worker will complete
      an assessment for supervisory and household risks and then complete an injury risk worksheet
      to be used in the brief intervention. The social worker will engage caregivers in a 20- to
      30-minute motivational interview (i.e., social work consult) using parent-coaching techniques
      for medical settings(12). In-person coaching facilitates active practice of these skills,
      supports further development of desired behaviors, and promotes long-term, sustainable risk
      mitigation.

      The referral-to-treatment component of SunBrite identifies risks that may require further
      professional intervention, such as a history of trauma, mental illness, or substance abuse.
      For risks that warrant longer-term treatment, social workers will make referrals to external
      agencies and professionals for psychiatric evaluation, medication management,
      medically-assisted treatment (MAT), cognitive-behavioral therapy, and PTSD treatment.

      Data from all participants, regardless of randomization, will be collected from patient
      health records. This will include patient demographics, injury characteristics, labs,
      imaging, consults, diagnoses, treatments, complications, and discharge notes. Patients will
      be followed for up to 12 months to assess study outcomes. The primary outcomes for this study
      are rates re-hospitalization (including frequency of hospitalization and length of stay) and
      return ED visits for any ICD-10 code. Secondary outcomes include complications from the
      indexed traumatic injury, other illnesses and conditions unrelated to trauma, and cost
      savings from reduced ED return visits and admissions. Based on PCH admissions data, we expect
      that 50% of eligible patients will return to the ED with an injury within one year of
      discharge. In addition to tracking all patients for 12 months post-discharge for any
      diagnosis at PCH, we will match our participants to the statewide database housed at the
      Arizona State University (ASU) Center for Health Information Research.

      Quantitatively, we hypothesize that the proportion of patients measured on the primary
      outcome (return to ED) for the experimental group will be statistically smaller than the
      proportion in the control group under the following assumptions of a superiority design: 1)
      the percentage of patients that we expect to return to the ED is approximately 50% for the
      control group within one year of discharge to home and 25% for the experimental group; 2) the
      risk of type I error is alpha=.025; 3) power=.80. These parameters require a total sample
      size of 134 with a sample size of 67 for each group. However, we are planning to randomize in
      an unequal allocation of 2:1 to the experimental arm and oversample by 10%, bringing the
      total sample size up to 221 (148 in the experimental arm and 73 in the control arm). This
      design has an advantage in early phase trials, allowing investigators to explore treatment
      dimensions and optimize treatment utility.

      We will also employ qualitative methods to provide rich feedback to enhance the
      implementation process and ensure project fidelity (e.g., identifying barriers and strategies
      to sustainability and wider dissemination). A formative evaluation of SunBrite will follow a
      plan, do, review, revise cycle of performance management that addresses the following
      intervention components: screening, staffing, brief intervention fidelity, referral, data
      collection, and reporting. . Quarterly advisory board meetings with community partners
      throughout the pilot program will provide an opportunity to update stakeholders on the pilot
      and receive feedback on implementation. Interviews with key stakeholders occurring at the
      start of the pilot, during program recruitment, and at the end of the recruitment process
      will provide important feedback to keep the pilot on track and achieve program goals.
      Voluntary interviews will assess experience with implementation and acceptability of SunBrite
      as implemented. Significantly, a research plan will be developed to validate SunBrite in a
      multi-site randomized trial.

      To prepare for SunBrite information dissemination statewide, PCH will facilitate ongoing
      development of a formalized screening tool for use in EDs and manualize the SunBrite brief
      intervention and referral system. We will also design a dissemination plan (including
      funding) for SunBrite to incorporate a telemedicine option for the brief intervention. We
      will also disseminate findings from the pilot nationally through speaking engagements,
      conferences, posters, and published papers. In coordination with our community partners, we
      will develop a plan to sustain SunBrite in the PCH ED and to promote dissemination to other
      trauma centers.
    
  