
    
      The risk predicts models are the mathematical tools for identification of the patients with
      complications risk after cardiac surgery procedures.

      Over time, however, due to technical progress (the development of hybrid surgery, new valves
      and prostheses), the development of new drugs, changes in the environment and social
      conditions in which do patients live, there is a need to improve old and develop new models.
      Based on the statement that high risk patients have similar characteristics (clinical and
      laboratory) regardless of the procedure to which they were submitted, creating a new risk
      score to this group of patients must be sought. Improving the model quality was achieved by
      using more accurate risk assessments. In general, the assessment of mortality risk in cardiac
      surgery is performed with the use of preoperative risk models (EuroSCORE II, STS-score).
      However, the use of improved risk models and increased accuracy in the technique of preparing
      these mathematical systems, unfortunately, does not have a positive impact on the level of
      prediction, which is still inaccurate, especially in the considered group of high risk. New
      models need to be built not only for a better prediction of mortality risk, if not also to
      predict morbidity in the group of patients at higher risk of complications after cardiac
      surgery procedures.

      The aim of this study is:

        -  To construct the HiriSCORE to identify patients at higher risk of complications after
           cardiac surgery procedures (the investigators have proposed a high-risk evaluation
           criteria: EuroSCORE II> 5 or STS-score> 5);

        -  Assessing the impact of pre-, intra- and postoperative period to the prognosis of
           subsequent morbidity and mortality in high-risk patients who have passed cardiac surgery
           procedures.

      It was decided to conduct this research in two phases. The developmental phase is carried out
      for 30 months and includes an analysis of at least 2,000 patients who will pass cardiac
      surgery procedures in institutions and hospitals involved in the study. After this analysis,
      including outcomes, will be constructed the HiriSCORE, a new test-model for high-risk
      patients. In the validation phase of the study, which will involve a further 1,000 patients
      it is planned preparation and verification of effectiveness of the HiriSCORE model where it
      will be compared to the STS Score and the EuroSCORE II.

      The study will include the patients of 18 years old or older who have undergone cardiac
      surgery procedures, such as coronary artery bypass grafting (isolated or combined with any
      heart valve intervention), heart valve surgery, and surgery on the ascending aorta (only
      combined with operations on the aortic valve or CABG).

      Totally, it is proposed assessment of 170 variables (factors perceived risk) for each patient
      (preoperative, intraoperative, and up to 12 hours after surgery).

      The study of mortality and postoperative complications such as renal replacement therapy,
      stroke, reoperation for bleeding, respiratory failure, cardiogenic shock, will be carried out
      within 30 days after cardiac surgery procedures.
    
  