
    
      OEF/OIF/OND war Veterans have unique post-deployment care needs that the VA is striving to
      understand and address. Unfortunately, there is a significant disparity in utilization of
      mental health (MH) care and VA access as most war Veterans don't seek needed care. New
      interventions are urgently needed to address disparities in post-deployment MH treatment
      engagement for war Veterans and to support VA's efforts to provide them with optimal access
      and care. Online health interventions have been shown to be preferred by OEF/OIF combat
      Veterans and have the potential to promote access to VA MH care. The investigators' research
      team has developed a web-based interface (WEB-ED) evolved by feedback from Veterans that
      screens for common post-deployment MH and readjustment concerns, provides tailored education
      about positive screens, and facilitates linkage to VA resources. Data from the investigators'
      prior studies demonstrate WEB-ED can be successfully implemented within VA and activate
      Veterans to seek needed care. Furthermore, emerging evidence indicates that when patients are
      educated about their health conditions and treatment alternatives using shared
      decision-making (SDM), increased treatment participation and adherence, and better health
      outcomes result. Next steps include: linking Veteran WEB-ED screening results to a VA secure
      network so that a provider can access the results; and integrating a SDM interface to promote
      Veteran-Provider partnerships in patient-centered care. The investigators propose a three
      phase study to address the investigators' aims. Aim 1 (phase 1) the investigators will gather
      qualitative information from key VA and Veteran informants to create an enhanced version
      (WEB-ED+) of the investigators' Current WEB-ED that includes an eHealth and SDM interface.
      Aim 2 (phase 2) will use a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to test WEB-ED+ vs. Current
      WEB-ED in promoting VA MH care engagement. Aim 3 (phase 3) the investigators will employ a
      process evaluation to determine the feasibility and acceptability of WEB-ED+ for both
      Veterans and VA practitioner and to document the VA processes Veterans use to enroll and
      engage in VA MH care. This study will improve the investigators' understanding of the most
      effective methods to reduce barriers to enrollment in VA/MHV and transferring important
      medical information using My HealtheVet (MHV). Furthermore, it will provide important
      information regarding how WEB-ED results can enhance the capability of VA providers and
      transition patient advocates to use Veterans' screening results to triage and engage Veterans
      in patient-centered MH care and promote VA provider adoption of WEB-ED+ to facilitate patient
      engagement. Online screening, tailored education, and links to geographically accessible VA
      resources has been shown to be preferred by Veterans, providing recognition of treatable
      post-deployment MH concerns, and education that reduces stigma. This study builds upon and
      augments this prior work with research to understand and evaluate the processes needed to
      integrate WEB-ED+ into current VHA systems to support efficient care delivery, facilitate
      patient-centered care, and address unmet need for MH care while also resolving disparities in
      VA and VA MH care access and engagement for war Veterans. WEB-ED+'s use of shared decision
      making is a key component for promoting these benefits. WEB-ED+ represents a readily
      implementable and cost-effective intervention that, with partner collaboration, can be
      integrated into VA systems through MHV. Findings have important policy implications for
      several operational partners heavily invested in the improved access and delivery of
      evidence-based mental health care for war Veterans.
    
  