
    
      BACKGROUND:

      In 1987 idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy was a disorder of unknown cause that directly
      affected one or both cardiac ventricles in a diffuse or multifactorial fashion, and that
      produced heart failure, at least in some patients. Although a viral etiology had been
      proposed, dilated cardiomyopathy could be associated with numerous genetic and non-genetic
      diseases. However in 1987, the role of genetic factors was not known in humans. Although the
      condition was usually dismissed as sporadic, numerous families with multiple affected members
      have been observed.

      The role of atrial natriuretic peptide levels in the pathogenesis or progression of
      idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy was just beginning to be explored in 1987. Although Syrian
      hamster studies did not suggest a genetic deficiency as the primary cause of dilated
      cardiomyopathy in that model, it was thought possible that ANP production or levels were
      somehow involved in how the myocardium responds in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy
      patients.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Eligible patients were interviewed and asked whether any first-degree relatives were willing
      to participate. If family members participated, a three generation pedigree was constructed
      and first-degree relatives contacted. The relatives were interviewed for a medical history
      and medical records from other institutions were reviewed. Each family member had a brief
      cardiovascular examination, a 12-lead electrocardiogram and 2-dimensional, M-mode, and
      Doppler echocardiogram. Blood was drawn for determination of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP)
      levels. The contributions of variability in age, sex, drug use, smoking, and other
      concomitants to variability in ANP and echocardiographic data were estimated. After removing
      these sources of variability, the strength of similarity among family members was assessed.
      The relative contributions of genes and shared environments to the similarity among family
      members were estimated.

      Heterogeneity in the mean levels of echocardiographic indices and ANP levels, familial
      aggregation and etiology of aggregation were assessed between families with familial
      idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and families with non-familial idiopathic dilated
      cardiomyopathy.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  