
    
      Globally, 3-4 million new HCV infections are estimated to occur annually. People who inject
      drugs (PWID) represent one of the groups at highest risk of transmitting and acquiring
      infection with the majority of new (60%) and existing (80%) infections in developed countries
      occur in this population with HCV antibody prevalence estimated at 67% (60-80%). HIV-positive
      men-who-have-sex-with-men (MSM) are another high risk group for HCV acquisition.

      Direct acting antivirals (DAA) has changed the treatment landscape for individuals with
      chronic HCV infection with interferon-free therapy offering high effectiveness and
      tolerability, even in "difficult-to-treat" populations.

      Given the burden of HCV-related disease among PWID and HIV-positive MSM, strategies to
      enhance HCV assessment, treatment and prevention in these groups are urgently needed. Much of
      what is known about the timing of treatment initiation, regimen choice and duration of
      therapy in acute HCV infection comes from small observational studies and randomized
      controlled (randomly assigned into one or other of the different treatment groups)trials in
      selected populations with limited data on treatment in PWID and HIV co-infection. With recent
      rapid advances in HCV treatments, management strategies for acute HCV will evolve rapidly
      over the next few years.

      The REACT study will compare the efficacy and safety of open-label SOF/VEL administered for 6
      or 12 weeks in individuals with recent HCV infection. Participants will be randomised into
      receiving 6 weeks or 12 weeks treatment. Both investigators and participants will be blinded
      to the treatment duration until week 6 of treatment. The role and activity of DAA regimens in
      acute HCV infection requires evaluation, with the potential to be given as highly effective,
      short course interferon-sparing regimens, maximising acceptability to patients, encouraging
      uptake of treatment, limiting further transmission and preventing progression to chronic
      liver disease.
    
  