
    
      Participants in this single-center, open-label, dose-escalation, Phase 1 study will initially
      receive intravenous (IV) cixutumumab every 2 weeks or every 3 weeks for 6 weeks (one cycle).
      After the first cycle, participants experiencing a best overall response of complete response
      (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) will continue to receive cixutumumab at
      their cohort dose and schedule until there is evidence of progressive disease (PD), or until
      other withdrawal criteria are met.

      A minimum of three participants will be enrolled in each cohort. The starting dose in Cohort
      1 will be 6 mg/kg, administered every 2 weeks. Dose escalation from Cohort 1 to Cohort 2 (10
      mg/kg administered every 2 weeks) will occur once at least three participants in Cohort 1
      have completed one cycle of therapy (ie, completed the initial 6 week treatment period or
      discontinued therapy due to an cixutumumab - related adverse event [AE]).

      Enrollment into Cohort 3 (starting dose: 15 mg/kg administered every 3 weeks) will not
      proceed until all participants have completed one cycle of therapy (as defined above) in
      Cohort 2. Similarly, participants will be enrolled in Cohort 4 once at least three
      participants have completed one cycle of therapy in Cohort 3;participants in Cohort 4 will
      receive 20 mg/kg administered every 3 weeks. Toxicity data for each cohort will be reviewed
      prior to any dose escalation. No intrapatient dose escalation is permitted. Participants in
      any cohort who do not complete the first 6 weeks of treatment for reasons other than an
      cixutumumab-related toxicity will be replaced.

      A dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) is defined as one of the following events, if considered by
      the investigator to be definitely, probably, or possibly related to cixutumumab: Grade 4
      neutropenia lasting > 7 days; Grade 4 anemia; Grade ≥ 3 thrombocytopenia; Grade ≥ 3
      neutropenia associated with fever; Grade 3 or 4 nonhematologic toxicity, excluding
      electrolyte abnormality and Grade 3 hyperglycemia; Grade 4 hyperglycemia; and/or Grade 4 or
      uncontrollable hypertension.

      If three participants complete the first 6-week cycle (according to the definition outlined
      above) with no DLTs, dose escalation to Cohort 2 may proceed. If one DLT is observed in the
      initial three participants of Cohort 1 (or any cohort) during Cycle 1, three additional
      participants will be enrolled into that cohort. If no additional DLTs are observed, dose
      escalation may continue as described above.

      If two or more participants in Cohort 1 experience a DLT, six participants will be enrolled
      into Cohort 1A (receiving 4 mg/kg every 2 weeks). If two or more participants experience a
      DLT in dose Cohort 3, six participants will be enrolled into dose Cohort 3A (10 mg/kg every 3
      weeks). If two or more participants experience a DLT in dose Cohorts 2 or 4, six additional
      participants will be enrolled into the previous cohort (Cohort 1 or Cohort 3, respectively),
      and the previous cohort will be considered the maximum tolerated dose for that dosing
      schedule. If two or more participants in any cohort experience a DLT on Week 7 or beyond
      (after Cycle 1), the data will be reviewed and enrollment may be suspended. The Sponsor and
      Principal Investigator, with reference to the review of the Independent Data Safety
      Evaluation Committee (established in a separate document), will determine whether enrollment
      should resume.
    
  