
    
      During Phase 1 of this study, the computer program will be adapted to better help Latino
      older adults to increase physical activity levels. Researchers will conduct focus groups
      and/or individual interviews to obtain participants feedback used to tailor the program to be
      appropriate for this population.

      During Phase 2, the computer-generated adviser program will be tested to see if it is
      effective in promoting an increase in physical activity (primarily walking) levels among
      Latino older adults.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to use the computer-generated adviser or to the wait
      list control group. Participants in the embodied conversational agent (computer-generated
      adviser) group receive an initial session with a staff health educator to review the
      expectations and content of this walking program. They will learn how to log onto the
      computer and interact with the computer adviser using a touch-screen. Participants will
      interact with the computer adviser at least 3 times per week to report past physical activity
      (primarily walking) completed, review obstacles (or barriers) to walking, and to set future
      walking goals. They are also asked to wear a pedometer.

      Participants assigned to the wait list will receive an initial session with a staff health
      educator to review the expectations and content of this program. They will attend a monthly
      interactive class-based group session lead by a health educator that will cover
      health-related topics relevant for the older adult such as nutrition, stress management, and
      brain health. At the end of their involvement with this group they can decide if they want to
      use the computer adviser program.

      Participants of both groups complete physical activity and computer-related questionnaires at
      the beginning (at 2 months) and at the end of the study (4 months).
    
  