
    
      Suitable women will be invited to participate in the study then a signed and informed consent
      will be obtained from them. When the patient's consent is obtained, they are to be included
      into the study.

      Data Collection:

      During first visit, all patients will undergo complete clinical examination and detailed
      medical history will be obtained. Each patient will have a Case Record Form (CRF) in which
      the following data will be recorded.

        -  Patient number (according to the randomization schedule).

        -  Age, BMI.

        -  Past medical and surgical history.

        -  Duration of infertility.

      Procedure:

      Endometrial injury:

      A single induced injury will be done on the posterior endometrium on day 7 of the transfer
      cycle by using modified Cook catheter Protocol for vitrification Embryos will first loaded
      with equilibrium solution containing7.5% ethylene glycol (EG) and 7.5% dimethyl sulphoxide
      (DSMO) (Sigma-Aldrich) for 5-10 minute at room temperature and then with vitrification
      solution containing 15% EG, 15% DSMO and 0.5 mol/L sucrose for 50-60 seconds at room
      temperature. After observed cellular shrinkage, embryos will quickly stored in liquid
      nitrogen (LN) for at least 2 months. At warming, embryos will removed from LN and embryos
      will exposed to thawing solution containing sucrose at 37°C temperature for 50-60 seconds and
      then embryos will sequentially incubated in diluents solutions before being transferred .

      Evaluation and transfer of thawed embryos After thawing, each embryo will evaluated twice,
      once immediately for the number of surviving blastomeres and again after 18 hours post-thaw
      in vitro culture for assessing of mitosis and number of blastomeres. Embryos will considered
      survived if >50% of each blastomere are intact and selected for intrauterine transfer
      (Depending on patients' embryos, 2 or 3 embryos will transferred).

      Embryos will classified as fully intact or excellent morphology (100% cells survived with
      <10% fragmentation) or good morphology (100% cells survived with 10%-20% fragmentation),
      partially damaged or poor morphology (≥50% cells survived with or without any fragmentation)
      and Degenerated embryos (<50% cells survived) .Only fully intact and partially damaged
      embryos will transferred. Degenerated or arrested embryos will not transferred.

      Protocol of endometrial preparation before Frozen Embryo Transfer (FET) :

      There are different protocols for FET cycles. That is true for both "natural cycle" FETs and
      for "hormone replacement cycle" frozen-thawed embryo transfers. We will use hormone
      replacement cycles because they have better success rates. However, some clinics offer a
      natural cycle FET approach. Success rates are higher with hormone replacement, or
      "controlled" FET cycles.

      Medicines and Drugs in a Frozen Embryo Transfer FET Cycle

        1. Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone agonist (such as Lupron) will be given, either midluteal
           (day 21) or overlapping with a birth control pill.

        2. Down-regulation will be confirmed by ultrasound and blood tests.

        3. Estradiol valerate 2 mg twice daily (orally) will start after the period. This dose may
           need to be increased after monitoring of the uterine lining thickness.

        4. When the endometrium has a "good" thickness( > 8 mm), progesterone will be started
           (intramuscular shots, or a vaginal product).

        5. Embryo transfer will be planned for 3-6 days later - depending on the stage of
           development of the embryos to be transferred.

        6. Estrogen and progesterone will be continued in the luteal phase.

        7. Pregnancy testing will be done 9-14 days after transfer - depending on the stage of
           development of the embryos replaced and the preferences of the fertility clinic.

        8. If pregnant, estrogen and progesterone will be continued until about 10-15 weeks of
           pregnancy and then weaned off.
    
  