
    
      Older adults are more likely to suffer from multiple chronic conditions, to be prescribed
      multiple medications, and are more susceptible to adverse effects of medications. In
      addition, older adults often use over-the-counter medications and supplements, further
      complicating their medication regimen. Complex medication regimens are potentially harmful to
      older adults due to potential drug interactions, potentially inappropriate prescribing or
      over-the-counter drug use, and medication non-adherence that may lead to poor control of
      chronic disease. Interventions aimed at reducing medication discrepancy in the ambulatory
      clinic setting, such as the review of written medication lists, and implementation of "brown
      bag" reconciliation (asking patients to bring in all medication bottles for review in the
      clinic) continues to be challenging and have limited success. Clinical pharmacist led
      interventions to improve appropriate medication use in older adults, including the
      application of the START/STOPP criteria, have demonstrated effectiveness in reducing adverse
      drug events. With the increased capability of VA telemedicine to reach Veteran in their
      homes, delivering medication management via televisit by clinical pharmacists has the
      potential to yield similar benefits for a larger number of older Veterans.

      Telemedicine is an increasingly vital component within VHA to increase access and improve
      quality of care. By extending care beyond brick-and-mortar clinics, telemedicine increases
      the reach of care teams and is more convenient for patients, resulting in improved patient
      satisfaction. Using the capability of telemedicine to reach patients' homes, the
      investigators propose to examine the effect of medication management by clinical pharmacists
      via home video televisits, as home video visits have the potential to provide direct
      visualization of medications in older adults' homes, thereby reducing medication discrepancy
      and increasing medication adherence. Pharmacist management for older adult medication regimen
      may also improve appropriate medication use in older adults through direct pharmacist-patient
      interview and education. In support of this application, preliminary data from the team of
      investigators demonstrate acceptability of video televisits by older adults, that there is
      good uptake by patients and VA providers, and that video televisits into the home are
      feasible.

      In this study, the investigators aim to develop a protocol for pharmacy home televisits for
      medication management in older adults who have multiple chronic conditions and are on
      multiple medications. The investigators will then conduct a randomized trial to examine the
      effect of these televisits on appropriate medication use, medication discrepancies, adherence
      and adverse drug events. The investigators anticipate that a pharmacist led medication
      management home televisit intervention will lead to reduction in potentially inappropriate
      use of medication, reduction in medication discrepancies, increased medication adherence and
      reduced adverse drug events in older adults compared to older adults receiving usual care.
      The investigators will also examine the potential challenges in implementing the intervention
      so that the study findings may inform future implementation.
    
  