
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, single ascending dose study conducted
      at one study center in the United States. Six (6) cohorts of 8 subjects each (6 active and 2
      placebo), with one cohort crossing over to assess food effect, are planned for evaluation.
      Subjects will participate in only one cohort.

      Safety will be assessed throughout the study; serial ECGs and serial blood samples will be
      collected for the safety and PK assessment of TBA-354.

      Dose escalation to the next cohort (i.e., dose level) will not take place until the Sponsor,
      in conjunction with the Principal Investigator, has determined that adequate safety,
      tolerability and PK from the previous cohort has been demonstrated to permit proceeding to
      the next cohort. Upon review of cohort data, the Sponsor, in conjunction with the Principal
      Investigator, may decide to:

        1. Escalate dose as planned.

        2. Evaluate an intermediate dose level prior to proceeding to the next planned dose level
           if concerns arise from signs and symptoms that do not warrant ceasing escalation as
           described above.

        3. Repeat a given dose level in a new cohort of subjects.

        4. Halt the study.

      Blinded interim PK analyses will be performed for the dose escalation decisions, to select
      the intermediate dose for the food effect cohort, and to reconsider the sampling time points
      as the study progresses.

      Subjects will be housed in the Celerion clinic from at least 24 hours prior (from Day -2),
      until 48 hours after dosing. Subjects will return for subsequent follow up safety and PK
      assessments on Days 4 to 7 and will be contacted via a phone call for follow-up questioning
      about adverse events 7 days later (Study Day 14). One cohort will return after a washout of
      at least 14 days or five half-lives (whichever is longer) of their fasting dose to receive
      the same intermediate dose (TBD mg) under fed conditions.
    
  