
    
      Before the research starts you will undergo some screening procedures to confirm that you are
      eligible to participate in the study. These include a medical history, blood tests and an
      electrocardiogram.

      After we confirm taht you are eligible for this study you will undergo the following. We
      estimate that you will be on the study for approximately two to three weeks.

      Baseline MRI of the tumor site and draining lymph nodes: Whether you are on the study or not
      you will have a baseline MRI which involves the use of a standard contrast agent called
      gadolinium. This imaging test is considered the standard of care and is the method by which
      doctors determine tumor location and spread. This MRI is NOT part of the study.

      Ferumoxytol Infusion: You will receive this study drug the same day as your baseline MRI; if
      you already had your baseline MRI, this medication can be given intravenously (i.e. directly
      into the vein) at your next clinical visit. It can likewise be given through a central line.
      You will be observed during the infusion and 30 minutes after the infusion to ensure that you
      do not have an allergic or adverse reaction to the medication.

      Repeat MRI of the tumor site and draining lymph nodes: Three to five days after receiving
      ferumoxytol, you will undergo a repeat MRI. You will not require any additional contrast
      prior to this imaging study. This MRI is part of the study.

      Lymph Node Biopsy: You will be undergoing a lymph node biopsy whether or not you are on the
      study. This will occur approximately a week after your study MRI. This is a surgical
      procedure that involves removing one or a few lymph nodes in the region of your tumor and
      studying them under a microscope to determine whether they contain signs of microscopic
      cancer spread. Your surgeon will explain this procedure to you in more detail.

      We anticipate that your clinic visit for ferumoxytol will take approximately an hour. MRI
      tests, on average, likewise take approximately an hour to complete.

      After you have completed the study MRI and lymph node biopsy, you will require one additional
      blood test to measure blood iron levels. We measure iron levels because ferumoxytol is
      comprised of an iron core. This iron is similar to that in oral iron supplements and can
      cause your blood iron levels to temporarily increase. Because we are trying to determine
      whether this contrast agent will be useful, you will not receive teh results to the study
      MRI. If however, lymph nodes are found to be positive for disease, your treatment plan may
      change to address this.
    
  