
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  Kaposi sarcoma herpesvirus-associated multicentric Castleman disease (KSHVMCD) is a rare
           lymphoproliferative disorder that develops predominantly in human immunodeficiency
           deficiency virus (HIV) infected patients. Patients often have symptoms from
           interleukin-6 (IL-6), KSHV encoded viral IL-6 (vIL-6), and other cytokines

        -  Goals of therapy include rapid resolution symptoms and elimination of reservoirs of
           KSHV-infected plasmablasts.

        -  Tocilizumab is a humanized anti-IL-6 receptor (gp80) antibody with activity against MCD
           unrelated to KSHV (KSHV-negative MCD). While tocilizumab does not directly affect vIL-6
           signaling or other KSHV driven pathologic processes, IL-6 overproduction plays a major
           role in symptoms in KSHV-MCD, and blocking IL-6 may be sufficient to treat this disorder
           by blocking autocrine and paracrine stimulation. Combination with zidovudine (AZT) and
           valganciclovir (VGC), agents that target KSHV replication, have virus-activated
           cytotoxic activity, and are active in KSHV-MCD may be useful and necessary in some
           patients.

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Primary objective: Estimate clinical benefit of tocilizumab 8mg/kg every 2 weeks for up
           to 12 weeks in patients with symptomatic KSHV-MCD using a modified KSHVMCD Clinical
           Benefit Response Criteria

        -  Secondary objectives:

        -  Estimate best clinical, biochemical, radiographic, and overall responses in patients
           with KSHV-MCD treated for up to 12 weeks with tocilizumab 8mg/kg every 2 weeks using the
           prior National Cancer Institute (NCI) KSHV-MCD Response Criteria.

        -  In patients with inadequate response to tocilizumab monotherapy: explore preliminarily
           the activity of tocilizumab 8mg/kg every 2 weeks, combined with AZT 600 mg orally q6
           hours and VGC 900 mg orally q12 hours on days 1-5 of a 14-day cycle

        -  Evaluate safety and tolerability of tocilizumab alone and combined with AZT/VGC

        -  Evaluate the effect of tocilizumab on the pharmacokinetics of antiretroviral agents that
           are Cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) substrates in patients with symptomatic KSHV-MCD

        -  Evaluate progression-free and overall survival of patients treated with tocilizumab and
           tocilizumab/AZT/VGC

        -  Evaluate of effect of tocilizumab on KS

      Eligibility

        -  Pathologically confirmed KSHV-associated MCD

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18

        -  At least one clinical symptom and at least one laboratory attributable to KSHV-MCD

        -  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status less than or equal to 2

        -  No life- or organ-threatening manifestations of MCD

        -  Patients requiring therapy for rheumatoid arthritis will be excluded

        -  HIV-infected patients must agree to continue or start combination antiretroviral therapy

      DESIGN:

        -  Open label, single center pilot study. Eligible patients receive tocilizumab 8 mg/kg
           every 2 weeks for up to 12 weeks. In addition, patients requiring treatment
           intensification also receive AZT 600 mg orally q6 hours and VGC 900 mg orally q12 hours
           on days 1-5 of a 14-day cycle.

        -  Sample size 17: two stage phase II design, alpha equals beta equals 0.10, ruling out
           <20% KSHV-MCD Clinical Benefit Partial Response or better with tocilizumab and targeting
           a >50% KSHV-MCD Clinical Benefit Partial Response or better requires 10 in the first
           stage. 0-2 of 10 major response: stop accrual, 3+/10: accrual to 17 total.

        -  Responses evaluated by KSHV-MCD Clinical Benefit Response Criteria and NCI KSHV-MCD
           criteria under prospective evaluation.

        -  Safety and tolerability evaluated using current Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse
           Events (CTCAE).
    
  