
    
      The tub-shaped inlay preparation design this consists of an occlusal proximal reduction
      featuring a 3.5-4 mm width bucco-lingually, 3-3.5mm depth occluso-gingivally and 7-7.5 mm
      length mesio distally for molars and 2.3-2.8mm width buccolingually, 3-3.5 mm depth occluso
      gingivally and 3.5-4mm length mesiodistally for premolars. when necessary, superficial
      extensions may also be made on the preparations so that the occlusal fossa included in the
      preparation area and then the susceptibility for plaque accumulation will be diminished.

      Participant timeline

      The visits will be designated as follows:

      Visit 1: one week after allocation, preoperative records, face-to-face adherence reminder
      session, clinical examination, radiographic examination, intraoral photography and primary
      impressions for diagnostic cast construction .

      Visit 2: one week after the first visit, teeth preparations, secondary impression and
      temporization .

      Visit 3: one week after the second visit, try in for the restoration will be done.

      Visit 4: one week after the try in, final cementation of the restoration.(GC resin cement)
      Visit 5: follow up after twelve months from the cementation visit.

      The aim of the study is to assess the fracture resistance of two inlay retained bridge
      designs (tub shaped and inlay shaped) in missing posterior teeth cases. Based on previous
      papers by Ohlmann et al., 2008 7 and İzgi et al.,2011 4 indicate that the failure rate among
      controls is 52%. If the true failure rate for experimental subjects is 99%, we will need to
      study 12 in each group to be able to reject the null hypothesis that the failure rates for
      experimental and control subjects are equal with probability (power) 0.8. The Type I error
      probability associated with this test of this null hypothesis is 0.05. We will use an
      uncorrected chi-squared statistic to evaluate this null hypothesis. This number is to be
      increased to 15 in each group (25% more than the calculated) to compensate for possible
      losses during follow up. The sample size was calculated by PS: Power and Sample Size
      Calculation software Version 3.1.2 (Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee, USA).
    
  