
    
      All the ED patients positive to or suspected of COVID-19 infection will be included in the
      study. Descriptive reports of the collected data will be produced regularly. Different levels
      of aggregation will be considered: single center, province, region. In addition to providing
      useful elements to describe the evolution of the epidemic, the results presented in these
      reports will provide an accurate clinical description of a large sample of COVID-19 patients.

      The study data will be leveraged to identify the most important risk factors and clinical
      conditions to predict poor patient outcomes. The most relevant factors will be selected using
      state-of-the-art techniques.

      These factors will be used as predictors in multivariable predictive models, which will be
      developed to estimate the expected prognosis of the patients. The study outcomes will be
      death or need of intubation within 7 days since ED arrival and 30-day mortality. Given the
      dichotomous nature of these variables, the models will be developed with logistic regression.
      The models will be first developed when the study will enroll the minimum number of necessary
      patients, and periodically updated. In this way, predictive tools capable of making accurate
      estimates of the prognosis of patients will be returned to the clinical practice as soon as
      possible.

      The study will record the use of treatments and drugs, such as antivirals, ACE inhibitors and
      sartans, whose effect on COVID-19 patients is not yet clear and mostly based on small
      studies. The large cohort of patients will be used to perform CER analyses and evaluate the
      effect of these treatments on the prognosis of patients, with appropriate statistical
      methodology to account for the observational nature of the data. These results will be used
      to refine and improve the experimental design of this project.
    
  