
    
      Despite recent improvements in neonatal care, the delicate extra-uterine maturation of
      central nervous system place preterm infants at high risk for neurodevelopmental impairment.

      Long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCPUFAs) docosahexaenoic (DHA, 22:6 n-3) and
      arachidonic acid (AA, 20:4 n-6) are major building blocks for the lipid bilayer of neuronal
      and retinal membranes, thus playing a crucial role in brain and visual development. Humans,
      however, lack enzymes for synthetizing n-3 and n-6 precursors of DHA and AA, thus strictly
      relying upon dietary sources. Human milk (HM) feeding, either own mother's milk (OMM) or
      donor milk (DM), is the first nutritional choice for preterm infants and, if maternal dietary
      intakes are adequate, is expected to provide appropriate LCPUFAs amounts in this fragile
      population. Nevertheless, in addition to the type of milk, equal attention should be paid to
      its delivery methods.

      Due to their immaturity, preterm infants are often unable to coordinate sucking and
      swallowing, thus requiring tube feeding (TF) for prolonged time periods. During TF, fatty
      acids tend to separate from aqueous milk components and to adhere to the infusion set, thus
      reducing the delivery of HM lipid contents. To dare, however, a targeted evaluation of
      TF-related LCPUFAs losses has not been performed.

      This study aims to quantitatively assess the effect of different TF techniques routinely
      adopted for preterm infants' enteral nutrition on DHA and AA delivery.

      Mothers of preterm infants (≤32 weeks' gestation) admitted to the Neonatal Intensive Care
      Unity of Sant'Orsola-Malpighi University Hospital, Bologna (Italy), and HM donors adhering to
      the Human Milk Bank of Bologna will be enrolled in the present study if written, informed
      consent to participate will be obtained.

      Samples of fresh human milk or pasteurized donor milk, each one of 65 ml, will be collected.
      These samples will be then split into three 20-ml aliquots that will be subjected to as many
      TF modalities, whereas the remaining 5 ml will serve as baseline.

      By using a 20-ml polypropylene syringe connected to a feeding tube, three different TF
      modalities will be simulated at room temperature conditions: gravity bolus feeding (BF),
      horizontal continuous feeding (HCF) and 45-degree-angled continuous feeding (ACF).

      HCF and ACF will be delivered over 3 hours. During HCF the feeding syringe will be
      horizontal, whereas during ACF the tip of the feeding syringe will be angled 45° upward from
      the longitudinal axis. Moreover, in order to evaluate the efficacy of lipid delivery in
      relation to different phases of continuous feeding, HM delivered from 0 to 90 min and from 91
      to 180 min will be collected and analyzed separately.

      Eventually, LCPUFAs contents in the resulting specimens will be analyzed by means of gas
      chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (GC-MS) at the laboratory of the Center for
      Applied Biomedical Research (CRBA) of S. Orsola-Malpighi University Hospital in Bologna,
      Italy.
    
  