
    
      Fever is one of the most common presenting symptoms of patients presenting to health centers
      in Nepal. Many of the times, it is difficult to diagnose the cause of the fever by initial
      history, clinical examination and basic laboratory tests and the patents are treated as
      presumed enteric fever or fever without focus needing antimicrobials. In fact there are
      various causes of similarly presenting febrile illnesses including typhoid, paratyphoid,
      murine typhus, scrub typhus etc.

      Many of the traditionally used drugs including fluoroquinolones are now resistant against
      enteric fever in south asia. Oral azithromycin is now commonly used to treat undifferentiated
      febrile illness and remains effective against enteric fever. Many physicians now also use
      co-trimoxazole as it was very commonly used in the treatment of enteric fever in the past.
      Resistance to co-trimoxazole emerged two decades ago, but has subsequently largely
      disappeared and nearly all Salmonella Typhi and Paratyphi A strains from Nepal are now
      susceptible. Anecdotal reports claim that it seems to work very well against undifferentiated
      febrile illness in Nepal; it is largely stocked in government health facilities and is a
      popular and cheap treatment option.

      Both azithromycin and co-trimoxazole are available in Nepal and are extensively used in the
      treatment of undifferentiated febrile illness. Therefore it is important to know the better
      oral option to treat enteric fever and other febrile illnesses and also to have an
      alternative oral treatment in case resistance to azithromycin emerges.

      The investigators purpose to conduct a head to head, parallel group, 1:1, double blinded
      randomized controlled trial to compare azithromycin and co-trimoxazole for the treatment of
      undifferentiated febrile illness and determine the best empirical treatment for
      undifferentiated febrile illness in Nepal.
    
  