
    
      After adequation and approve from ethics committee on research involving human the selection
      of patients with tension headache or migraine according to The International Classification
      of Headache Disorders, 2nd Edition (ICHD II) will start in the Headache Clinic of Alcides
      Carneiro Universitary Hospital. Those selected will be oriented regarding to the study steps
      and potential risks of the procedures. The patients will catalog the occurrence of headache
      and use of analgesics for 30 days through daily headache. At the end of this month patients
      will be evaluated by a physician experienced in the treatment of headache to define the
      occurrence of pain or allodynia of the scalp. Data gathered in this consultation will be
      recorded in standardized questionnaires for the study. The questionnaire is divided:
      Patient's identification, illustration of the pain area and allodynea points, pain intensity
      by Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) and finally medication use will be collected in the Headache
      Diary.

      The people are randomized with block permutation, security of equal distribution in two
      groups (number previous determined). One group with 0,9% saline and the other Botulinum Toxin
      A.

      Finishing the application by the Researcher (Who doesn't know the result of randomization and
      the infiltrated containing). The patients will be submit to three evaluations: the first, 30
      days after infiltration, with a doctor who didn't participate of the anterior steps and will
      analyze the pain intensity by Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), an episode of headache and use of
      painkiller trough Headache Diary. The Doctor will ask to the patient localize, if exist, the
      allodynia points. The others evolution visit will happen 60 and 90 days after application,
      with this same doctor using the same methods. Another professional, who doesn't know about
      the anterior steps of the study, will do the statics data analyze.
    
  