
    
      A cluster-randomized trial with a stepped wedge design will be conducted in adult ICU's
      throughout Europe

      The MOSAR-ICU trial is motivated by three primary considerations:

        1. Advances in behavioral sciences and research about (hand) hygiene compliance have
           allowed a better understanding of barriers to increase compliance with (hand) hygiene
           practices within healthcare institutions;

        2. Recent investigations have identified new rapid tests, both chromogenic media and
           molecular based tests, which may help identifying previously unknown carriage of AMRB at
           the time of admission; and

        3. Currently practiced procedures, such as regular surveillance of all patients and daily
           cleansing of ICU patients with Chlorhexidine, have not been evaluated properly for their
           effectiveness.

      In conclusion, evidence base derived recommendations from prospective studies regarding the
      costeffectiveness of different control strategies are lacking.

      This study assess the impact of the three interventions on ICU acquired colonisation rates
      for AMRB(MRSA,VRE and ESBL).

      Study design: Multi-center, cluster-randomised clinical trial.

      Study population: Adult patients admitted to the ICU.

      Intervention: The first phase of the study will be a 6-month baseline period to determine
      acquisition rates of AMRB during current standard practice in the individual participating
      centers (including currently performed surveillance strategies). The second phase will
      consist of a Hygiene Improvement Program to improve standard precautions and hand hygiene;
      and daily washing of all ICU patients with Chlorhexidine gluconate (HIP; 6 months). In both
      periods Contact Precautions (contact isolation) will be implemented for carriers of AMRB, as
      identified upon clinical cultures and following current practice of individual wards. In the
      third phase of the study (12 months) units will be randomized, and all interventions of phase
      2 will be continued in all units. Half of the units will implement surveillance (admission
      and twice weekly cultures) of all admitted patients for carriage of MRSA and VRE using
      chromogenic agar. The other half will add molecular based rapid testing of ALL admission
      cultures for MRSA and VRE in addition to twice weekly screening of all patients with
      Chromagar based tests for MRSA, VRE and ESBL.

      Main study endpoints: ICU-acquired colonization rates with MRSA, VRE and ESBL.

      Primary Objective: To evaluate the impact of enhanced standard barrier precautions and rapid
      screening with targeted isolation of patients carrying AMRB on transmission of AMRB.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  Evaluate the impact of interventions on ICU-acquired bacteremia rates with MRSA, VRE or
           ESBL.

        -  Evaluate the impact of the HIP intervention on frequency and quality of hand hygiene,
           the application of standard precautions and the use of contact precautions during
           patient care.

        -  Evaluate the effect of the three strategies on other patient outcomes, including length
           of stay and in hospital mortality.

        -  Evaluate the overall antibiotic use and effectiveness of empirical treatment of
           ICU-acquired bacteremia.

        -  Evaluate the effect of the three strategies on the incidence density of new acquisitions
           with MRSA, VRE and ESBL individually.
    
  