
    
      Insomnia is one of the most common complaints among service-members and Veterans of recent
      military conflicts. Insomnia diagnoses increased 19-fold among military service members from
      2000 to 2009. Insomnia has been shown to play a causal role in depression, anxiety,
      suicidality, disability due to a mental health disorder, hypertension, obesity, metabolic
      syndrome, diabetes, and all-cause mortality, thus serving as an additional risk factor for
      some of the most common medical conditions seen in patients utilizing the VA healthcare
      system. Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia (CBTI) produces both short-term and
      sustained resolution of insomnia with fewer adverse side effects than pharmacotherapy. But
      access to behavioral sleep medicine expertise within the VA is very limited.

      Self-management and telehealth are viable options for achieving these goals.The proposed
      study is a randomized controlled trial comparing Tele-Self CBTI to Health Education Control
      for improved insomnia severity among treatment-seeking Veterans with Insomnia. In this 2-arm
      trial, 200 participants will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to Tele-Self CBTI or a Health
      Education Control condition. Eligible participants are Veterans who are: a) prescribed sleep
      medications; b) diagnosed with insomnia; or c) referred for clinic-based CBTI (but not yet
      treated) will be identified using electronic health records (EHR) and telephone interviews.

      Outcomes of subjective (sleep diary) and objective (actigraphy) measures of sleep onset
      latency (SOL), wakefulness after sleep onset (WASO), and sleep efficiency (SE) will be
      assessed at 3 time points: baseline, 8 weeks, and 6 months after baseline. Participants in
      both arms will continue to receive usual medical care. Each assessment period involves: a) 2
      weeks of home-based sleep assessment (diary and actigraphy), and b) completion of
      telephone-based questionnaires. Following completion of a home-based sleep assessment period,
      a study staff member will conduct study questionnaires over the phone. Study participants
      will be asked to return actigraphy devices at the end of each assessment period.

      Tele-Self CBTI is comprised of two treatment components: 1) Self-management via a workbook
      entitled, "Improve your Sleep: A Self-Guided Approach for Veterans with Insomnia" and 2)
      telephone-based nurse support. Participants will complete 6 weekly reading modules from the
      workbook with the following typical CBTI treatment components: Sleep Restriction; Stimulus
      Control; Cognitive Therapy; Relaxation; and Sleep Hygiene Education. The investigators will
      deliver Tele-Self CBTI across 6 weekly telephone contacts of 20 minutes or less through a
      study nurse. Patients randomized to Health Education Control (HEC) will receive 6 weekly
      phone calls from a study nurse. Consistent with phone contacts in the intervention arm, HEC
      phone contacts will last no more than 20 minutes and will match as closely as possible call
      duration with Tele-Self CBTI participants. Sleep-focused content will be prohibited during
      HEC calls.
    
  