
    
      A maximum of ninety (N=90) women and children will be screened and recruited from three
      clinical care programs at Boston Medical Center (BMC): 1) the SPARK Center, 2) Child Witness
      to Violence, and 3) Project RESPECT, to participate in therapeutic programming delivered by
      trained psychologists, social workers and therapists at the SPARK Center in Mattapan, MA or
      at Child Witness to Violence at BMC in Boston, MA. Mothers with children through the age of 3
      years will be attending modified Group Attachment Based Intervention (mGABI) sessions at the
      SPARK Center that will include a small group of other mother-child pairs and approximately
      two therapists. Mothers with children between the ages of 3 and 5 years will be attending
      Brief Dyadic Intervention (BDI) sessions at Child Witness to Violence and/or the SPARK Center
      with their child and an individual therapist. The therapeutic interventions will be similar
      between the two groups and will be delivered in 10 sessions over the course of approximately
      12-15 weeks. Each session will be approximately 2 hours long and will be scheduled to
      accommodate the participants' schedules. Participants will be asked to attend 1 session per
      week and to participate in two research data collection sessions that are part of the
      10-session commitment. The first session will occur at the beginning of the study
      (pre-intervention) and the second session will occur at the end of the study
      (post-intervention). During the first data collection session, participants will be asked to
      provide demographic information and complete interviews about past experiences and current
      experiences as a parent, and their child's current functioning. Parents will also be video
      recorded interacting with their child for 10 minutes. During the second data collection
      session, participants will be asked to complete a similar set of interviews and they will be
      video recorded again interacting with their child for 10 minutes.

      Project BELONG will address the impact of trauma and dyadic therapy on the mother and child
      as it affects parenting, child development, and child behavior. Changes in parents' ability
      to interact with their child in nurturing and responsive ways (as measured by coding
      videotapes of pre- and post- mother-child interactions) will be investigated as well as
      improvements in maternal symptoms of stress, depression and feelings of self-efficacy (as
      measured by validated, evidence-based pre- and post- assessments). Child outcomes will be
      assessed via change from baseline in measures of child's psychosocial functioning and
      development.
    
  