
    
      Cesarean delivery (CD) is a common surgical procedure with over 1 million performed annually
      in the United States. The rate of CD is steadily increasing. In 2006, an estimated 31.1% of
      U.S. births were by CD. Approximately two thirds of these are primary procedures and 90% of
      CD will later undergo a repeat cesarean delivery. The rise in CD has been attributed to
      changes in physician and patient expectations, attitudes about risk, and changes in clinical
      practice. These include decreased vaginal birth after cesarean delivery (VBAC), breech
      vaginal deliveries, and operative vaginal deliveries as well as an increase in maternal
      request, failed induction of labor, and elective repeat CD. The CD rate is expected to rise
      as high as 40-50% in the next decade if the increasing trend continues unabated.

      Despite the large number of CD performed, there is no agreed standard for skin closure. The
      most commonly used materials are surgical staples and absorbable subcuticular suture. Staples
      have a clear benefit in decreasing operating time. In theory, staples also have a decreased
      chance of bacterial migration into the wound, decreased tension at the incision edges, and
      less damage to capillaries in the subcuticular layer of skin than absorbable subcuticular
      suture. However, some argue that staples are more painful and have a worse cosmetic
      appearance. This is especially the case for staples that remain in place longer than
      recommended and leave "track marks." Staples are also less visually appealing to patients.

      The Cochrane Collaboration identified one randomized controlled trial (RCT) that addressed
      skin closure for CD (Alderice, 2003). This study included 66 women and compared absorbable
      subcuticular suture versus surgical staples for skin closure of CD. Surgical staples had
      shorter operating time but absorbable subcuticular suture had decreased post-operative pain
      and better cosmesis at the 6 week post-operative visit (Frishman, 1997). Rousseau, J.
      presented opposing findings in her RCT "A Randomized Study Comparing Subcuticular Sutures
      Versus Staples for Skin Closure at Cesarean Sections". In this study, staples had better
      cosmesis, decreased pain at the post-operative visit, and shorter operating time (Rousseau,
      2009). Neither study assessed wound disruption or infection directly. With such widely
      varying findings and lack of data there is a need to identify the cesarean section skin
      closure which provides the best outcomes for the most common major surgical procedure in
      women.

      We have undertaken a RCT to compare surgical staples vs. absorbable subcuticular suture for
      the closure of the skin in cesarean sections. Our primary outcome is a composite wound
      morbidity outcome (including wound disruption or infection). Assuming a baseline wound
      morbidity of 8%, Power of 80%, and a decrease of wound morbidity to 4%, a sample size of
      1,204 will be required. Our secondary outcomes will include cosmesis, post-operative pain,
      health service use/cost, procedure time, and patient satisfaction.

      The study was terminated after recruitment of approximately 400 subjects after administrative
      review (see publication: Figueroa et al. Obstet Gynecol. 2013 Jan;121(1):33-8.)
    
  