
    
      This is a large-scale study into the effectiveness of a novel approach for sedation in
      ventilated critically ill patients. The primary aim of this study is to determine whether
      Early Goal Directed Sedation therapy, compared to standard care sedation, reduces 90-day
      mortality in critically ill patients ventilated > 24 hrs.

      The study will be a randomized, unblinded, controlled trial conducted in approximately 35-50
      intensive care units (ICUs) and will recruit 4000 mechanically ventilated patients (life
      support) who are expected to remain on the ventilator > 24 hours AND require immediate
      ongoing sedative medication for comfort, safety, and to facilitate the delivery of life
      support measures, including mechanical ventilation.

      Patients with primary brain injury or prolonged weakness are excluded. Participants will be
      randomized into one of 2 study groups. All patients will receive adequate analgesia at
      randomization at the discretion of treating clinician. All randomized patients will have
      Light sedation as the default target unless otherwise clinically indicated. The intervention
      group will receive EGDS with dexmedetomidine as the primary sedative agent to achieve light
      sedation, with the addition of propofol as required. The use of benzodiazepines in the
      intervention group is not allowed, with the exception of specific, defined circumstances.

      The control group will have sedation according to usual practice as chosen by the treating
      clinician. The use of dexmedetomidine is not allowed, with the exception of specific, defined
      circumstances.

      Deidentified data will be collected and will include; Baseline demographic information; Doses
      of all sedative, analgesic and other related medications; Pain, sedation and delirium scores
      and major treatments such as ventilation time, tracheostomy and dialysis. Patients surviving
      to hospital discharge will be contacted by phone to determine independent survival status at
      90 days and again at 180 days plus Health Related Quality of Life and cognitive function
      assessment.
    
  