
    
      Immunological disorders predispose affected individuals to a myriad of complications,
      including infection, immune dysregulation with autoimmune disease and aberrant inflammatory
      responses, and malignancy. Advances in genetic testing have propelled the discovery of the
      genetic underpinnings of numerous immunodeficiencies. However, a more complete picture of the
      immune system is needed to better characterize patients that present with the signs and
      symptoms of immunodeficiency or immune dysregulation in whom there is no identifiable genetic
      diagnosis. Many of our diagnostic tools, such as characterization of cell subset frequencies,
      look at only one parameter in the immune system, which is typically insufficient to capture
      the system s complexity. Systems immunology is a field of research aimed to identify and
      understand how the different components of the immune system work together in a coordinated
      manner to achieve its functions, such as protecting against pathogens and mounting effective
      responses after vaccination. The goal of this study is to collect patient samples to more
      deeply phenotype these individuals at the molecular and cellular levels using novel
      technologies in order to generate hypotheses regarding disease etiologies and mechanisms in
      subjects with an immune disorder without complete characterization or clear genetic etiology.
      We also aim to validate a specific observation seen in a previous study of patients with
      known monogenic immunological disorders. In the long-term, hypotheses generated in this study
      that address clinically significant, actionable questions will be pursued as separate
      investigations.

      This hypothesis-generating sample collection study will recruit patients with unknown or
      incompletely characterized immune defects and their unaffected relatives. Under this
      protocol, samples will be collected at the NIH Clinical Center or mailed in for analysis
      using systems biology approaches to generate hypotheses regarding the potential etiologies
      and mechanisms of these immune defects. Initially, all subjects will give a blood sample and
      may give additional samples including saliva, stool, and skin punch biopsies. Subjects will
      be enrolled for 5 years and may be asked to give additional samples based on scientific need
      or changes in clinical status. Findings relevant to subjects health and medical care will be
      returned to them and referring healthcare providers.
    
  