
    
      Lyme borreliosis is a multisystemic bacterial infection affecting the skin, the joint and the
      nervous system. It has been shown that the skin is an essential interface as a site of
      bacteria inoculation and multiplication. In mouse acutely infected with different Borrelia
      species, the investigators have detected several protein markers of active infection in the
      skin by discovery proteomics, which allowed us to design a subsequent targeted proteomics
      assay. The invcestigators tested the same techniques in skin biopsies of humans presenting
      with an erythema migrans. Most of the bacterial proteins previously identified in the skin of
      infected mice were also detected in biopsies of human lesional skin.

      The diagnosis of disseminated Lyme borreliosis currently mainly relies on evocative clinical
      symptoms along with a positive Borrelia serology. However, a positive serological test does
      not prove an active infection but merely reflects exposure to the pathogen, which is quite
      common in endemic regions and thus lacks positive predictive value. Moreover, direct
      bacteriological diagnosis tools such as culture and nucleic acid amplification (PCR)
      currently lack sensitivity. Planning to test the ability of proteomics to assist in the
      diagnosis of disseminated Lyme borreliosis, we have first developed a model of late infection
      in mouse, and achieved the identification of several bacterial proteins as markers of ongoing
      infection in the murine skin.

      The investigators now wish to investigate whether the skin also constitutes a reservoir for
      these bacteria during persistent disseminated infection in humans, and if they can detect
      bacterial proteins in this easily accessible tissue by the same approach. They will directly
      look for bacterial proteins by selected reaction monitoring-mass spectrometry (SRM-MS), the
      method successfully employed in early infection setting. The ability to detect borrelial
      proteins in synovial fluid (patients with Lyme arthritis), cerebrospinal fluid (patients with
      Lyme neuroborreliosis) or lesional skin (patients with acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans)
      will also be investigated, as appropriated.

      To improve the detection of Borrelia proteins in healthy-looking skin, a dermocorticoid will
      be prealably applied for a short 2-days course, a procedure the investigators demonstrated
      both useful and safe in mice. Since tick bite mainly occurs in the lower part of the body,
      the upper part of the thigh will be the site of topical steroids application and skin biopsy
      .

      The proteomics yield will be compared to the two main other methods of direct detection, i.e.
      culture and PCR.
    
  