
    
      ATLAS is an Investigator-initiated, open-labelled, multi-center, randomized, phase II
      clinical trial, to evaluate the effect of two dose regimens of subcutaneous ACTH gel in
      subjects with non-infectious anterior scleritis over a period of 12 months (52 weeks), with
      the primary endpoint at month 4 (week 16). ATLAS study will be conducted at up to 6 clinical
      sites in USA. The study will be coordinated by the Ocular Imaging Research and Reading Center
      (OIRRC), which will serve as the coordinating and reading center for the ATLAS Study.

      The ATLAS Study aims to evaluate the potential role of subcutaneous adrenocorticotropic
      hormone (ACTH) gel, in the management of non-infectious anterior scleritis. Specifically, the
      ATLAS Study aims to evaluate the safety and tolerability of 2 different dose regimens of ACTH
      gel administered by subcutaneous (SC) injection in patients with non-infectious anterior
      scleritis and to evaluate the bioactivity of 2 different dose regimens of ACTH gel
      administered by SC injection in patients with non-infectious anterior scleritis.

      Scleritis refers to red and painful inflammation, centered in the sclera that may involve
      adjacent ocular structures including the cornea, episclera and uvea. Scleritis may results in
      vision threatening ocular complications (corneal ulceration, cataract, glaucoma, retinal
      detachment, choroidal effusion) and subsequent blindness. Up to 50% of patients with
      scleritis have an associated systemic inflammatory disorder, such as sarcoidosis, rheumatoid
      arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and polyangiitis with granulomatosis. Scleritis is
      classified based on the anatomic site, as anterior or posterior, with 90% of cases anterior.
      Anterior scleritis may manifest as necrotizing or non-necrotizing. Non-necrotizing,
      noninfectious scleritis is the most prevalent form. The course of scleritis is usually
      chronic, similar to uveitis, and requires systemic therapy with non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs and glucocorticoids, along with immunosuppression, as steroid-sparing
      therapy. Due to its treatment resistance nature, scleritis remains a therapeutic challenge
      for many ophthalmologists. The ultimate goal is to control the inflammation, which serves as
      the cornerstone of the scleritis pathophysiological basis.

      Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) is a member of a group of peptide hormones, called
      melanocortins (MCs). ACTH is released from the pituitary gland and acts primarily on the
      adrenals to stimulate and regulate steroid hormones production. It has been demonstrated that
      MCs can be produced by immune cells at the inflammation site, which created a special
      interest in immunomodulatory properties of these peptides. Latest evidence proposes other
      anti-inflammatory mechanisms of ACTH actions in addition to steroidogenesis, including
      leukocyte transmigration inhibition, cytokine synthesis reduction and generation of
      anti-inflammatory signals locally at the inflammation site. ACTH gel has been reported to be
      effective in various systemic inflammatory diseases including nephrotic syndrome, multiple
      sclerosis, opsoclonus myoclonus,dermatomyositis and polymyositis. These reports also include
      cases that were resistant to steroids and other immunomodulatory drugs, supporting the
      immune-modulating properties of ACTH. H.P. Acthar® Gel (Repository Corticotropin Injection,
      Mallinckrodt Pharmaceuticals) is a 39-amino-acid, pituitary-derived ACTH analogue. ACTH gel
      has been demonstrated to have additional therapeutic effects on the humoral immune system,
      independent of its role in the adrenal steroidogenesis regulation. It is approved by the US
      FDA for treatment of a number of inflammatory conditions, including multiple sclerosis,
      rheumatic and collagen disorders, as well as ophthalmologic diseases, such as ocular allergy,
      keratitis, uveitis and optic neuritis. However, due to the scarcity of data from clinical
      studies, many physicians are unaware of ACTH gel as a treatment option for inflammatory
      diseases.

      The proposed study aims to evaluate the potential role of ACTH gel in the management of
      non-infectious anterior scleritis. Given the established role of inflammation in the
      pathogenesis of scleritis and the ability of ACTH to bind to cellular and tissue melanocortin
      receptors, thus blocking various inflammatory pathways, a beneficial outcome could be
      anticipated from ACTH analogue in patients with scleritis.

      Thirty (30) subjects with non-infectious anterior scleritis will be enrolled in the study.

      The primary endpoint of the study will be at week 16, with an active, as-needed treatment
      extension phase from week 17 to week 52.

      All study participants will be randomized (1:1) at their Baseline (BL) visit (visit 2) to one
      of the two treatment arms. All subjects will be started on oral corticosteroids (at a maximum
      dosage of 1 mg/kg of prednisone or equivalence a day) at the screening visit which will
      continue to be administered at the same dose throughout the screening period until BL/Visit
      2. Steroid dose will be tapered from BL/Visit 2 onwards until week 9 (Visit 5). If the
      scleritis is still greater than 0.5+ on the grading scale, the investigators have the
      discretion to continue on the tapering course of steroid while the subjects are also being
      treated with ACTH gel.

      The two treatment arms are as follows:

        1. Mandatory 80 U twice weekly treatment with SC ACTH gel, starting at the Baseline visit
           (Day 0) until end of week 16.

        2. Mandatory 80 U thrice weekly treatment with SC ACTH gel, starting at the Baseline visit
           (Day 0) until end of week 16.

      Starting at week 17, treatment regimen will be determined according to clinical response to
      treatment as follows:

        1. No evidence of active disease/disease resolved - treatment dose will be reduced to 80 U
           once a week with SC ACTH gel.

        2. Evidence of disease improvement, but still active/partial response - ACTH treatment will
           continue alone at the pre-assigned treatment dose. Steroids will not be added to the
           treatment due to several side effects of the combination of the drugs.

        3. No evidence of improvement/disease progression - treatment with ACTH gel will be
           discontinued and rescue therapy will be initiated as per investigator based on standard
           of care.

      At the primary end point (week 16) and at the end of follow-up period (week 52) efficacy will
      be assessed by standard ophthalmic examination procedures and response to treatment, which
      will be graded according to established scleritis grading scale. Evaluation of response will
      be based on changes in scleral inflammation grade at various time points during the study,
      changes in pain grade scale at various time points during the study, changes in the dosage of
      prednisone required to maintain disease quiescence and stability and changes on ancillary
      testing such as FA, OCT, among others. Retreatment will be offered to study subjects who have
      demonstrated any level of response during the first 16 weeks and who meet any of the
      Retreatment Criteria listed below. Subjects receiving retreatment will receive the dose that
      was assigned to them at randomization. There is no placebo arm in this study.
    
  