
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To evaluate the feasibility and toxicity of high-dose sequential therapy comprising
           high-dose etoposide and cyclophosphamide with filgrastim (G-CSF) support followed by 2
           courses of high-dose therapy and autologous stem cell transplantation in patients with
           poor-risk recurrent or refractory Hodgkin lymphoma.

        -  To analyze the response rate, progression-free survival, and overall survival of
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  To determine the percentage of patients who can achieve a minimal disease status after
           two courses of Hodgkin lymphoma chemotherapy and before "classical autologous stem cell
           transplantation."

      OUTLINE:

        -  First high-dose chemotherapy*: Patients receive high-dose cyclophosphamide IV over 2
           hours followed by etoposide IV over 4 hours.

      NOTE: *Patients with minimal disease (i.e., a single lymph node ≤ 2 cm in maximal horizontal
      diameter or a > 75% reduction in a bulky (≥ 10 cm) tumor mass AND no morphological evidence
      of active bone marrow disease) at initial evaluation do not receive the first high-dose
      chemotherapy but proceed directly to peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) mobilization with
      filgrastim (G-CSF) for 3 days and PBSC collection beginning on day 4.

        -  Peripheral stem cell mobilization and collection: Patients receive G-CSF subcutaneously
           beginning 96 hours after completion of etoposide and continuing through completion of
           PBSC collection. Patients undergo leukapheresis to collect PBSC for reinfusion after
           additional high-dose therapy.

        -  Second high-dose chemotherapy: Patients receive high-dose melphalan IV over 30 minutes
           on day -1.

        -  First PBSC infusion: At least 24 hours after completion of melphalan, patients undergo
           reinfusion of PBSC on day 0.

        -  Local radiotherapy: Patients with a localized tumor mass > 5 cm after the second course
           of chemotherapy or a previous history of bulky disease (> 10 cm or mediastinal mass >
           1/3 of transverse thoracic diameter) that has not been irradiated may receive local
           radiotherapy for 2 weeks, at the discretion of the principal investigator.

        -  High-dose therapy: Eight to 12 weeks after completion of the second course of
           chemotherapy, patients receive 1 of 2 regimens.

             -  Regimen A: Patients undergo fractionated total body irradiation 3 times daily on
                days -8 to -5 (10 fractions) and receive high-dose etoposide IV over 4 hours on day
                -4 and cyclophosphamide IV on day -2.

             -  Regimen B: Patients receive high-dose carmustine IV over 4 hours on days -7 to -5
                and etoposide and cyclophosphamide as in regimen A.

        -  Second PBSC infusion: At least 48 hours after completion of cyclophosphamide, patients
           undergo reinfusion of PBSC on day 0.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed at day 60 and then every 3 months
      for up to 1 year.
    
  