
    
      People experiencing homelessness have a 3.5-fold higher prevalence of cigarette smoking in
      comparison to non-homeless people, contributing to 2-fold higher rates of lung cancer and 3-
      to 5-fold higher rates of tobacco-attributable death. Homeless smokers want to quit, but
      studies have not yet uncovered the optimal approach to help them do so. In an 8-week pilot
      randomized controlled trial (RCT) at Boston Health Care for the Homeless Program (BHCHP), we
      found that financial incentives for smoking abstinence were associated with 7-fold higher
      odds of brief smoking abstinence in comparison to a non-incentivized control condition. These
      results suggest that financial incentives are a promising approach for reducing smoking in
      this vulnerable population, but further investigation in a larger sample is needed to improve
      the duration of on-treatment abstinence, assess post-treatment effects, and better understand
      mechanisms of action and contextual factors that may influence treatment response.

      To address the above gaps in evidence, we will conduct a community-based RCT of financial
      incentives for smoking abstinence among adult smokers at BHCHP. We will randomize 400
      participants recruited from 3 BHCHP sites: a shelter clinic, a day center clinic, and a
      medical center clinic. All participants will be offered 12 weeks of varenicline, 5 sessions
      of tobacco coaching, and 14 cotinine monitoring visits over a 24-week period. Participants
      randomized to the financial incentives arm (n=200) will receive escalating debit card
      payments (range $25-$70) at each monitoring visit for saliva cotinine levels <30 ng/ml.
      Control arm participants (n=200) will receive a fixed payment ($10) at each monitoring visit
      regardless of their saliva cotinine level. We will use an embedded-experiment mixed methods
      design, where qualitative ('qual') data collection is embedded within a larger quantitative
      ('QUAN') RCT with the following specific aims:

      Aim 1. (QUAN) To determine the effect of the financial incentives intervention on
      cotinine-verified 7-day smoking abstinence at A) the end of treatment (24 weeks) and B) 24
      weeks after treatment (48 weeks).

      Hypotheses: Incentive arm participants will have significantly greater cotinine-verified
      7-day smoking abstinence than control arm participants at A) 24 weeks and B) 48 weeks.

      Aim 2. (qual) To assess why, how, and under what circumstances homeless smokers A) achieve
      abstinence in response to financial incentives and B) maintain abstinence after incentives
      are stopped.

      Interviews with participants at A) 24 weeks (N=30) and B) 48 weeks (N=20) will examine
      cognitive ('why?'), procedural ('how?'), and contextual ('under what circumstances?')
      dimensions of their response to financial incentives to generate hypotheses about potential
      mechanisms for on-treatment and post-treatment effects and to inform modifications of the
      intervention for future use.
    
  