
    
      Data spanning over three decades show that hypothyroidism is highly prevalent in the chronic
      kidney disease (CKD) population, affecting 25% of those receiving dialysis therapy. In the
      general population hypothyroidism, defined by elevated thyrotropin (TSH) levels, has been
      associated with impaired health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and cardiovascular (CV)
      morbidity and mortality, but until recently there was a paucity of data regarding its
      prognostic implications in CKD. Our research has been the first to show a link between
      high-normal TSH levels and worse HRQOL Short Form 36 scores in dialysis patients,
      particularly among subscales centered on physical health (e.g., physical function,
      energy/fatigue). Our studies have also advanced the field by showing that elevated TSH levels
      even within the "normal" range (>3.0mIU/L) are associated with heightened risk of CV disease
      and death across multiple dialysis cohorts. However, there remains considerable controversy
      as to 1) whether thyroid dysfunction is causally associated with adverse patient-centered and
      CV outcomes, and 2) if elevated TSH levels represent thyroid functional disease vs.
      non-thyroidal illness in CKD. While levothyroxine is one of the most commonly prescribed
      medications in CKD, little is known about its efficacy in this population.

      To address these knowledge gaps, we propose to conduct a randomized double-blind
      placebo-controlled trial among 336 hemodialysis patients with high-normal or subclinical
      hypothyroid range serum TSH levels to determine the effects of 24 weeks (i.e., 6 months) of
      levothyroxine vs. placebo on 1) HRQOL Short Form 36 (SF36) Physical Component Score and 2)
      coronary artery calcifcation (CAC) progression (co-primary endpoints).

      As secondary endpoints, we will also examine 1) HRQOL measured by the ThyPRO survey, 2)
      physical performance, 3) endothelial function, 4) vascular calcification inhibitor levels,
      and 5) total body fat percentage. In a sub-study of 108 hemodialysis patients, we will also
      examine exploratory secondary endpoints of 1) muscle strength, 2) systolic function, and 3)
      resting energy expenditure.
    
  