
    
      This is an open-label long term follow up study. The study consists of two phases:

        1. Screening and enrolment Patients, who provided informed consent, participated in a
           screening period of up to 28 days to establish eligibility. Once eligibility was
           confirmed a full disease and treatment history covering the period from their completion
           of Study IMM-101-001 to date was taken.

        2. Treatment Patients can receive ongoing treatment every 4 weeks or as close to this
           interval as permitted due to practical or logistic considerations until death or
           withdrawal, unless such therapy is contraindicated, the patient does not wish to
           continue or the study is terminated by the Sponsor. At no point should the elapsed
           period between IMM-101 doses be less than 14 days.

      Patients may choose to withdraw from the study at any time and for any reason. IMM-101 should
      be stopped or the dosing regimen reduced if felt to be necessary by the Investigator and/or
      patient (e.g., intolerable injection site reactions).

      In the event of an injection site reaction of Grade 3 and above, and/or if significant
      ulceration, tenderness or lymphadenopathy is observed, at the discretion of the Investigator,
      patients may be administered a half dose of the study drug (i.e., a single 0.05 mL
      intradermal injection of IMM-101) or the timing of the injection may be delayed. If the
      dosing interval is increased, the patient should still attend the study site for safety
      assessments preferably every 3 months but, if this is not possible, every 6 months at a
      minimum. The blood sample for exploratory analysis should continue to be taken every 6
      months.

      Any change in the dose of study drug administered or the frequency of dose administration
      should be recorded in the patient's case report form (CRF). In the case of withdrawal,
      separate consent will be sought to allow the continued collection on patient status.
    
  