
    
      Given the overcrowding in hospital services, the management of the health crisis linked to
      the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic relies in particular on the Territorial Professional Health
      Communities, which include doctors, nurses and physiotherapists. The challenge of caring for
      patients in a health system described as suffering, raises questions about the experience of
      the epidemic at all levels of action. To our knowledge, there is no information to date on
      the experience of the health crisis of urban health professionals in terms of the impact on
      their professional and personal lives and the difficulties encountered.

      Using a mixed, cross-sectional, observational and multicentric methodology, the aim of this
      study, lasting a total of 12 months, is to identify the impact on professional and personal
      life as well as the difficulties experienced by doctors, nurses and physiotherapists working
      in private practice in connection with a CPTS involved in the management of the health
      crisis.

      Semi-directive interviews, lasting a maximum of 45 minutes, will be carried out with doctors,
      nurses and physiotherapists integrated into a CPTS and digitally recorded audio digitally and
      then transcribed literally and in full. They will be conducted by the researcher
      participating in the study. The transcribed interviews will be anonymised and kept in an
      office of the Clinical Research Unit Paris Centre in order to carry out the analysis as the
      interviews are carried out. Following the interview, the participant will be asked to answer
      the "Preparedness for Caregiving Scale" composed of 8 questions, each evaluated by a 4-level
      Likert scale. Over a planned inclusion period of 3 months, 75 health professionals (25
      doctors, 25 nurses, 25 physiotherapists) will be included. The evaluation criteria of the
      study will be: i) The diversity of themes extracted during the analysis of the interviews,
      leading after analysis to a set of meta-themes describing all the experience stories ii) The
      score on 24 of the "Preparedness for Caregiving Scale".

      This study will allow an enrichment of knowledge about the impact of the health crisis on
      professional and personal life and the difficulties encountered by urban health professionals
      (doctors, nurses and physiotherapists). But also the identification of the key needs of
      self-employed health professionals in the management of a health crisis, both in terms of
      health care skills and in terms of organisation and communication between the various
      players. Finally, this study will make it possible to identify the traumas experienced and/or
      felt by self-employed health professionals and the possible consequences of these traumas.
    
  