
    
      There is increasing recognition that coordinated approaches to disease management improve
      medication adherence. Intervention in chronic illness may be viewed as a multidisciplinary
      and collaborative process based upon behavioral principles, including the idea that illness
      management skills are learned and behavior is self-directed, motivation and self-efficacy can
      affect self care, monitoring and responding to changes in physical and mental health improves
      adaptation to illness, and the health care system can support or hinder self care.
      Preliminary findings suggest that telemedicine home monitoring providing cues to medication
      administration, brief evaluation of potential barriers (e.g., fatigue, cognition, side
      effects), identification of areas for future education (e.g., additional injection training),
      and an opportunity for feedback to providers (e.g., side effects) are well tolerated and may
      improve self monitoring of chronic medical conditions.

      The proposed study is a six-month, two group parallel-design, controlled trial to evaluate
      feasibility and obtain effect size estimates for a behavioral intervention to improve
      adherence to MS disease modifying therapy (DMT) using telemedicine home monitoring.
      Monitoring will include brief weekly text-based prompting to complete a series of
      approximately 10-15 questions regarding factors that are expected to affect adherence to DMT.
      Areas of assessment will include the development of side effects (e.g., flu-like symptoms),
      disease specific symptoms (e.g., fatigue), adherence expectation, and DMT self-efficacy. MS
      clinic staff will examine responses to weekly home monitoring assessment. They will provide
      telephone follow-up for medical advice, support, specific educational materials, and referral
      for services if necessary. Potential services will also be informed by Research Project 1,
      and will follow the general principle that they will be selected from a standardized list
      (e.g., additional injection training, energy management strategies for fatigue), but tailored
      to individual patient need based upon information obtained by home monitoring.

      Primary outcome measures to assess feasibility will be the percentage of eligible
      participants who complete the study protocol, and comparisons between home monitoring
      recipients and controls regarding the overall benefits of participation. Outcomes will be
      assessed via monthly telephone calls.
    
  