
    
      1. Objective

           The goal of this research project is to evaluate the role of the cholinergic system in
           behavioral and cognitive symptoms observed in mood disorders in humans, using functional
           brain neuroimaging techniques. Specific aspects of behavior and cognition are impaired
           in mood disorders, including selective attention, set-shifting and memory; and there is
           also evidence that depressed subjects exhibit a mood congruent processing bias whereby
           they more readily process negatively toned information as compared to positively toned
           information. This cognitive pattern lends itself to evaluation with functional brain
           imaging, both in terms of identifying the anatomical correlates of the specific
           behavioral and cognitive deficits as well as characterizing the effects of
           pharmacological manipulation.

           Attention and memory functions are closely tied to the cholinergic neurotransmitter
           system. The cholinergic system is one of the neurotransmitter systems implicated in the
           pathophysiology of mood disorders. Evidence suggests that during major depressive
           episodes, the cholinergic system is hypersensitive to acetylcholine. Agents that enhance
           muscarinic cholinergic receptor function increase depressive symptoms in depressed
           subjects, and can produce symptoms of depression in healthy subjects. The preclinical
           literature more specifically implicates the muscarinic receptors and indicates that the
           use of muscarinic antagonists, in the context of animal models of depression, results in
           improvement in the behavioral analogs of depression.

        2. Study Population

           The accrual ceiling for this protocol is 388 participants. 143 currently depressed
           patients with major depressive disorder, 100 currently depressed patients with bipolar
           disorder, and 145 healthy controls will participate in this study.

        3. Design

           The antimuscarinic agent, scopolamine, will be administered in a double-blind, placebo
           controlled manner across all studies. Clinical ratings, cognitive tasks and neuroimaging
           will be conducted at various timepoints to evaluate the clinical effects of scopolamine
           on depression, to assess the acute mood response to scopolamine; and to study the
           neurobiological correlates of the clinical and behavioral drug effects.

        4. Outcome Measures

      The proposed inpatient or outpatient project investigates the role of cholinergic
      neurotransmission in the behavioral and cognitive symptoms observed in the depressed phase of
      both major depressive disorder (MDD) and bipolar disorder (BD). The studies proposed here
      will identify anatomical correlates of the mood congruent processing bias, working memory,
      attention and set-shifting deficits observed in depressed subjects. Further, these studies
      will evaluate the effects of the cholinergic antagonist, scopolamine, both on the performance
      deficits and on neural activity in brain regions recruited as subjects perform these tasks.

      Dose escalation studies will be conducted to determine if higher doses of scopolamine will
      increase the antidepressant response rate in patients with major depressive disorder. Based
      on earlier work showing the predictive value in baseline neuroimaging data to predict
      treatment outcome, we will stratify participants at baseline into groups based on expected
      response to scopolamine treatment.

      This approach is expected to reveal how neuromodulators influence processing in brain
      structures recruited to perform these tasks, both in healthy subjects and in major depressive
      disorders. The combined use of functional brain imaging and pharmacological manipulation to
      evaluate the role of neurotransmitter dysfunction in depression may direct us to potential
      therapeutic approaches.
    
  