
    
      Overview

      The OncAlert Oral Cancer RAPID Test (OncAlert RAPID) is a qualitative point-of-care lateral
      flow assay to aid in the decision to biopsy in patients with clinical features associated
      with oral potentially malignant disorders and or oral/oropharyngeal cancer (i.e. head and
      neck squamous cell carcinoma).

      Proposed Intended Use Statement

      The device measures soluble CD44 and total protein in saliva samples collected in saline. The
      test is an adjunct to the biopsy decision process, and not intended as a screening or
      stand-alone diagnostic assay. To be used in adults 23 years and older. Not intended for use
      in pregnant women.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES

      The principal objectives of this study are to:

        -  Validate the OncAlert RAPID Test, with an NPV ≥ (1-prevalence),

        -  Evaluate OncAlert RAPID Test results in patients without immediate biopsy, both at
           baseline and scheduled follow-up visit (approximately 1-3 months), to assess impact on
           outcome,

        -  Evaluate the independent and associated contribution of readily available clinical
           variables including age, race, gender, HPV status, socioeconomic level, tobacco, and
           alcohol use with the biopsy and test results.

      STUDY OVERVIEW

      Study Approach

      Prospectively collect 5cc of normal saline after a combination of swish, gargle and spit into
      the provided collection specimen cup. 1cc will be removed and sequestered for subsequent
      downstream analyses (Section 7). Specimens will be collected at baseline (time of biopsy) as
      per standard practice at each site. The OncAlert RAPID Test cassette is inserted into the
      specimen cup and read directly from the cassette in 10 minutes. In addition, acquire
      comprehensive clinical - pathology and patient demographic features including age, gender,
      race, ethnicity, and all pathology biopsy results. Also, obtain any pertinent additional
      clinical data including HPV status, socioeconomic status, smoking, drinking history, and
      pertinent features related to oral health. It is presumed that some patients within the
      current biopsy protocol will undergo treatment as a result of the biopsy diagnosis. The
      clinical-pathology data, when accessible, for these patients will be collected for subsequent
      secondary analyses. A central pathology review for all biopsy results will be performed and
      incorporated into the final analyses.

      Study Duration

      For Cohorts 1a and 1b patients, the pathology results of clinically directed incisional /
      diagnostic biopsy will be followed until finalized and received.

      Cohort 2 patients not having an initial incisional / diagnostic biopsy at the initial visit
      will have an additional OncAlert® RAPID test performed within 1 -3 months±14 days (or as
      defined by standard of care (SOC)after the initial visit.)

      The study will conclude after all data is collected and analyzed. This could vary from 12 to
      36 months or more depending on accrual rates at the open sites and other factors.
    
  