
    
      Artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs) are the first-line agents for uncomplicated
      falciparum malaria. Artemether-lumefantrine (AL) is the most widely adopted ACT in
      sub-Saharan Africa for case management. Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DP) is increasingly
      used for mass drug administration in malaria eliminating regions, and is being explored as a
      candidate for intermittent preventive therapy. AL and DP possess similar clinical efficacy
      against uncomplicated falciparum malaria in areas of drug susceptible parasites. However, AL
      appears to clear gametocytes (the transmissible stage of the malaria parasite) more rapidly
      than DP, while DP confers a longer duration of post-treatment protection against reinfection.
      It is not known whether the observed difference in gametocyte clearance between AL and DP is
      due to pharmacokinetic (PK) and/or pharmacodynamic (PD) differences of the artemisinin
      derivatives, PK/PD features of the non-artemisinin companions, or contributions from both.
      The longer duration of protection against reinfection provided by DP is due to the long
      elimination half-life of the partner drug, but further characterization of its relative
      benefit in high-transmission settings compared to AL is needed to inform malaria drug policy.
      The investigators are conducting a single-center randomized controlled clinical trial
      comparing the efficacies of AL and DP for gametocyte clearance and post-treatment
      chemoprotection among 6- to 59-month-old children with uncomplicated falciparum malaria in a
      high malaria transmission area of northern Zambia. Children with microscopy-confirmed
      Plasmodium falciparum monoinfection will be admitted for 72 hours for directly observed
      therapy with either AL or DP and serial sampling for parasite clearance and multi-dose PK
      measurements. Twenty children from each arm will be recruited to an intensive PK subgroup.
      Participants will be followed for 9 weeks for outcome assessment according to World Health
      Organization-defined clinical endpoints and to measure clearance of the long-acting partner
      drugs. Parasite genotyping will be done to distinguish recrudescence from reinfection and
      query genetic markers of drug resistance. Participants will contribute fecal specimens to
      help investigate bidirectional associations between the intestinal microbiota and
      antimalarial drug pharmacokinetics, as well as enterotype association with risk of
      reinfection.
    
  