
    
      Oral lichen planus (OLP) is a relatively common chronic inflammatory mucocutaneous autoimmune
      disease that primarily affects the skin and mucosal surfaces including the oral cavity with a
      variety of clinical manifestations including reticular, papular, hyperkeratotic, atrophic,
      erosive, and bullous forms 1,2. The erosive, atrophic, and bullous type lesions are usually
      accompanied with pain or burning sensation that affects the patient's quality of life3.
      Intraorally, the buccal mucosa, dorsum of the tongue and the gingiva are commonly affected 4
      .OLP has most often been reported in middle aged patients3. Women account for 60% to 75% of
      patients with OLP 5.

      OLP is estimated to affect1% to 2.0% of the general population. Around 40% of lesions occur
      on both oral and cutaneous surfaces, 35% occurs on cutaneous surfaces alone, and 25% occur on
      oral mucosa alone 6,7.

      Several predisposing factors might be involved in the pathogenesis of OLP. Earlier studies
      have implicated stress, anxiety and depression as possible factors. Familial cases of OLP
      have been reported and the role of genetic predisposition was considered8.

      The exact etiology of OLP is still unknown, but cell-mediated immune dysfunction is
      implicated in the complex etio-pathogenesis of this disease. Large amounts of cytokines that
      are released by affected keratinocytes and the associated inflammatory elements play a key
      role in the selective recruitment of cytotoxic CD8+ T cells trigger apoptosis of the basal
      cells of the oral epithelium. T-cell dominated infiltrate in the sub epithelial region, which
      characterizes OLP, induces further release of cytokines9.

      Cytokines may be produced by nearly every cell, but mostly act locally on cell receptors and
      have high potency10. Their production gives rise to an inflammatory cascade. One of the most
      important elements in this cascade is overexpression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF- α).
      TNF- α causes tissue destruction and overproduction of other cytokines, especially
      interleukin (IL)-6 which, in turn, leads to further inflammation and tissue degradation 11.
      Production of cytokines can in turn stimulate production of Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS) and
      cause oxidative damage to the tissues 12 .

      Malondialdehyde (MDA), as the lipid peroxidation marker, increases in an oxidative
      stress-dependent situation 13. Actually, higher levels of MDA were reported in serum and
      saliva of patients affected by OLP14-17.

      A variety of treatments have been proposed for OLP: topical or systemic corticosteroids,
      cyclosporine, retinoids, azathioprine, tacrolimus, pimecrolimus, photo chemotherapy, and
      surgery 18.

      Systemic and topical corticosteroids are probably the most effective treatment modality for
      patients with diffuse erosive OLP or multisite disease 19 .Despite the therapeutic effects of
      corticosteroids, they have significant morbidity and disturbing adverse effects such as
      fungal infections and adrenal suppression. Moreover, steroid use is contraindicated in
      patients who are breastfeeding, and have to be used with caution in patients with herpetic
      infections, glaucoma, HIV infection, tuberculosis, diabetes mellitus, candidiasis, and
      hypertension, as well as in pregnant women, resulting in a continuing search for novel
      therapies 20.

      Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) or ubiquinone is a lipid-soluble vitamin-like antioxidant naturally
      found in the diet and can also be synthesized endogenously by all cells of our body. It is
      one of the key components in ATP production in ETC. CoQ10 protects membranes against
      oxidation, and regenerates vitamins E and C and enzymatic antioxidant systems, and modulates
      prostaglandin metabolism 21, 22.

      The maximal antioxidative power of the CoQ10 coenzyme is credited to its electron-donating
      properties that neutralize free radicals 23, and its ability to replenish other valuable
      endogenous antioxidants 24.

      CoQ10 is located in the membranes in close proximity to the unsaturated lipid chains to act
      as a primary scavenger of free radicals and prevent lipid peroxidation 25.. Any certain
      condition that leads to increased levels of ROS (either by overproduction or impaired
      removal) or reduced function of antioxidants is called "oxidative stress". ROS may be toxic
      to cells via inactive enzymes, denaturizing proteins, DNA destruction, and lipid
      peroxidation. These events lead to damaged cell membrane, increased reactive aldehyde
      materials, and impaired cell function. The level of ROS and lipid peroxidation may be related
      to OLP 26,27. This suggests that oxidative stress is a major trigger for OLP, and the level
      of antioxidants is a potential determinant of susceptibility to be affected by OLP 28, 29.

      In addition, studies have shown that CoQ10 also exerts anti-inflammatory properties via IL-1,
      TNF-α, and NFκB1-dependent gene expression, thus enhancing clearance of inflammation within
      the lesion to promote tissue regeneration and wound healing30.

      Papucci et al. 31 demonstrated that treatment with CoQ10 lowered the number of apoptotic
      keratocytes in response to excimer laser irradiation to a much higher extent than other free
      radical scavengers. Moreover, supplemental CoQ10 has good safety record; no adverse effects
      have been reported with daily dosage ranging from 600 to 1200mg
    
  