
    
      The availability of HAART has substantially decreased the morbidity and mortality caused by
      HIV-1 infection. There is clinical and laboratory evidence suggesting that treatment of HIV-1
      infection not only arrests the progressive immune deterioration caused by HIV-1, but also is
      associated with at least partial immune reconstitution. After starting HAART, most patients
      with chronic HIV-1 infection experience an increase in CD4 T-cells, but the magnitude of CD4
      lymphocyte rise is highly variable. Patients who do not experience a substantial rise in
      circulating CD4 lymphocytes remain at risk for opportunistic infections. Strategies to
      enhance immune restoration in HIV-1 disease are needed. Studies have shown that immune
      restoration after HAART in patients with chronic HIV-1 infection is incomplete. There are,
      however, several potential methods that can be used that possibly may enhance the magnitude
      of CD4 lymphocyte rise induced by HAART. It is proposed that the lymphoid tissues, in which
      lymphocytes are trapped and activated to die, are a major site of immunopathology and
      cellular losses in HIV-infection. Interference with lymphocyte trapping and death in lymphoid
      tissues when cyclosporine, an immunosuppressant, is administered at the time of initiation of
      HAART may result in an enhancement of the magnitude of cellular restoration in patients who
      initiate HAART.

      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms:

      Arm A: Weeks 1 to 2: abacavir (ABC)/lamivudine (3TC)/zidovudine (ZDV). Weeks 3 to 48:
      ABC/3TC/ZDV and efavirenz (EFV).

      Arm B: Weeks 1 to 2: ABC/3TC/ZDV and cyclosporine. Weeks 3 to 48: ABC/3TC/ZDV and EFV.

      Patients in both arms receive the following immunizations: Weeks 8 and 12: Hepatitis A
      vaccine inactivated and rabies vaccine.

      Week 16: Rabies vaccine. To ascertain whether the augmentation in the rise in CD4 lymphocytes
      is sustained, the number of circulating CD4 lymphocytes 48 weeks after starting therapy is
      compared. To examine the functional significance of the cellular increases, the ability of
      patients to respond to immunization with recall and neoantigens are compared between the
      cyclosporine plus HAART arm and the HAART alone arm.

      Substudy A5139: A 2-week substudy designed to explore the mechanisms of first-phase cellular
      restoration is performed. Patients undergo 4 lymph node aspirates. Lymphocytes are analyzed
      by the use of flow cytometry and correlated with findings in the main study. There is no
      limit on patient enrollment. Patients register to the substudy immediately after randomizing
      to the main study.
    
  