
    
      Objective:

      We use the radioligand [(11)C]dLop (N-desmethyl-loperamide) in positron emission tomography
      (PET) studies to measure function of P-gp, an efflux transporter at the blood-brain barrier.
      Because [(11)C]dLop is an avid substrate for P-gp, we see almost no radioactivity in brain at
      baseline in healthy volunteers. However, we do see increased radioactivity in brain in some
      patients with dementia, or when we co-administer a medication which blocks the function of
      P-gp. While [(11)C]dLop is useful for detecting increased radioactivity in brain, a
      disadvantage of [(11)C]dLop is that it is not useful for detecting decreased radioactivity in
      brain. The reason for this is that we have a floor effect, where we are unable to detect less
      radioactivity than zero. Preclinical studies indicate that increases in P-gp activity (which
      would manifest as decreased radioactivity in brain) correlate with drug-resistant epilepsy
      and HIV. To better understand diseases associated with not only increased but also decreased
      P-gp activity, we wish to identify a radioligand which is a moderate substrate of P-gp. We
      suspect that [(18)F]FCWAY is a moderate substrate for P-gp, because some radioligand gets
      into brain at baseline, but more gets into brain after administering a drug (disulfiram)
      which inhibits P-gp. The objective of this study is to determine whether the serotonin 1A
      antagonist [(18)F]FCWAY is a substrate of P-gp by determining whether the P-gp inhibitor,
      tariquidar, increases uptake of the radioligand into brain.

      Study Population:

      We will study up to 45 healthy adults, ages 18-50. Participants must be free of medications,
      with the exception of birth control pills, as medications may confound our data. or iii
      patients who received a single PET scan as stated under i), will be invited back to have the
      option of receiving the second PET scan with tariquidar. A maximum of 15 ubjects will receive
      both scans.

      Design:

      Healthy adults will undergo either 1) a single PET scan of the brain with [(18)F]FCWAY (at
      baseline, or during infusion of intravenous tariquidar or 2) two PET scans (both a baseline
      and a tariquidar scan).

      Outcome Measures:

      If [(18)F]FCWAY is a substrate of P-gp, pre-treatment with tariquidar will increase its brain
      uptake of [(18)F]FCWAY and delay the time of peak uptake.
    
  