
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and tolerability of erlotinib hydrochloride (erlotinib) and
      onalespib lactate (onalespib) in patients with EGFR-mutant non-small cell lung cancer
      (NSCLC). (PHASE I) II. To preliminarily assess efficacy of combination erlotinib and
      onalespib at the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) determined in the phase I portion of the
      study in EGFR-mutant NSCLC patients who have not had a complete or partial response by
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 to frontline erlotinib after a
      minimum of 12 weeks on erlotinib. (PHASE II, COHORT A) III. To preliminarily assess efficacy
      of combination erlotinib and onalespib at the RP2D in NSCLC patients whose tumor harbors an
      EGFR exon 20 insertion (an EGFR mutation not typically responsive to single agent erlotinib).
      (PHASE II, COHORT B)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity (primary aim phase II, secondary aim phase I).

      II. To evaluate in a preliminary manner the progression-free survival (PFS) and disease
      control rate (DCR) of patients treated with erlotinib/onalespib.

      III. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of the above drug combinations at the recommended
      phase II dose (RP2D).

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore plasma EGFR-mutant deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) as a biomarker by detecting
      changes in plasma EGFR-mutant DNA levels (including plasma EGFR-T790M) and new mutations that
      may represent resistance to treatment.

      II. To demonstrate knockdown of Hsp90 client oncoproteins via treatment with erlotinib and
      onalespib by multiplexed immunofluorescence in serial tumor biopsies.

      III. To establish patient derived xenotransplant models in EGFR-mutated NSCLC with a focus on
      tumors that lack response to single agent erlotinib and in patients with tumors harboring
      EGFR exon 20 insertions.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of onalespib lactate followed by a phase II
      study.

      Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride orally (PO) daily and onalespib lactate
      intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for at
      least 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for 1 year and
      then annually thereafter.
    
  