
    
      Background: There is a significant rise in the number of people who are living well into old
      age. Aging is associated with loss of muscle strength and a serious import of physical
      disability. Age-related physical disability is associated with physical dependence, poor
      quality of life, and mortality. Treatment of age-related physical disability should focus on
      the prevention of the condition rather than the consequences. Need to modify daily tasks is
      an early sign of future mobility disability. Many older adults who utilize daily task
      modifications report no mobility difficulty. Neglect to self-report task modification may
      delay intervention. Identifying objective marker of task modification will help to identify
      task modifiers. Loss of muscle strength is associated with mobility decline. Older adults who
      engage in habitual physical activity (PA) are more likely to maintain physical independence
      until shortly before the natural end of their lives. Yet, many older adults are not
      physically active. Health-care professional in general and physical therapists in particular,
      are in a unique position to promote PA among older adults. Healthcare providers who
      habitually engage in PA are more likely to consult their patients on PA guidelines.

      Purposes: The purposes of the following studies were to: 1) examine lower extremity muscle
      strength across subjects who do, and do not utilize task modifications, 2) to determine the
      strength of the association between lower extremity muscle strength and daily task
      modifications in older adults living independently, 3) identify functionally relevant
      isometric and isokinetic cutpoints of lower extremity muscle strength below which daily task
      modifications are more prevalent, 4) to compare the relative diagnostic accuracy of isometric
      versus isokinetic strength cutpoints as they relate to daily task modifications, 5) estimate
      the rate of participation in moderate and vigorous physical activity (PA) among student
      physical therapists (SPTs), 6) compare these estimates to rates of PA among US adults, and 7)
      assess barriers to PA among SPTs

      Methods: To address the first two purposes, fifty-three community dwelling male (21) and
      female (32) older adults (76.4±5.2 years) were observed performing a chair rise, negotiating
      stairs, kneeling from a standing position, and rising from supine to stand. Levels of daily
      task modifications were assessed using a previously described, valid, and reliable tool
      [MOD]. The MOD assesses task modifications using six hierarchically ranked categories from
      zero (no modification) to five (refusal). Rankings were summed across tasks. A score of ≥5
      points on the summed MOD score was the cutpoint between a classification of daily
      Task-Modifiers (TM) and None-Task-Modifiers (NTM). Normalized to body weight Isometric
      measures of peak muscle torque were obtained from the hip extensors, knee extensors, and
      ankle plantar flexors using a Biodex testing device. A net anti-gravity composite measure of
      isometric lower extremity muscle force production in the sagittal plane (NETforce) was
      calculated by summing the normalized torques from the three muscle groups. An independent
      t-test was used to compare groups (TM vs. NTM) across the dependent measures of muscular
      torque. A logistic regression model was used to determine the association between torque
      measures and group assignment.

      To address the third and the forth purposes same fifty-three community dwelling male (21) and
      female (32) older adults (76.4±5.2 years) were observed performing same activities as above.
      Normalized to body weight isometric and isokinetic (60⁰ per second) measures of peak muscle
      strength were obtained from the hip extensors, knee extensors, and ankle plantar flexors
      using a Biodex Isokinetic testing device. A composite torque outputs were calculated by
      summing the normalized torques from the three muscle groups. An independent t-test was used
      to compare groups (TM vs. NTM) across the dependent measures of muscular torque. Discriminant
      analysis{{1397 Hasegawa,R. 2008}} was repeated for each predictor variable separately to
      determine the minimal strength cutpoints of normalized composite lower extremity isometric
      and isokinetic strength outputs that would optimally differentiate between the TM and NTM
      groups. An ROC curve analysis was performed to determine the sensitivity and specificity. A
      repeated, separated logistic regression with the group classification as the dependent
      variable and the lower extremity strength measures as the independent variables was
      conducted. For all statistical tests, a P-value of less than 0.05 was considered
      statistically significant. All data analyses were performed using SPSS (version 18; SPSS
      Inc., Chicago, IL, USA). A p value of .05 was used the reject the null hypothesis.

      To address the last three purposes, we applied a cross-sectional survey design [N = 126 SPTs
      enrolled in a professional (entry level) physical therapist education program]. Frequencies,
      percentages, and cross-tabulations followed by chi-square tests were used to address purposes
      number 5 and 6. Qualitative (coding) followed by non-parametric statistical procedures were
      used to assess purpose number 7.
    
  