
    
      Setting and Location:

        1. The data collection will be obtained from the data base available at a private
           radiographic centre ORASCAN Oral & Maxillofacial Imaging Centre located in Cairo, Egypt.

        2. CBCT images will be obtained from Egyptian patients who had CBCT examination as part of
           their dental examination, diagnosis or treatment planning during the years 2015-16-17.

      Participants:

      A total of 196 CBCT scans of Maxillary first and second permanent molars belonging to
      Egyptian individuals will be included.

      Variables:

        1. Number of root canals in mesiobuccal root of first and second maxillary molars

        2. Sex of the patient will be identified and addressed as the prevalence of the second
           mesiobuccal canal may show sex predilection

      Data Sources / Measurements:

      Retrospective Data Analysis will be performed after the CBCT images are pooled from the
      computer database.

      All the CBCT examinations were scanned using Cranex® 3D SOREDEX, 0.2 voxel resolution, 8 × 6
      cm FOV, 90 kVp, 10 mA and 6 seconds exposure time.

      CBCT images will be analysed in the 3 planes; first the sagittal and coronal sections will be
      oriented parallel to the long axis of the root, and then sections will be obtained on the
      axial plane for detection of the 2nd mesiobuccal canal.

      CBCT images will be interpreted by three oral radiologists independently; blinded from
      demographic data of the patients and from the results of each other.

      Each one will evaluate the images separately twice with a period of two weeks between the two
      reading sessions.

      Then inter-observational and intra-observational variability between the observers will be
      evaluated.

      The sex of the patient will be identified from the patient's demographic data available on
      the patient's file on the database of the private radiographic centre.

      Bias:

      No source of bias.

      Study Size:

      The aim of the study is to assess the prevalence of a second mesiobuccal canal of maxillary
      first and second molars in Egyptian population. Based on the previous paper by Nikoloudaki et
      al, 2015, the prevalence of Second Mesiobuccal Canal of Maxillary First and Second Molars was
      89 and 85%. Using a precision of 5, a design effect set at 1 with 95% CI (confidence
      interval), a total sample size of 196 will be sufficient. The sample size was calculated by
      Epi info.

      Sampling Strategy: The sample will be collected by simple random sampling.

      Quantitative Variables:

      The number of CBCT scans of Egyptian individuals with second mesiobuccal canal will be
      counted to estimate the prevalence of the second mesiobuccal canal.

      Statistical Methods:

        1. Data will be analysed using IBM SPSS advanced statistics (Statistical Package for Social
           Sciences), version 21 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL). Numerical data will be described as mean
           and standard deviation or median and range. Categorical data will be described as
           numbers and percentages. Comparisons between male and females for normally distributed
           numeric variables will be done using the Student's t-test while for non-normally
           distributed numeric variables will be done by Mann-Whitney test. Comparisons between
           categorical variables will be performed using the chi square test. A p-value less than
           or equal to 0.05 will be considered statistically significant. All tests will be two
           tailed.

        2. If the patient's age couldn't be found in the patient's file, the dental age will be
           used.

        3. If the patient's sex couldn't be found in the patient's file, the patient's name will be
           used to indicate the sex. Patients with mixed name will be excluded.
    
  