
    
      A randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled study will be conducted in medical centers
      around Taiwan.

      The objective of the study is to investigate the efficacy and safety of SNP-610 for the
      treatment of NASH, assuming the treatment efficacy of the investigational product is superior
      to the placebo control.

      Subjects who fulfill all the entry criteria and have written informed consent will be
      enrolled to the study. Eligible subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive study
      drug or placebo control. Considering a 10% drop-out rate, approximately 80 subjects will be
      enrolled in order to recruit 70 evaluable subjects, each arm will be at least 35 evaluable
      subjects to complete the enrollment.

      Subjects will be administered the test drugs or placebo oral daily for 3 months or until
      treatment terminates prematurely. Subjects will return to the study center for clinical
      evaluation once every 4 weeks throughout the treatment period. Clinical assessment procedures
      and laboratory tests including ultrasound imaging, hematology with differential,
      biochemistry, liver function panel, and urinalysis, will be performed at each study visit.
      The primary endpoint assessment will be the reduction of ALT at completion of Week 12
      treatment.

      Subjects who finish treatment or discontinue prematurely from the study for any reason after
      receiving one or more doses of study drug will be assessed for safety for 2 (±1) weeks after
      the last study drug dose or longer in the case of any significant AE or abnormal biochemical
      or clinical finding.

      Each subject will participate in the study for approximately 14 weeks (including the
      enrollment/baseline visit, 3 routine monthly visits during treatment period, and 1 follow-up
      visit after 2 weeks of the end of treatment).

      It is assumed the study will include a 6 months enrollment period and a further 4 months to
      complete the follow-up for all enrolled patients.
    
  