
    
      Depression is a serious illness that affects a person's mood, thoughts, and physical
      well-being. Research suggests that approximately one in five children meets criteria for a
      major depressive episode by the end of high school. These children are at increased risk for
      a wide range of social, psychological, physical, and achievement-related problems. Thus, the
      potential benefits of effective and highly transportable depression prevention programs are
      enormous. The Penn Resiliency Program (PRP) is a school-based group intervention that teaches
      cognitive behavioral and social problem-solving skills to young adolescents. This study will
      examine the effectiveness of PRP in preventing symptoms of depression and anxiety among a
      group of young adolescents.

      Participants in this open label study will be randomly assigned to one of three groups:
      adolescent only PRP, adolescent plus parent PRP, or no treatment control. In adolescent PRP,
      students will be taught cognitive and behavioral problem solving skills by school counselors
      and teachers. Parents in PRP will be taught to model and reinforce the skills taught in the
      adolescent program. Participants in the adolescent program will attend twelve 90-minute group
      sessions after school hours. Participants in the parent program will attend six 90-minute
      group sessions. Adolescent participants will attend booster sessions twice per year for 2 to
      3 years after the initial treatment has ended. Parents will attend one booster session per
      year during the follow-up phase. Adolescents' depression and anxiety symptoms will be
      assessed through questionnaires at baseline, post-treatment, and 6-month intervals for 2 to 3
      years following the intervention. Adolescents will also complete questionnaires about their
      coping behaviors, feelings of hopelessness, and several other outcomes related to depression
      and anxiety in adolescence. Data will be collected once per year from parents and teachers.
      Adolescent participants will also be assessed for depression and anxiety disorders each year
      the child is in the study.
    
  