
    
      The Research and Ethics Committee at Tallaght University Hospital approved the recruitment of
      patient into the study by invitation. Patients who accepted the invitation were enrolled into
      the intervention group and patients who declined the invitation were enrolled into the
      control group and both groups were followed up for 8 week period. Agnikarma is a traditional
      surgical technique (thermal cautery) described in ancient surgical manuscripts for the
      treatment of severe persistent pain.

      It applies intense heat to points of maximum pain agreed with the patient pre procedure. The
      heat is applied by a metal rod (Shalaka) heated in an open naked flame. The rod is applied to
      the skin at the agreed pain point in an even manner and generates a micro second degree burn.
      A traditional herbal cream is then applied which cools the application as reported by the
      patient. It is usual to allow skin healing to occur before the application of further heat
      (1-2 weeks). The pain points can move within a painful area and the technique best works with
      precise application to the current pain point. So before each application the precise points
      are agreed with the patient in advance by demarcating the painful area with a pen and
      searching for the points of maximum tenderness within that field.

      The purpose of this study was simply to define if indeed this technique delivers pain relief
      as observed in practice. The investigators chose one group to study - painful knee arthritis.
      In this condition patients often wait many years for the definitive procedure and run some
      risks with current pain relief treatment. As these patients were not the normal attendees at
      a pain clinic the investigators decided in advance to limit the study to 4 applications over
      a 4- 8 week period, the latter to allow for different speeds at which the skin might heal.
      The investigators recruited both our interventional group and waiting list control group from
      the same orthopedic waiting list.
    
  