
    
      The overarching goal of this research is to improve End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) related
      morbidity and mortality. The medical care of patients with ESRD is highly complex and
      enormously expensive. Hospitalizations drive up to 40% of the cost for ESRD care.
      Cardiovascular disease and infections account for over 50% of ESRD-related hospitalizations
      and contribute to disproportionate mortality in this patient population. This study tests the
      implementation and impact on hospitalization outcomes of a peer mentor led intervention
      designed to increase effective self-management in patients receiving hemodialysis, in a
      real-world setting with high potential for widespread dissemination.

      Patients receiving hemodialysis who can self-manage their fluid status effectively, are
      adherent to their dialysis schedule and to their dietary plan are hospitalized less
      frequently and have lower morbidity and mortality than patients who are less adherent.
      However, numerous impediments to dialysis self-management exist including facility, physician
      and patient-level barriers. The following are patient-level barriers to optimal
      self-management: 1) poor knowledge about the rationale and metrics of estimated dry weight
      (EDW), 2) poor knowledge about the metrics of urea clearance and nutritional parameters, 3)
      under-utilization of available hours for unscheduled dialysis, and 4) low self-efficacy
      leading to non-adherent schedule and dietary behaviors. Dialysis self-management education is
      often not successful in improving patients' skills. Educational tools from dialysis
      facilities and providers are didactic, have medical jargon and lack concrete steps to
      mitigate patient visits to emergency departments (ED) and subsequent hospitalizations. A
      culturally sensitive, easy to understand educational program that can increase hemodialysis
      self-management is critically needed.

      Peer mentorship has been used effectively to enhance self-efficacy and self-management
      behaviors in patients with chronic disease. A single study of peer mentorship for ESRD
      patients found that peer mentors improved adherence and satisfaction with care among mentees.
      This strategy has high potential to improve the factors that drive hospitalizations among
      this high-risk patient group. The goal of this research is to implement a peer mentor
      training program to increase patients' knowledge about the metrics of hemodialysis, enhance
      self-management to meet EDW, nutritional and adherence goals, and to enhance self-efficacy in
      mentees. The peer-mentor intervention is based on the information, motivation, behavior (IMB)
      model of health behavior and the Chronic Disease Self-Management Program. There will be a
      didactic component to increase knowledge, and a semi-structured component to increase
      perception of social support. The investigators will test the feasibility of implementation
      of this program and the efficacy of it to reduce hospitalizations in a pragmatic trial
      comparing the peer mentor intervention on mentees to a control group assigned to usual care.
      The study will also test the intervention at two geographically diverse locations (Bronx, NY
      and Nashville, TN) to provide evidence of its scalability and acceptability in different
      patient populations. The study hypothesis states: a structured peer mentor telephone
      intervention will be more effective than usual care in increasing hemodialysis related
      knowledge, self-management adherent behaviors and in decreasing ED visits and
      hospitalizations in ESRD.

      Specific Aim 1: To evaluate the effects of a 3-month semi-structured and telephone delivered
      peer mentor intervention on a composite of ED visits and hospitalizations in 100 high risk
      patients on hemodialysis randomized to peer mentor intervention as compared to 100 high risk
      patients on hemodialysis assigned to usual care.

        -  Secondary outcomes include: 1) dialysis adherence (mean weekly minutes of dialysis), 2)
           mean monthly inter-dialytic weight gain (IDWG), and 3) mean monthly albumin levels, in
           the intervention mentees as compared to the controls.

        -  To compare by group patient dialysis knowledge, self-efficacy and social support.

      Specific Aim 2: To test the feasibility of a peer training program focused on teaching
      self-management skills focused on adherence, dietary and fluid management, in dialysis
      facilities.

        -  To test the feasibility of a training program conducted in 7 dialysis facilities the
           investigators will conduct peer training of 20 recruited mentors (10 in New York and 10
           in Nashville), using a semi-structured curriculum taught in 4 sets of 2-hour sessions,
           over 4 weeks per facility.

        -  To test the fidelity of the curriculum training the investigators will use attendance
           records, content analysis, pre- and post-knowledge assessments and course evaluations.

      This pragmatic trial will test the effects and implementation of a low cost, educational,
      telephone-based, peer-mentor intervention to increase self-management behaviors of patients
      receiving hemodialysis.
    
  