
    
      SHARE is guided by the patient-provider communication, family caregiving, health services,
      and health informatics literatures in acknowledging the multiple pathways by which
      interpersonal relationships influence treatment decisions and end-of-life care. Each
      component of SHARE has been found to improve a range of communication outcomes in other care
      contexts, but have not previously been applied in this combination or examined with regard to
      advance care planning in persons with cognitive impairment. SHARE is designed to be broadly
      scalable and widely relevant to diverse primary care patients and stakeholders. The study
      goal is to engage family members or friends ("family" and/or "caregiver") in longitudinal
      interactions with primary care clinicians and stimulate and support advance care planning
      discussions in primary care. SHARE seeks to improve communication for persons with cognitive
      impairment by establishing a structured protocol to proactively engage family caregivers in
      ongoing interactions with primary care clinicians and stimulate and support advance care
      planning in primary care throughout the disease trajectory.

      SHARE evaluates a multicomponent communication intervention to proactively engage family
      members or friends and support advance care planning in primary care. SHARE encompasses the
      following four therapeutic elements: 1) a letter from the practice introducing the
      initiative, 2) access to a designated person (medical assistant, social worker, nurse, or lay
      person) trained to lead advance care planning discussions, 3) person-family agenda-setting to
      align perspectives about the role of the caregiver and stimulate discussion about goals of
      care, and 4) education about communication and available resources, including a 44-page
      brochure developed by the National Institute on Aging entitled "A Guide for Older People:
      Talking with your Doctor", a blank easy to complete advance directive, and facilitated
      registration to the patient portal (for patient and caregiver) to extend electronic
      interactions and information access to family. The control group receives minimally enhanced
      usual care with print educational materials that include the 44-page brochure developed by
      the National Institute on Aging entitled "A Guide for Older People: Talking with your Doctor"
      and a blank easy-to-complete advance directive. Participants in both groups are followed over
      a 24-month period. Outcomes are assessed from patient and caregiver enrollment surveys
      conducted in-person or by telephone or video conference at enrollment and follow-up telephone
      or web surveys at 6, 12, and 24 months; MyChart portal activity; information about advance
      directive completion from electronic medical record; burdensome care at the end of life from
      family survey and CRISP.
    
  