
    
      This is an open-label (identity of assigned study drug will be known), multicenter, 2-part,
      Phase 1 dose escalation/expansion to evaluate the safety, pharmacokinetics (study of what the
      body does to a drug), pharmacodynamics (study of what a drug does to the body) and clinical
      activity of JNJ-42756493 administered orally once daily in 21-day cycles or 28 days cycles of
      intermittent dosing regimen (7 days on/7 days off) to Japanese and Asian participants >=20
      years of age with advanced or refractory solid tumors or lymphoma who are not candidates for
      approved or available therapies. Approximately 40 participants will be enrolled. In Part 1
      Participants will be required to be hospitalized after the first dose on Day 1 of Cycle 1
      until Day 2 of Cycle 2 (for daily continuous dosing) or until Day 14 of Cycle 1 (for
      intermittent dosing), however extension of hospitalization will be allowed until Day 2 of
      Cycle 2 according to investigators clinical judgment. The Part 1 dose-escalation phase is
      designed to determine the recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) based on safety, pharmacokinetic,
      and pharmacodynamic data of JNJ-42756493. Participants will be enrolled in sequential cohorts
      based on the 3+3 dose-escalation scheme; the first cohort will receive the starting dose and
      subsequent cohorts will receive increased doses of JNJ-42756493. After the last participants
      in each cohort completes Cycle 1, the Safety Evaluation Team (SET) will evaluate the safety
      and pharmacokinetic data according to protocol-defined criteria and make the decision whether
      to escalate the dose in a new cohort. To determine the recommended Phase 2 dose, the SET will
      review all safety, pharmacokinetic, and pharmacodynamic data from Part 1 before initiation of
      Part 2. The total number of participants enrolled in Part 1 will depend on the dose level at
      which the recommended Phase 2 dose is established. After the recommended Phase 2 dose is
      established, the Part 2 dose-expansion phase will be opened. Part 2 study will be done in a
      molecularly-defined subset of Participants with gastric adenocarcinoma including
      gastroesophageal junctions at the RP2D. In Part2, Participants can be hospitalized until Day
      8 of Cycle 1 as needed. In addition, extension of hospitalization will be allowed until Day
      15 of Cycle 1 according to investigator's clinical judgment. In Part 2, approximately 25
      participants will be treated at the recommended Phase 2 dose as 28 days cycles of
      intermittent dosing regimen in order to evaluate fibroblast growth factor receptor target
      modulation in tumor, to further elaborate safety, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of
      JNJ-42756493, as well as to evaluate preliminary clinical responses. Participants who are
      tolerating study drug treatment and achieve clinical responses or stable disease will
      continue to receive study drug at the same dose until disease progression, unacceptable
      toxicity, or withdrawal of consent. Serial pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic samples will
      be collected, and safety and efficacy will be monitored throughout the study.
    
  