
    
      The trial enrolled 195 cognitively normal persons aged 60+ with either a parental history of
      AD or a history of two or more affected first-degree relatives. Persons aged 55-59 were
      admitted if their current age was <= 15 years younger than AD onset in their index relative.
      Such persons are believed to be at approximately 3-fold increased risk of AD dementia. We
      expected a majority of them to show evidence of progressive pre-clinical AD. Participants
      were randomized 1:1 to receive the common non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID)
      naproxen in over-the-counter dosage (naproxen sodium 220 mg) or identical-appearing placebo
      tablets twice daily. At baseline and at three follow-up visits (3 months, 12 months and 24
      months after randomization) they were tested for cognitive abilities and undergo brain
      imaging with both structural and functional MRI. They are also tested for sensori-neural
      capacities in olfactory identification and in the ability to discern spoken language in a
      distracting environment (to test central auditory processing). About 2/3 of participants also
      volunteered to undergo a series of lumbar punctures for donation of cerebrospinal fluid
      (CSF), which was assayed for several biochemical markers of AD that are now understood to be
      present for a decade or longer before the onset of symptoms. As well, their plasma and CSF
      are assayed for presence of naproxen and for numerous markers of inflammatory processes
      (cytokines and chemokines). The central hypothesis was that administration of naproxen would
      not only suppress these inflammatory markers but would also slow or reverse the progress of
      change in cognition and in biomarkers of the pre-clinical stage of AD. The analysis plan
      followed the principle of modified Intent-to-Treat, considering outcomes for all persons who
      had at least one follow-up examination while on-protocol. After completion of two years of
      treatment, these participants are being followed for a further two years to observe whether
      treatment-related changes are sustained -- indicating that the treatment effects represent
      modification of the disease process itself, as opposed to a temporary change in brain
      function.
    
  