
    
      Probiotics are defined as "live microorganisms, which, when administered in adequate amounts,
      confer a health benefit on the host." Most probiotics are lactic acid producing bacteria that
      are endogenous to the human GI (gastrointestinal) tract and are commonly utilized in the
      fermentation of food products, such as yogurt. Disturbances in the composition of the
      bacterial flora of the GI tract are associated with diarrhea and inflammatory bowel disease
      (IBD), and consumption of some strains of probiotic bacteria are very effective for treating
      diarrhea and possibly individuals with ulcerative colitis (UC). We will test the effects of 3
      strains of probiotic bacteria on UC. In addition to standard medical care for UC,
      participants will consume a dietary supplement of 3 probiotic bacteria (Kyo-Dophilus;
      Lacobacillus acidophilus, Bifidobacterium bifidum, and Bifidobacterium longum) for 6 weeks.
      Changes in clinical symptoms and physiological markers of systemic and GI inflammation in
      subjects with UC will be assessed. Significant effects of the probiotics will be determined
      by comparing pre- and post-probiotic treatment measures for disease severity and level of
      inflammation and by comparing the probiotic treated group with the placebo treated control
      group. Any placebo effect on UC will also be assessed.

      Forty subjects with ulcerative colitis will be recruited for the study and be provided a
      dietary supplement (5x109 bacteria/capsule, twice a day) for 6 weeks to 1/2 of the subjects
      and 1/2 of the UC subjects will be given a placebo control (potato starch). Standard medical
      care and therapies will be continued throughout the study. Initially, the physician will
      complete the Ulcerative Colitis Disease Activity Index (UCDAI) and the participants will
      complete the Shortened Inflammatory Bowel Disease Questionnaire (SIBDQ), and biopsies
      collected for histopathological assessment and analysis of inflammatory cytokine production
      (mRNA). Also, 30 ml of venous blood will be collected from each subject for analysis of
      serum/plasma levels of inflammatory cytokines and stress hormones. Subjects will be randomly
      assigned to the probiotic or placebo group (blinded to the physicians). After consuming the
      dietary supplement or placebo for 6 weeks, subjects will complete the SIBDQ questionnaire,
      the physician complete the UCDAI, be examined by sigmoidoscopy and tissue biopsies and blood
      samples collected. Also, during the 6 weeks of treatment, subjects will maintain a daily
      diary of their bowel habits. Data analysis will determine whether, relative to placebo
      controls, consumption of probiotics reduces the symptoms and levels of intestinal
      inflammation in patients with ulcerative colitis.
    
  