
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death in women. Although overall
      CVD-related mortality has declined, there has been an increase in CVD mortality in women aged
      35-54 years, prior to menopause. It is unclear what contributes to this increased mortality
      rate, and is a significant problem for women's health. Endothelial function is considered a
      biomarker of cardiovascular health; declines in endothelial function are considered a
      precursor to the development of atherosclerosis and CVD. Thus, changes in endothelial
      function in women as they advance through reproductive stages towards menopause may play a
      role in the greater prevalence of CVD mortality. However, very few studies have focused on
      cardiovascular health in women leading up to menopause, during the PERI transition. The PERI
      period is a critical time point where reproductive hormones and ovarian function change
      rapidly. Recent data demonstrate that endothelial function begins to decline during PERI.
      Furthermore, despite women being of similar biological age, significant differences in
      endothelial function were noted when classified based on reproductive age - specifically
      between early PERI and late PERI. These data show that the decline initially occurs in the
      early PERI phase, making this a key time point for intervention to offset the future
      development of CVD. Our central hypothesis is that increased Endothelin-1 (ET-1) and a loss
      of Endothelin-1 B (ETB) mediated vasodilation play a primary role in contributing to impaired
      endothelial function with advancing reproductive age. We will assess macro- and micro-
      vascular endothelial function, assess intracellular ET-1 protein and ETB receptor expression
      in harvested endothelial cells from peripheral veins, and use the cutaneous circulation as an
      in vivo model to explore the receptor mechanisms (ETBR and ETAR) in early and late PERI in
      response to E2 or placebo.
    
  