
    
      We will use a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, single-centre study
      design. Eighty individuals aged 12-26 will be randomly assigned in two treatment conditions
      (40 in each arm) at the Department of Neuroscience, Children Hospital Bambino Gesù, Rome,
      Italy. Randomisation will be arranged by the Clinical Trials Department of the same hospital.
      Participants will receive 4 capsules (2 in the morning; 2 in the evening) for a period of 12
      weeks. The active treatment is a supplement of yellow gelatine 0.625 g capsules containing
      concentrated marine fish oil. The daily dose of 4 capsules will provide approximately 700 mg
      of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA, 20:5n3), 480 mg of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, 22:6n3), and 7.6
      mg of Vitamin E. Vitamin E is added as an antioxidant to fish oil capsules to stabilize
      highly unsaturated fatty acids. Participants will receive either 4 capsules of 0.7g marine
      fish oil or 4 capsules of 0.7g of paraffin oil (which is not absorbed by the gastrointestinal
      tract) per day. The daily dose of omega-3 PUFAs is based on our previous trail (Amminger et
      al., 2010).

      All patients will receive standard treatment, which includes management by a psychiatrist or
      resident psychiatrist and non-neuroleptic pharmacotherapy as clinically indicated.
      Specifically, Cognitive-behavioural therapy (CBT) embedded within case management will be
      administered. The CBT will be based on the models developed at the PACE Clinic in Melbourne,
      in the EDIE trial, and in Cologne, as these have proven to be effective in RCTs. The number
      of sessions delivered will be captured for each client. In addition, fidelity will be
      monitored by therapists rating their own sessions on an established checklist of therapeutic
      interventions. Any additional psychosocial interventions delivered will also be documented.
      The case management component will consist of therapists addressing current interpersonal and
      social issues and providing practical help. 6 - 20 CBCM sessions will be provided within the
      first 6 months.

      Hypotheses:

        1. Omega-3 PUFAs have a positive effect on clinical course and outcome in UHR+22q11DS
           individuals

           Specifically that at 12 months follow-up:

             -  The transition to psychosis rate is significantly lower in the omega-3 PUFA group

             -  Ratings on CAARMS, PANSS, MADRS, GAF improve significantly more in the omega-3 PUFA
                group

             -  Neuropsychological functioning is significantly better in the omega-3 PUFA group.

        2. Lipid metabolism characteristics described in schizophrenia will be more prevalent in
           individuals who make transition to psychosis

             -  Reduced omega-3 PUFAs and reduced nervonic acid (Amminger et al., 2011) and
                increased PLA2 activity at baseline characterize individuals who develop psychosis

             -  PLA2 activity will significantly decrease pre/post treatment in the omega-3 PUFA
                group
    
  