
    
      Background & Rationale:

      Engagement in regular physical activity (PA) is associated with a range of physical and
      psychological benefits among chronic disease populations. Quality of life (QoL) is
      significantly higher among people with cancer, depression and coronary heart disease who
      engage in PA on a regular basis. Risk of other chronic diseases such as type 2 diabetes is
      significantly reduced when people engage in regular PA. In addition, findings from a recent
      intervention study revealed that after engaging in a 12-week structured exercise program,
      cancer survivors had improvements in physical functioning, and reductions in fatigue and
      tiredness.

      One chronic disease population that could particularly benefit from engaging in regular PA is
      people with celiac disease. Celiac disease is a chronic autoimmune condition and the
      incidence has increased 4 to 5 times over the past 50 years. Strict adherence to a
      gluten-free diet (GFD) is currently the only treatment for preventing both short- and
      long-term consequences from celiac disease (e.g., infertility, intestinal cancers,
      osteoporosis). Unfortunately, preliminary research revealed that rates of PA among those with
      celiac disease are dismal, with the majority of participants failing to engage in regular PA.
      Further, following a strict GFD alone may not be sufficient to effectively manage the
      disease, and can be associated with detrimental outcomes including reduced QoL. Despite
      following a GFD, individuals with celiac disease report high treatment burden, lower social
      engagement, fatigue, altered gut microbiota, and up to 30% still report negative symptoms
      (e.g., gastro-intestinal upset). Given the benefits of engagement in regular PA for other
      chronic disease populations, helping people with celiac disease become more physically active
      may lead to improvements in QoL and physiological outcomes.

      High-Intensity Interval Training (HIIT) has been found to be appropriate for those with
      lifestyle-induced chronic diseases, including type 2 diabetes, atherosclerotic cardiovascular
      disease and metabolic syndrome. HIIT involves repeated bouts of high intensity effort
      followed by varied recovery times and can be easily modified for people of all fitness levels
      and chronic conditions. For example, Jung and colleagues reported on the benefits of HIIT for
      people with pre-diabetes and found that compared to participants engaging in moderate
      intensity continuous training, participants who engaged in regular bouts of HIIT exercise had
      better adherence to independent exercise. Martinez et al. found that participants who engaged
      in shorter interval training (e.g., HIIT), reported more pleasure and enjoyment of the
      exercise when compared to heavy, continuous or longer interval exercise. In addition to
      improvements in behavioural outcomes, Denou and colleagues recently found that HIIT also led
      to improvements in the gut microbiota of mice with diet induced obesity. Given that people
      with celiac disease are at increased risk of metabolic syndrome and are likely to have gut
      dysbiosis (imbalance in gut microorganisms), it is anticipated that HIIT may lead to
      improvements in key psychosocial (e.g., QoL) and behavioural outcomes (i.e., exercise
      adherence). Further, key markers of metabolic syndrome and balance in the gut microbiota may
      be positively impacted.

      Study aims:

      The proposed study is an innovative examination of the effects of exercise on physiological
      and patient-reported outcomes among people with celiac disease. Specifically, we will explore
      the effects of a 12-week HIIT and lifestyle intervention on QoL, gut microbiota profile,
      independent PA, fatigue, and markers of metabolic syndrome (waist circumference, fasting
      glucose, serum lipids, blood pressure) among people with celiac disease who are currently
      sedentary (i.e., not meeting Canada's PA Recommendations (150 minutes of weekly activity at a
      moderate intensity or greater).

      Exercise program:

      The 12-week exercise program will entail two 60-minute structured group exercise sessions per
      week. As participants will not be meeting the recommended guidelines for weekly PA, workouts
      will be progressive in nature and an initial conditioning phase will be integrated into the
      12-week program. Participants will begin with 20-30 minute exercise sessions and progress to
      40-60 minute sessions over the course of 12 weeks. Each class will consist of warm-up,
      training period, cool-down and flexibility sections. Participants will have the option of
      using various pieces of equipment, including stationary bikes, treadmills and ellipticals.
      All participants will wear heart rate monitors in order to monitor workout intensity.
      Participants' programs will be designed by a Canadian Society of Exercise Physiology (CSEP)
      Certified Exercise Physiologist® and exercise classes will be supervised by a CSEP-Certified
      Personal Trainer®.

      Education sessions:

      Participants in the exercise condition will participate in 30-minute bi-weekly group
      education sessions. Education will pertain to learning about the importance of following a
      nutritious, whole foods-based GFD to effectively manage celiac disease, communication
      strategies, effective sleep hygiene practices, and strategies to overcome barriers to
      following a strict GFD. Participants will also be taught behaviour change skills based on the
      theoretically-based group-mediated cognitive behavioural (GMCB) approach. GMCB interventions
      teach participants how to self-monitor daily activity, set goals and overcome barriers to
      regular PA. To prevent dependence on the group, self-regulation becomes a greater emphasis
      over the course of the GMCB sessions. Previous GMCB interventions have lead to greater
      improvements in frequency of PA, long-term adherence, fitness, self-efficacy for mobility,
      and barrier self-efficacy.
    
  