
    
      The Creatine Deficiency Syndromes (CDS) are a group of inborn errors of metabolism which
      interrupt the biosynthesis or transportation of creatine. Individuals with CDS classically
      present neurological symptoms (seizures, movement disorders and myopathy), and behavioral
      manifestations. This group includes two creatine biosynthesis disorders (Guanidinoacetate
      Methyltransferase Deficiency and L-Arginine: Glycine Amidinotransferase Deficiency), as well
      as X-linked Creatine Transporter Deficiency.

      Guanidinoacetate Methyltransferase Deficiency:

      Guanidinoacetate Methyltransferase Deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner
      and is caused by biallelic mutations in the GAMT gene. This gene maps to 19p13.3 and is
      involved in the biosynthesis of creatine. Individuals with this deficiency typically present
      with severe intellectual disabilities and seizure disorders which may be resistant to drug
      therapy. Behavioral problems, including autistic behaviors and self-mutilation are common,
      and pyramidal/extrapyramidal symptoms affect about one-half of patients. Dietary management
      via manipulation of critical amino acids may improve clinical outcome. Mutations in the GAMT
      gene are a relatively rare cause of creatine deficiency syndrome.

      L-Arginine: Glycine Amidinotransferase Deficiency:

      L-Arginine: Glycine Amidinotransferase Deficiency is a very rare type of CDS characterized by
      global developmental delay, appearing in infancy, which can be associated with language
      impairment and autistic behavior in some, as well as a mild to moderate intellectual
      disability. Progressive muscle weakness and fatigability have been reported in older
      patients. Seizures and failure to thrive have also been described. If creatine
      supplementation is administered early enough, psychomotor delay may be avoided. This
      deficiency is caused by mutations in GATM gene, located to chromosome 15q15.1. This gene
      encodes the enzyme L-Arginine: Glycine Amidinotransferase, which converts arginine and
      glycine to ornithine and guanidinoacetate in the creatine cycle pathway. This deficiency is
      transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner.

      X-linked Creatine Transporter Deficiency:

      X-linked Creatine Transporter Deficiency is a creatine deficiency syndrome characterized
      clinically by global developmental delay, intellectual disability with prominent
      speech/language delay, autistic behavior and seizures. Affected individuals may present low
      weight gain, muscular hypotonia, and poor muscle mass. Subtle dysmorphic features such as
      midface hypoplasia, long face, and prominent chin have been reported in various affected male
      patients. In adult patients, cardiac and gastrointestinal disorders have been reported. The
      onset of symptoms occurs during infancy, usually before the age of 2 years. Males are mainly
      affected, but females can also have various degrees of severity of disease manifestations.
      This deficiency has been reported in more than 150 individuals worldwide and is mostly due to
      frameshift and splicing mutations in the creatine transporter gene SLC6A8 (Xp28).

      New methods, like mass-spectrometry, give a good chance to characterize specific metabolic
      alterations in the blood of affected patients, that allow diagnosing in the future the
      disease earlier, with a higher sensitivity and specificity.

      Therefore it is the goal of the study to identify and validate a new biochemical marker from
      the blood of the affected patients helping to benefit other patients by an early diagnose and
      thereby with an earlier treatment.
    
  