
    
      Nearly half of all college students have a diagnosable mental health problem. College
      counseling centers (CCCs) are faced with increasing demands for services from Universities,
      students, and parents to meet the treatment needs of their students, in the context of
      increasingly severe cases and declining resources. Innovative, cost effective solutions are
      needed that can improve treatment effectiveness with a range of presenting problems while
      reducing counselor workloads.

      The current project seeks to meet these needs by recruiting participants at several CCCs
      throughout the country to test a web-based guided self-help version of Acceptance and
      Commitment Therapy, an evidence-based transdiagnostic therapy that has been found to
      effectively treat a range of mental health problems by targeting experiential avoidance, the
      tendency to avoid unwanted emotions and negative thoughts. An ACT program would provide a
      means of implementing effective treatment for the range of problems encountered in the CCC
      setting, while the online guided self-help format would reduce counselors' workload for each
      client, improving cost effectiveness and reducing waiting lists. This product would both
      treat students through a series of self-help modules and train CCC counselors in how to
      implement the guided self-help ACT intervention.

      For the current phase (Phase I) of this Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) grant,
      three self-help modules (mindfulness, acceptance of difficult thoughts and feelings, and
      values exploration) have been developed, as well as a counselor portal to review students'
      use of the program and to receive training on implementing ACT guided self-help. The current
      study is a pre-post feasibility trial with at least 20 counselors and 60 clients (3 student
      clients per CCC counselor) from different CCCs throughout the country. The study is an open
      trial in which all counselors and clients will use the program and complete assessments and
      pre and post. The study will examine the initial feasibility, efficacy and acceptability of
      the program with both students and counselors. These findings will inform the development of
      a final commercial program to be marketed to CCCs.
    
  