
    
      Type 2 (T2D) and cardiovascular disease (CVD) share many risk factors, whose accumulation
      over years lead to disease onset. However, while lowering plasma low-density lipoprotein
      cholesterol (LDLC) is cardio-protective, novel evidence over the past 10 years established a
      role for common LDLC-lowering variants and widely used hypocholesterolemic Statins in higher
      risk for T2D. This diminishes the cardio-protective role of low plasma LDLC. As these
      conditions decrease plasma LDLC by increasing tissue-uptake of LDL, a role for LDL receptor
      (LDLR) pathway was proposed. However underlying mechanisms fueling higher risk for T2D with
      upregulated LDLR pathway, and nutritional approaches to treat them are unclear.

      The central hypothesis examined in this trial is that upregulating receptor-mediated uptake
      of LDL on white adipose tissue provokes the activation of an innate immunity pathway (the
      Nucleotide-binding domain and Leucine-rich repeat Receptor, containing a Pyrin domain 3
      (NLRP3) inflammasome) leading to the accumulation of risk factors for T2D in subjects with
      normal plasma LDLC. This can be treated by 6-month supplementation of omega-3 fatty acids
      (omega-3).

      To examine this hypothesis in vivo, ex vivo and in vitro, a clinical trial in conjunction
      with mechanistic basic research studies have been initiated at the Montreal Clinical Research
      Institute (IRCM). Forty eight volunteers will be recruited through advertisements in
      French/English newspapers and online (e.g. Google, Facebook) and placed on a 6-month
      supplementation of 3.6 g omega-3 per day. Participants will be stratified into 2 groups
      (N=24/group) with higher and lower white adipose tissue surface-expression LDL receptors
      (LDLR and CD36) using median plasma PCSK9 (Proprotein Convertase Subtilisin/Kexin type 9) per
      sex. Plasma PSCK9 will be used as investigators have shown that it is negatively associated
      with white adipose tissue surface-expression of LDLR and CD36.

      The duration of this study is about 8 months (33 weeks) divided into 5 parts:

      A. Screening and evaluation of eligibility for the study

      B. Weight stabilisation (+/- 2 kg change over 4 weeks) and confirmation of eligibility after
      a medical examination by IRCM physician collaborators.

      C. Baseline testing over 2 days (1- 4 weeks apart) to assess participants risk factors for
      T2D: white adipose tissue NLRP3 inflammasome activity, white adipose tissue physiology and
      function (ex vivo after a subcutaneous needle biopsy), systemic inflammation, dietary fat
      clearance (after a high fat meal), and insulin secretion and sensitivity (by gold-standard
      Botnia clamp technique). Participants will also be phenotyped for body composition (by dual
      energy x-ray absorptiometry), resting energy expenditure (by indirect calorimetry), dietary
      intake (by 3-day dietary journals) and physical activity level (by a questionnaire).

      D. 24-week intervention with omega-3 fatty acid supplementation (3.6 g eicosapentaenoic acid
      (EPA) and docosahexaenoic (DHA), 2:1)

      E. Post intervention testing starting over 2 days (1- 4 weeks apart) to assess risk factors
      for T2D that were measured at baseline.

      Investigators hypothesize that subjects with low plasma PCSK9 (i.e. with higher white adipose
      tissue LDLR and CD36) will have higher risk factors for T2D at baseline and that the omega-3
      intervention will eliminate group-differences in these risk factors.
    
  