
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare progression-free survival of patients with resectable colorectal liver
           metastases treated with neoadjuvant and adjuvant combination chemotherapy with vs
           without cetuximab.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the cost effectiveness of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a prospective, randomized, multicenter, open-label study. Patients are
      stratified according to participating center and assigned chemotherapy regimen. Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Neoadjuvant therapy:

             -  Arm I: Patients receive 1 of the following chemotherapy regimens:

                  -  OxMdG: Patients receive leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours and oxaliplatin IV
                     over 2 hours on day 1. Patients also receive fluorouracil IV continuously over
                     46 hours beginning on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for up to 6
                     courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

                  -  CAPOX: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and oral
                     capecitabine twice daily on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up
                     to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive 1 of the following regimens:

                  -  OxMdG + cetuximab: Patients receive cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours on day 1 and
                     OxMdG chemotherapy as in arm I. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for up to 6
                     courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

                  -  CAPOX + cetuximab: Patients receive cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours on days 1, 8,
                     and 15 and CAPOX chemotherapy as in arm I. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for
                     up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
                     toxicity.

        -  Surgery: Beginning 2-6 weeks after completion of chemotherapy, patients in both arms
           undergo liver resection.

        -  Adjuvant therapy: Beginning 4-8 weeks after completion of surgery, patients receive
           treatment (OxMdG or CAPOX with or without cetuximab) as in arm I or II of neoadjuvant
           therapy.

             -  Arm I: Treatment with OxMdG repeats every 2 weeks for up to 6 courses and treatment
                with CAPOX repeats every 3 weeks for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease
                progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Arm II: Treatment with OxMdG + cetuximab repeats every 2 weeks for up to 6 courses
                and treatment with CAPOX + cetuximab repeats every 3 weeks for up to 4 courses in
                the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, every 12 weeks during chemotherapy, at completion of
      study treatment, every 3 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months thereafter.

      Cost per life year and per quality-adjusted life year is assessed at baseline, every 12 weeks
      during treatment, and then at 3, 5, and 10 years.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK
    
  