
    
      Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) has emerged as a favorable alternative for
      severe symptomatic aortic stenosis (AS) patients from low to high surgical risk. BAV patients
      treated with TAVR had similar 30-day mortality as well as stroke and new pacemaker
      implantation rates compared to TAV subjects, but carried higher risk of moderate/severe PVL,
      conversion to surgery and device failure. Event rates significantly decreased with the use of
      new-generation devices, but TAVR still showed better procedural results in TAV compared to
      BAV.

      Clinical experience in China suggests bicuspid aortic valves and heavy calcium burden are
      more common among TAVR candidates. Morphological characteristics at supra-annular structure
      (from annulus to the level of sinotubular junction) are quite complex in bicuspid AS,
      especially concomitant with heavily calcified leaflets. Because only two leaflet hinge points
      provide the definition of the annulus plane, current CT-based annulus measurements might not
      be accurate under these circumstances. From previous single center clinical practice, "waist
      sign" above the annulus during balloon aortic valvuloplasty in TAVR was often observed in
      patients with bicuspid AS, indicating that the supra-annular structure may serve a key role
      in anchoring the THV.

      Therefore, we developed a balloon based supra-annular sizing strategy (Hangzhou Solution) for
      SEV implantation in bicuspid AS. From our single center experience, the device success rate
      and pacemaker implantation rate were relatively low.

      The aim of this study is to compare supra-annular sizing and THV implantation technique
      (Hangzhou solution) versus annular sizing and THV implantation technique (control group) in
      bicuspid aortic stenosis (AS) patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement
      (TAVR) with self-expanding valves (SEVs).
    
  