
    
      This study will compare findings in women who do not use the program ("usual care group")
      versus women who use the program ("Mamma Mia group") versus women who use the program and
      receive regular contact from study staff ("Mamma Mia Plus"). The study will assess
      well-being, depression, stress, and anxiety as well as whether certain factors (for example,
      women's age, type of healthcare provider, amount of social support) are related to the
      effects of the program. For women randomized to use the program, the study will also collect
      information about the time spent using it and the modules completed.

      Usual prenatal and postpartum care involves regular visits with participant's women's health
      care provider while pregnant and after the baby is born. In this study, participants will
      receive continue receiving usual care. In addition, participants will be randomly assigned
      (like the flip of a coin) to participate in one of the following groups:

        1. The "usual care group", or

        2. The "Mamma Mia group" (which is to use the "Mamma Mia" program regularly), or

        3. The "Mamma Mia Plus group" (which is to use the program regularly plus receive regular
           contact with study staff).

      There is a 1 chance in 3 of being assigned to each of the three groups. participants have an
      equal chance of being assigned to any one of the groups.

      Participants in the "usual care group" will be asked to do the following things:

        1. Complete survey questions at entrance into the study.

        2. Complete survey questions every few months (see schedule below).

      Participants in the "Mamma Mia group" will be asked to do the following things:

        1. Complete survey questions at entrance into the study.

        2. Use the "Mamma Mia" program on a regular basis (on average: weekly for about 10 minutes)
           from entering study until six months postpartum; participants will receive an email
           reminder to complete modules when they should be completed.

        3. Complete survey questions every few months.

      Participants in the "Mamma Mia Plus group" will be asked to do the following things:

        1. Complete survey questions at entrance into the study.

        2. Use the "Mamma Mia" program on a regular basis (on average: weekly for about 10 minutes)
           from entrance into the study until six months postpartum.

        3. Complete survey questions every few months.

        4. Participants will receive phone calls or emails or texts (depending upon participant
           preference) from study staff every few months.
    
  