
    
      Pregnant women are highly susceptible to Plasmodium falciparum malaria, leading to
      substantial maternal, perinatal, and infant mortality. While malaria vaccine development has
      made significant progress in recent years, no trials of malaria vaccines have ever been
      conducted in only women of child bearing potential (WOCBP) or in pregnant women.

      PfSPZ Vaccine (Sanaria, Inc) is an advanced malaria candidate being developed for use in

      pregnant women, owing in part to its highly favorable safety profile. The vaccine is
      comprised of aseptic, metabolically active, non-replicating, purified, cryopreserved P.
      falciparum sporozoites. In multiple double-blind, placebo-controlled trials, there have been
      no differences in adverse events between vaccinees versus controls. PfSPZ Vaccine induces
      immune responses to the sporozoite and liver stages of parasite development in the human host
      and prevents progression to blood stage parasitemia as well as averting disease sequelae; a
      compelling rationale to test PfSPZ Vaccine for its benefits in this proposed population.

      Sanaria has already achieved vaccine efficacy against homologous and heterogenous parasite
      populations in endemic areas following three doses of PfSPZ Vaccine in several studies with
      9.0x10^5 and 1.8x10^6 PfSPZ Vaccine and has explored accelerated regimens, such as 1, 8, 29
      days. Accelerated PfSPZ Vaccine regimens such as this could induce protection earlier in
      pregnancy, minimizing the period at risk and improving pregnancy outcomes over the control
      group.

      Given this, the Malaria Research and Training Center, the Laboratory of Malaria Immunology

      and Vaccinology National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, and Sanaria, Inc.
      propose to initiate testing of the day 1, 8, and 29 dosing regimen of PfSPZ Vaccine in WOCBP,
      and in subsequent studies, in pregnant women, using doses of 9.0x10^5 and 1.8x10^6 PfSPZ
      Vaccine. This will be the first step in a clinical development plan for PfSPZ Vaccine in
      WOCBP and pregnant women: 1) safety and efficacy studies in non-pregnant WOCBP (this trial),
      2) studies of the safety and efficacy of a primary immunization series in all trimesters, and
      3) studies to evaluate the safety and efficacy of boosting during pregnancy.

      A pregnancy registry study (#17-I-N018) has been ongoing in Mali since 2017 to gain

      background data on maternal/fetal outcomes in the target population in anticipation of this
      study. Women who become pregnant during the course of this study, and their offspring, will
      be followed for maternal clinical outcomes and malaria infection.
    
  