
    
      Glutamate and aspartate have been identified as the major excitatory neurotransmitters in the
      central nervous system. A massive increase in the release of these excitatory amino acids
      (EEA) has been described following traumatic brain injury. The resulting overstimulation of
      neuronal EAA receptors, particularly the N-Methyl-D-Aspartate (NMDA) receptors, leads to
      excessive influx of calcium through receptor gated ion-channels, causing metabolic
      derangement and finally cell death. Although the exact role of EEA in patients who have
      suffered severe head injury remains to be established, it has been shown that sustained high
      intracranial pressure (ICP) and poor outcome are significantly correlated to high levels of
      EEA using microdialysis. Disadvantages of microdialysis are that it can only be used to
      evaluate a limited part of the brain and that it can only be applied in the acute phase
      following injury. The same limits also apply to ICP measurements. Therefore, methods which
      evaluate both the extent and time course of damage in vivo are urgently needed.

      Peripheral type benzodiazepine binding sites are a potential candidate for monitoring
      neuronal damage. They are not normally present in cerebral tissue, but following neuronal
      damage, the cells involved in the ensuing gliosis show marked expression of these sites.

      (R)-PK11195 is a ligand that selectively binds to peripheral type benzodiazepine receptors.
      Labeled with carbon-11 its uptake can be measured with Positron Emission Tomography (PET).
      Thus, (R)-[11C]PK11195 PET can be used to monitor in-vivo gliosis after brain injury.

      A maximum of twenty patients with traumatic brain injury will be included in this study. A
      microdialysis probe will be placed in the brain parenchyma to continuously measure EEA until
      the first PET scan is performed. Several cerebral and haemodynamic parameters, such as ICP
      and mean arterial blood pressure, will be registered. All patients will receive two Magnetic
      Resonance Imaging (MRI) scans to evaluate the extent and anatomical localization of cerebral
      damage. Three (R)-[11C]PK11195 PET scans will be performed: 1 week, 1 month and 6 months
      after the injury. Outcome will be determined using several outcome scales, including the
      Glasgow Outcome Scale at six months. In addition, patients will be investigated by repeated
      neuropsychological examinations.
    
  