
    
      This study is intended for the patients who have been diagnosed with Epithelial Ovarian
      Cancer that either came back or did not improve after previous treatments. The purpose of
      this study is to test the safety of using a new treatment called autologous T lymphocyte
      chimeric antigen receptor cells against the B7-H3 antigen (CAR.B7-H3 T cells) in patients
      with ovarian cancer. This treatment has not been approved by the Food and Drug
      Administration.

      The study investigator's goal is to calculate the Maximum tolerated dose of the CAR.B7-H3
      cells There are two parts to this study. In part 1, subject's blood sample will be used to
      manufacture the CAR.B7-H3 T cells.

      Ovarian cancer cells carry a substance called B7-H3 which is not found in other healthy
      cells. the subject's T cells will be modified to make CAR.B7-H3 T cells so they may attack
      and destroy ovarian cancer cells that carry the B7-H3 substance. The CAR.B7-H3 T cells are
      given through a catheter in the abdomen, after completing three rounds of lymphodepletion
      chemotherapy. Lymphodepletion chemotherapy prepares the body to receive the CAR.B7-H3 T
      cells.

      In part 2 of the study, the subjects will receive the CAR.B7-H3 T cells. Eligible patients
      will receive lymphodepletion chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fludarabine for three
      consecutive days. If they continue to meet the eligibility criteria, the modified CAR.B7-H3 T
      cells will be given to them 2-14 days after the last lymphodepletion chemotherapy session.
      Three infusions of the CAR.B7-H3 T cells may be given to the subject through a catheter in
      the abdomen. Infusions will be done once a week.

      Lymphodepletion chemotherapy and infusion of the CAR.B7-H3 T cells will happen at UNC Cancer
      Hospital. On the days the subjects receive the CAR.B7-H3 T cells infusion- Blood, fluid, and
      tumor samples will be collected from the subject for research purposes. Tumor biopsies are a
      mandatory part of this research.

      Post infusion visits are - 3, 4, and 6 weeks. Additional visits will happen every 3 months
      for one year after the last infusion. Similar follow-up clinic visits will be completed
      annually, for a total of 5 years.

      This is a research study to obtain new information that may help people in the future.
    
  