
    
      The principle objective of this observational database is to build research-grade real world
      data that will serve as platform to advance the scientific understanding and clinical care of
      patients with COVID-19.

      1. Demographic, diagnostic, treatment and outcome data from centers throughout the Hackensack
      Meridian Health Network will be abstracted from the electronic health records of patients
      with confirmed or suspected COVID-19. This will be purely observational and no direction as
      to the care of the patient will be performed as part of this effort.

      1a. Data points to be collected will include, but are not limited to: age, gender, zip code,
      prior evaluation for COVID-19, tobacco history, race, site of care, healthcare worker,
      nursing home care, visits to ER, presenting features of fever/ cough/ dyspnea/
      gastrointestinal/ mental status changes, days of symptoms, comorbidities, uses of
      antihypertensives, duration of hospitalization/ icu care, presenting laboratory functions,
      presenting vital signs, need for oxygen support, dialysis/ ecmo use, treatment with
      hydroxychloroquine/ azithromycin/ remdesevir/ tociluzimab/ anti-inflammatory agents,
      arrhythmias/ QTc prolongation, enrollment on clinical trial, positive cultures, survival and
      cause of death. Additional data points will be added as needed.

      2. The data will be entered into a central "Universal" database hosted within the REDCap
      system (HIPAA compliant, secure, access only per HMH research approval)

      3. A de-identified dataset will be sent to COTA for primary statistical analysis as requested
      by the research teams. COTA will also make available a data/analytic visualization tool
      (hosted on Tableau) for analysis by primary investigators.

      4. Additional data points and analysis may be added to the Universal database as requested by
      HMH investigators with IRB approval. De-identified data may also be sent directly to HMH
      investigators for their own analysis with IRB approval of their projects 5. Data will be made
      available to governmental agencies as requested.
    
  