
    
      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE Recent two-center results (1) support a beneficial effect of
      combined high-frequency oscillation (HFO), recruitment maneuvers (RMs) and tracheal gas
      insufflation (TGI) on the survival of patients with severe acute respiratory distress
      syndrome (ARDS). The addition of TGI to HFO improves gas-exchange (1-4); however, its value
      with respect to outcome still remains uncertain (1). TGI is likely useful in patients with
      very severe oxygenation disturbances and/or poor tolerance to hypercapnia (2).

      The main goals of the present study are 1) The determination of the effect of the
      intermittent, combined use of HFO and RMs (HFO-RMs - intervention group) on the survival as
      compared to the best possible strategy of lung-protective conventional mechanical ventilation
      (CMV - control group); and 2) the elucidation of the mechanism of action of HFO on
      respiratory function and the ARDS-related inflammatory response.

      The consecutive hypotheses supporting the conduct of the present trial can be summarized as
      follows:

      The use of HFO + RMs will likely augment lung recruitment, with consequent improvements in
      oxygenation and lung compliance The HFO-related, physiological benefits will likely be
      maintained during the subsequent CMV, if an adequate positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP)
      level is used (1).

      Therefore, the following sequence of events is expected from the intermittent use of HFO-RMs:

        -  Lung Recruitment & Compliance →

             -  Ventilation pressures during the subsequent CMV (as compared to pre-HFO CMV)→

             -  Risk of ventilator-associated lung injury →

             -  ARDS-related inflammatory response →

             -  ARDS-related organ or system failure(s) →

        -  Survival

      These hypotheses are consistent with preceding results on 125 patients (1). The present
      HFO-RMs protocol will be simplified relative to that of our previous study, in order to
      improve its generalized applicability. The use of HFO-TGI will be optional and limited to 1)
      rescue oxygenation procedures for both the HFO-RMs and CMV group; and 2) certain patients of
      the HFO-RMs-group with "very severe oxygenation disturbances" (see below for definition), or
      "poor control" of arterial pH (pHa)/PaCO2 (see below). The frequency of HFO-TGI use will be
      compared between the 2 study groups after study completion.

      METHODS Patients The study protocol has received Institutional Review Board Approval. An
      Information Sheet detailing the potential benefits and risks of study participation will be
      provided to the next-of-kin of eligible patients. Following discussion of the study with one
      of the investigators, a written, next-of-kin consent for study participation will be
      requested. As soon as clinically feasible, patients will be informed of the study and of
      their right to withdraw.

      Study participants must fulfill the eligibility criteria presented in the dedicated section.
      Continuous patient monitoring will include electrocardiographic lead II, inra-arterial
      pressure with/without cardiac index (PICCO plus, Pulsion Medical Systems, Munich, Germany),
      and peripheral oxygen saturation (SaO2). Anesthesia will be maintained with continuous
      infusions of midazolam or propofol and fentanyl or remifentanil. Neuromuscular blockade with
      cisatracurium will be used in concordance with standard recommendations (6), and as part of
      attending physician-prescribed medical treatment. During the first 48 hours post-enrollment,
      all patients will receive a continuous infusion of cisatracurium (7).

      Randomization Patient randomization will result in assignment to the control (CMV) group
      (which will receive treatment with CMV alone), or to the intervention (HFO-RMs) group [which
      will receive treatment with an extended HFO session of at least 96 hours (HFO session can be
      interrupted before the 96-hour time point only if PaO2/FiO2 rises to >200 mmHg for >12
      hours)], and whenever required, additional HFO sessions of at least 12-24 hours, interspersed
      with CMV as described below).

      For each participating center, a sequence of unique random numbers from 1 to 200 will be
      generated apriori with the Research Randomizer (www.randomizer.org). To achieve concealment
      until patient study entry, each random number will be marked on a piece of paper placed in an
      opaque envelope, which will be subsequently sealed. Envelopes will be prepared by the
      department's statistician, and will be externally labelled with the patient serial number.
      Envelopes will be opened following the patient serial number order after the obtainment of
      signed informed consent. Thus, on each consecutive study entry, an envelope will be opened
      and the random number it contains will be assigned to the patient as his/hers unique
      study-number. Patients with even and odd study-numbers will be allocated to the CMV and
      HFO-RMs group, respectively.

      CMV strategy Immediately after randomization, study participants will receive CMV with the
      following combinations of FiO2/PEEP: 0.5/10-12 cm H2O, 0.6/14-16 cm H2O, 0.7/14-16 cm H2O,
      0.8/14-16 cm H2O, 0.9/16-18 cm H2O, 1.0/20-24 cmH2O. Whenever oxygenation improves, FiO2 will
      be reduced first, followed by the reduction in PEEP according to the aforementioned FiO2/PEEP
      combinations. Whenever oxygenation deteriorates, PEEP will be increased first, followed by
      the increase in FiO2 according to the aforementioned FiO2/PEEP combinations. Rationale for
      the use of high PEEP: According to a recent meta-analysis (8), the use of PEEP levels
      comparable to those proposed by the present protocol may be associated with an improved
      survival.

      In patients with a body mass index of >27 kg/m2 and/or an urinary bladder pressure of ≥15
      mmHg, the positivity of end-expiratory transpulmonary pressure (PLend-exp) will be confirmed
      with the esophageal balloon technique (9,10), once daily for the first 10 days
      post-randomization; in case of a negative PLend-exp, the PEEP level will be increased so that
      PLend-exp becomes positive (10); rationale: obese patients and patients with increased
      intra-abdominal pressure are more likely to require higher PEEP levels for the prevention of
      expiratory derecruitment.

      Tidal volume will be within 5.5-7.5 mL/Kg predicted body weight. The maximal plateau pressure
      limit will be 40 cmH2O, and target plateau pressure will be ≤32 cmH2O (7); rationale: as in
      the study of Meade et al (11), a higher plateau pressure will be tolerated to allow for the
      use of a higher PEEP level. When plateau pressure exceeds 32 cmH2O for >15 min, the following
      adjustments will be conducted: tidal volume reduction up to 4.0 mL/kg predicted body weight,
      respiratory rate increase up to 35/min, and PEEP reduction by ≥2 cmH2O. These adjustments
      will have to concurrently result in the achievement of the below-provided gas-exchange
      targets.

      The respiratory rate will be titrated to a pHa of 7.20-7.45. The inspiratory-to-expiratory
      time (Ι:Ε) ratio will be ≤1/2. The oxygenation target will be SaO2=90-95%, and/or PaO2=60-80
      mmHg. At pHa<7.20, breathing circuit deadspace will be minimized by connecting the Y piece
      directly to the tracheal tube (7), tidal volume will be increased up to 8.0 mL/kg predicted
      body weight, and respiratory rate will be increased up to 35/min. If these measures fail, the
      criterion of "poor control of pHa/PaCO2," and the use of a bicarbonate infusion will be
      permitted. Additional options will include the use of TGI of 6-7 L/min, or extracorporeal CO2
      removal.

      In the CMV group, RMs (Continuous positive airway pressure of 45 cmH2O for 40 s at FiO2=1.0)
      will be used at a frequency of 3/day for the first 5 days post-randomization. RMs will start
      at 9:00 a.m. and will be repeated every 5 hours; this means that the second RM will be
      performed at 2:00 p.m., and the third RM at 7 p.m. If during an RM, SaO2 drops by 10%, or
      mean arterial pressure drops by 25%, the RM will be immediately aborted, and the next RM will
      be performed after at least 10 hours. If the first daily RM is aborted, then the second RM
      will be cancelled and the third RM will be administered. If the second daily RM is aborted,
      then the third daily RM will be cancelled. If the third daily RM of days 1, 2, 3, or 4 is
      aborted, the next RM will be conducted at 9:00 a.m. of the subsequent day. After day 6, there
      will be no protocolized use of RMs; rationale: as time from ARDS onset passes, the
      probability of RM-associated oxygenation improvement decreases and the risk of RM-related
      hypotension increases (12).

      HFO-RMs strategy In the HFO-RMs group, HFO sessions will be used during days 1-5
      post-randomization; rationale: in NCT00637507 HFO was used for ≤5 days in ~75% of the
      patients of the intervention group (1). The daily HFO sessions will start at 9 a.m. and last
      a minimum of 12 hours. The HFO-RMs strategy is described below.

      Recently published recommendations regarding HFO use (Sensormedics 3100B ventilator,
      Sensormedics, Yorba Linda, CA, USA) include the following steps (13).

        1. Sufficient level of sedation for the abolishment of respiratory muscles activity, with
           or without neuromuscular blockade; the latter will be mandatory during the first 48
           hours (7).

        2. Confirmation of endotracheal tube patency and placement of the tube at 3-4 cm above
           carina.

        3. RMs: Immediately after patient-oscillator connection, an RM will be performed (increase
           in the circuit pressure to 45-50 cmH2O for 40 s with the oscillator's piston off).
           During days 1-5 post-randomization, RMs will be repeated every 5-6 hours. RM abort
           criteria will be the same as for the CMV group. In the HFO-RMs group, RMs will be used
           solely during HFO.

        4. FiO2 will initially be set at 1.0, and then adjusted according to protocol (see below).

        5. Bias flow will be set at 60 L/min; rationale: this maximal bias flow setting is expected
           to result in improved CO2 clearance from the HFO breathing circuit.

        6. Initial oscillation frequency will be 4 Hz, and will be titrated to a pHa of >7.20. The
           minimum value of oscillation frequency will be 3.5 Hz; rationale: our HFO experience
           suggests that the use of frequencies of <3.5 Hz are associated with increased risk of
           high-frequency ventilator malfunction.

        7. Oscillatory pressure amplitude (ΔP) will be initially set at 90 cmH2O and will be
           titrated according to a pHa of >7.20 (range=60-100 cm H2O).

        8. A tracheal tube cuff leak will be placed to facilitate CO2 elimination. The associated
           reduction in mean airway pressure (mPaw) of 4-5 cmH2O will be immediately reversed by
           using the corresponding control knob. Cuff pressure will be maintained at ≥20 cmH2O.

        9. If pHa<7.20, despite an oscillation frequency of 3.5 Hz and a maximal ΔP setting of 100
           cmH2O, the deadspace of the breathing circuit will be minimized by connecting the Y
           piece directly to the tracheal tube (7). If pHa still remains <7.20, the criterion of
           "poor control of pHa/PaCO2" will be fulfilled, and the use of a bicarbonate infusion
           will be permitted. As during CMV (see above), additional options will include the use of
           TGI of 6-7 L/min, or extracorporeal CO2 removal.

       10. The I:E ratio will be maintained at 1:2.

       11. mPaw adjustments will be as follows: Α] Initial mPaw=mPaw CMV + 10-13 (maximal
           allowable=45) cm H2O, Β] Within the next 2 hours: mPaw titrations of ±3 cm H2O to
           determine the "optimal mPaw setting" that achieves the highest PaO2 at FiO2=1.0, and C]
           Reduction of mPaw at a rate of 1-2 cmH2O/6 hours, with each downward titration being
           preceded by an RM.

       12. Patients will be returned to CMV after a maximum of 96 hours after HFO initiation,
           provided that a PaO2/FiO2 of >200 mmHg is achieved for >6 hours. Return to CMV before 96
           hours after HFO initiation will be allowed whenever PaO2/FiO2 rises of >200 mmHg will be
           achieved and maintained for >12 hours during HFO. Within days 5-10, patients will be
           returned to HFO whenever PaO2/FiO2 falls below 200 mmHg for >12 hours; the criterion of
           re-return to CMV will again be PaO2/FiO2 >200 mmHg for >12 hours or the end of day 10,
           provided that at this time point PaO2/FiO2 exceeds 100 mmHg; any subsequent use of HFO
           will be according to the below-presented protocol of "Rescue Oxygenation."

       13. TGI of 6-7 L/min will be permitted as an option if the patient fulfills the following
           criterion of "very severe oxygenation disturbance": During the pre-HFO CMV, the patient
           requires an FiO2 of 0.9-1.0 (and a PEEP level of ≥16 cmH2O) to maintain an SaO2 of
           90-95% (and/or a PaO2 of 60-80 mmHg); this is virtually equivalent to a patient having a
           PaO2/FiO2 of <100 mmHg at a PEEP level of ≥16 cmH2O. In such cases, the rest of the
           above-described, protocolized adjustments and interventions of the HFO-RMs protocol will
           be used without any additional change; rationale: TGI may be useful in patients, who
           require maximal support during CMV to maintain a clinically acceptable level of
           oxygenation (3).

      Rescue Oxygenation Patients of both groups will be eligible for rescue oxygenation if they
      fulfill the following criterion: Patient is on CMV with an FiO2 of 1.0 and a PEEP level of
      ≥20 cmH2O, and has a sustained and life-threatening hypoxemia (i.e., PaO2<60 mmHg for >30
      min), not associated with a "promptly reversible" factor (e.g. pneumothorax, malpositioning
      or obstruction of the tracheal tube, or ventilator malfunction). Rescue oxygenation
      techniques may include the use of HFO-RMs and/or HFO-TGI, prone position (14), inhaled nitric
      oxide (Nitric Oxide - ΝΟ), intravenous almitrine, and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.
      The use of one or more rescue oxygenation techniques will last at least until the achievement
      of the reversal of the life-threatening hypoxemia for 1 hour.

      Patient follow-up Baseline patient data will be recorded within 2 hours pre-randomization.
      Daily recordings will include physiologic/laboratory data (days 1-28 post-randomization),
      intervention-associated complications (days 1-10; examples: RM-induced hypotension or
      desaturation), mechanical ventilation-associated barotrauma [study-independent radiologists
      will assess chest radiographs for pathologic gas collection(s), e.g. pneumothorax], data on
      organ/system failures and medication (days 1-60), episodes of failure to maintain unassisted
      breathing and various complications (until hospital-discharge or death; examples: infections,
      heparin-induced thrombocytopenia).

      During days 1-10, sets of physiologic measurements will be obtained as follows: 1) CMV group:
      3 measurements/day, starting at 8:30 a.m. 2) HFO-RMs group: just before, during, and 6 hours
      after HFO, and as in CMV group after day 5. Measurements will include arterial/central-venous
      blood-gas analysis, hemodynamics, and respiratory mechanics while on CMV (including
      respiratory compliance); also, on the morning of each one of days 1-10, we will determine and
      record the fluid balance of the preceding 24 hours. For between-group comparisons, we will
      use CMV-data obtained within 8:30-9 a.m. in both groups. Daily fluid balance will also be
      compared between the 2 groups.

      Lastly, in patients who have received HFO-TGI during days 1-5, a brief fiberoptic inspection
      of the trachea will be conducted on the morning of day 6 to detect any potential,
      TGI-associated tracheal mucosal damage. Bronchoscopic findings will be defined as follows:
      Grade I: Pink and glistening tracheal mucosa; Grade II: Reddened and/or swollen mucosa
      with/without presence of purulent secretions; Grade IIIA: Hemorrhagic mucosa and/or presence
      of thrombotic material; Grade IIIB: Limited localized necrosis, especially at the carina,
      and/or presence of necrotic mucosal slough; and Grade IIIC: Extensive localized necrosis,
      especially at the carina, and/or presence of necrotic mucosal slough. Grade IIIA-IIIC
      findings will be considered as suggestive of TGI-related mucosal damage. A bleeding diathesis
      (if present) should be considered as an independent risk factor for Grade IIIA findings.
      Findings suggestive of TGI-related tracheal mucosal damage in a patient will result in no
      further use of HFO-TGI for rescue oxygenation in that particular patient.

      Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) BAL of ≤100 mL will be performed on day 1 and 6
      post-randomization in patients of both groups. Patients will be eligible for BAL if their
      PaO2/FiO2 has been maintained at >100 mmHg for >12 hours and they are intubated with an
      orotracheal tube with an internal diameter of ≥8.5 mm, or a tracheostomy tube. An
      (additional) RM will be performed after the fiberoptic bronchoscopic procedure. BAL fluid
      samples will be used for microbiological cultures, cell count, and the determination of the
      concentration of phospholipids, surfactant-related proteins, and inflammatory markers. The
      purpose of the aforementioned investigational interventions is the elucidation of the effect
      of HFO on the function of the surfactant and the ARDS-related inflammation (15-18). During
      the bronchoscopic procedures, blood samples will also be obtained for the determination of
      the concentrations of the same inflammatory markers in the peripheral blood.

      BAL fluid studies The initial, 20-mL portion of the BAL fluid aspirate will be sent for
      microbiological cultures, and the rest will be stored in ice-cold tubes. Subsequently, the
      BAL fluid will be filtered through sterile gauze and centrifuged at 500 g for 15 min at 4 0C.
      The supernatant will be used for the determination of the concentrations of inflammatory
      markers, phospholipids, and surfactant-related proteins. The sediment will be used for total
      cell count, determination of cell type, and estimation of cell viability on a Neubauer plate.
      Both the supernatant and sediment will be stored at -700C.

      Surfactant aggregates, surfactant-related proteins, and inflammatory markers The cell-free
      supernatant of the 500 g centrifugation will be subjected to additional consecutive
      centrifugation at 30,000 g και 100,000 g for 90 min at 4 0C. This will be done to separate
      surfactant aggregates according to their size. The Large Surfactant Aggregates (LSAs) will be
      obtained from the 30,000 g centrifugation sediment. LSAs are considered as major determinants
      of the alveolar surface tension. The less active Small Surfactant Aggregates and the Very
      Small Surfactant Aggregates will be respectively obtained from the sediment and supernatant
      of the 100,000 g centrifugation (15).

      Surfactant studies will include total lipid concentration, separation of lipid classes with
      thin layer chromatography, determination of lipid phosphorus content (15), and
      surfactant-related proteins (17). In addition, the supernatant will be analyzed to determine
      the concentrations of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) alpha, interleukin (IL) 1-beta, IL-1
      receptor antagonist, IL-6, IL-8, transforming growth factor alpha (16,18), activin alpha, and
      folistatin, whereas the same inflammatory markers will be determined in the peripheral blood.

      POTENTIAL RISKS OF INVESTIGATIONAL INTERVENTIONS AND THEIR PREVENTION Potential risk:
      Barotrauma. Preventive measures: This potential risk is equally high during CMV or HFO
      (19,20). Prevention includes the rapid HFO-RMs-related improvement in oxygenation and lung
      compliance, and the consequent reduction in the ventilation pressures during the subsequent
      CMV. Regarding the theoretical risk of bronchoscopy-related barotrauma, the bronchoscopies
      will be performed by an experienced operator, and intra-procedural ventilation (comprising
      tidal volumes of 2-3 mL/kg predicted body weight at rates of 35/min and PEEP temporarily
      reduced to 0-5 cmH2O) will also be managed by an experienced physician. Potential risk:
      Hypotension-drop in cardiac output. Preventive measures: This potential risk is equally high
      during CMV or HFO (19,20). If RM-associated, RMs will be aborted for ≥10 hours (this holds
      also for cases of RM-induced desaturation - see above). TGI-related complications: Such
      complications are not expected, because there will be only short-term use of TGI (1-4).
      Nevertheless, TGI may cause tracheal mucosal damage, inspissation of secretions,
      pneumothorax, gas embolism, and hemodynamic compromise (1-4). In NCT00637507, 1 of the 61
      patients of the intervention group (1.6%) may have suffered a reversible tracheal mucosal
      injury (1). This patient had received TGI for a total of 118.3 hours over a period of 10 days
      (or 240 hours); he had a prolonged but full recovery from the severe ARDS and is currently
      leading a normal life.
    
  