
    
      Given that preterm birth is associated with reduced nephron endowment and higher glomerular
      area on renal histology suggesting compensatory glomerular hyperfiltration, we postulate that
      :

      Hypothesis 1: mGFR relative to total kidney volume is higher in adults born preterm vs. to
      full-term controls.

      Hypothesis 2: mGFR relative to kidney volume is associated with plasma renin activity,
      aldosterone, copeptin and apelin levels. Levels of these vasoactive factors may correlate to
      blood pressure values.

      Hypothesis 3: Rates of decline in eGFR and increase in albuminuria is more important in the
      preterm vs. full-term group. Hypertension at baseline predicts faster decline in eGFR and
      increase in albuminuria. Decrease in eGFR and increase in albuminuria correlate with
      increasing blood pressure over time.

      Hypothesis 4: Higher baseline copeptin levels and, reciprocally, lower baseline apelin levels
      are associated with faster decline in eGFR and increase in albuminuria.

      Our overarching aim is to assess long-term glomerular function in adults born preterm ≤29
      weeks' GA versus full-term controls.

        1. To assess the association between preterm birth and measured GFR, compared to estimated
           GFR, in young adulthood (18-40 years).

        2. To examine the association between mGFR and vasoactive humoral factors involved in
           kidney hemodynamics (plasma renin activity, aldosterone, copeptin, apelin) in relation
           to blood pressure in young adults born preterm versus full-term controls.

        3. To compare changes in eGFR and albuminuria over a 5-year period in relation to change in
           blood pressure in young adults born preterm versus full-term controls.

        4. To determine whether baseline levels of copeptin and apelin can predict changes in eGFR
           and albuminuria over a 5-year period in young adults born preterm versus full-term
           controls.
    
  