
    
      The objective of the proposed study is to evaluate a molecular image directed,
      three-dimensional (3D) ultrasound guided biopsy system in human patients. Prior studies have
      shown that Positron Emission Tomography (PET)/Computed Tomography (CT) imaging with the PET
      molecular imaging agent, a synthetic amino acid, anti-1-amino-3-[18F]fluorocyclobutane-1-
      carboxylic acid (FACBC), is more sensitive than the FDA-approved prostate specific membrane
      antigen single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) radiotracer in prostate cancer
      detection. FACBC images showed higher focal uptake in tumor foci than in normal prostate and
      thus could be ideal information to direct targeted biopsy of the prostate. This targeted
      biopsy system has a unique feature that PET/CT images can be registered with 3D ultrasound
      images, as a result, a suspicious PET lesion is superimposed over the real-time ultrasound
      data; and the fused image is then used to direct biopsy needles to tumor targets.

      The hypothesis of the study is that PET/ultrasound fusion targeted biopsy can detect more
      cancer per core than the standard 12-core TRUS guided biopsy.

      The specific aims include:

        1. To perform PET/CT directed, 3D ultrasound-guided biopsy and determine if fusion targeted
           biopsy can detect more cancers than 2D transrectal ultrasound (TRUS)-guided biopsy

        2. To develop the workflow for performing deformable registration and fusion of PET/CT and
           3D ultrasound images of human patients

      Thirty six patients, who have suspicion of recurrent prostate cancer after definitive therapy
      such as radiotherapy, will be recruited into this study. At least half of the patients will
      have positive imaging findings and will undergo 2D TRUS-guided biopsy as well as
      PET/ultrasound fusion biopsy. The proposed study will be the first-in-human trial that uses
      PET/CT imaging to direct 3D ultrasound-guided biopsy of the prostate. The multimodality
      imaging approach will combine the high sensitivity from PET and real-time information from
      ultrasound for improved cancer detection.
    
  