
    
      The investigators aim to improve nut allergy diagnosis by launching a new double-blind
      placebo-controlled nut (peanut, hazel nut, cashew) challenge protocol. The investigators also
      launch a specific oral tolerance induction (SOTI) protocol to nuts in serious nut allergy.
      This study takes place in the Helsinki University Skin and Allergy Hospital between May 2011
      and December 2015. Inclusion criteria: age 6 to 18 years and suspected nut allergy (unclear
      anaphylaxis possibly caused by nuts, skin prick test to nuts ≥ 10 mm or specific-IgE ≥ 20
      kU/L and have never eaten nuts, or avoids nuts and does not dare try nuts at home). Patients
      having uncontrolled asthma or other lung disease, having cardiovascular disease or other
      systemic disease, using beta-blockers, and having poor compliance, are excluded. Methods:The
      investigators perform skin prick tests to peanut, tree nuts and seeds, take a blood sample
      before the double-blind placebo-controlled food challenges (DBPCFC), and measure total IgE
      and specific-IgE to birch, peanut, hazel nut, allergen components Ara h 1, 2, 3, and 8, and
      Cor a 1 and 8. Then the serum samples are kept frozen for further component and immunologic
      analyses. The investigators put iv before the challenge. In DBPCFC the patients receive 5 mg,
      50 mg, 200mg, and 1000mg nut protein mixt with placebo, or placebo every 30 minutes. The
      severity of the allergic reaction is estimated using a modified severity scale. The
      probability of severe/moderate reaction at low (<0.7 kU/L) and at increased (>0.7 kU/L) Ara h
      2 and 8 concentrations is the primary end-point in the DBPCFC. The investigators also
      correlate the concentrations of Ara h 2 with the severity score. Patients with moderate or
      severe reaction in the challenge will be offered desensitization therapy "SOTI" using(pea)nut
      flour mixed with milk-free margarine. The first dose of 0.1 mg nut protein is given at
      hospital part of the up-dosing is made at home every 2 weeks. The patient takes an
      antihistamine 1 hour before each daily dose. An epinephrine autoinjector and prednisolone
      tablets are also prescribed for emergency use. The desensitization protocol takes 28 weeks
      and is personalized when needed. Exercise is avoided 1 hour following each dose. Before and
      after the SOTI the investigators measure food related quality of life using standardized
      questionnaires, and perform metacholine challenge and measure exhaled nitric oxid. After the
      SOTI the investigators take blood samples and perform DBPCFC again.
    
  