
    
      Significant non-culprit coronary stenosis is noted in 40-70% of patients with ST-elevation
      Myocardial Infarction (STEMI) undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PPCI).
      Presence of multivessel disease (MVD) has been associated with poorer clinical outcomes. MVD
      in STEMI may confer an increased risk of recurrent ischemia and mortality. However, the
      impact of MVD on prognosis in STEMI may vary depending on the characteristics of coronary
      artery disease (CAD) present.

      Current guidelines recommend that only the infarct-related artery should be treated. However,
      RCTs have suggested that a strategy of multivessel PCI, either at the time of primary PCI or
      as a planned, staged procedure, may be beneficial and safe in selected patients with STEMI.
      On the basis of these findings, the prior Class III (Harm) recommendation with regard to
      multivessel primary PCI in hemodynamically stable patients with STEMI has been upgraded and
      modified to a Class IIb recommendation to include consideration of multivessel PCI, either at
      the time of primary PCI or as a planned, staged procedure.

      Early invasive treatment in high-risk patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome
      (NSTEACS) has been shown to improve their prognosis in terms of cardiovascular death and
      reinfarction. The prevalence of multivessel disease in these patients stands at about 50% and
      experts agree that performing complete revascularization is beneficial in such patients.

      Accordingly, the SYNergy between PCI with TAXus and cardiac surgery (SYNTAX) score has been
      developed in 2005 in Erasmus Medical Center in the Netherlands to evaluate the severity of
      coronary artery disease in the settings of left main or MVD.

      The investigators have observed a growing interest in residual disease burden after PCI. The
      residual SYNTAX score (rSS), described by Genereux and colleagues is a strong prognostic
      factor of coronary events and all-cause death in patients who have undergone PCI. This score
      has subsequently been validated by other groups and been shown to have good prognostic
      accuracy for adverse ischemic outcomes after PCI.

      The SYNTAX Revascularisation Index (SRI), which takes into account the severity and extent of
      baseline CAD (as assessed by the baseline SYNTAX score [bSS]) and the residual CAD after PCI
      (as assessed by the rSS) has been used in determining the proportion of CAD that has been
      treated, and has been shown to have prognostic utility in PCI for MVD.

      Here, the investigators want to assess the use of the residual SYNTAX score and the SYNTAX
      Revascularization Index as predictors for in-hospital outcomes and mid-term (6 months to 1
      year) outcomes in patients with multi-vessel disease (MVD) who undergo PCI in the setting of
      STEMI or NSTEACS.
    
  