
    
      The trial will be a 4 week double-blinded, randomized, cross-over design with 2 treatment
      intervention (hemp and control) periods separated by a 4 week washout period. Thirty
      metabolically healthy overweight volunteers will be recruited into the trial.

      On day 1, and 27, 28 of each treatment period participants will be asked to come to the
      Richardson Center for Functional Foods and Nutraceuticals (RCFFN) for a 12 hour fasted blood
      sample. On day 1, participants will be given prepackaged sachets of treatment hulled seeds
      (hemp or sesame) and salad dressing, containing 30 g/d of treatment (hemp or soybean) oil (in
      individually packaged daily containers) will also be supplied.

      Participants will be instructed by clinical coordinators to integrate the products (2 sachets
      of seeds, 1 salad dressing) into their daily meals and to avoid other dietary sources of n-3
      fatty acids, such as flax, chia, camelina, krill and fish products. Participants will be
      given activity monitors to wear during the intervention periods. Participants will be
      required to eat one sachet of hulled seeds in the morning and one in the evening, and to
      consume the dressing throughout the day, for each 4 week treatment period.

      Participants will be asked to continue their habitual diets, while avoiding large dietary
      sources of n-3 fatty acids, throughout the treatment and washout periods. Participants will
      be instructed to maintain the same level of physical activity and alcohol intake throughout
      the trial period. The trial coordinator will contact participants weekly via telephone or
      email to monitor treatment adherence and to answer any questions or concerns participants
      might have. Background dietary intakes will be measured at day 1 of the trial using a food
      frequency questionnaire, and during each treatment period by 3-day food record to be
      completed in the last week of each treatment period. Participants will be asked questions
      about the interventions including side effects, mood and perceived energy level by trial
      coordinators at the end of each intervention period.
    
  