
    
      Periodontitis, a disease affecting the tissue supporting the tooth, is initiated by microbes
      colonizing the tooth causing an inflammation of the soft tissue around the tooth. In some
      sensitive individuals the inflammatory response leads to loss of jawbone, which affect the
      bone support of the tooth and may end up in loss of teeth. Periodontitis is the sixth most
      prevalent disease in the world, 40% of the population with affected jawbone support and
      approximately 10% of the population suffer from severe loss of the supporting jawbone at
      teeth. Periodontitis may be halted or resolved by removing the microbial biofilm from the
      teeth root and in severe cases combined with surgical treatment removing inflammatory tissue.
      The genetic factors explain approximately 50% of the disease, and but the etiology is in
      parts unclear and effective therapy in sensitive individuals is still missing.

      The inflammatory response initiated by microbes leads to degradation of the tooth supporting
      tissues. The current view is that pro-inflammatory cytokines and prostaglandins, produced by
      leukocytes and cells of mesenchymal origin in the inflamed tissue are responsible for
      recruiting and activation of bone-resorbing cells, osteoclasts. The inflammatory biomarkers
      and tissue degradation products will leak out into the exudate in the gingival pocket next to
      the root surface. The bone resorption activity connected to changes in biomarkers levels and
      clinical parameters, during healing after periodontal treatment seem to be of value to study.
      The analysis of the local exudate (gingival crevicular fluid, GCF) could be used for
      predicting and monitoring periodontitis, as well as finding new targets for treatment.

      Periodontitis could also have a systemic effect, as locally released inflammatory mediators
      might enter the systemic circulation and influence the development of inflammatory conditions
      such as cardiovascular disease (CVD), diabetes and rheumatoid arthritis. Earlier studies have
      shown that a low-grade chronic inflammation plays an important role in the pathogenies in
      atherosclerosis. Substances that indicate low-grade chronic inflammation in blood serum is
      for example levels of C-reactive protein (CRP), fibrinogen, and adhesion-molecules, and these
      biomarkers are related to CVD. The question is if periodontal treatment could change/reduce
      the systemic inflammatory burden of inflammatory biomarkers (CRP, fibrinogen, interleukins,
      and matrix metalloproteinases (MMP)).

      We know today that there is association between oral health and CVD, but we do not know if
      the relationship it is of a causal nature. There are some intervention studies that indicate
      that the oral inflammatory burden may have a systemic effect. To better understand the role
      of the oral inflammation in development of atherosclerosis, it is important to study
      biomarkers at different timepoints both from the local sites (GCF) and the general systemic
      environment in blood. If there is a co-variation in levels of inflammatory biomarkers locally
      in the GCF and in the systemic circulation, this could be a strong indication of a more
      causal nature of the association, but we need more studies.

      The value of the study is to better understand what drives the local disease progression in
      periodontitis and also increase the knowledge by which mechanism the oral inflammation could
      exert its systemic effect. Measuring levels of biomarkers in GCF and serum at several
      timepoints after treatment we may contribute with new insights in the role of inflammatory
      inducing molecules in periodontal disease, but also if there exists any systemic effect from
      locally released inflammatory mediators. The possibility that some molecules co-variate with
      disease progression or regression is of great value.

      The possible co-variation of molecules with disease progression or regression is important
      knowledge in understanding how oral infection may affect the general health.

      Part I: Serum biomarkers for periodontitis relapse Part II: GCF biomarkers for periodontal
      healing and relapse

      This is a prospective clinical intervention study to investigate healing of severe
      periodontitis sites after periodontal surgical therapy and in what extent the clinical
      healing is associated with changes of the inflammatory expression of biomarkers in gingival
      crevicular fluid (GCF) and in blood serum.

      21 patients were recruited consecutively and treated surgically of one experienced specialist
      in periodontology. Two teeth in different quadrants per patient, with the deepest pocket
      measured, were selected and included in the study. Periodontal surgery was performed and at
      13 of the teeth an additional treatment with enamel matrix derivative (EMD/Emdogain®) were
      performed. Registration of full mouth plaque score (FMPS), periodontal pocket depth (PPD),
      bleeding on probing (BOP) or pus were performed before surgery, after 3, 6 and 12 months.
      Radiographs were taken at examination before treatment and at the follow-up at 12 months.

      Blood samples and samples of gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) were collected before and at the
      follow-up visits 3, 6 and 12 months after surgical treatment. GCF samples was labelled and
      stored at -80°C.

      Blood samples were drawn and handled by the chemical laboratory at Gävle hospital in
      conjunction to therapy and follow-up points. Blood were collected from each patient and 5x1mL
      serum was labelled and stored at -80°C.

      Protein analysis on blood sera and GCF performed and concentrations of 92 proteins were
      assessed by proximity extension assay (Olink Bioscience, Sweden) using the Inflammation
      panel.

      Vascular Injury Panel 2 Human Kit (Meso Scale Diagnostics) were used to assess concentration
      of C-Reactive Protein (CRP), Intercellular Adhesion Molecule-1 (ICAM-1), Serum Amyloid A
      (SAA) and Vascular Cell Adhesion Molecule-1 (VCAM-1) in sera.
    
  