
    
      Sick sinus syndrome is a common indication for permanent cardiac pacing in the community. It
      results from disordered impulse generation within the sinus node or impaired conduction of
      the impulse to the surrounding atrial tissue, thus leading to the clinical manifestation of
      bradycardia. In patients with SSS, AF frequently develops after pacemaker implantation,and
      progresses to persistent AF over long term follow up.

      The occurrence of AF have been shown to be an independent predictor for major cardiovascular
      events in SSS patients receiving physiologic pacing. Recent prospective clinical trials have
      demonstrated that physiologic pacing mode reduces the risk of AF compared to single chamber
      ventricular pacing in patients with SSS. However, the effectiveness of physiologic pacing in
      reducing the incidence of AF in patients with sinus node dysfunction is still incomplete.

      One recent clinical study had reported that 68% of SSS patients with a DDDR pacemaker have
      atrial tachyarrhythmias detected by the pacemaker devices at median 718 days follow-up.
      Modern pacemakers have diagnostic features that permit the detection and storage of
      information about the date, time of onset, and duration of multiple, sequential episodes of
      atrial tachyarrhythmias. Since a high percentage of AF episodes may be asymptomatic, AF
      "burden" have been used as surrogate end points. Prolonged P wave, shortened refractoriness,
      or remarkably abnormal conduction disturbances in the presence of prolonged refractoriness
      limit the effectiveness of standard physiologic pacing in AF prevention. This could explain,
      at least in part, the tendency of SSS to develop AF as a part of its natural history.
      Clinical electrophysiology has focused the attention on the electrophysiological and
      structural properties of the atrial muscle in patients with SSS: shortened and inhomogeneous
      refractoriness and local and regional conduction slowing, as well as prolonged intra- and
      inter-atrial conduction disturbances, are well described as increased interstitial fibrosis
      associated with the genesis of AF.

      A growing body of evidences has shown that inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system can
      prevent the promotion of AF by suppressing the development of atrial fibrosis and structural
      remodeling. At present, the influence of a treatment target aiming on altered fibrosis and
      structural substrate in patients with SSS is not yet known. One striking result of the
      losartan intervention for endpoint reduction in hypertension (LIFE) study was that new-onset
      AF and associated stroke were significantly reduced by losartan- compared to atenolol-based
      antihypertensive treatment with similar blood pressure reduction.

      The relative risk of new-onset AF in losartan group is 0.67 compared to atenolol group (i.e.;
      33% risk reduction) Therefore, there is every reason to believe that blocking the
      renin-angiotensin pathway with angiotensin II type 1 receptor blockade would have positive
      influence on AF burden in this clinical setting. Recently, enalapril has been reported to
      prevent rapid atrial pacing (4 weeks)-induced interstitial fibrosis and fatty degeneration of
      the sinus node and to improve sinus node function in canine model, supporting the important
      role of structural changes of sinus node in the regulation of sinus node function. This
      possibility supporting therapeutic interventions using RAS inhibitors forms an attractive
      theoretical basis for interventions to reverse SND in such patients.

      In support of these hypotheses, the present study was undertaken to determine whether
      selective angiotensin II type 1 receptor blockade with high dose losartan was effective in
      reducing AF burden, pacemaker dependence, shortening of sinus node recovery time, hsCRP, and
      NT-pro BNP, and associated cardiovascular events in SSS patients receiving physiologic
      pacing.

      In this study, all pacemakers are standard rate-adaptive dual chamber pacemakers:

      Medtronic Kappa 900 or Versa. At implantation, all patients were programmed to DDI mode at 50
      ppm to minimize the ventricular pacing. All patients had the atrial tachyarrhythmia detection
      feature programmed "on" after pacemaker implantation. This feature provides information on
      the date, time of onset, and duration of the first 15 consecutive episodes of an atrial
      tachyarrhythmia. This information can be retrieved during follow-up visits using the
      pacemaker programmer.Patients were evaluated every 3 months after pacemaker implantation. At
      each visit, the atrial tachyarrhythmia diagnostic data were retrieved. Each episode
      classified as an atrial tachyarrhythmia was reviewed by one of the investigators.
      False-positive detections of AF due to oversensing were excluded using specific rules
      developed in the course of previous clinical trials. On review of the beat-to-beat intervals
      stored in the diagnostic counters during an episode classified as AF, far-field oversensing
      was defined if

        1. Long intervals between successive detected atrial events were paced and short intervals
           were sensed; or

        2. The difference between the first, third, fifth, and seventh atrial intervals and the
           second, fourth, sixth, and eighth intervals was > 150 beats/min; or

        3. The sum of the long and short interatrial intervals was equal to the interatrial
           intervals recorded before or after termination of the episode.

      The atrial tachycardia detection feature in the Medtronic Kappa 900 or Versa was used for AF
      detection in this study. This feature has been reported to have a high sensitivity and
      specificity for the detection of atrial tachyarrhythmias. All atrial leads were bipolar. The
      atrial sensitivity was programmed to 0.5 mV, which is the standard clinic protocol. The
      programming parameters for AF detection included a post-ventricular atrial blanking period of
      150 msec, a tachycardia detection rate of 180 beats/min, the number of beats for atrial
      tachycardia detection of 200, the number of beats for tachycardia termination of 10, and the
      diagnostic arrhythmia counter was frozen in order to collect information on the first 15
      tachycardia episodes. These parameters were selected to optimize the detection of AF and to
      reduce the likelihood that nonsustained AF would fill the diagnostic counters. AF episodes <
      1 minute in duration were not detected as an episode of AF. To maximize collection of
      sequential episodes of AF, the atrial electrogram storage feature was not used. In the Kappa
      900 or Versa, an electrogram can be retrieved for the first episode of AF detected (if the
      episode occurs within a programmable time) and, in these cases, the electrogram was reviewed
      to ensure appropriate classification of AF.

      Sustained AF was defined as an atrial tachyarrhythmia with an atrial rate > 250 beats/min and
      duration > 1 minute. The atrial rate was determined based on review of the interatrial
      intervals stored in the device diagnostics during each episode.

      AF burden was defined as the quantity of AF documented during the follow-up period and
      expressed as a portion of the follow-up period (hours/day). When the event counters were
      filled, AF burden was calculated as the total duration of AF during the time required to fill
      the counters.

      Permanent AF was defined as AF present at two consecutive visits and an AF burden of 24
      hours/day between those visits.

      CSNRT at pacemaker implant and each visit :

      The corrected sinus node recovery time (CSNRT) was assessed at CLs of 600, 500 and 400 ms
      after a 30-second pacing train from the atrial lead. The measurement of CSNRT was repeated 3
      times, and averaged. Atrial-based pacemaker dependence Pacemaker dependency was defined as
      the absence of escape or intrinsic rhythm for at least 30 seconds after gradual slowing of
      the pacing rate to 30 beats/min. Pacemaker dependency was examined every 3 months.
      Measurement of Intrinsic Heart Rate Pacing system follow-ups, including measurements of
      pacing/sensing characteristics, lead impedance, and surveillance of battery status were
      performed every 3 months in each patient. Endocardial atrial and ventricular electrograms
      were recorded via a programmer with the pacing mode temporarily set to AAI at a lower rate of
      30 beats/min. A temporary programmable function that allows markers to appear on the
      programmer's electrocardiographic recording, corresponding to spontaneous events sensed by
      the pulse generator, was used to measure the rate of intrinsic or escape rhythms.

      Pacing rate was manually step-downed to 30 beats/min in every 10 beats/min from the lower
      pacing rate, and intrinsic or escape rhythms were checked at each pacing rate. A fixed pacing
      rate of 30 beats/min following the gradual decrease was maintained for at least 30 seconds to
      allow the emergence of intrinsic or escape rhythms.

      Approximately 220 male and female patients, aged 20 to 80 years, with SSS will be enrolled
      and randomly assigned to the losartan add on physiological atrial-based pacing or
      physiological atrial-based pacing alone treatment arm. The sample size was calculated to
      provide the study with 80% power for a two-sided alpha level of 0.05. Assuming a 33%
      reduction of AF incidence rate in the losartan group compared with physiological pacing only
      group after 1 year after randomization. Based on these assumptions, the total sample size
      required was estimated to be 100 patients in each arm. Thus we need to enroll 220 eligible
      cases.

      Study medication (losartan) will be in tablet form. Patients randomized to the losartan arm
      will receive 50 mg once a day for 2 weeks, patients will then be up-titrated to 50 mg of
      losartan twice a day following the first 2-week therapy. Each patient will be assessed
      following 4 weeks of losartan therapy at this dose. If the patient is well tolerated for this
      dose they will be maintained on it for the remaining time of the study. If they are unable to
      tolerate this target dose they will be permitted to down-titrate and continue on the highest
      tolerated dose. Only those patients able to tolerate at least the lowest dose of losartan
      will be permitted to continue on study until the end of study period.

      Normotensive patients who weigh less than 50 kg, or who are aged over 70 years will receive
      25 mg/day for the first 2 weeks, then increase to 50 mg/day, with the aim of reaching 100
      mg/day for the rest of the study.
    
  