
    
      Background

        -  TACE is the standard therapy for inoperable primary liver cancers or tumor control prior
           to transplantation. The mechanisms for TACE s failure remains poorly understood.

        -  Although acute hypoxia and significant tumor necrosis occurs following TACE, the tumor
           adaptive response and localization for such have not been well characterized.

        -  Imaging tools using a hypoxia-specific tracer [(18)F] FMISO may help identify the
           pattern and distribution of acute post-TACE tumor hypoxia relative to demonstrated tumor
           progression.

        -  The primary hypothesis of this study states that tumor progression post-TACE arises from
           changes in tumor phenotype induced by treatment-related hypoxia superimposed on the
           dynamic process of underlying tumor hypoxia.

      Objectives

      -To determine the feasibility of hypoxic tumor identification despite relatively high liver
      background signal, and describe patterns of tumor hypoxia in the immediate post-TACE
      treatment period using PET imaging [(18)F] MISO uptake registered with cross-sectional
      imaging.

      Eligibility

        -  Patients greater than or equal to 18 years with inoperable primary hepatic malignancy or
           hepatic-dominant metastatic-disease and be otherwise eligible to receive TACE treatment.
           Patients with hepatocellular carcinoma should have intermediate stage disease according
           to the BCLC staging system (Stage A4 or B).

        -  Patients must not have had chemotherapy- or radiation therapy to liver for at least 2
           weeks prior to starting study treatments.

        -  Patients must not have an acute, critical illness.

        -  Patients must not be pregnant

        -  Able to understand and be willing to sign a written informed consent

      Design

        -  Fifteen patients with primary or metastatic liver malignancy will be enrolled into this
           pilot, non-randomized, open study of the feasibility of using (18)F-fluoromisonidazole
           PET scanning to determine hypoxic tumor identification and localization, and to identify
           the pattern and distribution of acute post-TACE tumor hypoxia relative to demonstrated
           tumor progression.

        -  Twenty-four to seventy-two hours after standard of care TACE, patients will undergo

      PET scanning using 0.1mCi/kg (maximum 10mCi) of (18)F-fluoromisonidazole [(18)F] MISO).
    
  