
    
      Epidemiologic observationnal transversal study

      Cohort of patients between 18 and 50 years of age, presenting a chronic form of Chagas'
      disease (cardiopathy, mega-colon or mega-esofagus), and presenting non of the exclusion
      criteria.

      Recruitment via the existing patients list of positive Chagas serology of:

        -  the SELADIS center (Instituto de Servicios de Laboratorio de Diagnostico e Investigacion
           en Salud UMSA -UNIVERSIDAD MAYOR DE SAN ANDRES-)

        -  Private surrounding hospitals, Hospital de Clinicas and Centro de Seguro Social
           Universitario de La Paz (UMSA)

        -  Laboratorio de Inmunodiagnostico Instituto Boliviano de Biologia de la Altura -IBBA-Dr
           Lourdes Echalar.

      Informed consent signed.

      1 to 3 consultations on a period of one to 2 weeks no follow-up (transversal study)

      Invasive descriptive explorations (blood sample and urodynamic study, imposing the assent of
      the Comité Nacional de Bioética).

      Main objective : Describe the prevalence of the lower urinary tract dysfunction in patients
      suffering from a chronic form of Chagas' disease. The main criteria evaluated is the sum of
      two symptom questionnaires IPSS and ICIQ (spanish official validated translation), focusing
      on urinary incontinence, voiding dysfunction and quality of life.

      Secondary objectives :

      All the included patients will be proposed an initial consult :

        -  Anonymization of all the observation/results

        -  Past history (pathology, actual treatment,…), search of the exclusion criteria, Chagas'
           disease symptomatology and treatment, urological symptomatology.

        -  Validated questionnaires to evaluate urological symptoms, urinary incontinence, voiding
           dysfunction or acute urinary dysfunction, bladder hyperactivity, sexuality and
           fertility.

        -  Clinical examination

        -  Micturition calendar /48hours.

        -  Uroflowmetry, followed by ultrasonography for post-void residual and upper-urinary tract
           dilatation.

        -  Blood sample to evaluate renal function (plasmatic creatinina for CDK EPI formula). This
           blood sample can also be used to confirm the positive Chagas' serology if no serology is
           available (indirect immunofluorescence and ELISA).

      Te participants presenting a symptomatic lower urinary tract dysfunction on the previous
      exams will be proposed a complete urodynamic exploration (cystomanometry, urethral profile,
      pression/flow study during mycturition).

      Sterility of urine assessed before exam. Tecnical material imported from Spain, Albyn medical
      Smardyn and consummables. Electronic curves obtained from Phoenix software (Albyn).

      Objective inclusion of 200 participants during 5 months, between June and October 2017, in
      the SELADIS Institute in La Paz, Bolivia. Director of study Dr Simone Frédérique Brenière
      (french), Bolivian Director of Institute Dra Susana Revollo.
    
  