
    
      Patients with low grade glioma have a far better prognosis than patients with high grade
      glioma. Despite their low incidence and initial favorable biological behavior, low-grade
      gliomas are behaving as malignant brain tumours leading to considerable morbidity and
      mortality especially in young patients. Low-grade infiltrating gliomas in adults include
      diffuse astrocytoma, oligoastrocytoma and oligodendroglioma. With the WHO 2007 classification
      the variety within the low grade glioma patient group was large. With the introduction of
      molecular marker like IDH, MGMT, 1p/19q the classification of glioma's in general is a matter
      of debate, because shifts in treatments and prognosis. In this context, the importance of
      molecular markers is recognized and used for designing new trials.

      Because of this improved determining of long term survivors like low grade glioma patients,
      reducing the long term side effect becomes even more relevant. One of the prominent side
      effect of radiotherapy in low grade glioma patients is the decline in neurocognitive function
      and loss of memory. This enables patients in their daily activities and causes loss of
      quality of life. The hippocampus and associated limbic system have long been known to be
      important in memory formation and pre-clinical models show loss of hippocampal stem cells
      with radiation as well as changes in architecture and function of mature neurons. Cognitive
      outcomes in clinical studies are beginning to provide evidence of cognitive effects
      associated with hippocampal dose and the cognitive benefits of hippocampal sparing. With
      currently developing IMRT techniques attempts are made to lower the dose to the hippocampus.
      Besides the hippocampus the dose to the posterior part of the cerebellum seems to influence
      cognition. Koziol wrote recently the current consensus paper which gathers diverse views on a
      variety of important roles played by the cerebellum across a range of cognitive and emotional
      functions. This paper considers the cerebellum in relation to neurocognitive development,
      language function, working memory, executive function, and the development of cerebellar
      internal control models and reflects upon some of the ways in which better understanding the
      cerebellum's status as a "supervised learning machine" can enrich our ability to understand
      human function and adaptation.

      This in silico planning study compares different treatments (photon, proton and C-ion)
      focusing on normal tissue radiation exposure for a fixed tumor dose, using the same
      delineation of gross target volume (GTV), clinical target volume (CTV) and planning target
      volume (PTV). The comparison will be based on dosimetric parameters on normal tissues such as
      mean hippocampus dose, etc. In addition, the NTCP for a fixed tumor dose or the same expected
      TCP will be determined. Cobalt Gy equivalent doses will be used when reporting the proton and
      C-ion dose. In the case of protons, a constant RBE value of 1.1 will be used for both the
      tumor and the normal tissues. The RBE of C-ions will be calculated based on the models used
      by the participating centers. The GSI in-house treatment planning system uses RBE values
      calculated on the basis of the local effect model (LEM). The LEM I (alpha/beta=2) is based on
      the radial dose distribution of each charged particle crossing into a cell nucleus, as well
      as on the radiosensitivity and repair capacity of the tissue. The TPSs used by UHM is also
      based on the LEM model. The model used at NIRS utilizes fixed RBE values that are dependent
      on the depth in the body, but independent of dose level or tumor type.
    
  