
    
      Patients with unilateral middle cerebral artery (MCA) moderate to severe stenosis were
      consecutively enrolled. MRI protocols including diffusion weighted image, magnetic resonance
      angiography , 3D pCASL with two PLD of 1.5s and 2.5s were performed.

      Cerebral blood flow(CBF) map of 3D pCASL with PLD 1.5s and 2.5s were postprocessed on
      workstation. Subtraction images were obtained by CBF 2.5s subtracted CBF 1.5s. Slices
      involving MCA downstream territory were equally separated as upper slices,middle slices and
      inferior slices corresponding to CIS system referring to previous study of Al-Ali F. Slices
      with residual signal areas more than 1/3 MCA territory involved would count 1, or would be 0.
      Total ASL collateral score(ASLCS) was calculated from 0-3. Then ,favorable collaterals were
      graded as total ASLCS 2-3 and poor collaterals were graded as total ASLCS 0-1.

      Early-arriving flow perfusion proportion was defined as [CBF 1.5s at lesion side/CBF 2.5s of
      the contralateral side]×100%. Late-arriving perfusion proportion was defined as [(CBF 2.5s
      minus CBF 1.5s) at lesion side minus (CBF 2.5s minus CBF 1.5s) at normal side]/CBF 2.5s at
      the contralateral side ×100%. Antegrade scales and collateral grades were evaluated in
      patients with conventional angiography. Spearman correlation was analyzed between
      early-arriving and late-arriving flow and angiographic antegrade and collateral scales.

      Baseline characteristics of patients were recorded including age, gender,
      hypertension,hypercholesterolemia,diabetes mellitus,smoking,obesity,qualifying stroke event,
      admission National Institute of Health stroke scale (NIHSS), diffusion-weighted
      image-ASPECTS.

      One year stroke event recurrence and three months modified Rankin Scale (mRS) were followed
      up by neurologist by phone call or face to face.

      Multi-variants Logistic Regression is performed to exam whether ASL collateral score and
      collateral perfusion quantification is significantly correlated with future ischemic event
      and functional outcome.
    
  