
    
      Rationale: Population screening programs for colorectal cancers (CRC) are increasingly
      adapted as a public health initiative with the primary goal to prevent CRC and CRC related
      deaths. [2-4] The ultimate benefit of CRC screening relies on the detection and resection of
      (pre-)malignant colon lesions, and for this colonoscopy is the preferred modality. Recently,
      concerns have been raised about the effectiveness of colonoscopy in the prevention of CRC
      after several studies reported unexpected high incidence rates of interval carcinomas (IC),
      especially in the proximal colon.[5-9] Most ICs are suspected to arise from missed colon
      lesions during colonoscopy. The retrograde approach of colonic inspections may contribute to
      colon lesions remaining undetected as it limits visualization of the proximal sides of
      haustral folds and flexures. Endocuff Vision® is a single-use, disposable medical device
      designed to improve the detection of colon lesions. The 'finger-like' projections of the
      device provide fold retraction allowing the visualization of otherwise hidden anatomical
      areas. Additionally, Endocuff Vision® may improve scope tip stability and prevent scope
      slippage.

      Objectives:

        1. To compare adenoma miss rates (AMR) between Endocuff Vision®-assisted colonoscopy (EAC)
           and conventional colonoscopy (CC)

        2. To compare adenoma detection rates (ADR) between EAC and CC

        3. To assess whether a proposed increased ADR and reduced AMR with EAC is indeed due to the
           fold-flattening device or merely a consequence of the second colonoscopy procedure
           performed.

        4. To assess the clinical relevance of the polyps missed during the first colonoscopy
           procedure.

      Study design: This multicenter, randomized, same-day, back-to-back tandem colonoscopy trial
      will include four separate study groups: group A; CC followed by CC, Group B; CC followed by
      EAC, Group C; EAC followed by CC, and group D; EAC followed by EAC.

      Study population: Patients between the ages of 40 and 75-years referred for screening
      (non-IFOBT based), diagnostic or surveillance colonoscopy.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The primary endpoint of the study will be AMR.

      Secondary endpoints include; ADR, mean number of adenomas detected per colonoscopy procedure,
      number of sessile serrated polyps, the total number of colon lesions found during the first
      and second examination (which will be compared for size, colon distribution, morphologic and
      histopathological characteristics), cecal intubation rates, bowel cleansing levels, procedure
      times, sedation use, (severe) adverse events, patient reported outcome (pain) and
      post-colonoscopy surveillance intervals applying European and United states surveillance
      guidelines.
    
  