
    
      This project will implement two intertwined strategies that will build the capacity of the
      carer, clinical and therapy communities to support physical activity in Rett syndrome.
      Individuals with Rett syndrome experience difficulties with movement and this can make it
      difficult to participate in regular physical activity. Individuals with Rett syndrome need
      support to participate in physical activities and it is important to work with primary
      caregivers when developing strategies to support physical activity. We will conduct a
      clinical trial that tests the effectiveness of working with primary caregivers to develop
      strategies suitable to their lives that aim to increase participation in physical activity in
      the individual with Rett syndrome whom they support. We will use a clinical trial design and
      work with primary caregivers using Telehealth. We will test whether this approach decreases
      sedentary time and increases physical activity. We will also test if there are changes in the
      sleep, behaviour and quality of life. We aim to recruit 60 families for this study, 26 of
      whom will live in Australia. Data from the three sites will be pooled for a stronger
      analysis. We acknowledge that physical activity can be associated with a fall and therefore
      our program will be developed with the primary caregiver to be suitable for their lives and
      capacity to provide support. However, by practicing more activity, the individuals with Rett
      syndrome could be stronger and risks of falling could be reduced. The risks for the
      individual with Rett syndrome are therefore low. To let the Rett syndrome community know our
      results, we will then develop an online resource documenting the physical activity program
      and the evidence available to support it, and this will be freely available to families,
      carers and therapists wherever they live in the world.
    
  