
    
      Sample size and recruitment procedure:

      The investigators will select a cohort of patients with positive PSA results and a cohort of
      patients with negative results in each centre, to be followed for two years.

      According to a review by the American Cancer Society, a value of PSA of 4 ng/ml had an
      estimated sensitivity of 21% to detect any type of prostate cancer and a specificity of 91%.
      The investigators estimate a prevalence of prostate cancer in this population not lower than
      5% (given that the investigators include asymptomatic and symptomatic patients), with a 95%
      margin of error and 2% precision, the investigators will need to include 457 patients with a
      negative PSA result and 865 PSA-positive patients. Taking into account a 20% possible loss
      during follow-up, the investigators will increase to 572 patients with a negative PSA result
      (286 per centre) and 1,081 patients with a positive PSA result (541 per centre) who will be
      selected consecutively from among those included in the cross-sectional study until the
      investigators reach the proposed sample size. The investigators will use the initial
      randomized list (which included determinations during the first 6 months of 2018) to select
      patients who meet both negative and positive PSA criteria and if it is necessary, the
      investigators will continue to review analyses until the sample size is achieved.

      Data collection procedure:

      The investigators will follow both cohorts (positive and negative PSA results) for two years
      by reviewing their medical records (every 3 months for patients with a positive PSA result
      and annually for patients with a negative result). The following variables will be recorded:
      sociodemographic and clinical characteristics (patient who has the PSA determination as part
      of opportunistic screening or due to the presence of symptoms suggestive of disease), other
      comorbidities, toxic habits, previous history of cancer, family history, present
      pharmacological treatment and setting.

      The investigators will evaluate the presence of false positive and negative results according
      to the latest recommendations of the European Association of Urology (specific objective 1).

      The interventions performed after PSA determination and until the follow-up deadline, and
      their adaptation to the latest available recommendations (specific objective 2) will be
      evaluated separately by at least two investigators.

      Data analysis plan The analysis will be performed using the Stata IC 15 program.

        -  Specific objective 1. The investigators will calculate the proportion of false positive
           and false negative results for the diagnosis of PCa and the associated variables. In the
           case of false positive tests, the investigators will also describe the time from a
           positive PSA result until PCa is ruled out using mean, standard deviation or median and
           interquartile ranges for the total population and relevant subgroups.

        -  Specific objective 2. The investigators will assess the probability of having a
           diagnostic, surgical or therapeutic intervention according to variables using risk ratio
           (statistical precision as for specific objective 1). If necessary, the investigators
           will use log-binomial regression estimating prevalence ratios. the investigators will
           also evaluate the agreement between the interventions performed and the available
           guidelines.
    
  