
    
      For patients missing an anterior tooth, the treatment options available include a dental
      implant, a removable partial denture, or a bridge. Some patients may not desire an implant
      due to the surgical nature, the limited bone available or the high cost. Removable partial
      dentures are relatively inexpensive but are undesirable for many patients due to the limited
      esthetics, trouble speaking and annoyance of an oral prosthesis. Traditional bridges use
      adjacent teeth as abutments and replace the missing tooth. However, these require the removal
      of 1-2 mm of tooth structure on adjacent teeth provide room for the porcelain of the bridge.

      Decades ago, the option for a conservative bridge was primarily found in the Maryland bridge,
      which had two metal wings that were cemented or bonded on to two abutments. Though
      conservative, the Maryland Bridge did not enjoy a high reputation because of the high rate of
      debonding (falling off).

      In the last several decades, the use of zirconia as a restorative material in dentistry has
      dramatically risen due to its toughness, resemblance in color to natural teeth, and
      affordability. Also, composite resin bonding agents (adhesive for dental fillings) have
      increased in strength and effectiveness. With these two advancements, the possibility of
      overcoming the some of the previous shortcomings with the Maryland Bridge is more of a
      reality.

      The type of zirconia-wing bridge we are researching in this study has two wings which
      generally have three countersunk holes (meaning that the circumference of the outer portion
      of the hole is larger than the inner part of the hole). Composite resin (dental filling
      material) is placed in the holes as well as under and around the wings.

      In summary, the zirconia-wing bridge presents a desirable alternative to traditional options
      for missing anterior teeth. With the advancements in resin-bonding and zirconia, this study
      seeks to examine how these combined elements can be used in the zirconia-wing bridge to
      maximize durability and retention in clinical scenarios.
    
  