
    
      Tumors of the pituitary gland comprise up to 20% of all brain tumors. The central location
      and the small size of the pituitary gland make the management of tumors particularly
      challenging. Transsphenoidal surgery (TSS) to resect pituitary tumors is highly successful at
      achieving complete cure for functional pituitary adenomas. It is most successful when such
      adenomas can be localized by preoperative MRI of the pituitary. However, in some instances,
      small functional tumors cannot be visualized. In the case of Cushing s disease (CD), such
      non-visualization may be as high as 50%. The success of transsphenoidal surgery is
      substantially reduced in patients with negative MRI, as some of the adenomas that cause CD
      are so small that they are difficult to find during surgical exploration of the pituitary.
      Surgical success is also diminished when tumors invade the walls of the cavernous sinus. MRI
      of the pituitary lacks imaging resolution to detect such invasion and so the surgeon cannot
      perform a complete resection with surgery based on the preoperative MRI.

      Signal to noise ratio (SNR) is the primary constraint on achieving high quality high
      resolution MRI images. SNR can be improved by longer scan times or by increasing the field
      strength of the MRI magnet. SNR is proportional to the square of imaging time, however, long
      imaging times are not clinically feasible. SNR is linearly proportional to field strength,
      however, replacing MRI magnets is cost prohibitive.

      Another strong determinant of SNR is the proximity of the MRI receiver coil to the tissue
      being imaged. Placement of a coil in close proximity to the structure of interest
      dramatically increases SNR, often as much as 10-fold. Clinically this is routinely put into
      practice for superficial body parts, such as the temporomandibular joints, in which small
      coils are placed directly over the joints to achieve rapid high-resolution imaging. For deep
      structures, the use of superficial coils is of no benefit. This has led to the development of
      endocavitary coils, such as the endorectal coil used to image the prostate gland. Such coils
      are now in routine clinical use here at the NIH and elsewhere.

      During routine TSS, the surgical approach to the pituitary provides a route for placement of
      imaging tools, such as handheld ultrasound and Doppler probes in close proximity to the
      gland. Extending this model to MRI imaging, we realized that an endocavitary surface coil
      within the sphenoid sinus will allow for a marked improvement in SNR for imaging the sella.
      To this end, we have developed an endosphenoidal coil (ESC), demonstrated its MRI safety, and
      performed preliminary studies in cadaver heads to determine that the ESC can be placed
      through the transsphenoidal approach. Placement of ESC needs no modification in the surgical
      TSS approach to the pituitary gland. The goal of this protocol is to examine the safety and
      feasibility of ESC placement and imaging during TSS.

      Objective

      To evaluate the feasibility and safety of using ESC during TSS.

      Study Population

      The study population will be up to 20 adult subjects with pituitary tumors that require TSS.
      Enrollment will be completed once 10 subjects have received the study procedure. The
      requested accrual ceiling of 20 subjects accounts for screening failures and drop-outs who do
      not receive the study procedure.

      Design

      This is a feasibility study of 10 subjects requiring TSS for pituitary lesions. The subjects
      will undergo standard TSS resection of a pituitary adenoma in the intra-operative MR suite.
      Following standard surgical approach, the ESC will be placed into the sphenoid sinus, while
      the bone of the sellar floor is still intact. Routine clinical pituitary imaging with and
      without intravenous contrast will be performed for comparison with standard pituitary
      imaging. Additional higher resolution sequences will be performed as time allows. Following
      imaging, standard surgical resection will be performed. Surgeon will not view scans arising
      from the research procedure and therefore intraoperative clinical decisions making will not
      be influenced by the results of the research imaging.

      Outcome Measures

      Primary Outcome Measure

      The primary outcome of this study is the feasibility of using ESC as a clinical tool during
      transsphenoidal surgery. Feasibility will be assessed by the time added to a standard TSS
      procedure (measured from the time the TSS exposure is completed to the time to return to the
      operating position for completion of surgery).

      Safety Outcome Measure

      We will evaluate the safety of the ESC as a surgical adjunct tool. We will evaluate whether
      the use of ESC causes local trauma, bleeding, burns or other unanticipated safety issues
      during TSS.

      Exploratory Outcome Measures

      Clinical utility of these images will be evaluated by comparing SNR and contrast to noise
      ratio (CNR) measurements obtained with the ESC to preoperative standard of care images.

        1. Pituitary SNR with ESC MRI versus pre-operative standard of care images.

        2. Pituitary to tumor Contrast to Noise Ratio (CNR) with ESC MRI versus pre-operative
           standard of care images.
    
  