
    
      Over one million American adults suffer from cocaine use disorder (CUD) with recent trends
      showing an increase in cocaine-related deaths since 2010. For the chronic cocaine user,
      significant changes in brain function and structure set the stage for relapse that,
      unfortunately, continues to be the most common outcome following treatment. For substance use
      disorders, cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) is arguably the most empirically supported and
      widely used relapse prevention approach. Considered to be a cognitive control therapy, CBT
      aims to improve 'top-down' executive control functions that are impaired in CUD and strongly
      connected to relapse. Converging evidence suggests that CBT promotes meaningful changes in
      brain regions associated with cognitive control. Still, many patients with cognitive
      impairments show suboptimal response to CBT, bolstering the call for research aimed at
      improving effects with integrative treatments.

      The goal of this project is to enhance the relapse-prevention effects of CBT with adjunctive
      use of pioglitazone (PIO), a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR-γ)
      agonist. Unlike traditional medications that target classic neurotransmitter systems, PIO's
      activation of the PPAR pathway confers broad spectrum anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective
      effects against insult to brain white matter (WM). The functional significance of WM in CUD
      has been well established by evidence showing that: (1) chronic cocaine exposure alters WM
      structural integrity; (2) WM alterations compromise cognitive function in CUD; and (2) better
      WM integrity predicts better CUD treatment outcome. In a recent proof of concept trial it was
      found that PIO significantly improved brain WM integrity in a small sample of non-abstinent
      patients with CUD. Treatment with PIO was well-tolerated and associated with reduced cocaine
      craving relative to placebo. Collectively, these findings raise the exciting possibility that
      PIO may augment responding to CBT via improved neural structure and cognitive function.

      A randomized double-blind clinical trial will be utilized to evaluate the efficacy of CBT
      with adjunctive PIO in recently abstinent patients during the early phase of recovery when
      craving is prominent, relapse risk is high, and intact cognitive control is required to
      actively maintain abstinence. Upon completion of a 5-day inpatient detoxification, 60 adults
      with CUD will complete titration to full dose of randomized medication, either PIO (45mg
      daily) or placebo, and begin 12 weeks of outpatient CBT treatment while continuing to receive
      study medication. Specific aims will examine the effects of PIO on targeted mechanisms of
      change (WM integrity, cognitive function, cocaine craving) and demonstrate evidence linking
      clinical efficacy (abstinence, functional health) with mechanism engagement. Expected results
      will establish PIO as an adjunctive treatment that can be integrated with CBT to reduce
      relapse risk following detoxification, thereby meeting NIDA's strategic priority of
      evaluating the use of medications to improve the efficacy of behavioral interventions
      (PA-18-055).
    
  