
    
      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be asked to perform a few tasks to learn
      about your strength, memory, and nutrition. These should take about 20 minutes to complete.

      Study Groups:

      You will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a coin) into 1 of 2 study groups. This is
      done because no one knows if one study group is better, the same, or worse than the other
      group.

        -  If you are in Group 1, you will receive the Pro-Stat and omega-3 fatty acid supplements.

        -  If you are in Group 2, you will not receive the Pro-Stat and omega-3 fatty acid
           supplements.

      You will be asked to write down any supplements you take in a diary that will be provided to
      you. You should write down any supplements you take for the week before and 2 weeks after
      surgery. Please bring this diary to your follow up appointment after surgery.

      Supplement Administration:

      If you are in Group 1, you will receive the omega-3 fatty acids in a pill bottle and the
      Pro-Stat in foil packets. You should take each supplement 4 times daily. Omega-3 fatty acid
      capsules should be swallowed whole and should not be opened, chewed, or crushed.

      Packets of Pro-Stat may be mixed with other liquids or food. If vomiting occurs, do not
      replace the vomited dose. If you miss a dose, you may take an extra dose that same day.

      You should bring all supplements you haven't taken with you to your 14 day visit after
      surgery.

      Length of Study Participation:

      Your doctor may lower the dose of the supplements if you experience any serious side effects
      that may be related to the supplements. If these side effects continue after the dose has
      been lowered, you will no longer be able to take the supplements. You may also be taken off
      study if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over after the follow-up visits.

      Surgery:

      You will have your standard-of-care surgery. You will receive a separate consent for the
      surgery that explains the procedure and the risks.

      Study/Follow-Up Visits:

      Before Surgery:

        -  Blood (about 8 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests, protein testing, biomarker
           testing, to check your cholesterol, liver function, your amino acid levels, and to test
           for inflammatory markers. Biomarkers are found in the blood and may be related to your
           reaction to the supplements.

        -  Urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  Blood (about 4 teaspoons) will also be drawn and stored at MD Anderson for future
           testing as a part of this study.

      Day 1 After Surgery:

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Blood (about 4 teaspoons) will also be drawn and stored at MD Anderson for future
           testing as a part of this study.

      Day 2 After Surgery, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      Day 3 After Surgery:

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Blood (about 4 teaspoons) will also be drawn and stored at MD Anderson for future
           testing as a part of this study.

      On your Day of Discharge from the hospital:

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Urine will be collected for routine tests.

      Day 14 After Surgery:

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests, to check your cholesterol,
           your liver function, and your amino acid levels.

        -  Urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  Blood (about 4 teaspoons) will also be drawn and stored at MD Anderson for future
           testing as a part of this study.

      You weight will be measured at all of the above visits and information will be collected from
      your medical record.

      Day 90 After Surgery, you will have a physical exam and your weight will be recorded.
    
  