
    
      Dental caries and periodontal disease are closely associated with dental plaque, the biofilm
      that results from microbial colonization of the tooth surface. Various experimental models
      have been described for the initial phase of colonization, including one that utilizes enamel
      chips positioned within the oral cavity for periods of time up to 24 hours. Scanning electron
      microscopy of chips removed after 4 hrs in vivo revealed individual bacteria attached to the
      pellicle-coated surface. Growth of these pioneer organisms resulted in microcolonies that
      merged to form a spreading monolayer of cocci and rods. Over 80% of the bacteria present in
      early biofilms were identified as members of four closely related viridans streptococcal
      species, Streptococcus sanguis, S. oralis, S. mitis and S. gordonii. Veillonella spp, and
      Actinomyces naeslundii each composed about 5%. Interestingly, veillonellae, actinomyces and
      streptococci all increased during the first 24 hrs of colonization thereby suggesting
      important roles for these bacteria in normal daily plaque accumulation [early biofilm
      development].

      One of the major uncertainties raised by the wide-spread ability of cells of oral bacteria to
      interact physically in vitro is whether these coaggregations function in vivo. Using direct
      immunofluorescence, we have demonstrated the coincident juxtaposition in dental plaque of
      streptococci and actinomyces, suggesting that these known coaggregating partners may use
      coaggregation as a means to colonize enamel. Our overall goal is to determine spatial
      organization of different viridans streptococci in biofilms that form during initial
      colonization of the tooth surface. These bacteria include two groups with distinctive
      properties. One group contains strains of S. sanguis and S. gordonii with GalNAc-sensitive
      adhesions and the other contains strains of S. oralis and other species with complementary
      receptors for intrageneric coaggregation. The models for biofilm formation will include an in
      vitro flow-cell model in which streptococci with known adhesive properties attach and grow on
      a saliva-coated surface and an in vivo model in which enamel chips are colonized within the
      oral cavity for periods of time up to 72 hours. The results of these studies should provide
      significant insights into the involvement of interbacterial adhesion in biofilm development.
      Our goal from these studies is to investigate the spatial organization of streptococci and
      their coaggregation partner actinomyces and veillonellae in biofilms formed in vivo compared
      to in vitro. We hope to make significant advances in understanding the distribution of these
      species in initial dental plaque formation. Since the streptococci are the predominant
      organism in early dental plaque, we propose that understanding their contribution to
      microbial communities will lead to important advances in designing effective oral health
      regimens.
    
  