
    
      Background: Preeclampsia (PE) is a placenta-mediated pregnancy complication related to
      adverse maternal and neonatal outcomes, including intra-uterine growth restriction (IUGR) and
      perinatal death. A growing body of evidence suggests that the preterm and severe forms of PE
      are associated with deep placentation disorders that occur early in gestation. Over the last
      decade, maternal characteristic and first-trimester biomarkers, including some that are
      already used for aneuploidy screening (PAPP-A) have been strongly related to the preterm and
      early forms of PE, suggesting that early prediction is possible. Preventive measures are
      actually recommended (low-dose aspirin; calcium) or under investigation (folic acid;
      low-molecular weight heparin; anti-oxidant) in high-risk women. However, only women with
      chronic disease or prior adverse pregnancy outcomes are eligible for these measures while
      most cases of PE occur in nulliparous women. Moreover, there are actually no clear guidelines
      for clinicians in Canada whose pregnant patients have one or several risk factors for
      preeclampsia (obesity, chronic hypertension, low PAPP-A, etc.). On the other hand, it has
      been suggested that prediction of PE, and particularly the most severe cases, is possible
      with high sensitivity and specificity by using a combination of anamnestic, biophysical,
      biochemical and ultrasonographic biomarkers using the web-based Fetal-Medicine Foundation
      (FMF) screening test. This suggests that a strategy of prediction and prevention of PE and
      other placenta-mediated complications is becoming possible for nulliparous women as well.
      However, certain major concerns must be addressed: 1) The FMF screening test has not been
      validated prospectively; 2) a controversy exists about the need and feasibility of Doppler
      ultrasound in the general population.

      Objectives:

        1. To validate the 11-13 week FMF screening test for early-onset PE and a composite of
           placenta-mediated outcomes (preterm PE, IUGR <3rd percentile, stillbirth); and

        2. To compare the screening test with and without uterine artery (UtA) Doppler;

        3. To explore the efficiency of new potential biomarkers (ADAM-12; Placental protein (PP)
           -13; placental and subplacental volume; placental vascularization) for prediction of PE
           in our population.

      Methods: A multicenter prospective observational study of nulliparous women recruited between
      11 3/7 - 13 6/7 weeks (maternal characteristics; BMI; Mean arterial pressure (MAP); PAPP-A;
      placental growth factor (PIGF); UtA Doppler…) and followed until delivery. Delivery and
      neonatal data will be collected through chart reviews. Detection rates for early-onset PE
      (primary outcome) and other adverse pregnancy outcomes will be measured using the 11-13 weeks
      FMF screening test with and without UtA Doppler results. A case-cohort study will be
      performed using stored serum samples and three-dimensional ultrasound volume acquired at the
      11-13 weeks visit.

      Feasibility and power calculation: We estimate a minimum incidence of early-onset PE of 0.7%.
      A minimum of 7,600 women will be necessary to demonstrate that the FMF screening test is at
      least 80% sensitive and 90% specific where it is expected that it will be 95% sensitive and
      92% specific. We will have the power to detect an absolute difference of 15% in the detection
      rate between the different screening strategies (± Doppler). Recruitment will take 3.0 years.
      The overall study will take 5.0 years.

      Expectations: First, our research will potentially provide a validated, highly sensitive and
      specific, and cheap tool to help clinicians' decision in the care of nulliparous women with
      risk factors for PE. In case of negative results, the clinician will have good evidence to
      reassure the patients facing abnormal maternal serum screening values. The validation of a
      first-trimester screening strategy will strengthen clinical research on PE providing new
      information on the natural evolution of the disease. Finally, this study will contribute to
      develop the optimal design for randomized trials aiming at the prevention of early-onset PE
      and other placenta-mediated complications of pregnancy.
    
  