
    
      Background Early diagnosis of dementia benefits both patient and caregiver. Nevertheless,
      dementia in primary care is currently under-diagnosed in developed countries. In several
      countries educational interventions were developed to improve dementia diagnosis and
      management in primary care. Some of these interventions were successful in increasing the
      number of dementia diagnoses and in changing attitudes and knowledge of health care staff.
      However, none of these interventions focussed on collaboration between GPs and nurses in
      dementia care. We developed a Dementia Training Program (DTP) aimed at stimulating
      collaboration in dementia primary care. We expect it to increase the number of cognitive
      assessments and dementia diagnoses, as well as to improve attitudes and knowledge of GPs and
      nurses.

      Methods/Design The DTP is a complex educational intervention and consists of 2 workshops, a
      coaching program, and case-based consultations either face-to-face or by phone or e-mail,
      access to an internet forum, and a Computerized Clinical Decision Support System on dementia
      diagnostics and management. 100 duos of GPs and nurses will be recruited, from which 2/3 will
      be allocated to the intervention group and 1/3 to the control group. The effects of
      implementation of the DTP will be studied in an assessor blinded cluster-randomised
      controlled trial. Primary outcomes are the number of cognitive assessments and dementia
      diagnosis in a period of 9 months, starting after workshop participation of the duos.
      Secondary outcomes are measured on GP and nurse level: rate of adherence to national
      guidelines for dementia diagnosis, attitude, confidence and knowledge regarding dementia
      diagnosis and management; on patient level: number of emergency calls, visits and
      consultations and patient satisfaction; and on caregiver level: informal caregiver burden and
      satisfaction. Data will be collected from GPs' electronic medical dossiers, self registration
      forms and questionnaires. Statistical analysis will be performed by using MANOVA-method.
      Also, exploratory analyses will be performed, in order to gain insight into barriers and
      facilitators for implementation and the causal relations between the rate of success of the
      intervention components and the outcomes.
    
  