
    
      Dermatologists have been using azathioprine for more than 30 years. This synthetic purine
      analog is derived from 6-mercaptopurine. It is thought to act by disrupting nucleic acid
      synthesis and has recently been found to interfere with T-cell activation. The most
      recognized uses of azathioprine in dermatology are for immunobullous diseases, generalized
      eczematous disorders, and photodermatoses. Azathioprine is extensively metabolized, and only
      about 2% is excreted, unchanged, in the urine. Once freed of its imidazole derivative, the
      mercaptopurine moiety undergoes metabolism from 3 competing enzymes. Activity of the 2
      catabolic enzymes thiopurine s-methyltransferase (TPMT), an enzyme with great genetic
      polymorphism, and xanthine oxidase (XO) produces inactive metabolites. Decreased TPMT or XO
      activity results in the increased production of toxic metabolites. Decreased TPMT activity is
      frequently a consequence of genetic polymorphisms, while decreased XO activity may be
      mediated by medications such as allopurinol.

      Azathioprine is generally well tolerated and has a favorable therapeutic index compared with
      many other traditional immunosuppressants. Dose-limiting toxicity from azathioprine treatment
      affects up to 37% of patients. Administration of azathioprine to a patient with TPMT
      deficiency results in significant accumulation of thioguanine nucleotides, and it becomes
      clinically manifest by increased hematopoietic toxicity, with potentially grave consequences.
      Screening for thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) polymorphisms, TPMT*3A, *3C, *2 will
      prospectively identify approximately 10% of patients. In Chinese, the reported incidence of
      homozygous wild-type、heterozygote、homozygous mutation of TPMT is 95.3%, 4.7% and 0%
      respectively. The relationship to hematologic complication is more established, but its
      relationship to gastrointestinal side effects is controversial. Genetic polymorphism of the
      other newly identified enzyme, inosine triphosphate pyrophosphatase gene (ITPA) has also been
      associated with other adverse effect of azathioprine, such as flu-like symptoms, rash and
      pancreatitis. ITPA 94C>A allele is found at low frequency in Central/South American
      populations (1-2%), at a constant frequency across Caucasian and African populations (6-7%),
      and is highest in Asian populations (14-19%).

      The aim of our study was to determine the relative contribution of, TMPT(A719G) and
      ITPA(C94A) mutations to the development of toxicity induced by AZA treatment in dermatology
      patients and to detect the correlation of these two genetic polymorphism.

      Hepatotoxicity was defined by serum alanine transaminase levels greater than twice the upper
      normal limit (50 IU/l) and resolution after withdrawal of AZA; pancreatitis by severe
      abdominal pain and serum amylase > 800 IU/l; neutropenia by a neutrophil count of < 2.0 × 109
      cells.
    
  