
    
      Presently in Canada, 29% of deaths are due to cardiovascular disease (CVD), costing $20.9
      billion annually. The investigators have, therefore, brought together an unique network of
      investigators at different stages in their careers with a range of disciplines (nutrition,
      cardiology, diabetes, exercise physiology, imaging, physics, clinical trials, statistics,
      laboratory medicine, primary care, genetics, psychology, knowledge translation (KT),
      epidemiology), and with international recognition, experience and connections, to undertake a
      Canada-wide, multi-centre study which will test the ability of an effective
      cholesterol-lowering diet (dietary portfolio) and an exercise program, developed at Laval
      University, over 3 years to reduce the progression of plaque build-up in the carotid artery
      as assessed by Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) in individuals with hypercholesterolemia and
      or type 2 diabetes. The dietary portfolio which has been proven in many of our studies to be
      an effective cholesterol-lowering diet will be enhanced to include features from other
      dietary strategies which the investigators have tested or developed; such as high
      monounsaturated fat (from Mediterranean diet) (CMAJ 2010) and low glycemic index foods (JAMA
      2008). The investigators plan to recruit194 (approximately 200) men and postmenopausal women,
      who have measurable thickening (as assessed by ultrasound) due to plaque build up in the
      carotid arteries, in a 1.5 year period for this 3 year study. Ultrasound selection will be of
      individuals with intima-media thickness (IMT) >/=1.2mm as relevant arterial thickening to
      ensure a relatively low risk for the majority of the group, yet with some measurable arterial
      thickening.

      Those selected will be randomly assigned to receive advice in one of four experimental arms:
      1) Portfolio Plus diet and intensive increased physical activity program, 2) Portfolio Plus
      diet and a copy of Health Canada Physical Activity Guidelines with advice to increase
      physical activity, 3) DASH-like diet and an intensive increased physical activity program and
      4) DASH-like diet and a copy of Health Canada Physical Activity Guidelines with advice to
      increase physical activity. The results of the study will have a major influence on dietary
      and exercise guidelines for coronary heart disease (CH risk reduction and provide evidence
      for the larger international trial that will focus on hard endpoints, myocardial infarction
      (MI) and CHD events). It is hoped that this cohort of participants will continue on and form
      part of the planned 9 year hard end point (MACE) study if funded.

      Prior to starting treatments, participants will undergo screening ultrasound examination of
      both right and left carotids to enable selection of those individuals whose intima-media
      thickness (IMT) would be 5-30% below the cut point considered by the Mannheim Consensus as
      relevant arterial thickening to ensure a relatively low risk group, yet with some measurable
      arterial thickening.

      It will be emphasized at the outset that both the dietary portfolio and the DASH-like diets
      have been associated with benefits in terms of cholesterol reduction to provide equal
      encouragement for all study arms. Portfolio and DASH-like dietary advice will consist of half
      hour individual sessions with the dietitian at baseline, and at 3-month intervals throughout
      the trial except for the first month when dietary advice will be reinforced, every 2 weeks,
      by telephone call to the participant or participant visit to the clinic. Prior to starting
      each diet, instruction will be given on achieving the dietary goals. At follow-up visits, the
      participants' completed 7-day diet records will be discussed and the original advice
      reinforced.

      For the treatments with intensive increased physical activity the standardized physical
      activity/exercise component will be supervised by trained kinesiologists (exercise
      physiologists) for the 4 visits followed by monthly phone calls for the first year for the
      exercise component, when the major exercise training is provided. 7-day Exercise diaries will
      be collected at each visit. Using well-established procedures standardized across centers by
      the Quebec Heart and Lung Institute, the baseline visit will be used to provide a broad
      qualitative assessment of participants' lifestyle habits and preferences. Standardized
      physical activity questionnaires will be completed and participants will be asked to wear a
      pedometer for seven days prior to the intervention to quantify baseline physical activity
      (daily step count Cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) is assessed using a submaximal treadmill
      test adapted from a progressive submaximal power output test performed on a cycle ergometer.
      The protocol begins with a warm-up workload of 2.5 mph with a 0% slope. The second stage is
      performed at a speed of 3.5 mph with a 2% slope. The third stage is adjusted in an attempt to
      reach 75% of the age-estimated maximal heart rate (HR). If necessary, a 4th stage is
      performed. Estimated VO2max is predicted by extrapolation to age-predicted maximal heart rate
      at a standardized submaximal treadmill stage (3.5 mph, 2% slope) and estimated maximal oxygen
      consumption (VO2max) are the variables considered as indicators of CRF in the present study.

      For treatments with routine advice to increase physical activity, Health Canada Physical
      Activity Guidelines for adults 18-64 years or for older adults 65 years & older will be
      provided. They will be seen at the start and the end of each year for their formal exercise
      testing and will bring with them completed physical activities questionnaires. They will
      receive no other physical activities instruction.

      Every effort will be made to obtain study blood samples and carotid imaging data from all
      subjects at the designated times regardless of adherence to the dietary aspects of the study
      protocol. All subjects will be included in the intention-to-treat analysis.
    
  