
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      Test the efficacy of topical AH-8 in blepharospasm treatment.

      DESIGN:

      This is a randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled study, phase II single center clinical
      trial. Patients with primary blepharospasm at least 4 months off BoNT therapy with no benefit
      from last BoNT injection by history and self assesment will be included. We will use 3 study
      arms placebo and 2 different doses (as concentrations of the AH-8 active substance in the
      topical preparation). An extension phase is planned after the initial phase.

      The patients will have a baseline screening visit, including measurement of the outcome
      variables, then begin the study intervention. They will have 2 subsequent visits at month 1
      and month 2. After this visit, the patients who do not have significant benefit and wish to
      have an alternative therapy (GROUP 1) will receive BoNT injections according to best practice
      standards. These patients will then be assessed 1 month later (peak effect of BoNT therapy)
      and the effect will be compared with the AH-8 effect. The patients who have significant
      benefit (GROUP 2) will continue therapy for another 4 months (total of 6 months), and will
      have another assessment at that point. Afterwards the patients will be offered BoNT
      injections according to best practice standards, similar to Group 1 above, and another
      assessment will be made one month later (month 7) to compare the effects with AH-8 effects.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      Primary outcome variable: the Jankovic Blepharospasm Rating Scale at month 2.

      Secondary outcome variables:

        -  the Jankovic Blepharospasm Rating Scale at month 1

        -  the Blepharospasm Disability Scale at month 1

        -  the Blepharospasm Disability Scale at month 2

        -  the difference in JBRS at month 3 time point (after BoNT injection) in patients
           receiving BoNT

        -  JBRS score at 6 months for patients not receiving BoNT at month 2 (Group 2)

        -  the difference in JBRS between month 6 and month 7 time point (after BoNT injection) in
           Group 2 patients

        -  Blink reflex measures at month 2

      Non-parametric comparison (Wilcoxon Mann-Whitney test) of the primary and secondary variables
      before and after the intervention will be used for statistical analysis. Additional
      multivariate analysis will explore the influence of other factors (age, gender, disease
      duration).

      Interventions and Duration

      Twice daily application of active substance or placebo. Two active substance concentrations,
      0.025% and 0.05% AH-8 will be used.

      Each subject will be in the study a total of at least 3 months, followed by additional up to
      4 months in the second phase for the group 2 patients.

      Sample Size and Population

      There will be 8 patients per arm, for a total study population of 24. The power calculation
      for a power of 80%, for a 2-tailed alpha of 0.05, to be able to detect a change of 2 points
      on the JBRS requires 8 patients per arm. This calculation was based on independent
      calculation for each dose of the active agent against placebo.

      The subjects included will be patients with primary blepharospasm, not currently treated with
      BoNT (de novo diagnosed patients), but who subjectively express a wish for treatment
      intervention, with at least one year history from symptom onset, without perceived active
      change in symptoms by history. Patients with blepharospasm as part of a generalized dystonia
      or due to a different neurologic condition will be excluded.

      Randomization and blinding to be performed by the NIH research pharmacy.
    
  