
    
      The study will be conducted in Conservative Dentistry Department, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo
      University; The operator in charge will be Donia Mamdouh Elshafey Patients will be selected
      from the outpatient clinic of the department Conservative Dentistry Department, Faculty of
      Dentistry, Cairo University All cavity preparations will be performed with fine inlay burs
      according to inlay cavity principles. The walls facing each other will be prepared 5 to 6
      degree divergent with 80 μm diamond burs and were finished with 25 μm diamond burs. All
      internal angles will be rounded and all edges will terminate in the enamel. The pulpal floor
      will be prepared at a depth of at least 1.5 mm. The teeth will be discarded if isthmus width
      was more than 2/3 of the distance between the tubercule tips, or if the walls are thinner
      than 2 mm before the preparation or thinner than 1.5 mm after the preparation. The caries
      affected dentin tissue at the cavity floor will be left. The teeth will be discarded from
      study if the pulp is exposed. To eliminate irregular areas in the cavities, a liner will be
      applied as a blockout material. Then the operator will adhere strictly to the manufacturer's
      instructions in the imaging, computer design and machining of the restorations either 3D
      printing or milling procedure.

      The prepared teeth for the indirect restorations will be scanned with an optical 3D camera
      (CEREC Omnicam, Dentsply Sirona, Bensheim, Germany), inlays will be designed by a CAD
      software (CEREC SW 4.6.1, Dentsply Sirona), and files will be created in STL format (inLab
      CAD SW 18.1, Dentsply Sirona) then inlays will additively manufactured After the printing
      process is finished, the inlays will be immediately removed from the building platform and
      cooled down at room temperature. The inlay will be adapted individually to its cavity, and
      the occlusal surface will be recontoured. Such post processing also will be performed on the
      milled inlays. After all inlays are adequately adapted, they will be adhesively inserted into
      the cavities.
    
  