
    
      As part of the Covid-19 pandemic, some neurologists have alerted the French authorities
      (ANSM: National Medicines Safety Agency) to the interruption of natalizumab treatment by some
      MS patients. The ANSM has granted temporary home use of natalizumab within the framework of a
      "at-home hospitalization" (HAD) program. The study purpose is to assess at-home natalizumab
      administration regarding safety, disease activity, quality of life, patient's perception and
      costs by comparing outcomes before and after "At Home" natalizumab treatment strategy.

      The study consists of two periods of observation: a retrospective one corresponding to the
      year prior the study entry and a prospective one corresponding to patient follow-up for one
      year from the date of the patient inclusion. The date of the inclusion corresponds to the
      natalizumab-infusion conducted at hospital just before infusions hospital at-home started.
      Retrospective data are collected from medical record and a minimal dataset is needed to
      enroll the patient regarding MRI activity and safety data (i.e., nature and number of SAE and
      selected AE of grade 2 the year prior study entry).

      The prospective period consists of 10 at-home natalizumab infusions (months 1-5 and 7-11) and
      3 at-hospital natalizumab infusions (inclusion, months 6 and 12) according to standard care.
      In addition to clinical, MRI and safety (SAE and selected AE of grade 2) data collected as
      part of standard medical care from medical record over all the study period, Quality of life
      (EQ-5D-5L, MusiQol) and patient's preference (Musicare) questionnaires will be administered
      at inclusion and months 6 and 12 and clinical global impression of change will be recorded at
      month 6 and 12. Patients will be asked to notify any adverse events that may occur between
      each at-home infusion and to record each month his/her healthcare resource consumption in a
      diary. Patients will be contacted each month after at-home infusion to record safety and
      healthcare resource consumption data.

      For a sub-group of 15 patients qualitative interview will be performed between month 3 and 8
      as part of patient preference assessment.

      Micro-costing dedicated forms and experts' statements will be used to assess resource
      utilization associated to natalizumab infusion during each period for medico-analyze purpose.
    
  