
    
      The HIV pandemic continues with an estimated 13,000 new infections each day, the vast
      majority of which are acquired through heterosexual intercourse. Although consistent and
      correct use of condoms by men remains the most effective form of protection from
      heterosexually acquired HIV, women are not always able to negotiate condom use. An effective
      prophylactic vaccine remains a key objective, but development is slow because of virus
      variability and difficulty in determining the immunological correlates of protection. Vaginal
      microbicides are being developed in response to the urgent need for an HIV prevention method
      that women can control. Licensed spermicides containing nonoxynol-9 (N-9), which has potent
      anti-HIV activity in vitro, were the first products to be investigated as potential
      microbicides. However, the association of N-9 and other products belonging to this class
      (surfactants) with genital epithelial disruption, histologically determined genital
      inflammation, and reduction in populations of vaginal lactobacilli led to concerns that their
      use could enhance the risk of HIV transmission. Early Phase 3 studies of N-9 products yielded
      conflicting results, but more recently, a multicenter randomized placebo-controlled trial of
      a low dose N-9 formulation demonstrated an increased incidence of HIV infection in the N-9
      group compared to placebo. These findings have intensified efforts to develop agents with a
      more favorable toxicity profile. At least four of these have entered trials to assess
      effectiveness in preventing vaginally acquired HIV infection: Buffer Gel, Carraguard,
      cellulose sulfate and PRO 2000/5 Gel. Protocol MDP 301 describes a randomized
      placebo-controlled trial design to explore the safety and efficacy of two concentrations of
      PRO 2000/5 Gel.

      Participant recruitment and follow-up is complete. Between October 2005 and August 2008, 9404
      eligible, sexually active, HIV-uninfected women were enrolled at six or more sites in Africa.
      Up until February 2008, participants were randomly assigned to 0.5% or 2% PRO 2000/5 Gel
      treatment arms or a placebo gel arm. Following a recommendation by the Independent Data
      Monitoring Committee that the 2% PRO2000/5 Gel treatment arm should not continue as there was
      no more than a small chance of demonstrating benefit, participants enrolled after February
      13, 2008 were randomly assigned to the 0.5% PRO 2000/5 gel treatment arm or placebo arm.
      Participants were instructed to apply a single dose of study gel 1 hour or less before every
      act of vaginal intercourse using a single-use pre-filled applicator. Participants also
      receive risk-reduction counseling and condoms, and STD testing. Most study participants were
      followed for 12 months. A cohort of sero-discordant couples enrolled in Uganda was followed
      for up to 24 months.

      The primary efficacy outcome measure is acquisition of HIV infection at the 12 month time
      point. Secondary outcomes include measures of HIV infection at the 6, 9 and more than 12
      month time points, infection by HSV-2, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Chlamydia trachomatis, and
      adverse events.
    
  