
    
      Background:

      When it is severe, hypotension compromises tissue perfusion and organ function, leading to
      multiple organ failure and death. Commonly in intensive care units (ICUs), excessive
      vasodilation causes hypotension. In response, clinicians administer vasopressors to induce
      vasoconstriction and thereby raise blood pressure. However, these medications may reduce
      blood flow to vital organs, including the heart, and therefore damage them. Titrating
      vasopressors therefore requires balancing the risks of organ dysfunction arising from
      vasopressors or hypotension. Current guidelines recommend titrating vasopressors to a mean
      arterial pressure (MAP) of 65 mmHg. By not specifying an upper limit, guidelines and
      clinicians put more emphasis on preventing hypotension than on minimizing vasopressor
      exposure. Permissive hypotension, defined as a MAP target below traditional levels, may
      reduce vasopressor-induced harm while avoiding organ dysfunction induced by severe
      hypotension.

      Observational data show that the average MAP in Canadian patients on vasopressors is 75 mmHg,
      10 mmHg above current guideline recommendations and self-reported practices.The recent
      CIHR-funded OVATION pilot RCT (n=118) of permissive hypotension met feasibility objectives of
      demonstrating a separation in mean MAP between arms (9 mmHg, p<0.0001) and enrolling patients
      efficiently (2.3 patients/site/month). Investigators have also completed an individual
      patient data meta-analysis with the French SEPSISPAM trial and found that a lower MAP target
      may be beneficial in patients 65 years old.

      Objective:

      The overarching goal of this randomized controlled trial (RCT) of permissive hypotension vs.
      usual blood pressure targets in hypotensive patients ≥65 years old is to determine whether
      permissive hypotension reduces the risk of harm associated with usual vasopressor therapy.
      The proposed RCT has specific objectives to ascertain the effect of permissive hypotension
      vs. usual care on: 1) markers of organ injury (primarily in the heart at day 3, secondarily
      (on day 3 and day 7) in the brain, liver, intestine, and skeletal muscle); 2) global tissue
      dysoxia (assessed by plasma lactate); 3) organ function (assessed by Sequential Organ Failure
      Assessment [SOFA] Score ); 4) resource utilization, 5) pre-specified adverse events, 6)
      mortality at 90 days and 6 months; 7) cognitive impairment in survivors at 6 months.

      Methods:

      Eligible patients will be randomized to target MAP 60-65 mmHg vs. usual care. By comparing
      permissive hypotension to usual care, we improve acceptance from clinicians and reduce the
      risk that the control group will diverge widely from usual care. Investigators will enroll
      patients in 7 Canadian ICUs. The deferred consent model will be adopted, successfully used in
      the pilot trial. Risk of bias will be minimized by allocation concealment, blinding of
      outcome assessors, complete hospital follow-up and intention-to-treat analysis.

      Relevance:

      This RCT proposal is embedded in the international OVATION-65 program of research, which
      includes the ongoing NIHR-funded UK65 Trial which measures 90-day mortality as the primary
      outcome. The Canadian OVATION-65 RCT is the only trial that measures organ injury biomarkers,
      providing crucial clinical information regardless of the effect on mortality. Results are
      expected to be incorporated into guidelines to inform practice worldwide.

      Sample size:

      The OVATION-65 Trial was designed to be complementary to the 65 Trial conducted in the United
      Kingdom. The original proposal, which consisted in a larger and simpler trial (n=800
      participants, focused on biomarkers of organ injury) was abandoned because funding
      applications to the Canadian Institutes for Health Research and the Canadian Frailty Network
      were unsuccessful. The current trial was supported by a combination of multiple more modest
      operating grants awarded by the Université de Sherbrooke and the Centre de Recherche du CHU
      de Sherbrooke (see Funding sources). However, each grant required a distinct objective
      increasing the complexity of the analysis plan and sample size calculation. Certain analyses
      were incorporated into funding applications for local experiments on a small scale. By
      combining funds from multiple sources, we are able to enroll up to 200 participants, however
      we lack resources to measure every outcome on 200 participants. Outcomes that cannot be
      measured on every participant or as well as those that were planned originally but that
      remain unfunded are described briefly in the secondary outcomes section and specified as
      ancillary studies. They will be reported separately.

      Attempts to obtain funding for a larger OVATION-65 Trial continued until the end of 2018.
      Sufficient funding was secured to enroll up to 200 patients, but trial enrollment was
      terminated on 21 February 2020 after 159 patients were enrolled, on the recommendation of the
      DSMC following publication of the 65 trial. Six-month follow-up will be complete in August
      2020. The statistical analysis plan will be registered and published before analyzing the
      data.
    
  