
    
      Anti-thrombotic therapies have enhanced the safety of percutaneous coronary intervention
      (PCI). In addition to aspirin, heparin and platelet glycoprotein (Gp) IIB/IIIA receptor
      inhibition have been used as the reference strategy to reduce the incidence of ischemic
      complications during coronary interventions 1. However, the success of this strategy is
      limited by increased bleeding risk, prolonged drug infusions (12 hours), and patient
      inconveniences (such as lying flat for hours until blood coagulation becomes normal and
      sheaths can be safely removed). Peri-procedural bleeding due to vascular complications is one
      of the most frequent complications of PCI and is associated with adverse events 2.

      Newer anti-thrombotic strategies may further improve outcomes after PCI. The efficacy of a
      direct thrombin inhibitor bivalirudin (Angiomax™) was investigated in a randomized controlled
      clinical trial as a replacement for the strategy of heparin/Gp IIB/IIIA inhibition in
      patients undergoing coronary intervention. The REPLACE-2 study, which randomized over 6000
      patients found short and long-term clinical outcomes with bivalirudin were as effective as
      heparin/Gp IIB/IIIA inhibition combination with evidence of significantly less major and
      minor bleeding 3, 4. This led to approval of the 0.75 mg/kg/1.75 mg/kg/hr dose of Angiomax®
      by the Food and Drug Administration for use as an anticoagulant in patients with unstable
      angina undergoing PCI.

      It is now routinely accepted that early sheath removal after PCI reduces femoral access site
      complications and leads to earlier ambulation, earlier discharge, improved patient
      satisfaction 5. Heparin-based anticoagulation requires monitoring of the coagulation status
      to determine readiness for sheath removal because of the lack of predictable duration of
      anticoagulation with heparin. Because clearance of bivalirudin occurs mostly by proteolytic
      cleavage by thrombin, the drug has more predictable pharmacokinetics and exhibits linear dose
      relationship with respect to plasma concentrations and coagulation assay endpoints 6.
      Preliminary studies indicate sheath removal 2 hours after cessation of bivalirudin without
      coagulation monitoring is safe 5. While REPLACE-2 suggested that catheterization related
      vascular complications were decreased with bivalirudin, specific data on these endpoints and
      others such as time to ambulation and time to discharge were not collected because of the
      blinded nature of the trial. Currently the rate of vascular complications at MGH for patients
      undergoing PCI is 4.0% which significantly exceeds the national rate of 1.9% (95% CI 1.1 to
      3.2) 7.

      We will conduct a randomized clinical trial in patients undergoing PCI to compare the rates
      of vascular related complications between patients assigned to one of two arms: 1)
      bivalirudin + provisional Gp IIB/IIIA use versus 2) heparin + Gp IIB/IIIA (eptifibatide
      (Integrilin®)) use. The primary endpoint will be a composite of vascular related groin
      complications (MAVE-major adverse vascular endpoints as defined in next section). Secondary
      endpoints will be 1) time to sheath pull; 2) time to ambulation; and 3) occurrence of major
      and minor bleeding peri-catheterization.
    
  