
    
      In this study we propose to evaluate the utility of radial strain imaging using speckle
      tracking to predict the response to CRT in patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy (ICMP) with
      NYHA functional class 2-4 heart failure and a standard guideline-based CRT indication, and to
      determine the value of lead localization determined by radial strain imaging in a
      prospective, randomized manner. We will compare two randomized groups of CRT recipients
      implanted with CRT-D systems. In the control group, implantation will be performed in the
      usual manner and the lead will be placed at the discretion of the implanting physician,
      preferably at posterolateral LV sites . In the study group, leads will be placed in areas of
      latest contraction that lack significant scar, as determined by speckle tracking imaging. The
      primary outcome measure for comparison between the 2 groups will be echocardiographic
      response (as assessed by percent reduction in left ventricular end systolic volumes) at 6
      months post-implantation. In addition, clinical response parameters will also be measured as
      secondary end points.

      We hypothesize that 1) patients showing greater dyssynchrony and/or discoordination index
      with speckle tracking will derive a significantly greater response to cardiac
      resynchronization therapy; and 2) patients allocated to the image-guided LV lead placement
      group will derive a significantly greater response to CRT than patients in the non- guided
      implantation (control) group.

      If radial strain imaging proves useful for improving the CRT response rate and identification
      of patients likely to respond, it will have important clinical and economic implications by
      improving individual outcomes and more effective utilization of constrained health care
      resources. Furthermore, if echo-guided lead implantation proves to be effective in reducing
      the relatively large non-response rate to cardiac resynchronization therapy, it will likely
      result in increased device utilization among eligible heart failure patients.

      Specific Aims Aim #1: To show that in patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy, implantation of
      a CRT LV lead guided by radial strain imaging results in a significantly greater
      echocardiographic and clinical response to cardiac resynchronization therapy compared with
      conventional implantation techniques.

      Aim #2: To show that speckle tracking strain data can be used to identify the degree of
      echocardiographic response to CRT, using both dyssynchrony (time to peak strain ) and
      discoordination indices.

      Aim #3:

      The Paieon substudy will comprise 40 patients enrolled at 3 centers, for whom additional
      information mechanical dyssynchrony, using the Paieon CardioGuide motion map, will be
      collected during device implantation as detailed below The primary aim of the study is to
      relate data of mechanical dyssynchrony obtained from angiography through the Paieon
      CardioGuide motion map to dyssynchrony data obtained from the echocardiogram.

      The dyssynchrony data will not be available to the treating physicians and will not be used
      to direct the LV lead location.
    
  