
    
      The overall goal is to develop effective, clinically applicable, approaches to restore upper
      limb function (reach-and-grasp) after chronic contusive cervical spinal cord injury (cSCI).
      Impairments in upper limb function significantly reduce the quality of life for people with
      cSCI. Reach-and-grasp actions in animals and humans are largely controlled by the
      corticospinal tract (CST). The investigators argue that promoting plasticity within the CST
      may support the recovery of upper limb function after cSCI. Repetitive exposure to acute
      intermittent hypoxia (rAIH) combined with motor training is a safe, minimally invasive,
      treatment that elicits neuroplasticity resulting in improved recovery after cSCI, but its
      overall effects remain limited. The main goals are to: 1) enhance rAIH/training-induced
      aftereffects on forelimb function and increase the understanding of the neuronal substrates
      in an adult rat model of chronic contusive cSCI, and 2) use this knowledge to guide the
      development of more effective rAIH/training approaches to improve upper limb function in
      humans with chronic contusive cSCI.

      In Specific Aim 1, using an adult rat model of chronic contusive cSCI, the investigators will
      investigate the effects of rAIH frequency and dose on rAIH/training-mediated functional
      recovery of the impaired forelimb. Also, the investigators will combine rAIH/training with
      N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDA)-mediated synaptic plasticity through D-cycloserine
      treatment and study the effects on recovery of forelimb function. Immunocytochemistry with
      imaging techniques will be used to assess structural neuronal plasticity in the CST after
      rAIH/training. In Specific Aim 2, in people with chronic incomplete cSCI, guided by the
      findings in Specific Aim 1, the investigators will study the effects of rAIH frequency and
      concurrent D-cycloserine treatment on rAIH/training-mediated upper limb function recovery.
      The investigators will comprehensively analyze the effects of rAIH on the strength of
      electrophysiological and functional aftereffects in the upper limb.

      The proposed research will provide new knowledge on rAIH/training-mediated functional and
      anatomical aftereffects (Specific Aim 1), which will be used to develop effective
      rAIH/training protocols for people with contusive, functionally incomplete, cSCI (Specific
      Aim 2). The data from the investigators' experiments may lead to clinically applicable
      approaches that improve arm and hand function recovery after chronic contusive cSCI, which
      would positively impact the quality of life of Veterans with cSCI. The relevance of this
      proposal is emphasized by the limited efficacy of current strategies to improve upper limb
      function after cSCI.
    
  