
    
      Two hundred and eighty anemic renal transplant recipients with stable graft function- who are
      followed up in Hamed Al-Essa organ transplant centre - will be assessed for the possible
      causes of their anemia. Anemia will be defined as Revised European Best Practice guidelines
      for anemia in renal tx, a Hb level of <11 g/dl should trigger treatment with ESA.

      Drugs:

      After patients' assessment for possible causes of anemia, each patient will be managed
      according to the specific cause of anemia i.e. iron, folic, and vitamin b12 deficiencies will
      be corrected. If anemia will be improved, we will consider such group of patients as
      corrected group, but if we failed to find specific cause of anemia we will consider them for
      ESA. Iron supplementation is permitted in order to maintain serum ferritin in the range
      100-800 ng/ml or transferring saturation (TSAT) in the range 20-50%. Medications known to
      affect Hb concentration-e.g. angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) & angiotensin
      receptor blockers (ARBS) - will be maintained at a stable dose if already prescribed at the
      start of the study.

      Patients who fulfilled the following criteria will be included in the study:

      Adult renal transplant patients (≥18 years). Informed consent. Stable maintenance
      subcutaneous darbepoetin alfa therapy with constant dose interval during the last 2 months.

      Haemoglobin (Hb) ≥10mg/dL (Hct 32%). Transferrin saturation (TSAT) ≥20% (during the screening
      phase) Serum ferritin ≥100 ng/mL

      We will exclude patients with the following criteria:

      Acute or chronic bleeding, or erythrocyte transfusion, within the preceding 8 weeks.

      Change in Hb level ≥ 2 g/dL during screening phase. Hemolytic anemia. Recent infection or
      rejection Diastolic blood pressure >100mmHg or discontinuation of ESA due to hypertension in
      the 6 months prior to study.

      Vitamin B12 or folic acid deficiency. Uncontrolled or secondary hyperparathyroidism. Acute or
      chronic systemic inflammatory disease and/or C-reactive protein (CRP) >30 mg/L.

      Hemodialysis due to the failure of a kidney transplant. Malignancy. Eligible patients will be
      randomized to either target hemoglobin between 11 to 12 gram/dl (group 1), or target
      hemoglobin between 13 to 15 gram/dl (group 2). The target HB will be achieved using either
      darbepoetin α once weekly or once every 2 weeks or equivalent dosage of monthly CERA and the
      dosage will be adjusted during the titration and evaluation phase according to table 1.

      The maintenance dosage of each agent will be modified according to the response (hemoglobin
      changes). In case of any emergencies, the patient will be managed in Hamed Al-Issa organ
      transplant Centre 24 hours per day. Mobile of the 1st on-call doctor is ( ); Tel of OTC, ward
      1(24826490 &24840300 ext. 4100)".

      Randomization:

      Patients will be classified according to the maintenance dose of ESA, then they will be
      sub-grouped into males and females. All patients in each subgroup will be arranged
      alphabetical using Excel program, and a number will be given to each patient. Patients with
      odd numbers will serve as group1 while those with even numbers will serve as group 2.
      Patients' files will be marked with sticker according to the corresponding group to
      facilitate collection of data.

      Methods:

      Each patient will be evaluated:

      Clinically by history taking and thorough medical examination every month in the outpatient
      clinic.

      By Laboratory investigations which will include:

      CBC*, HB electrophoresis, Iron-Ferritin- Transferrin saturation, PT(INR) B12, folic acid
      levels PTH, CR protein, ESR

        -  Serum cr., Cr cl, LFT, ca/ph, FBS

        -  Urinary protein (gm / 24h )

        -  Drug levels Virology profile (CMV, EBV, Parvovirus ) The radiological investigation
           using abdominal US, echocardiography and carotid Doppler ultrasound.

      Quality of life will be assessed in each patient using 25 and 36 questionnaires at the start
      of enrollment and by the end of 12 months of achieving the target hemoglobin.

      NB.1- * indicates that these test will be every month, while other tests will be only at the
      initial assessment.

      2-Blood samples will be sent to the corresponding laboratory without storage and results will
      be collected according to the laboratory schedule.

      3-As the drugs utilized in such study is available for all patients (Kuwaiti and
      non-Kuwaiti), we will proceed smoothly. However, some of the laboratory tests will need
      patients own financial support (especially the non-Kuwaiti).

      Data analysis:

      Descriptive parameters (mean, standard deviation, median, range, and the number of
      observations) will be presented for continuous observations.

      Frequencies (absolute and percentage) are to be shown for qualitative variables (e.g., sex,
      ethnicity, Hb values within target ranges and occurrence of adverse events).

      The safety population will compromise all patients who received at least one dose of study
      medication. All patients in the safety population who provided at least one Hb value during
      C.E.R.A. therapy will be included in the intention-to-treat (ITT) population
    
  