
    
      the investigators conducted this comparative clinical trial in the period between April 2017
      and March 2019, on 92 patients with simple anal fistula, patients were randomly allocated
      into 2 groups, group I the fistulotomy group; 46 patients they underwent fistulotomy and
      marsupialization of wound edges. Group II, the fistulectomy group they underwent fistulectomy
      with closure of the wound.

      Randomization was done using computer generated cards, the trial was approved by
      institutional review board (IRB) and the ethical committee of our hospitals, all study
      participants signed an informed written consent.

      The condition of this trial is simple anal fistula defined as non-branched fistula confined
      to the lower third of the anal sphincter diagnosed by anorectal examination or MRI if needed,
      the primary outcomes are; the time taken for complete healing, fistula recurrence and anal
      incontinence diagnosed by Vaizey score patient's questionnaire. The secondary outcomes are
      local wound complications and postoperative pain calculated by visual analogue score (VAS).
      Study participants number was calculated through the IRB depending on the incidence of simple
      anal fistula in our locality.

      inclusion criteria

      • patients above 18 years diagnosed with simple non recurrent anal fistula.

      exclusion criteria:

        -  Anorectal malignancy.

        -  Specific disease (Crohn's disease).

        -  ASA class III, VI and any contraindication for surgery

        -  Immunocompromised patients and those on steroid therapy or cytotoxic drugs.

        -  Perianal collection. participants of this study were subjected to proper history taking
           and full clinical examination for diagnosis of the condition, detection of any
           associated disease and \ or exclusion factor. MRI was ordered if there is any doubt
           about diagnosis, preoperative investigations were ordered as per usual.

      The procedure in both groups was carried out by the study surgeons, under general anesthesia
      in lithotomy position, anorectal examination was done to identify the internal and external
      openings, course of fistulous track and any side tracks if present. When the internal opening
      couldn't be identified the operator used methylene blue dye injection through the external
      opening. In fistulotomy group and after probing of the track it was let open by diathermy,
      its floor was curetted and the wound edges marsupialized by polygalactin (Vicryl) sutures
      3\0.

      In fistulectomy group and after probing, the fistulous track was excised by diathermy
      together with its internal and external openings, after hemostasis the wound was closed by
      polygalactin (Vicryl) sutures 3\0.

      In both groups the wound was dressed with non-adhesive dressing, Nonsteroidal analgesics were
      given as per need and participants were discharged after 24 hours if there is no
      contraindication to do so.

      After discharge study participants were encouraged for self-cleaning by antiseptic baths.

      Follow up was carried out in the outpatient clinics by the study surgeons, the clinic visits
      were planed every week for 12 weeks then monthly for another three months, in each visit the
      investigator recorded the state of wound healing, anal continence, postoperative pain, any
      local wound complications, and any recurrence after complete healing in the follow up time.

      Preoperative data, demographic data, operative time, intraoperative complications and follow
      up data were collected and properly analyzed using paired t test and Z tests in SPSS 22
      program package.
    
  