
    
      The main purpose of the study is to determine the possibility of assessing the level of
      anxiety by means of the respiration curve and/or ballistocardiographic (BCG) signal acquired
      from MRI patients using a fiber-optic sensor system. In many patients, the MRI examination
      causes enormous stress due to limited space in the scanner, isolation during the examination
      and high noise levels. Usually, anxiety or stress triggers an increase in respiration rate
      (RR), leading to hyperventilation in extreme cases. There are also frequent cases of
      disturbances in heart rate (HR). Thus, the symptoms of claustrophobia can be detected by
      monitoring respiration activity and heart work.

      The fiber-optic sensor system consists of a sensor mat, an interrogator and a personal
      computer (PC), and records respiratory and BCG signals in patients during MRI. The metal-free
      sensor mat is placed under the patient's back, does not pose a threat to the patient and has
      no influence over the quality of imaging. The interrogation module detects the optical signal
      including vital signs, and the PC with software developed for signal processing and
      visualization enable the MRI operator to monitor patient's RR and HR.

      Up to 200 MRI patients in different age, weight, and gender will be participated in the
      study. They will be asked to complete the State Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) questionnaire
      in order to estimate anxiety level before and after the MRI scanning. Relations between the
      STAI X-1 scores and the mean RR and/or HR values recorded at the beginning and the end of the
      MRI scanning will be analyzed using descriptive statistic methods. The research scheme
      includes also the collection of the STAI X-2 scores before the MRI scanning. Finally, the
      values of the physiological parameters, which may indicate a dangerous level of anxiety will
      be determined. Positive results of the clinical evaluation will predestine the fiber-optic
      sensor system to be implemented in routine MRI procedures.
    
  