
    
      This study will be done in two parts:

        -  Part 1 - Dose Escalation: The goal of Part 1 of the study is to find the highest
           tolerable combination and recommended phase 2 doses (RP2D) of venetoclax plus cytarabine
           and venetoclax plus cytarabine and idarubicin that can be given to patients with
           leukemia.

        -  Part 2 - Dose Expansion: After determination of doses in Part 1, patients will be
           enrolled on Part 2 to look at the effects of venetoclax plus cytarabine and venetoclax
           plus cytarabine and idarubicin.

      Depending on when participants enroll on the study, Part 1 participants will receive one of
      the following courses of therapy:

        -  Venetoclax daily on days 1-28; cytarabine every 12 hours on days 8-17; OR

        -  Venetoclax daily on days 1-28; cytarabine every 12 hours on days 8-11; OR

        -  Venetoclax daily on days 1-28; cytarabine every 12 hours on days 8-11; idarubicin once
           on day 8; OR

        -  Venetoclax daily on days 1-28; cytarabine every 12 hours on days 8-17; idarubicin once
           on day 8.

      Part 2 participants will receive one of the following courses of therapy:

        -  Venetoclax daily on days 1-28; cytarabine - to be determined from Part 1 of the study;
           OR

        -  Venetoclax daily on days 1-28; cytarabine - to be determined from Part 1 of the study;
           idarubicin once on day 8.

      The cytarabine dosage will be that found in Part 1 to be the highest safest dose.

      Those participants receiving idarubicin will also receive dexrazoxane.

      Note: Part 1 has been completed. Part 2 participants receive the following determined from
      Part 1 of the study:

        -  Venetoclax daily on days 1-28; cytarabine every 12 hours days 8-11 OR

        -  Venetoclax daily on days 1-28; cytarabine every 12 hours days 8-11; idarubicin once on
           day 8.

      All participants on both Part 1 and Part 2 receive one intrathecal (IT) chemotherapy before
      starting the first cycle. Patients with CNS disease will receive weekly IT therapy until the
      cerebrospinal fluid becomes free of leukemia (minimum of 4 doses). Bone marrow aspiration and
      biopsy to assess response will be performed between days 28 and 42 of cycle 1. Patients who
      achieve complete remission/complete remission with incomplete count recovery/partial
      remission (CR/CRi/PR) and who do not experience unacceptable toxicity during cycle 1 may
      receive up to four cycles of chemotherapy.

      Cohort C (Amendment 5.0): Treatment of participants enrolled in cohort C will include:
      Venetoclax daily on days 1-21; cytarabine every 12 hours days 8-11; azacytidine days 1-7.
      Participants will receive one intrathecal (IT) chemotherapy before starting the first cycle.
      Participants with CNS disease will receive weekly ITMHA until the cerebrospinal fluid becomes
      free of leukemia.

      The rolling-6 design will be used to determine the safety of cohort C. After cohort C is
      deemed to be safe, additional patients will be enrolled, if necessary, so that at least 6
      patients are treated in cohort C to confirm tolerability. After tolerability is confirmed, 6
      additional patients will be treated to explore activity.
    
  