
    
      Background:

        -  Mesothelin is expressed in approximately half of all lung adenocarcinomas.

        -  LMB-100 has demonstrated anti-tumor efficacy against several mesothelin expressing tumor
           models including non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).- Programmed death ligand 1 (PD-1)
           is an Ig superfamily member related to CD28 and CTLA-4 that has been shown to negatively
           regulate antigen receptor signaling upon engagement of its ligands.

        -  Pembrolizumab, an IgG4 monoclonal antagonist antibody to PD-1, is FDA approved in the
           frontline for advanced non-squamous NSCLC as a single agent with high PD-L1 expression
           [tumor proportion score (TPS) >=50%] or in combination with platinum-based doublet
           chemotherapy (PD-L1 unselected). It also approved in the second-line for high PDL1
           expressing tumors (TPS >=1%).

        -  Combination treatment with LMB-100 plus pembrolizumab results in greater anti-tumor
           efficacy in murine lung cancer model.

      Objectives:

      -To determine the objective response rate of LMB-100 followed by pembrolizumab in the
      treatment of subjects with mesothelin-expressing non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer
      (NSCLC) previously treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors.

      Eligibility:

        -  Histologically confirmed locally advanced or metastatic non-squamous, non-small cell
           lung cancer lacking an EGFR sensitizing mutation, ALK or ROS1 gene rearrangement and not
           amenable to potentially curative surgical resection or chemoradiation.

        -  Tumor mesothelin expression of at least 25% of tumor cells as determined by the
           Laboratory of Pathology at the NCI.

        -  Subjects must have at least progressed after one prior platinum-based doublet
           chemotherapy AND standard immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) with either frontline
           single-agent pembrolizumab, or in combination with platinum-based doublet chemotherapy,
           or second-line single-agent nivolumab, pembrolizumab, or atezolizumab.

        -  Age >= 18 years.

      Design:

        -  This is an open-label, single center phase II study of LMB-100 followed by pembrolizumab
           in subjects with mesothelin expressing NSCLC who have progressed on standard therapies

        -  Subjects will receive LMB-100 at the single agent MTD (140mg/kg) on days 1, 3 and 5 of a
           21-day cycle for up to 2 cycles and pembrolizumab 200 mg on day 1 of cycle 3 of a 21-
           day cycle (or cycle 2 if disease progression is observed after 1 cycle) onwards until
           disease progression (on or after pembrolizumab) or intolerable toxicity for a maximum of
           2 years (unless second course initiated).

        -  The total accrual ceiling for the screening will be set at 100 total patients in order
           to treat 23 subjects.
    
  