
    
      Around 4% of total knee arthroplasties (TKA) are revised 15 years after the primary
      operation, most due to loosening of the implant. About 70 % TKA are fixed with bone cement
      and in general the results after total knee arthroplasty are excellent and with the existing
      technique about 95% well functioning prostheses can be expected 10 years post surgery. The
      most serious late complication to surgery is aseptic loosening of the implants; and this
      remains one of the main courses of failure of both uncemented and cemented total knee
      implants.

      Implant design, method of fixation and the bone mass density has a large influence on implant
      stability. Fixation of the tibia base plates in total knee arthroplasty can be obtained by
      different designs of anchorage in the tibia e.g. central round stems, fins and pegs. The
      smaller the tibia stem; the lesser amount of bone is lost at implantation and following
      revisions rendering probable a time gain before secondary arthrodesis is necessary. The tibia
      stem cannot be to tiny either because it has to be able to resist the load of shearing forces
      naturally presented by the knee kinetics.

      In this project we are using modularly tibia components with a central wedge- and I-beam
      shaped stem respectively. Both type of prosthesis are consolidated in the bone by bone cement
      applied under the base-plate while the stem is fixed press-fit (without cement) in the
      proximal tibia.

      The purpose of this study is to compare the early migration of two cemented total knee
      implants with different tibial stem design by RSA (radio stereophotogrammetric analysis).
      Furthermore, we will make research into the periprosthetic bone and it's changes after
      surgery using DEXA. Finally the extend of the expected micromovements between the
      polyethylene liner and the metal backing of the titanium plateau will be compared and taken
      into account with the results.

      Tibia wedge stems are exposed to the greatest load test by shearing forces while block stems
      are bearing the greater load with compression and some scientists therefore speculate that
      block-designs are better than wedge-designs. This project is set up to explain the
      theoretical speculations about design and implant survival. The durability of the implants
      have been tested in account of fatigue and durability in a 80-20 test and they're both able
      to resist 4-6 times bodyweight. Furthermore, the polyethylene is produced by direct
      compression molding making it very resistant to wear.

      To evaluate both the implant-bone micromotions and the polyethylene-implant micromovements
      metal markers have been placed on the implant prior to surgery and furthermore into the
      tibial bone and into the tibial polyethylene intra-operatively allowing us to evaluate stereo
      x-rays by a photogrammetric computer analyses called RSA at the Orthopaedic Center, Aarhus
      University Hospital. Follow-up stereo x-rays will be scheduled for 1 week, 3 months, 6 month,
      1 years and 2 years post-surgery. Periprostetic bone density will be evaluated at 1 week, 1
      year and 2 years upon inclusion at the Orthopaedic Center, Aarhus University Hospital.
    
  