
    
      Rationale:

      Catheter ablation of the CTI represents the established curative first-line treatment for
      typical AFl. Although the acute and chronic efficacy is high, conventional ablation is still
      time consuming, requires a considerable amount of radiation as reported even in the most
      recent trials and treatment failure occurs.

      The MVG catheter ablation of the CTI aims to limit energy delivery by selectively treating
      conductive bundles. Compared to the conventional linear strategy, a reduction of ablation and
      procedural time had been shown for the MVG technique. For several reasons, however, the
      current evidence is still not considered to be robust enough to suggest a general change in
      the ablation approach:

        -  Despite a reduction in ablation requirements, the additional time needed for voltage
           mapping often prolongs the total procedure duration.

        -  The spatial mapping resolution of large tip catheters, most often used for CTI-ablation
           is limited.

        -  Catheter positioning and CTI ablation is still guided by fluoroscopy with the well-known
           potential harm in the majority of electrophysiological centers. There are conflicting
           data for the MVG approach regarding radiation duration.

        -  The MVG approach theoretically encompasses an increased risk for clinically inapparent
           reconduction. A prospective study with predefined invasive re-evaluation of persistent
           CTI block is lacking.

      Aims of the study:

      MicroFidelity catheter technology was introduced to enhance the spatial resolution of large
      tip catheters and may facilitate zero-fluoroscopy substrate-guided ablation by
      high-resolution (HR) electroanatomic mapping (EAM) and precisely targeted energy application.

      This study is designed to prospectively evaluate safety and efficacy of the stepwise maximum
      voltage mapping guided CTI ablation strategy ("MVG") using IntellaMiFi technology compared
      with a randomized cohort undergoing conventional linear CTI ablation (control).

      Beyond procedural efficacy (main hypothesis) and safety patients outcome will be evaluated

        1. by electrophysiologic diagnostic reevaluation of the ablation success after 3 months,

        2. by clinical assessment and Holter-monitoring during 6 and 12-month follow-up.
           Furthermore, we aim to validate efficacy and safety of three-dimensional EAM- guided CTI
           ablation without the use of fluoroscopy as standard approach in clinical routine.

      The prospective randomized analysis aims to provide fundamental data to suggest a general
      change in the CTI ablation approach towards a three-dimensional electroanatomical mapping
      guided, substrate-orientated stepwise procedure without the use of radiation as clinical
      standard (Zero MAGIC).

      Study design and hypothesis:

      Single center, prospective randomized trial, two arms ("MVG": voltage mapping guided CTI
      ablation versus "control" undergoing linear approach), patients blinded to the treatment.

      Investigators that perform follow-up will be blinded regarding the patients group.

      The study is designed to prospectively compare two different ablation strategies for the
      curative treatment of documented typical (CTI dependent) atrial flutter regarding efficacy
      and safety. Patients will be randomized either to undergo a voltage mapping guided CTI
      ablation or to a second group ablated using the conventional linear approach in order to
      investigate the following hypotheses:

      Main hypothesis The zero-fluoroscopy MVG ablation approach significantly reduces CTI-ablation
      duration (total radiofrequency (RF) energy (RFE) application time) to bidirectional
      conduction block (BCB) compared with the conventional linear strategy.

      Further hypotheses

        -  Over 90% of all procedures (MVG and conventional linear) can be safely performed without
           the use of radiation, cardiac implantable electronic devices (CIEDs) excluded.

        -  IntellaMiFi electrodes localize the higher voltage potentials with higher accuracy
           compared to conventional bipoles.

        -  There is no difference in the occurrence of complications, such as tamponade,
           atrio-ventricular (AV) block, charring of catheter tip and sedation side effects.

        -  There is no difference in the rate of persistent BCB in electrophysiologic re-evaluation
           after 3 months.

        -  There is no difference in the recurrence rate of typical atrial flutter as estimated by
           6 and 12 month clinical and Holter electrocardiogram follow-up.

      Patients:

      The trial will include consecutive patients with documented typical (CTI dependent) atrial
      flutter undergoing CTI ablation according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Study groups and randomization Group 1 - MVG: maximum voltage guided stepwise CTI ablation
      (stepwise voltage guided approach (SVG)).

      This cohort will be compared to Group 2 - control: patients undergoing conventional linear
      CTI ablation.

      Primary endpoint Cumulative ablation duration (total radiofrequency energy delivery time) in
      seconds that is needed to achieve sustained complete BCB (acute procedural efficacy).

      Secondary endpoints see below.

      Follow-up Three months after ablation a diagnostic electrophysiologic (EP) study is performed
      to evaluate persistence of CTI block. In the case of recurrent conduction the indication is
      given for re-ablation.

      Six and 12 months after ablation patients are invited for a clinical investigation and a 72
      hours Holter monitoring is performed.

      Sample size

        -  Primary Endpoint: procedural efficacy - ablation duration (total radiofrequency energy
           delivery time)

             -  Primary hypothesis: MVG ablation strategy reduces the duration of RF energy
                application (time to CTI block) by at least 35% compared to conventional linear
                approach For result analysis it is planned to use a non-parametric
                Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney test since the primary endpoint is not normally distributed

             -  Prospective randomized trial, PROBE design

             -  Group 1: treatment with MVG ablation (stepwise approach)

             -  Group 2: treatment with conventional linear ablation approach

             -  Sample size estimation Based on the results from Deutsch et al., Medicine 2017

        -  Conventional pull back/ fluoroscopy as low as reasonable achievable (ALARA): 726±454
           sec.

        -  MVG/minimal fluoroscopy: 473±317 sec.

      Compare two means two side, parametric test:

        -  76 patients (2 groups with 38 pts per group)

        -  power 80%, α=0.05, ratio 1:1 Due to planned use of a non-parametric test 15% are added
           to the sample size resulting from the parametric test estimation

        -  Sample size: 88 patients (44 each group) plus 20% expected dropout rate: => overall
           sample size 106 patients (53 patients each group)

      Statistics Data will be collected in a hospital-internal Excel file. The data will be
      initially analyzed descriptively, including frequencies and percentages for categorical data,
      and mean, standard deviation, median and quartiles for continuous data.

      To evaluate the primary endpoint we plan to use a non-parametric Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney test
      for comparison of a population not normally distributed, due to non-normality reported in
      former studies. We define p < 0.05 as statistically significant.

      Randomization Randomization will occur once patient has been determined eligible for the
      study, he/she has received the appropriate and mandatory information about the study and the
      informed consent form has been signed. Patients will be randomly assigned with ratio 1:1 to
      one of two treatment arms.

      The randomization list will be generated using the Wei's Urn Design method as implemented in
      the R package randomizeR.

      Ethical consideration The study has been approved by the responsible ethics committee. In all
      respects, the clinical trial will be conducted in full conformance with principles of the
      "Declaration of Helsinki and, Good Clinical Practice (GCP).

      All responsible physicians will provide a valid GCP training. All participating patients have
      the medical indication for curative CTI ablation according to the current medical guidelines.

      Informed consent Written informed consent is required from all subjects prior to their
      participation in the study.

      Patients insurance The study does not evaluate the performance of a medical product. All
      hardware and software including the catheter and EAM system are commercially available and
      used strictly according to their Conformité Européenne (CE) marking and specification. There
      is no increased radiation exposure due to the study. Despite the very low risks potentially
      associated to the study, a patients insurance policy will be taken out with an insurance
      company.

      Investigator sponsored research The ZERO MAGIC trial is conducted as an investigator
      sponsored research (ISR) project in cooperation with Boston Scientific. The contract between
      the company Boston Scientific and the Klinikum Fuerth has been reviewed and approved in
      detail by the department for compliance from the Klinikum Fuerth.

      Data management and data security The screening and informed consent process according to the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria will be performed by the PI and co-investigators. All
      participating investigators are instructed in the study protocol and provide a valid GCP
      training.

      All demographic and procedural data will be listed in a password-protected hospital-internal
      Excel database according to the modified principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and Good
      clinical Practice. Access to the data base is restricted to the PI and co-investigators. In
      the data base, a cryptographic "hash" algorithm will be used for pseudonymization of
      patients' identifying data such as name and birth date. The code book for re-identification
      is password protected and the access strictly limited to Dr. Bastian, Dr. Vitali-Serdoz as PI
      and first co-investigator.

      Data will be kept in the database for a minimum of ten years.
    
  