
    
      Introduction Advanced lipoprotein testing has been available for over 50 years and its use in
      cardiovascular risk stratification has been proposed in a number of clinical trials (Superko
      2009, 2383). Low Density Lipid Cholesterol (LDLC) is currently used as the key cardiovascular
      biomarker for assessing risk and monitoring response to lipid therapy (Cole, T. 2013, 752).
      The highest correlation with cardiovascular risk has been found with apolipoproteinB (apoB)
      or LDL particle concentration by NMR (Brunzell 2008, 814). Despite the wide availability of
      advanced lipoprotein tests, no reference standard exists for LDLC due to inherent problems
      with each of the assays (Mora 2009, 2402)(Marcovina 2006, 440). The most common laboratory
      method of determining LDLC is by precipitation of apolipoproteinB (apoB) containing
      lipoprotein particles, measurement of the high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDLC), and
      calculation of the LDLC by the Friedewald equation; however, there are inherent errors
      associated with three separate measurements (Marcovina 2006, Superko 2009, 2384). Correlation
      between lab LDLC and values obtained by ultracentrifugation has been reported to range from 7
      to 31.2%, with a significant amount of misclassification (Marcovina, S. and Packard, C. 2006,
      440). Furthermore, elevated triglycerides have been reported to interfere with the accuracy
      of LDLC measurements (Marcovina, S. and Packard, C. 2006, 440). ApoB, which is the main
      protein component of LDL, is also considered a direct measure of LDL particle number (Cole,
      T. 2013, 753). Newer methods for estimating LDL particle number, including NMR and VAP are
      currently under investigation. NMR has been proposed as having the best correlation with
      adverse cardiovascular outcomes (reference). Unfortunately, the accuracy of LDLC or LDL
      particle number measurements is currently not monitored by national standardization programs.
      Direct comparisons between the various testing methods have been limited limiting our ability
      to accurately interpret and compare values across vendors and lipid parameters.

      Hypothesis:

        -  LDL particle count numbers determined by NMR (Liposcience) provides the best estimates
           of cardiovascular risk

        -  Discrepancies exist between the LDL particle count by NMR and other values:

             -  Calculated LDLC

             -  Directly measured LDL (VAP and ion mobility)

      Objective:

        -  To determine the test which has the highest concordance and lowest concordance with the
           NMR test Study Design

        -  Prospective analysis with a target study population of 100 patients

        -  Superiority study aimed to detect a 300 point difference in LDL particle count

        -  Requires a one-time lab draw for all patients

      Inclusion criteria

        -  Greater than 18 years of age

        -  On statin, statin and natural supplements, or natural supplements only

      Exclusion criteria

        -  Within 6 months from an acute myocardial infarction (MI) or acute coronary syndrome
           (ACS)

        -  Non-English speaker

      Risks to the patient:

        -  Loss of personal health information

        -  Phlebotomy related risks, including injury, bruising, and vasovagal reactions
    
  