
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance are strongly linked with essential hypertension (EH)
      and non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), both of which afflict African American
      women with greater incidence, morbidity, and mortality compared to Caucasians. The insulin
      resistance syndrome is often characterized by upper body obesity. In women, this body
      morphology is related to higher levels of androgens. In young adult African Americans the
      investigators have detected significant gender differences in both hyperinsulinemia and
      insulin resistance, with African American women exhibiting higher plasma insulin and greater
      insulin resistance compared to men

      Results of these studies should help to determine if insulin and androgens define risk for
      cardiovascular disease in African American women. These data can lead to new insights to the
      excess prevalence of EH and NIDDM in African American women, and to the development of
      strategies for prevention.

      The study was part of an NHLBI initiative on Collaborative Projects (R01s) on Minority
      Health. The 1993 Report of the Committee on Appropriations, House of Representatives,
      encouraged the NHLBI to establish minority centers to facilitate the diagnosis and treatment
      of cardiovascular disease. The concept for the initiative was developed by Institute staff
      and approved by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Advisory Council in September, 1992. The
      Institute-wide Request for Applications was released in October, 1992.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study was designed to test the overall hypothesis that cosegregation of hyperinsulinemia
      and androgenicity correlated with greater cardiovascular risk in African American women.
      Women who have hyperinsulinemia and higher androgen levels have high blood pressure, impaired
      glucose tolerance, and altered serum lipids, as compared to women who do not have both
      phenotypes. The study was conducted on a population of young adult African American men and
      women that had been studied longitudinally. Mothers of the young women were also studied. The
      investigators: obtained anthropometric and blood pressure measures; quantitated glucose
      tolerance by glucose tolerance test, and insulin sensitivity by insulin clamp; measured serum
      lipids; and assessed androgen levels using assays of plasma sex-hormone binding globulin and
      free testosterone.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.

      As part of a collaborative project on minority health, Dr. Falkner is collaborating with Dr.
      Thomas Tulenko (R01HL51538) and Dr. Julian Marsh (R01HL51536).
    
  