
    
      Multicenter study that includes patients operated on for distal pancreatectomy between
      January 2009 to December 2019 for primary pancreatic tumors. Both open or laparoscopic
      approaches are considered in the study. The objective is to evaluate the characteristics of
      the patients and the results of morbidity and mortality after distal pancreatectomy isolated
      or accompanied by multivisceral resection including cholecystectomy. For this, demographic
      data, variables related to the tumor, surgical intervention and postoperative evolution were
      collected.

      Definitions:

      Diagnosis was based mainly on computed tomography (CT scan), Magnetic Resonance (MRI) and
      endoscopic ultrasonography (USE) plus biopsy. Surgical technique includes open and
      laparoscopic approach with or without spleen preservation. Complications were assessed at 90
      days using the Clavien - Dindo classification, and those defined as Clavien - Dindo grade
      IIIA or higher were considered major. For the recording of complications, the medical and
      nursing notes of the electronic or histories of each patient were consulted. For the specific
      complications of pancreatic surgery, the definitions of the International Study Group on
      Pancreatic Surgery (ISGPS) of delayed gastric emptying (21), post-pancreatic hemorrhage (22)
      and pancreatic fistula were used. The resection margins of the surgical specimen were
      categorized according to the definitions of the Royal College of Pathologists: R0 (margin to
      the tumor ≥ 1mm), R1 (margin to the tumor <1mm) and R2 (macroscopically positive margin)
      (24). Tumors were staged according to the TNM classification 8 º Ed. (TNM). Follow up scheme
      was: 6-month outpatient clinic visit during first five years including tumoral markers and
      CT/MRI. After five years only once a year visit policy was applied.

      Variables The following variables were studied: Epidemiological: age, sex, past medical
      history, medication, Charlson Index and American Society of Anesthesiology (ASA)
      classification; Clinical: symptoms due to mucinous neoplasm (MCN); Serological tests:
      leukocytes, amylase; hemoglobin (gr/dl), bilirubin, creatinin, prothrombin time,
      carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and carbohydrate antigen (CA) 19-9; Radiological/diagnostic:
      diagnostic tests performed (CT/MRI/EUS), number, size and location of MCN, vascular
      infiltration (arterial and venous) and preoperative biopsy; Surgical: type of approach
      (open/laparoscopy/conversion), spleen preservation, associated procedures (organs resected),
      type of closure of pancreatic remnant, intraoperative bleeding (ml); postoperative course:
      morbidity and mortality (according to the Clavien-Dindo (CD) classification) (13), pancreatic
      fistula, postoperative hemorrhage and delayed gastric empting, if present, was classified
      according to the International Group Study Pancreatic Surgery (IGSPS) classification (14,15),
      hospital stay and readmissions. The histological data retrieved were TNM: tumor size and
      lymph nodes harvested and R status. Postoperative follow-up (months) including endocrine and
      exocrine insufficiency rate.
    
  