
    
      Aspirin is a cornerstone in the secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease because of its
      inhibitory effects on platelet aggregation. It reduces the risk of recurrent cardiovascular
      events with about a quarter. Although not supported by evidence, aspirin is usually taken at
      morning. There are several reasons why it may be more beneficial to take aspirin at bedtime
      instead of on awakening. First, one of the most important modifiable risk factors for
      cardiovascular disease is arterial hypertension. Aspirin is usually assumed to have no
      effects on blood pressure. However, in two randomized clinical trials of Hermida et al. among
      (otherwise healthy) grade I hypertensive subjects (140/90-159/99 mmHg), aspirin intake at
      bedtime decreased 24h blood pressure with 6.8/4.6 and 7.2/4.9 mmHg, whereas use of aspirin at
      morning slightly increased blood pressure (2.6/1.6 and 1.3/0.8 mmHg). The investigators have
      demonstrated that aspirin at bedtime decreases both plasma renin activity over 24h and
      excretion of catecholamines and cortisol in 24h urine compared to morning intake. Decreased
      activity of these pressor systems forms a biologically plausible explanation for the finding
      that aspirin at bedtime may reduce blood pressure whereas aspirin at morning does not. The
      effect of aspirin at bedtime versus on awakening on blood pressure has never been studied in
      a clinically relevant group of patients, i.e. patients already using aspirin for the
      secondary prevention of recurrent atherothrombotic events who mostly use also a wide variety
      of concomitant (antihypertensive) drugs. If time of intake has an effect, this could lead to
      a very simple improvement of therapy at no extra cost. Second, it has been convincingly shown
      that there is a morning peak in platelet reactivity, which might partly explain the increase
      in cardiovascular events in the early morning (highest incidence between 6 and 12 AM). Coming
      in an upright posture can lead to increased platelet activity and platelets can also be
      stimulated by the early morning increase of sympathetic activity (which starts few hours
      before awakening). Since platelet reactivity has a circadian rhythm, time of intake of
      aspirin may influence its inhibitory effect on platelets. It has been argued that intake of
      aspirin at bedtime could better prevent the early morning increase in platelet reactivity
      than intake at morning assuming that intake at morning would be too late.

      The aim of our project is to study whether treatment with aspirin at bedtime compared with
      intake at morning has additional benefits in patients using aspirin to prevent recurrent
      cardiovascular events. Our primary objective is to study the effect of 100 mg aspirin intake
      at bedtime compared with 100 mg aspirin intake at morning on blood pressure (24h ambulatory
      blood pressure measurements (ABPM)) in patients who use aspirin for secondary prevention of
      recurrent atherothrombotic events. As a secondary objective, the investigators will study the
      effect of aspirin intake at bedtime compared with at morning on platelet function.
      Furthermore, the investigators will address differential effects on potential side effects
      and compliance, as well as potential effect modification of the effect on blood pressure by
      genes involved in blood pressure regulation.
    
  