
    
      The aim of the study is to enroll approximately 2000 patients with CAP in total.
      Approximately 1000 X-ray positive patients and 1000 X-ray negative patients will be enrolled
      over 18 months.

      Investigating GPs will identify patients with clinical signs suggestive of CAP at clinic
      visits.

      A chest X-ray will be prescribed in accordance with local standard of care practices for
      patients that do not require immediate hospitalization. Chest X-ray must be completed within
      the 6 hours following its prescription.

      For the 1000 patients (patient enrolment will be monitored centrally) with a positive chest
      X-ray, all procedures will be undertaken according to the protocol. Patients will attend the
      local medical analysis laboratory for biological sample collection (blood, sputum,
      oropharyngeal swab for the PCR, and urine). If a patient has taken antibiotics prior to the
      clinic visit at which CAP is suspected, will only have urine samples collected.

      As a diagnostic confirmation of the chest X-ray assessments, for the 1000 patients for whom
      the local radiologist will have diagnosed a parenchymal opacity compatible with CAP, 200
      patients will be randomly selected by the clinical research organization (CRO Paris Descartes
      Necker Cochin). A central independent thoracic radiologist expert will re-read their chest
      X-ray. In case of insufficient agreement, all chest X-rays will be re-read.

      Patients will be asked to complete and return a self-assessment questionnaire at day 7 (D7)
      and at day 14 (D14) on the number of work days missed, if any, interruption of occupational
      activity, and the number of days of restricted everyday activities or recreational.

      Patients will be contacted by telephone at day 28, and day 90 if they are hospitalized
      between day 0 and day 28.

      For the 1000 patients (patient enrolment will be monitored centrally) with a negative chest
      X-ray, no medical analysis will be performed. Only clinical examination data will be
      recorded. Patients will be contacted by telephone at day 28.

      For patients who will be directly hospitalized before the completion of the additional
      examinations, they will be contacted by telephone at day 28 to retrieve the hospitalization
      report and at day 90.

      Control Patients will be included for the assessment of Pneumococcal urine antigen detection
      (UAD) Assay: in the two weeks following the inclusion of a patient with CAP, investigators
      should include a control patient according to the control patient inclusion / exclusion
      criteria. For these healthy patients, the number of inclusion is limited to 400.
    
  