
    
      Worldwide there are 130 000 new larnx cancers diagnosed annually resulting in 82 000
      deaths.Survival after diagnosis of larynx cancer depends on initial stage. For T3N0Mo
      laryngeal cancers 5-year survival ranges from 59 to 66%. Patients survivals are as follows:
      receiving either chemoradiation (59.2%), irradiation alone (42.7%) ,patients after surgery
      with irradiation (65.2%) and surgery alone (63.3%) By contrast in early stage larynx cancer
      survivals range from 90-100%. Tamura et al reported therapeutic outcomes of 130 cases with
      laryngeal cancer treated at Kyoto University Hospital between 1995 and 2004[3] In all, 121
      males and 9 females were involved. Their ages ranged from 40 years to 92 years (average 66
      years). All tumors were squamous cell carcinoma - arising at the glottis in 111 cases, the
      supraglottis in 18, and the subglottis in 1 case. Most glottic cancers (77.5%) were
      classified as stage I or II, while most supraglottic cancers (77.8%) were at stage III or IV.
      Stage I/II cancers were basically treated by conventional radiotherapy (60-66 Gy) and
      twice-daily hyperfractionated radiotherapy (70-74 Gy), respectively, attempting to preserve
      the larynx. Total laryngectomy with neck dissection was performed in the treatment of stage
      III/IV cases. Five-year disease-specific survival rates were 100%, 96%, 100%, and 68% for
      stage I, II, III, and IV, respectively. Five-year laryngeal preservation rates were 98%,
      100%, 86%, 0%, and 0% for T1a, T1b, T2, T3, and T4 of glottic cancer, respectively. Local
      recurrence occurred in five cases of stage I/II glottic cancer, which was successfully
      salvaged.

      Chera et al reported excellent treatment outcomes of definitive radiotherapy (RT) for
      early-stage squamous cell carcinoma (SCCA) of the glottic larynx. Endoscopic laser resection
      can also have an excellent outcome in early stage larynx cancer. Schrivers et al [5]reported
      survival analysis on 100 patients with T1a glottic carcinoma treated with CO(2) laser surgery
      (n = 49) or radiotherapy (n = 51). No significant differences in local control and overall
      survival were found. Ultimate 5-year laryngeal preservation was significantly better in the
      CO(2) laser surgery group (95% vs 77%, p = .043).

      Volatile organic compound (VOC) breath testing in cancer detection The concept for VOC
      testing is that VOCs, mostly alkanes and aromatic compounds, are preferentially produced and
      exhaled by cancer patients and can be used as accurate markers of malignancy. As early as
      1971, testing on normal breath identified more than 100 volatile organic compounds In the
      1980s Gordon and Preti used mass spectroscopy and gas chromatography to identify specific
      alterations in the profile of volatile organic compounds in the breath of lung cancer
      patients[16]. In two papers in 1999 and 2003, Phillips further refined this original data to
      identify a group of 9 volatile organic compounds which were highly sensitive and specific for
      the presence of lung cancer . The concentration of these alkane and methylalkane oxidative
      stress products was reduced in the breath of lung cancer patients.

      Cross-sectional studies have investigated exhaled biomarkers as a function of disease, both
      as biomarkers of disease state and as predictive markers. In cross-sectional studies, a
      control group is compared with a patient or diseased group, and breath markers are analyzed
      to identify qualitative or quantitative differences between the two groups. Phillips and
      coworkers [14] investigated alveolar gradients (i.e., the abundance in breath minus the
      abundance in room air) of C4 to C20 alkanes and monomethylated alkanes in the breath as tumor
      markers in primary lung cancer. They concluded that a breath test for C4 to C20 alkanes and
      monomethylated alkanes provided a rational new set of markers that identified lung cancer in
      a group of patients with histologically confirmed disease. The analytical methodology was
      described in 2003 , where it was reported that amongst smokers and ex-smokers there was a
      sensitivity for malignancy of 86% (55/64) and a specificity of 83% (19/23). This compared
      with sensitivity and specificity in non smokers of 66% (2/3) and 78% (14/18). Overall
      therefore the VOC breath test was not affected by smoking status.

      Changes in breath VOC patterns are independent of the size of the lung cancer in that T1
      tumours (<3cm) have a similar breath pattern of abnormality to T4 tumours, raising the
      possibility that VOC abnormalities may even be detectable at the preneoplastic (severe
      dysplasia or carcinoma in situ) stage. It describes a comparison between 212 controls without
      lung cancer and 195 patients with primary lung cancer. The breath test was as likely to be
      abnormal in stage 1 disease as in stage 4 disease. This implies firstly that as a screening
      tool VOC breath testing has potential to detect operative curable cases. Secondly, it implies
      that oxidative changes leading to altered breath VOCs are an early feature of lung cancer
      development, and that the method may therefore detect the presence of preneoplastic lesions
      in the bronchial tree.

      Breath testing in Laryngeal cancer In a recent article Hakim et al [24]described for the
      first time that Head and Neck cancer can be identified by breath testing.

      Alveolar breath was collected from 87 volunteers (HNC and LC patients and healthy controls)
      in a cross-sectional clinical trial. The discriminative power of a tailor-made Nanoscale
      Artificial Nose (NA-NOSE) based on an array of five gold nanoparticle sensors was tested,
      using 62 breath samples. The NA-NOSE signals were analysed to detect statistically
      significant differences between the sub-populations using (i) principal component analysis
      with ANOVA and Student's t-test and (ii) support vector machines and cross-validation. The
      results showed breath testing could clearly distinguish between (i) HNC patients and healthy
      controls, (ii) LC patients and healthy controls, and (iii) HNC and LC patients. The GC-MS
      analysis showed statistically significant differences in the chemical composition of the
      breath of the three groups.

      The Cyranose / Enose VOC testing with the eNose allows groups of patients to be tested for
      differences or similarities of breath signal . A single expired breath is collected in a
      sample bag then a pump draws the sample into the device where it passes over 32 electronic
      sensors. Over 400 possible chemicals affect these sensors in different ways, ad a pattern of
      electronic signals is generated. It is the distribution of the electric signals across the 32
      sensors which gives the pattern. Software within the device determines which of the 32
      sensors is giving the strongest signal in each test, and uses these sensor results in a
      combination result called a factor. This is known as Principal Component analysis. When
      comparing 3 groups of patients the software will generate 2 factors for each breath sample
      and plot these on a graph. Where a group of patients has a distinctive signal the factor
      analysis will clump that group together, at a certain "distance" on the graph from the other
      group. The greater the distance t(Mahalobinus distance) the more different the groups are.
      Numerous authors have published data on this type of analysis for a variety of disease
      states, particularly lung cancer. This approach is very easy technically and leads to further
      study of the individual VOCs which are responsible for the signal. It is likely however based
      on results from other tumours that a combination of VOCs are present in different amounts in
      cancer patients as opposed to a single VOC. The ENose approach has not been applied in Head
      and Neck cancer patients and nor has there been any report of detection of in situ cancer.

      Because of the step wise development of squamous cell cancer it is quite possible that In
      situ cases would be clumped together with advanced cases of Squamous cell carcinoma, and that
      both would be different to smoking controls. Alternatively it may be the signal in the early
      cases is different from later stages but different from controls as well, so that both early
      and advanced cases could be diagnosed from breath testing.

      It is known that both CT and VOC breath test can detect stage 1 cancer of the lung which has
      at least a 50% cure rate. There is potential however that VOC can detect even earlier stages
      of lung cancer, such as in-situ-carcinoma which when properly staged and treated has over 95%
      long term cure rate. It is possible that VOC testing will ultimately be used in larynx cancer
      screening either as the first step (high negative predictive value) or as a second line test
      to further evaluate equivocal results of screening low dose CT chest. Also, we have expertise
      in NBI and fluorescence bronchoscopy and our focus is on the management of the type of early
      lesions found by this approach.

      Methods Breath testing will be done using the Cyranose ENose in Thoracic Medicine Established
      protocol for testing from Lung Cancer study, x 2 single expirations into a collection bag
      Ideally this would be best done when a lesion has been seen by ENT surgeon but BEFORE it is
      biopsied (to avoid confounding effects on VOCs of tissue disruption by the biopsy) The ENose
      software allows comparisons of 3 groups of 10 subjects each - 10 Tis/T1, 10 advanced Larynx
      Ca, 10 smoking controls with demonstrated normal ENT and tracheobronchial tree.

      Patients would have a routine panendoscopy before treatment with NBI to exclude concommittant
      second primary disease either in head and neck or Bronchial tree

      Potential Significance Proof of principal of screening detecting highly treatable lesions
      Supportive data for similar tumours, particularly Squamous cell carcinoma of the bronchus,
      viz the benefits of early detection

      Procedures All will be done in the Thoracic Mediine department Breath test sampling for VOCs:
      A portable breath collection apparatus will capture VOCs in a slow vital capacity exhalation
      breath sample , using Standard Operation Procedure process already in place. Two samples are
      taken, with the patient breathing gently on a mouthpiece with a nose clip on for 5 minutes
      each time. Patients should be

        1. Nil by mouth

        2. No smoking for 12 hours

        3. No alcohol for >24 hours Breath will be processed by 1. The Enose and 2. Gas
           chromatography/Mass spectroscopy
    
  