
    
      Study Design:

      This phase IV prospective, observational multi-centre post-market surveillance study is
      proposed to run up to a period of 6 months. Five centres will be used in the trial with 20-50
      trial participants per site.

      Each site will follow the pre-determined study protocol, collecting endpoint relevant data
      which will then be analysed according to the methods outlined in this statistical analysis
      plan (SAP).

      In brief, participants will proceed through three phases of the trial. The pre-trial phase
      collects data on the pre therapy state of the participant, after which they will enter the
      therapy phase where they use the device once daily for the required period whilst continuing
      to record the required data. The participant will stop using the device at the end of this
      stage and have a follow up phase during which trial indices will continue to be recorded.

      Study procedures Screening and Eligibility Assessment Participants will be identified from
      Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT)-departments. The ENT-specialist identified the patients with an
      AHI of 5 -15/h confirmed by polysomnography during the standard visit in which the results of
      the polysomnography are discussed. Suitable patients will be informed about the trial. The
      investigator should provide the patient ample time and opportunity to inquire about details
      of the study and to decide whether or not to participate in the study.

      Informed Consent The participant must personally sign and date the latest approved version of
      the Informed Consent form.

      Written and verbal versions of the Participant Information and Informed Consent will be
      presented to the participants detailing: the exact nature of the trial; what it will involve
      for the participant; the implications and constraints of the protocol; the known side effects
      and any risks involved in taking part.

      It will be clearly stated that the participant is free to withdraw from the trial at any time
      for any reason without prejudice to future care, without affecting their legal rights and
      with no obligation to give the reason for withdrawal.

      Baseline Assessments

      At the baseline visit, the consultant will go through the informed consent form with the
      participants. Minimal clinical examination must include:

        -  Height

        -  Weight

        -  Neck collar size

        -  Friedman score for oral examination

        -  Tonsil size

        -  Palatal assessment

      The investigative site may wish to include other standard aspects of clinical examination
      records standard for their unit for example: blood pressure, endoscopy etc.

      Subsequent Visits Week 1 7 day recording of Visual Analog Scale (VAS)

      - Participant's bed partner will be required to complete daily visual analogue scoring of the
      participant's snoring, with 1 being "no snoring" and 10 being "intolerable snoring"
      Participant and bed partner to complete sleep quality and quality of life questionnaires
      (Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), EQ-5D-5L and Epworth sleepiness score (ESS)) on Day 7

      Week 2 - 7 Device handover: participant receives device and instructions on how to use The
      device is used once daily for six weeks Compliance is monitored centrally at Signifier
      Medical Technologies Ltd.

      Week 7 7 day recording of Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) Two night sleep study completed using
      watchPAT One night polysomnography Participants weight measured Participant and bed partner
      to complete sleep quality and quality of life questionnaires (Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index
      (PSQI), EQ-5D-5L and Epworth sleepiness score (ESS)) on Day 49

      3 months and 6 months Participants to complete follow up questionnaire on sleep quality and
      quality of life One night polysomnography repeated at 3 and 6 months. Sleep study (WatchPAT)
      repeated at 3 and 6 months

      Study Device Description The eXciteOSA transoral neurostimulation device is a home use device
      controlled by a mobile app. Its primary indication is for use in snoring in primary snorers
      or individuals with mild sleep apnoea.

      It is reusable device that produces muscular stimulation via electrodes integrated into a
      mouthpiece used by the candidate. The product will be supplied be Signifier Medical
      Technologies ltd. The eXciteOSA device comes in a black box which contains the control unit,
      mouthpiece, universal serial bus (USB) cable and the instructions for use. Only the supplied
      products should be used together. Use of the product should be discontinued if it appears
      damaged in any way. The mouthpiece is connected to the control unit via a USB port and
      Bluetooth connection is established between the control unit and the app.

      The device is to be used whilst awake, once daily for 20 minutes. The app automatically times
      the session and terminates it once completed. The therapy consists of a series of pulse
      bursts with the basic characteristic of 6 secs burst and 4 seconds rest. During the 20 mins
      therapy period the pulse frequency will change every 5 mins in a defined sequence. The
      intensity of the pulses can be controlled be the participant using the app, from a scale of 1
      to 15. Patients should select the highest level they can tolerate without any discomfort.
    
  