
    
      Lower limb procedures represent the majority of orthopaedic surgeries, including joint
      arthroplasties, sport medicine treatments, and fractures osteo-synthesis, with a rate over
      500 per 100,000 population every year, increasing. Albeit being successful procedures
      routinely performed in the clinical practice, they are frequently encumbered by
      complications. In particular, femur fractures are common and frequently result in
      considerable blood loss, ranging from 900 to 1,500 ml, which exposes patients to
      postoperative anaemia and reduced functional recovery. Allogenic blood transfusions are
      financial burden, and, even more, they are associated with an unneglectable risk of serious
      complications, including infection, immuno-suppression, cardiovascular dysfunction, resulting
      in potentially life-threatening effects on patients. Various strategies have been attempted
      to minimize blood loss and the need for blood transfusion, and to this aim the use of
      hemostatic agents, in particular of tranexamic acid (TXA), has recently widely increased in
      orthopaedic lower limb surgery.

      TXA is a synthetic anti-fibrinolytic agent that competitively blocks the lysine binding sites
      on plasminogen, thereby slowing the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin, thus preventing
      fibrin clot degradation. A large amount of randomized controlled trials and meta-analysis
      converge in showing that TXA, applied either through systemic or local administration, is
      effective in reducing blood loss and subsequent transfusions in lower limb fractures surgery,
      especially in hip fracture patients, as well in replacement procedures. However, there are
      still concerns about the risk of increasing venous thromboembolic (VTE) complications, such
      as deep venous thrombosis or pulmonary embolisms; overall, the scientific high-level
      literature evidence supports the safety of TXA for the different orthopaedic applications.

      This is a 2-arm study aimed at comparing the Tranexamic Acid supplementation protocol and
      evaluating his advantages over routine protocols. The primary objective will be the effect on
      postoperative anaemia, detected by serial measurements of haemoglobin, of TXA supplementation
      for femoral shaft fractures surgery. The secondary objectives of the study will be the
      comparison between I.V. peri-operative TXA supplementation and normal protocol without TXA in
      terms of post-operative anaemia (detected by serial haematocrit measurements),
      intra-operative blood loss, post-operative blood loss, total blood loss (evaluated using the
      Hb balance formula, estimated blood loss, blood transfusion requirements, length of
      hospitalisation, cost-effectiveness and frequency of adverse events. In particular the study
      aims to assess safety of TXA and its tolerability in terms of incidence of venous
      thromboembolic complications, such as deep venous thrombosis or pulmonary embolisms, wound
      infection, and death. The safety of TXA supplementation protocol will be verified comparing
      to the no-treatment group in terms of incidence of complications, such as deep venous
      thrombosis (based on the Homan sign and Mose sign and confirmed by compression
      ultrasonography upon clinical suspicion), Pulmonary embolism (confirmed by spiral computed
      tomography), cerebrovascular accident (confirmed by computed tomographic scan or magnetic
      resonance imaging), and acute coronary syndrome or myocardial infarction (confirmed by
      troponin I estimation and electrocardiogram changes), infection, and death. This randomized
      control trial will thus define if the peri-operative protocol should be implemented with
      tranexamic acid to reduce post-operative anaemia and blood loss and the rate of blood
      transfusion leading to a better cost effectiveness, without an increase in adverse events.

      The study presents only minimal risks for the included patients.
    
  