
    
      Description

      Patients will be monitored by standard NIBP or invasive arterial lines, ECG and oxygen
      saturation. All patients are intubated due to their respiratory insufficiency or for airway
      protection. Patients will be anesthetized for the procedure. Anesthesia will be induced with
      versed 2mg, fentanyl 100 µg and paralyzed with 0.1mg/kg vecuronium. Anesthesia will be
      maintained with propofol infusion 50-150 µg/kg/min.

      Study Procedures All patients will be under general anesthesia. Standard monitoring will be
      applied. This includes a blood pressure cuff or an arterial line, EKG and a pulse-oximeter.
      Patients will receive 2 mg/kg propofol, 1µg/kg fentanyl and 0.1mg/kg vecuronium for the
      procedure. After induction of anesthesia the FiO2 will be turned to 1.0 and a bronchoscopy
      adaptor will be interposed in the breathing circuit next to the endotracheal tube. Patients
      will be randomized to receiving either the non-disposable bronchoscope (Storz 8402 2x, El
      Segundo, CA) or the single use aScope 3 first. After randomization, bronchoscopy will be
      started with an inspection of the trachea and carina. Next the right lung bronchial tree will
      be inspected systematically beginning with the right upper lobe, following with the right
      middle lobe and finishing with the right lower lobe. All segmental bronchi will be inspected
      and cleaned by suction as deemed necessary. The bronchoscope will then be removed from the
      bronchial tree and rinsed with saline Subsequently, the bronchoscope will be re-inserted and
      advanced to the basal segmental bronchi of the right lower lobe. The tip of the bronchoscope
      will be brought into wedge position in one of the basal segments for broncho-alveolar lavage
      (BAL). A saline flush of 20 ml will be administered. The flow of saline will be observed at
      the distal tip of the bronchoscope. After 10 seconds of maintaining a wedge position, gentle
      suction will be applied to collect the lavage specimen in the collection trap. This step will
      be repeated 4 more times (total of 80ml) to obtain an adequate specimen. The same procedure
      will be repeated on the left lung using the alternate bronchoscope according to
      randomization. At the end of the procedure, a chest radiograph will be obtained to rule out
      pneumothorax.

      Measurements

      Before starting the procedure the set up time of each bronchoscope will be recorded. The
      view, image, and light of each bronchoscope will be assessed, then the inspection of the
      upper lobe segmental bronchi will be conducted. The time of lavage and suctioning until no
      more specimen can be collected will be measured. The volume of the obtained specimen will be
      measured. The specimen will be evaluated by a blinded observer after the procedure is
      completed.(clear fluids, mucous secretions, viscous secretions, pus, blood etc). The blinded
      observer will evaluate the quality and quanity of the sample for obtaining cultures.The
      blinded observer will be an attending or resident from the infectious disease department.

      The overall ease of handling will be rated directly after the procedure by the investigator.
      All bronchoscopies will be taped and view-clarity, image and light-brightness will be
      assessed by a second blinded observer. This blinder observer can be another investigator not
      present during the procedure or an internist who was not present and is part of the study
      team.

      All assessments will be performed using a VAS scale of 0 to 10 cm as shown below. The
      investigator will mark directly on the scale.

      We will only enroll patients who were admitted to a critical care unit at the University of
      Louisville and who are intubated.
    
  