
    
      Design:

        -  Randomised open multicentre trial.

      Patients:

        -  Number 450.

      Randomisation:

        -  No side branch treatment group or stenting of main vessel and side branch group.

      Evaluation of endpoints:

        -  Primary and secondary endpoints will be assessed by an independent endpoint committee.

        -  The endpoint committee will consist of experienced cardiologists with professor Kristian
           Thygesen, Aarhus Universitetshospital, as chairman.

      Sample size calculation:

        -  A total of 225 patients will be included in each group, in total 450 patients. We expect
           a primary endpoint rate of 10% (cardiac death, non-procedure related myocardial
           infarction related to index lesion or TLR after 6 months) in the 1- stent strategy group
           and of 3% in the 2-stent strategy group. With an alpha of 5% and a strength of 80%, 194
           patients will be needed in each group (two-sided chi-square test) to demonstrate this
           difference. The expected primary endpoint rate after 6 months is based on 6 months MACE
           rates and on the angiographic results in our previously published studies. In these
           studies, a 6 months MACE rate of 3.7% was found in the culotte group of the Nordic Stent
           Technique Study. Besides, an angiographic restenosis rate of 19.2% in the 1-stent
           strategy group in the Nordic Bifurcation Study is estimated to translate to a MACE rate
           of approximately 10% in the present study.

      Analysis of the population:

        -  The results will be analyzed according to the intention-to-treat principle.

      Data management:

        -  The study is reported to Datatilsynet (The Danish Data Protection Agency) and the
           agency's guidelines for data management will be followed.

      Dedicated case record forms (CRF) will be used and faxed to PCI research, Cardiac Cath. Lab.,
      Aarhus University Hospital, Skejby, DK-8200 Aarhus N, Denmark. Data will be stored in an
      Access database and double data entry will be used as quality control. There will be a log of
      accesses and attempt of accesses. Back-up data and original data will be cryptotized.

      Monitoring of the study:

        -  The study will be monitored according to the GCP rules by independent professionals.
           During the study period, monitors will have regular contact to the participating
           departments to ensure that the trial is conducted in compliance with the protocol, GCP
           and applicable regulatory requirements

      Publication:

        -  Results, positive as well as negative, will be published in an international
           cardiovascular journal. Publication and author issues will be decided by the steering
           committee on basis of general involvement in the study (drafting of protocol, core lab.
           function, end point committee membership, etc.) and of number of included patients.
    
  