
    
      Pits and fissures have been considered as the single most important feature leading to the
      development of occlusal caries; About 90 % of carious lesions are found in the pits and
      fissures of permanent posterior teeth . The complex morphology of occlusal pits and fissures
      makes them an ideal site for retention of bacteria and food remnants, rendering the
      performance of proper hygiene difficult or even impossible .

      Several materials and techniques have been developed to enhance the longevity of
      pit-and-fissure sealants, including the use of flowable composite resins as pit-and-fissure
      sealants . However, the clinical longevity of flowable composite as fissure sealants is
      directly related to their retention, where the percentage of rate of retention differ on a
      12-month follow-up examination were the partial loss rate of flowable composite material
      ranges from 15.5% to 16.5% and total loss were ranged from 12.7% to 13%, while on a 24-month
      follow-up examination the partial loss rate ranged from 18.1% to 20% and total loss rate
      ranged from 15.6% to 17%, and that depends on morphology of pits and fissures, adequate
      isolation, conditioning of enamel, application techniques, particular material
      characteristics like viscosity, surface tension, adequate adhesion and penetration of the
      material into the previously etched system of fissures.

      In order to overcome the shortcomings of traditional dental composites, nanofibers or
      nanotubes fillers are broadly used in the academia and industry. The type of Nanofibers and
      Nanotubes used to reinforce dental resin composites include polymeric nanofibers, metallic
      nanofibers, and inorganic hydroxyapatide (HAP) nanofibers. The Hydroxyapatite Nanofibers are
      calcium phosphates fillers that allow the release of mineral from dental resin composite.
      Also HAP nanofibers possessing sufficiently high slenderness ratios and relatively long and
      thin structure, and create a lot of bonding points in the interface with polymeric matrix.
      When the composites suffer from huge pressure this allow tremendous stress transfer from weak
      polymeric matrix to tough HAP nanofibers; and consequently increase the mechanical properties
      of resin composite. So this study will examine the effect of adding HAP nanofibers on the
      clinical performances and retention rate of flowable resin composite.
    
  