
    
      Treatment with CAdVEC:

      On the first day of your treatment, participants will receive an injection of CAdVEC into
      your tumor.

      A blood sample will be obtained from the participant before the CAdVEC intratumor injection .
      Depending on the location of the tumor, different techniques can be used for the injection
      into your tumor. The most common route of injection is ultrasound-guided percutaneous (needle
      puncture in the skin) injection, but endoscopic (using a lighted, flexible instrument called
      an endoscope) ultrasound-guidance will be used for some patients as appropriate. Prior to
      percutaneous injection, participants may receive an anti-anxiety medicine to calm them down,
      to relieve muscle spasms, and provide sedation. If the participants tumor is injected during
      an endoscopic procedure, the procedure may be done under sedation.

      Treatment with HER2- specific autologous T Cells:

      Earlier the participant gave blood for us to make HER2 targeting cytotoxic T-lymphocytes
      (HER2- specific autologous T Cells). These cells are grown in the lab and frozen for
      participants. Invesitgators made the cells by combining dendritic cells (DCs) or monocytes
      with the T cells in the presence of produced mixtures of adenoviral proteins. Investigators
      then put a new gene in to those T cells to make them specifically attract to and kill HER2
      positive tumors. As the T cells grow, they are cultured by adding adenoviral proteins for
      stimulation and expansion. Investigators call those T cells: HER2- targeting T cells (HER2-
      specific autologous T Cells).

      This study looks at different doses of HER2- specific autologous T Cells. The decision about
      the dose participants receive is determined when enrolled on the study.

      Seven dose levels will be evaluated. Cohorts of size 3 will be enrolled at each dose level
      until 9 evaluable patients have been studied at a single dose. Each patient will receive an
      intratumoral injection of CAdVEC alone or combined with an injection of HER2.CAR T cells.

      CAdVEC intratumoral injection will be given as a single injection to a single appropriate
      tumor site by direct, endoscopic, or image-guided injection on Day 1. The injection site will
      be chosen based on a combination of criteria, including accessibility and safety of injection
      site; tumor size; and anticipated tumor viability (e.g. avoid necrotic or cystic injection
      sites). HER2.CAR T cells will be given intravenously on day 4 after CAdVEC injection, with a
      3 day window (until day 7).

      Before receiving the T cell infusion, participants may be given Benadryl (diphenhydramine)
      and Tylenol (acetaminophen). Tylenol and Benadryl are given to prevent a possible allergic
      reaction to the T cell administration.

      Standard medical tests before treatment:

      Before being treated, participants will receive a series of standard medical tests and
      procedures as well as research blood draws.

      Standard Medical tests during and after treatment:

      During treatment, participants will receive standard medical tests and procedures as well as
      research blood draws.

      Study specific evaluations:

      Investigators will follow participants closely after treatment for any side effects for at
      least 2 years after the last infusion.

      To learn more about the way the T cells are working in the body, an extra blood sample will
      be taken before the CAdVEC injection, before the CAR T cell infusion, and at week 1, 2, 4 ,
      6, months 3, 6, 9 and 12 after CAR T cell infusion. Thereafter every 6 months up to 5 years
      and then yearly for 15 years. Investigators will use this blood to see how long the T cells
      last and to look at the immune response to the cancer. Investigators may also ask to get a
      tumor tissue biopsy at week 12 if necessary. Buccal swabs (cheek scraping) and urine will be
      collected before CAdVEC injection, Days 2, 4 (or the day of CAR T-cell infusion), weeks 1 and
      2 after CAR T cell infusion.
    
  