
    
      Patients with Rome III defined constipation unresponsive to medical and behavioural treatment
      will be randomised in a double-blind prospective trial to receive either four weeks of
      transabdominal electrical stimulation (TENS) or Interferential stimulation (IFC). Treatment
      will be self-administered at home for sixty minutes a day. The response to treatment will be
      assessed with the Patient Assessment of Constipation Quality of Life questionnaire (PAC-QOL),
      the Patient-Assessment of Constipation Symptoms (PAC-SYM) tool and a bowel visual analogue
      scale (VAS). A bowel diary will be kept a week before and during the final week of
      stimulation, recording daily bowel frequency.

      IFC stimulation is an effective, cheap and low risk intervention which has demonstrated
      efficacy for dysphagia, urinary incontinence, overactive bladder syndromes and chronic pain.
      The precise mechanism of its analgesic and pro-kinetic effect is unknown. The intervention is
      delivered by two separate continuous alternating electrical currents. Two pairs of pad
      electrodes are arranged in a quadripolar manner where each pair delivers a different
      frequency of current. It is suggested that this arrangement of stimulation improves colonic
      propagation. However as direct massage of the abdomen has demonstrated benefit in
      constipation it is argued that IFC is not a specific requirement and that non-IFC electrical
      stimulation over the abdomen is sufficient to evoke the same colonic and clinical responses.
      Owing to these questions the efficacy of this intervention will be further evaluated in
      adults.

      This study has two aims. The primary aim is to evaluate the effectiveness of transabdominal
      electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) in adult patients with chronic constipation. The
      secondary aim is to establish whether IFC was superior to non-IFC (TENS) electrical
      stimulation in adults with chronic constipation.
    
  