
    
      The study will identify and recruit 60 newly detected Rifampicin resistant TB patients
      including an expected 50 MDR-TB patients living in Hanoi (index cases) who will undergo SNA
      of contacts and places they have stayed during 3 months preceding their TB diagnosis
      including residence, travel history, places of social aggregation in relation with their risk
      behaviour.

      Patients will be interviewed to investigate contacts before the confirmation of MDR-TB (for
      early contact detection and minimize the risk of information lost due to patient default
      during treatment). Data analysis will focus on MDR-TB social networks using Cytoscape
      software.

      After the first two enrolled Rifampicin resistant MDR-TB cases, social network data will be
      analyzed to identify close contacts, mutual contacts, mutual places and high risk locations.
      The Social Network Questionnaire (SNQ) will be contextualized to the Vietnamese setting and
      validated in a pilot study. Eligible contacts and locations will undergo MDR-TB screening.

      Approximately 720 contacts will undergo active screening (on 2 occasions per individual: at
      the time of contact identification and 6 months later). Contacts will include household
      contacts, close contacts, mutual contacts and symptomatic individuals with significant
      exposure to the index case at mutual locations within a closed environment.

      Contact screening will involve clinical assessment, chest X-ray and sputum or gastric
      aspirate collection for TB culture, molecular techniques and microbiological identification.

      If contacts are screened and detected as having Rifampicin resistant TB, they will be invited
      to be included in SNA for further analysis.

      The number of MDR-TB detected by SNA will determine whether transmission of MDR-TB not
      otherwise detected by routine contact investigation (only household contact tracing) is
      important. While traditional contact tracing practices in Vietnam mainly focus on household
      contacts to detect secondary cases of TB, this SNA is expected not only to identify secondary
      cases of MDR-TB within an extended catchment but to also identify the source cases of MDR-TB
      patients to " turn off the tap" of MDR-TB transmission. Moreover, the places identified as
      the sources of sustained transmission will be targeted for case finding along with
      appropriate resource allocation.

      In this study analysis will focus on the costs of contact tracing with Social Network
      Questionnaires, the proportion of MDR-TB among eligible contacts by subgroup, the proportion
      of MDR-TB among Rifampicin resistant TB patients and the genotyping pattern of MDR -TB
      patients.
    
  