
    
      Introduction: Preschool children with autism spectrum disorder and their parents face many
      difficulties in daily lives, including children's adaptive functioning, parenting skills, and
      parenting stress. Therefore, effective and economical interventions are very important to
      support them. With appropriate theoretical bases, a parent-training program could be
      effective, economical, and feasible while the clinical manpower is insufficient. Among
      current intervention programs, the play concept and the developmental, individual difference,
      and relationship-based (DIR) model match the philosophy of occupational therapy. Previous
      research had showed the play- and DIR-based parent-training programs would improve children's
      communicative development. However, the empirical evidence was still weak due to poor
      research designs and little research was comprehensively investigated children's adaptive
      functioning. Moreover, the results of improvement in parenting skills and reduction of
      parenting stress were not consistent. Aim: This study would implement a dose-matched control
      group and comprehensive measurements to examine if the play- and DIR-based parent-training
      program would improve children's adaptive functioning and parents' parenting skills as well
      as reduce parenting stress. Hypotheses: We hypothesized that the better improvements would
      show in the parent-training program than those in the traditional program. Method: We
      recruited 40 preschool children with autism spectrum disorder and their parents and randomly
      assigned them to either the parent-training program group or the traditional program group
      after pretest phase. Both of them conducted 14-week intervention programs and were assessed
      after interventions. Children's development levels and adaptive functioning were assessed by
      the Functional Emotional Assessment Scale (FEAS), the Chinese version of Psychoeducational
      Profile-third edition (CPEP-3), and the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales (VABS). In
      addition, parents' parenting skills were assessed by the FEAS and parenting stress was
      evaluated by the Parenting Stress Index-Short Form.
    
  