
    
      Polycythemia vera (PV) is a chronic myeloproliferative disorder characterized by clonal
      proliferation of hematopoietic progenitors resulting in expansion of the erythrocyte mass,
      and its clinical course is affected by cardiovascular events, the main cause of morbidity and
      mortality. Arterial thrombotic events are predominant, particularly large vessel arterial
      events including cerebrovascular accidents, myocardial infarction, and peripheral arterial
      occlusion. Based on the complex relationship between thrombosis, hematocrit, and parameters
      of tissue perfusion and blood viscosity, the latter has been proved to be an exponential
      function of the hematocrit. Red cell aggregation increases at high hematocrit (HCT) levels,
      creating the potential for vascular stasis. As a result, enhanced interplay between platelet,
      leukocytes and vessel wall increases the risk of thrombosis.

      Considering the lack of effective therapeutic strategy targeted at the mutated allele
      JAK2V617F, there is no known treatment that eradicates the abnormal clone, apart from
      anecdotal cases of bone marrow transplantation. Cytoreductive treatment by phlebotomy or
      chemotherapy, however, has dramatically reduced the number of thrombotic complications and
      substantially improved survival and today there is agreement that the goal of cytoreductive
      treatment should be to keep the HCT value below 0.45 in all PV patients.

      This was suggested on the basis of a small, retrospective study of PV that more than 30 years
      ago showed a progressive increase in the incidence of vascular occlusive episodes at HCT
      levels higher than 44% and in patients treated according to the drugs and the therapeutic
      tenets of the time. However no clinical trial has confirmed such findings. The results of the
      two largest prospective studies currently available (namely PVSG-1 and ECLAP) suggest no
      difference in the risk of thrombosis among patients kept at HCT below 50%.

      An association between relevant outcome events (namely. thrombotic events, mortality, and
      haematological progression) and HCT in the evaluable range of 40-55% was found in the ECLAP
      population neither in the multivariate analysis at baseline nor in the time-dependent
      multivariate analysis. The ECLAP trial demonstrated the antithrombotic efficacy of low-dose
      aspirin in this setting and the use of this therapy in clinical practice is likely to
      decrease meaningfully, though not eliminate, the high risk of thrombosis of PV patients.

      In conclusion, the high incidence of thrombotic events irrespective of low-dose aspirin
      administration as well as of haematological transformation in the long term which have been
      shown in PV patients study suggest the need to investigate in depth the benefit/risk profile
      of current therapeutic options for cytoreductive therapy. CYTO-PV is aimed at assessing the
      benefit risk profile of cytoreductive therapy with phlebotomy and/or HU aimed at maintaining
      HCT < 45% Vs. maintaining HCT in the range 45-50%. It is an independent,
      investigator-generated pragmatic trial with broad selection criteria to mimic clinical
      practice in order to strengthen the transferability of its results to the population of PV
      patients; it has been designed to be conducted, without need of special facilities, in the
      framework of the Italian Group of hematologic Adult diseases ("GIMEMA"). The optimization of
      therapeutic management of PV patients will allow to improve the prognosis of PV patients, the
      allocation of the resources the Italian National Health Service (IHS), and the knowledge
      about the benefit/risk profile of pharmacological cytoreduction in PV
    
  