
    
      Study population: Children aged 6-9 years both boys and girls from 6 primary schools of
      Gabtali town of Bogra district in Bangladesh.

      Sample Size: 1200 children (400 in each group) Enrollment of eligible children and Base line
      information: Details of all eligible children will be obtained from the schools to be a part
      of the study and their parents will be contacted for an appointment either by telephone or
      sending a note. Consent for participation will be sought after evaluating inclusion and
      exclusion criteria and will be randomized to receive either fortified or non fortified
      yoghurt, similarly consent will be obtained from the parents of children from the non yoghurt
      area who will not be given any intervention. Baseline information on socioeconomic
      information, retrospective morbidity information of the child for the last 15 days,
      hospitalization, hygiene and sanitation information will be recorded. Baseline clinical
      assessments and anthropometric measurements will be conducted. 5 ml of venous blood sample
      (approx. one spoonful of blood) and mid stream urine sample will be obtained by a trained
      nurse/technician employed by the project. Developmental assessments measuring children's
      intelligence and executive functioning (WISC, KCPT, WCST) will be conducted using
      standardized tests. Blood/urine sampling will not be done for the children in the pure
      control group (no intervention).

      Randomization and blinding: Randomization schedule will be drawn using randomization by
      permuted blocks of fixed length which is appropriate for double blind studies.

      Intervention and Follow-up: For the yoghurt group, the intervention would be supplied in a
      disposable 80 g cup. Computer labels will be generated on a daily basis with identification
      information and the allocated code printed on it for all the enrolled children in the
      database and the appropriate yoghurt cups will be labeled for each child. The labeled yoghurt
      cups will be then handed over to the school supervisor to deliver to the student in his/her
      supervision during lunch break of the school. Children will receive the intervention for a
      period of 12 months. Children from the matched control in the non-yoghurt area will not
      receive any intervention.

      Mid Study data collection: Similar to the baseline, anthropometric measurements will be done
      and again a 5ml blood sample (approx one spoonful of blood) will be obtained to assess the
      difference in the markers at baseline and mid study. Blood/urine sampling will not be done
      for children in the pure control.

      End Study data collection: An end study similar to the baseline, anthropometric measurements
      will be taken and again a 5ml blood sample (approx one spoonful of blood) will be obtained to
      assess the difference in the markers at baseline and end study. Blood/urine sampling will not
      be done for the children in the pure control (no intervention group). Detailed developmental
      assessments using a battery of computerized neuropsychological (CANTAB) and cognition tests
      (WISC, K-CPT and WCST) will be conducted. Academic achievement will be assessed using school
      report cards.

      Intervention Groups: There will be one study group with one control group. Both the groups
      would receive yoghurt in a 80 g cup. The study group would receive yoghurt fortified with
      1/3rd RDA of iron, zinc, vitamin A and iodine.
    
  