
    
      Partial pulpotomy is generally considered as the treatment of choice for immature permanent
      teeth with reversible injury. Mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA) is a gold standard material as
      pulp capping agent in term of vital pulp therapy. Despite many advantages, MTA has a long
      setting time, little biological inductivity, difficult handling characteristics and high
      cost.

      An essential aspect of tooth tissue engineering is the identification of a suitable scaffold
      to support cell growth and tissue regeneration. Platelet-Rich Fibrin (PRF) is a second
      generation platelet concentrate. It is strictly autologous and helps to release the growth
      factors necessary for the regeneration of dentin pulp complex. Therefore, PRF seems to be a
      suitable scaffold in vital pulp therapy.

      Study sample, 24 intact maxillary or mandibular premolars which will be extracted for
      orthodontic reasons in 12 healthy volunteers. The sample will be chosen from the patients who
      are coming to the Orthodontic department in the Faculty of dentistry - Damascus university.

      This study will be performed as split mouth study. For each selected patient, one premolar
      will be randomly allocated to MTA only and the other to combined MTA/PRF by a toss of coin.
      The main operator will give each patient a numerical code (from 1 to 12) whilst the teeth
      will have an alphabetical coding (e.g. For the patient coded as 1, premolar with MTA will be
      coded as 1-a, the other premolar with MTA/PRF will be coded as 1-b). In all patient
      documents, the teeth will be labeled in the same way so that the clinical examiner and a
      pathologist will be blinded to the capping technique used for each tooth whilst the main
      operator who perform a pulpotomy will know which technique is used for each premolar.

      Postoperative pain and sensitivity to thermal stimuli will be analyzed after the treatment
      between two sides.

      After 8 weeks, the teeth will be extracted and histologically evaluated in terms of
      inflammation, dentin bridge formation and its appearance.
    
  