
    
      In the US, Black women living with HIV/AIDS (WLHA) are less likely to be engaged in care,
      adherent to antiretroviral therapy (ART), and virally suppressed compared to White WLHA.
      Black women are also disproportionately affected by interpersonal violence - physical,
      sexual, and/or psychological abuse by a current or former intimate partner or non-intimate
      partner - which may co-occur with poor mental health and/or substance use, further
      contributing to ART non-adherence, lower CD4 counts, and reduced viral suppression. Peer
      Navigation, while highlighted as a successful model of care in improving HIV care outcomes,
      requires resources that HIV service agencies often lack. A scalable and sustainable solution
      is the use of mobile health (mHealth) smartphone applications ("apps"). Although there has
      been an increase in mHealth interventions developed for HIV prevention and care among at-risk
      and HIV-positive men who have sex with men (MSM) and youth, investigators are unaware of any
      to improve retention in care, ART adherence, and viral suppression among Black WLHA, nor any
      mHealth interventions that are responsive to Black women's experiences with interpersonal
      violence. To address this gap, investigators will develop and pilot test a culturally
      tailored, trauma-informed smartphone app, called LinkPositively, for Black WLHA affected by
      interpersonal violence. Core components of LinkPositively include: a) Virtual Peer Navigation
      that includes phone and text check-ins and 4 weekly one-on-one video sessions to build skills
      to cope with barriers and navigate care; b) Social Networking platform to receive peer
      support; c) Educational and Self-care database with healthy living and self-care tips; d)
      GPS-enabled Resource Locator for HIV care and ancillary support service agencies; and e) ART
      self-monitoring and reminder system. Guided by the Theory of Triadic Influences and Syndemic
      Theory, the study will be conducted in 2 phases with corresponding aims. In Aim 1, 4 focus
      groups with Black WLHA with experiences of interpersonal violence, one focus group with peer
      navigators, and 4-6 key informant interviews with providers will be conducted to determine
      which app features, content, and functions are most likely to support downloading, initiating
      use, and sustaining engagement over time. Aim 1 will culminate in usability testing by Black
      WLHA affected by interpersonal violence (n=5), to finalize intervention components and
      procedures. In Aim 2, investigators will pilot test LinkPositively to assess feasibility and
      acceptability and determine preliminary effects of the intervention on HIV care outcomes
      (i.e., retention in care, ART adherence, viral suppression) and mechanism of change variables
      (i.e., social support, self-efficacy). Participants will be randomly assigned to either the
      intervention (n=40) or control (Ryan White standard of care, n=40) arm, with follow-up at 3-
      and 6- months. This study will benefit the advancement of HIV prevention science by
      harnessing technology to promote engagement in HIV care, while improving social support
      through peers and social networking - all under the auspices of being trauma-informed for
      Black WLHA with experiences of interpersonal violence.
    
  