
    
      1. Purpose: The purpose of this study is to determine the effectiveness of developmental
           screening to identify developmental delays in order to make appropriate referrals for
           early intervention services.

        2. Rationale: Research has consistently shown that providing timely early intervention (EI)
           services for young children identified as developmentally delayed improves both
           short-term and long-term outcomes. It is critical that children with delays be
           identified as early as possible because intervention programs are more effective when
           initiated at a young age. In fact, the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) advocates
           identifying delays before children reach 2 years of age.

           There is evidence that primary care providers tend to under-detect developmental delays
           among infants and young children. In addition, in high poverty areas, transportation,
           finances and other logistical challenges often prevent parents of young children from
           regularly visiting a physician, which further contributes to limited opportunities for
           intervention.

           Under-enrollment in intervention programs has been identified as a national problem, one
           that is recognized as a critical issue in the Mid-South due to the lower percentage of
           young children being identified and referred for services. Nationally, it is estimated
           that 16-18% of children have disabilities; however, less than one-third of these cases
           are referred for intervention before kindergarten age. Besides the issue of
           under-identification of developmental problems in young children, research suggests that
           many children who are referred for Early Intervention services do not end up receiving
           therapy due to poor follow-through by caregivers. It is likely that families need
           support and guidance regarding the importance of Early Intervention services.

           Unaddressed developmental delays can negatively impact the future health and educational
           attainment of our nation's infants. Families benefit from screening through an increased
           awareness of appropriate developmental and behavioral expectations. For example,
           screening can lead to positive outcomes in family interaction and decreased parental
           stress levels when developmental information and recommendations for activities are
           provided, even for children who do not fully meet the criteria to be referred. In the
           Memphis area, enrollment of children under the age of 3 in EI programs has actually
           decreased over the past five years, despite strong evidence that the incidence of
           disabilities such as autism is on the rise. Nationally, 2.52% of young children receive
           EI services; in Tennessee, 1.8% of children are receiving services needed.

        3. Study/Project Population: Through the Early STEPs Project, licensed occupational
           therapists will provide free developmental and autism screenings to children ages birth
           to and 6 years 11 months 29 days in a pediatric medical practice.

        4. Research Design: To determine the effectiveness of the Early STEPs project,
           investigators will compare pre- and post-project referrals for EI services, follow
           through by families, and pre and post parental satisfaction qualitative data. The
           participating pediatric practices will provide documentation of their prior average
           number of monthly early intervention referrals and this information will be compared to
           the monthly number of referrals at the end of the study period. The investigators will
           follow-up with the parent of the referred child at 6- and 12-months to determine if
           early intervention services were initiated by the parent and to determine if the parents
           perceived that the developmental app and online support group were helpful and improved
           confidence with their parenting skills.

           The data collection will begin on February 3, 2014 and end in approximately 2 years.

        5. Procedures The developmental screenings will be offered two to four days per month.
           Informational flyers will be posted locally and in the pediatrician's offices.
           Investigators will obtain parental consent. If parental consent is obtained, the
           screenings will be conducted with the parent present. The process will involve the
           parents providing qualitative information regarding the confidence with their parenting
           skills, and the occupational therapy investigators will complete The Ages & Stages
           Questionnaire (ASQ-3) on each participant and the Modified Checklist for Autism in
           Toddlers, if age appropriate to the particular child. All information for the screenings
           will be collected from the parent. Researchers will not be accessing the subjects'
           medical records. Additionally, early intervention/parental coaching sessions will be
           provided by occupational therapists as needed. Caregivers will utilize skills training,
           free online resources and an online social support network to develop and maintain
           nurturing parenting skills. Follow-up phone calls will take place at 6-months and
           12-months after a positive screening to determine if therapy services were indicated and
           to determine if the use of online resources or the social support network were perceived
           to be helpful. During the 6 and 12-month follow-up phone call, study personnel will
           collect information regarding parenting confidence using the Parenting Sense of
           Competence Scale (PSCO). Parents or caregivers will receive a free t-shirt as available
           and a developmental flyer for participating. (Courtesy of The Urban Child Institute).
           Parents or caregivers will receive free first year milestone applications for their
           cellular devices (courtesy of Aimee's Babies).

        6. Outcome Measures: The PI will monitor and report on:

             1. number of children identified for further assessment,

             2. common developmental concerns/delays,

             3. specific services referred to,

             4. Caregiver follow-up

             5. The investigators will collect data using the PSCO regarding parenting confidence
                at the initial visit and during the 6 and 12-month follow-up phone call.
    
  