
    
      Study Hypothesis:The pain relief provided by a combination of suprascapular and axillary
      nerve blocks is non-inferior to that produced by the conventional interscalene block during
      the first 24hours postoperatively in adult patients undergoing ambulatory shoulder surgery.

      Intervention and Comparator: Consented patients will be randomized to receive either
      pre-operative ISB (plus sham SAB with subcutaneous saline), or SAB (plus sham ISB). Both
      groups will receive general anesthesia for surgery.

      Primary Aim: To demonstrate non-inferiority of pain relief produced by the combination
      treatment compared to the conventional treatment by comparing the area under the curve of the
      postoperative pain scores plot over time during the first 24 hours postoperatively.

      Secondary Aims: There are four secondary aims, covering efficacy (analgesia) and safety: rest
      pain, quality of recovery, safety, other pain relief indicators.

      Design There will be a multi-centre, prospective, randomized, patient and assessor blinded,
      two-arm, parallel-group, 1:1 allocation ratio, placebo-controlled, non-inferiority clinical
      trial comparing the effect of SAB treatment to conventional ISB treatment on pain relief
      during the first postoperative 24 hours in patients undergoing ambulatory shoulder surgery
      under general anesthesia.

      Methods Study participants

      The target population will be adult patients (age > 18) presenting for outpatient (same day
      surgery) unilateral arthroscopic or open shoulder surgery. Eligible surgical procedures are:

        -  Shoulder arthroscopy

        -  Shoulder instability procedures

             1. Superior labrum anterior posterior repair (SLAP)

             2. Rotator cuff repair

             3. Bankart repair

        -  Acromioplasty

      Study centres The trial will be conducted at the two academic medical centres in Toronto
      where ambulatory shoulder surgery is routinely performed: Toronto Western Hospital (TWH),and
      Women's College Hospital (WCH).

      Preoperative management Unless allergic, all patients will receive acetaminophen 1 gr and
      celecoxib 400 mg orally with sips of water one hour prior to surgery. All blocks will be
      performed in the block room one hour before surgery.

      Suprascapular and axillary nerve blocks (SAB group) Patients allocated to the suprascapular
      and axillary nerve block combination (SAB group) will receive these blocks in the sitting
      position. The shoulder will be in the neutral position but rotated 45 degrees inward and the
      elbow flexed at 90 degrees while the hand rests on the knees. The suprascapular nerve will be
      blocked as it branches from the superior trunk.78After sterile skin preparation with
      chlorhexidine, a linear array transducer (6-13 MHz, Sonosite M-Turbo) probe protected by a 3M
      Tegaderm® dressing or a sterile sheath is placed in the transverse plane to visualize C5 and
      C6 roots in the interscalene groove. These roots are then traced distally to where they
      coalesce to form the superior trunk. The suprascapular nerve is then identified and as it
      emerges from the superior trunk, under the deep cervical fascia and superficial to the middle
      scalene muscle. After infiltration with 1 mL of 1% lidocaine, a 5 cm 22 G insulated needle
      (B. Braun Medical Inc., Bethlehem, PA, USA) is inserted in line with the probe in a
      lateral-to-medial orientation towards the nerve. Local anesthetics (20 mL of 0.5%
      ropivacaine) will then be injected in 5 mL aliquots after negative aspiration for blood to
      achieve circumferential spread around the nerve.

      The axillary nerve block will be performed next in the posterior aspect of the operative arm.
      The US transducer is placed in the longitudinal plane, parallel to the long axis of the
      humerus shaft and approximately 2cm below the postero-lateral part of the acromion on the
      posterior aspect of the arm. (Figure 1) The neurovascular bundle encompassing the humeral
      artery, posterior circumflex artery, and axillary nerve is visualized in the lateral edge of
      the quadrangular space, deep to the deltoid muscle, inferior to the teres minor muscle, and
      superior to the triceps tendon. After infiltration with 1 mL of 1% lidocaine, the 22G needle
      is inserted in line with the probe in a caudad orientation towards the bundle. Local
      anesthetics (20 mL of 0.5% ropivacaine) will then be injected in 5 mL aliquots after negative
      aspiration to achieve circumferential spread around the bundle.

      Finally, to maintain patient blinding, sham ISB block will be performed in the semi-sitting
      position using a 25G needle to inject 1 mL of lidocaine 1% subcutaneously.

      Interscalene block (ISB group) Local anesthetic solution (20 mL of 0.5% ropivacaine) will be
      injected in 5 mL aliquots after negative aspiration for blood to achieve spread posterior to
      or between the C5 and C6 nerve roots. Subsequently, patients will receive sham SAB performed
      in the sitting position using a 25G needle to inject 1 mL of lidocaine 1% subcutaneously.

      Block assessment Assessment of sensory block onset to confirm block success is done by the
      research assistant doing the blocks every 5 minutes, for 30 minutes, with a blunt 22G needle
      applied to skin, by comparing to the contralateral upper extremity.

      General anesthesia All patients will receive a standardized general anesthetic.

      Postoperative management Discharged patients will receive a prescription for Tylenol #3® as
      needed, or Percocet® if intolerant to codeine.

      Two-week follow-up A study follow-up phone call will be arranged to specifically assess any
      potential block-related neurologic symptoms such as pain, paresthesia, dysesthesia, sensory
      loss, motor power weakness. Patients found to have such symptoms will be offered a referral
      to the chronic pain clinic at TWH for assessment and management.

      Data collection The study coordinators of the participating sites will use a paper-based case
      report form (CRF) prepared by the principal investigator for documentation of outcome
      results. Subject confidentiality will be maintained by using a study ID (not related to name,
      or date of birth) on all CRFs.

      Sample Size Investigators aim to enroll a total of 65 patients per group, or a total of 130
      patients. Based on the annual number of shoulder surgeries performed at each centre, the
      researchers plan to recruit 45 patients at TWH, and another 85 patients at WCH.

      Source Data Verification: Patient Electronic Record

      Quality Assurance & Data Checks: N/A
    
  