
    
      Gastric cancer is one of the most common cancer and cause of cancer death worldwide. With the
      rapid aging of global population, the number of elderly patients with local advanced gastric
      cancer has been continuously increasing. Surgery is the essential treatment for local
      advanced gastric cancer. However, elderly patients are at high risk of postoperative
      complications due to reduced functional reserve and increased comorbidities. Studies have
      shown that elder patients can have postoperative complication incidence up to 18%-32% and
      surgery-related mortality rate to 3.8%-9.5%. Therefore, elderly patients usually require more
      restrict operative injury control compared to the younger population. Surgical safety and
      effectiveness has become a crucial research focus for local advanced gastric cancer among
      elderly patients.

      Laparoscopic gastrectomy is one of the standard treatments for early gastric cancer and has
      demonstrated its application value in local advanced gastric cancer. Two recent meta-analysis
      on observational studies have shown the feasibility of laparoscopic gastrectomy in elderly
      gastric cancer patients. Compared to conventional open resections, elderly patients may
      benefit from the advantages of laparoscopic approach such as less trauma, less blood loss,
      faster bowel movement recovery, earlier food intake, and shorter hospitalization. However,
      laparoscopic gastrectomy raises issues such as prolonged operation time and disturbance of
      circulatory and respiratory dynamics by carbon dioxide pneumoperitoneum during the procedure.
      Nonetheless, all currently available evidence comes from observational studies that are
      susceptible to bias and evidence on long-term survival is scarce. The investigators therefore
      proposed to conduct this randomized controlled trial comparing the feasibility and survival
      benefit of laparoscopic with open gastrectomy for elderly patients with local advanced
      gastric cancer. The investigators hypothesized that laparoscopic gastrectomy is superior to
      open gastrectomy in terms of perioperative safety for local advanced gastric cancer patients
      aged 70 and above.
    
  