
    
      Heart failure effects 5 to 6 million Americans and is increasing in prevalence. There are
      about 550, 000 new cases of heart failure every year and about 3 million admissions for acute
      decompensated heart failure every year. The total cost of heat failure on the health systems
      is upwards of 35 billion dollars per year. Despite advances in medical care, the hospital
      readmission rate is 20% at one month and 50% at six months. This prevailing situation
      mandates further exploration of novel therapeutic targets to treat this complex disease.

      Vasopressin levels are often elevated in patients with heart failure and LV dysfunction which
      is paradoxical and inappropriate. It has been hypothesized that high levels of circulating
      vasopressin may play an important role not only in the pathophysiology of the heart failure
      syndrome but also contribute to its disease progression.

      Studies have shown that Conivaptan, a Vasopressin antagonist results in favorable changes in
      hemodynamics and urine output without affecting blood pressure or heart rate. No consensus
      has been reached for Conivaptan to be used as a sole agent in Acute Decompensated Heart
      Failure (ADHF) patients and IV loop diuretics and/or vasodilators such as Nesiritide are used
      as the prime treatment for vascular congestion. This prevailing situation brings the
      questions whether, Conivaptan can be used as an adjunct to IV Furosemide and/or Nesiritide
      presenting with ADHF.We intend to investigate this question in a cohort of heart failure
      patients with hyponatremia.

      This study will enroll 60 patients ( who meets all the inclusion criteria and none of the
      exclusion criteria), admitted to the Albert Einstein Medical Center with the diagnosis of
      Acute Decompensated Heart Failure (New York Heart Association class 3 and 4). The study
      population will be divided into 2 groups; a treatment group and a placebo group as described
      below. Each group will be comprised of 30 patients.

      The treatment group will be treated with Nesiritide infusion, intravenous Furosemide (either
      continuous infusion or bolus injection- total dose of Furosemide received at the end of the
      study will be calculated) and IV Vaprisol. The placebo group will be given Nesiritide
      infusion and intravenous Furosemide(either continuous infusion or bolus injection) and
      placebo. Treatment will be continued in both groups for 24-36 hours.
    
  