
    
      Retrospective study of 10564 patients undergoing pancreaticoduodenectomy at a single
      institution from January, 2015 through July, 2016. Stroke volume variation (SVV) was tracked
      and titrated during the procedure.

      All patients were seen preoperatively in the department clinic setting, and indications for
      pancreaticoduodenectomy were for pancreatic adenocarcinoma, neuroendocrine tumors, chronic
      pancreatitis, non-adeno malignancy, and other benign. benign and malignant disease.

      Patients were excluded if they had any of the following during surgery: venous resection and
      reconstructive involving the portal venous system; estimated blood loss exceeding two liters;
      high dose steroid administration; use of irreversible electroporation for margin enhancement;
      lack of SVV equipment or inconsistent SVV recordings; use of the robotic surgical system.

      Primary outcomes measures were recorded for each patient were: pancreatic leak and delayed
      gastric emptying. Pancreatic leak was defined according to the international study group for
      pancreatic fistulas: "an external fistula with a drain output of any measurable volume after
      postoperative day three with an amylase level greater than three times the upper limit of the
      normal serum value." Delayed gastric emptying was defined clinically as persistent
      postoperative emesis requiring nasogastric tube placement, prokinetic agents, or hospital
      readmission for endoscopic gastrostomy placement.

      A comparative analysis of postoperative complications was performed between patients with a
      median SVV < 12 during the extirpative and reconstructive phases of the procedure compared
      with patients with an SVV > 12. The investigators chose an SVV value of greater than 12 to
      represent a "dry" state because previous studies have shown that this value represents
      decreased fluid administration.
    
  