
    
      The expression of IL-15 and IL-15Rα in the lymphocytes of peripheral blood and decidua during
      early pregnancy

        1. Collection of specimens Collect the peripheral blood and decidual tissue from 20-30
           pregnant women of 6-8 weeks gestational age during D&C procedure due to multiparity.

        2. Immunohistochemical stain of decidual tissue The frozen section of decidual tissue was
           performed according to recommended procedures. First antibody, mouse anti-human IL-15 or
           IL-15Rα monoclonal antibody, second antibody, peroxidase-labeled goat anti-mouse
           polyclonal antibody, and color reagents were added sequentially. Finally the slides were
           counter-stained with hematoxylin.

        3. Separation of mononuclear cells Decidual tissue and peripheral blood samples were taken
           from each pregnant woman at the time of abortion. In order to minimize contamination by
           blood, the decidual tissue was macroscopically separated from the chorionic villi,
           washed twice with Hank's balanced salt solution, cut into small pieces, washed twice
           again, and passed through a 1.9-mm mesh to remove the residual blood without enzymatic
           treatment. These samples were then filtered through a 45.7-μm stainless steel mesh to
           remove tissue debris. The filtered solution was layered over a Ficoll-Paque PLUS
           gradient and centrifuged for 45 minutes at 400g. An enriched cell suspension of
           mononuclear cells was collected at the interface and then washed twice with RPMI-1640
           medium. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were also isolated by Ficoll-Paque PLUS
           sedimentation.

        4. Cytometric analyses The expression of intracellular IL-15 and surface IL-15Rα in
           mononuclear cells were analyzed with flow cytometry. The antibody combinations included:
           FITC/PE/PerCP- CD4/IL-15/CD3, CD8/IL-15/CD3, CD56/IL-15/CD3, CD4/IL-15Rα/CD3,
           CD8/IL-15Rα/CD3, CD56/IL-15Rα/CD3.

        5. Separation of CD4+ cells, CD8+ cells and NK cells The CD4+ cells, CD8+ cells and NK
           cells in peripheral blood and deciduae were separated respectively with magnetic
           activated cell sorter (MACS).

        6. Real-time PCR of IL-15 and IL-15Rα mRNA The total RNA in CD4+ cells, CD8+ cells and NK
           cells was extracted with Trizol, and was transformed to cDNA with reverse transcription.
           Real-time PCR was performed using different probes for ß-actin, IL-15 and IL-15Rα with
           ABI PRISM 7700 Sequence Detector System. The primer sequences were: ß-actin, 5' GTG GGG
           CGC CCC AGG CAC CA; 5' CTC CTT AAT GTC ACG CAC GAT TTC; IL-15, 5' GGC TTT GAG TAA TGA
           GAA TTT CGA; 5' ATC AAT TGC AAT CAA GAA GTG TTG; IL-15Rα, 5' GGC GAC GCG GGG CAT CAC; 5'
           TCG CTG TGG CCC TGT GGA TA.

        7. Functional tests of CD4+ cells, CD8+ cells and NK cells

             1. Proliferative assay Using incorporation of BrdU during cellular proliferation, the
                proliferative ability of CD4+ cells, CD8+ cells and NK cells was assessed when
                different concentrations of IL-15 and IL-2 were added.

             2. Secretion assay The concentrations of IFN-γ, IL-6 and IL-10 in the supernatant were
                detected using ELISA kits when different concentrations of IL-15 and IL-2 were
                added into the culture medium.

             3. Fluoresence-based cellular cytotoxicity- FCC assay NK- and CTL-mediated cytolysis
                of target cells constitutes a form of apoptosis, and is accompanied by many of the
                same events, including caspase activation. We incorporated the fluorogenic
                substrate for caspase 6 into the target cells (K562 cells and autologous
                cytotrophoblasts) and measured the caspase activation by detecting the fluorescence
                emitted from the cleaved substrate.

      The expression of IL-15 and IL-15Rα in the human embryo before and after co-cultured with
      autologous endometrium

        1. Immunocytochemical stain of human embryo Human embryos from IVF program were fixed on
           the adhesion slide with ice-cold Fixation Buffer. The phycoerythrin-conjugated
           anti-IL-15 monoclonal antibody or biotinylated anti-human IL-15Rα antibody and
           streptavidin- fluorescein isothiocyanate (SAv-FITC) Conjugate were added. The
           fluoroscope was used to detect the fluorescence emitted from the targets.

        2. Single-cell PCR of IL-15 and IL-15Rα mRNA Using the principle of biotin/streptavidin
           "capture", the embryo mRNA was isolated with Micro RNA Isolation Kit, labeled with
           biotin-labeled oligo dT-probe and extracted with streptavidin-coated tubes. After
           transforming to cDNA, real-time PCR was performed using different probes for ß-actin,
           IL-15 and IL-15Rα with ABI PRISM 7700 Sequence Detector System, as described above.

        3. Separation of autologous endometrial cells A luteal phase endometrial biopsy was
           performed in a cycle before the patient's IVF procedure with a Pipelle Endometrial
           Suction Curette. The tissue was digested with 0.2% collagenase type 2 and allowed to
           settle by differential sedimentation at unit gravity. The above steps were repeated four
           times and the supernatant was collected. After differential sedimentation at unit
           gravity, the supernatant, containing the stroma-enriched fraction, was transferred into
           tissue culture flasks for future use. The tissue pieces, which remained after the four
           digests, were resuspended in 10 mL HBSS. After approximately 30 seconds, the top 8 mL
           was allowed to settle at unit gravity. This sedimentation, containing glandular-enriched
           fraction, was resuspended in RPMI and plated into tissue culture flasks for future
           co-culture.

        4. Autologous endometrial co-culture of human embryo Approximately an equal amount of the
           glandular and stromal cells were mixed on the estimated day before the administration of
           hCG during the patient's IVF cycle. About 3x10^5 cells were seeded into a four-well
           tissue culture plate and the zygotes were placed into the co-culture system or
           conventional medium (human tubal fluid plus 15% maternal serum). Cleavage rates and
           morphological appearance were assessed daily. The morphologically best embryos were
           transferred back to the patient 72 hours after retrieval irrespective of culture system.
           The implantation rate was defined as the number of intrauterine sacs with fetal cardiac
           activity per number of embryos transferred. Clinical pregnancies included only those
           pregnancies with a fetal heart beat documented on transvaginal ultrasound by day 49.

        5. The cytokine distribution in co-culture medium The cytokines, including Th1 cytokines
           (IL-2 and IFN-γ), Th2 cytokines (IL-4, IL-6 and IL-10) and IL-15 were determined by
           ELISA technique in the co-culture medium before and after embryos plated.

        6. Immunocytochemical stain of human endometrial glandular and stromal cells The purified
           endometrial glandular and stromal cells were washed twice with cold Wash Buffer to
           remove the cytokines adherent on the cells. These cells were then fixed on the adhesion
           slide with ice-cold Fixation Buffer. The phyco- erythrin-conjugated anti-IL-15
           monoclonal antibody or biotinylated anti-human IL-15Rα antibody and
           streptavidin-fluorescein isothiocyanate (SAv-FITC) Conjugate were added. The fluoroscope
           was used to detect the fluorescence emitted from the targets.

        7. Real-time PCR of IL-15 and IL-15Rα mRNA from human endometrial glandular and stromal
           cells The total RNA in endometrial glandular and stromal cells was extracted with
           Trizol, and transformed to cDNA with reverse transcription. Real-time PCR was performed
           using different probes for ß-actin, IL-15 and IL-15Rα with ABI PRISM 7700 Sequence
           Detector System, as described above.
    
  