
    
      Purpose: To evaluate if incisional Negative Pressure Wound Therapy (iNPWT) confers a lower
      rate of Surgical Site Infection (SSI) or wound complication compared to standard treatment of
      elective colorectal resection laparotomies.

      Justification: Colorectal resection with bowel anastomosis is a clean-contaminated procedure
      known to have increased rates wound complication. Techniques like the use of incisional wound
      barriers, antimicrobial eluding dressings or iodine washout have been assessed in an attempt
      to reduce occurrence. However, evidence for their efficacy is not compelling for surgeons to
      universally adapt. Meanwhile, negative pressure wound therapy has demonstrated impressive
      efficacy in the management of complex and non-healing wounds. And recently, NPWT has become
      an area of interest in managing, not only open wounds, but closed wounds as well. The benefit
      of this therapy is yet to be clearly defined in the elective colorectal resection patient
      population, however.

      Null hypothesis: There is no difference in SSI or wound complication rate in standard and
      iNPWT groups.

      Design: Single-institution, prospective, randomized, open-label, superiority trial

      Statistical Analysis: Assuming a complication rate of 20-30% and a relative risk reduction of
      50%, we will recruit 400 patients (200 in each group) to achieve a power of 80% and type 1
      error of 0.05. Primary endpoints will be: Wound Complication - defined as presence of seroma,
      hematoma, dehiscence, SSI - and SSI reported independently. Secondary endpoints will include:
      Length of Stay, ER visits related to SSI, Complications (according to Clavien-Dindo
      classification), need for and duration of home care related to wound care, and wound VAC
      specific complications (local reaction to adhesive dressing, blisters, failure of vacuum,
      need for early removal). Primary endpoints will be assessed according to intention-to-treat
      principle using Pearson's chi-squared test. In the event that baseline characteristics are
      significantly different, a secondary analysis using multivariable logistic regression will
      adjust for the effect of the difference. A p value of < 0.05 will be used to determine
      significance. Results will be presented as an absolute risk reduction as well as number
      needed to treat to prevent one wound complication. Secondary outcomes will be compared using
      a Mann-Whitney U-test for non-normally distributed continuous variables and chi-squared for
      categorical data.
    
  