
    
      BACKGROUND:

      There are few comprehensive databases that allow for a longitudinal examination of how
      neighborhood-level factors may interact with individual characteristics to predict incident
      cases of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and all-cause mortality. This cross-institutional
      project joins investigators from Karolinska Institutet in Sweden and Stanford University,
      known for their expertise in immigrant health and social inequalities in CVD.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study examines how neighborhood social characteristics (e.g., neighborhood socioeconomic
      status (SES), social disintegration, socioeconomic and ethnic segregation, social capital),
      physical environments (e.g., geocoded assets including goods and services contributing to
      health such as educational and recreational resources; barriers to health including
      pollution, industries, waste dumps, criminal activity, alcohol and fast food outlets) and
      individual factors (e.g., SES, cardiovascular disease {CVD} risk factors, country of birth
      and social networks) may interrelate to predict CVD [morbidity and mortality] and all-cause
      mortality. Data will be used from a newly created, comprehensive set of Swedish databases,
      MigMed and MigSALLS. MigMed (1990-2002) includes data for the entire Swedish population of 6
      million women and men aged 25 and older, of whom 600,000 are first generation immigrants.
      Their addresses have been geocoded, yielding 9,677 neighborhoods, which will be reduced to a
      smaller number of defined units by cluster analyses. MigMed includes an annual assessment of
      individual-level sociodemographic and health indicators. Data will also be analyzed from
      MigSALLS (1988-2002), which includes more in-depth data from face-to-face interviews with a
      representative sample of approximately 18,000 women and men aged 25-74, of whom 2,000 are
      first generation immigrants. MigSALLS contains similar individual- and neighborhood-level
      factors as MigMed, as well as extensive information on factors that may mediate relationships
      between neighborhoods and CVD outcomes (e.g., CVD risk factors such as smoking, weight,
      physical activity, and blood pressure). Information from these two datasets will be matched
      to hospital and death records (300,000 deaths and 140,000 incidence cases of CVD expected
      between 1988-2002), thus creating one of the largest databases in the world involving men and
      women from diverse SES levels and countries of origin.
    
  