
    
      Historically the diagnosis of chorioamnionitis (an infection of the membranes surrounding the
      fetus) for patients in labor has been made on the basis of multiple clinical variables such
      as maternal fever, fetal tachycardia, uterine tenderness, or foul smelling vaginal discharge.
      The diagnosis also takes into account a clinical picture consistent with risk factors such as
      prolonged labor and prolonged rupture of membranes. Since most of these findings are not
      specific, chorioamnionitis becomes the diagnosis of exclusion unless there is another
      explanation for the fever. Randomized studies have clearly shown that maternal antibiotics
      and neonatal septic work-ups are indicated once the diagnosis of chorioamnionitis has been
      made. Neonatal sepsis is a severe infection of the blood stream. Such policies have important
      implications for health care providers, on the impact of medical costs, and on the duration
      of hospital stay. This becomes especially true for the newborn that is transferred to the
      neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) for sepsis evaluation. Often times, these newborns are
      prophylactically treated with antibiotics based on the suspicion of an infection, while
      waiting for finalized blood culture results. Since newborn sepsis is such a difficult
      diagnosis to make, many more newborns are treated than actually have the disease and the
      length of their hospital stay may be significantly increased.

      Over the past 15 years, both observational and randomized trials have observed an increase in
      maternal fever associated with epidural anesthesia in labor. These trials have shown
      increased ranges from 10 - 15% over baseline rates and an increased relative risk of 1.5 to
      15 fold, and even up to 70 fold in one study, over the rates seen in women not receiving
      epidural anesthesia. After correcting for duration of labor and other confounding variables,
      these increases remained present. Since epidural fever is virtually impossible to distinguish
      from chorioamnionitis-related fever, these women are almost all treated with antibiotics and
      given the diagnosis of infection. This approach also has tremendous impact on the evaluation
      and care of the newborn. Two specific studies evaluated this impact on the neonate. Lieberman
      found that babies of mothers given epidural anesthesia were more likely to be evaluated for
      sepsis (34 vs. 9%) and treated with antibiotics (15 vs. 4%). Similarly, Philips found the
      same increase (25 vs. 16% and 19 vs. 11%). Both studies had very low rates of confirmed
      neonatal sepsis. On a national basis, the cost of this confusion nationally is tremendous.

      There is one known way to distinguish between true chorioamnionitis in labor and
      non-infectious fever due to the epidural anesthesia. Gibbs and colleagues found that amniotic
      fluid aspirated from an intrauterine pressure catheter, a device commonly utilized for
      monitoring contractions in labor, could be used to accurately make the diagnosis of infection
      using gram stain and culture. More recently, many papers have shown that low glucose levels
      and elevated IL-6 in amniotic fluid were also accurate tests for infection. While these
      markers could in theory be used for distinguishing between epidural fever and true
      chorioamnionitis, most patients do not require such a device and this approach would not
      likely gain widespread favor. Alternatively, however, this approach could be used as a
      research tool in women who already have such a catheter in place to determine if there are
      additional non-invasive clinical or laboratory markers to distinguish one from the other.

      Recently proteomic assessment has become an extremely effective tool in determining if there
      are certain markers for various diseases. Proteomics is the determination of the structure,
      function, and expression of all of the corresponding proteins that are encoded within the
      genome structure. It can also be defined as the "fingerprint" of a disease process. It
      involves running tandem mass spectometry on the fluid of interest. Such an approach could be
      extremely valuable both in determining whether the mother actually has chorioamnionitis and,
      if so, whether there are better markers for neonatal sepsis.
    
  