
    
      Epilepsy is one of the most common neurological disorders, with a prevalence of active
      disease between 0.3 and 1.8% based on population-based studies across the world (0.7% in US)
      using medical record reviews. These studies have estimated approximately 1.4 million current
      epilepsy patients in the US alone. Effective seizure control often requires long-term
      exposure and compliance to various AEDs. Despite the advent of many new AEDs over the past 15
      years, approximately 30% of epilepsy patients continue to experience recurrent seizures due
      to lack of treatment efficacy and discontinuation of therapy due to undesirable side effects
      or poor treatment compliance. Therefore, an unmet need remains for treatments that can reduce
      seizure frequency and severity as well as improvements in AED tolerability and safety.

      In January 2010, the FDA accepted the new drug application (NDA) for EZG for adjunctive
      treatment of epilepsy in adults with partial-onset seizures. US market entry is anticipated
      by 2011. EZG is the first potassium channel opener to reach late stage clinical development
      for the treatment of epilepsy. EZG's anticonvulsant properties are primarily mediated by
      opening or activating neuronal voltage-gated potassium channels. The efficacy and safety of
      EZG as part of polytherapy AED regimens in adults with refractory partial-onset seizures has
      been demonstrated in one Phase II and two Phase III double-blind, placebo-controlled trials:
      RESTORE 1 and 2.

      In the Phase II study, 399 patients were randomized to four treatment arms (placebo, 600,
      900, and 1200 mg/day EZG). The median change from baseline seizure frequency was 13.1% for
      the placebo group; in comparison, the median change was 23.4% for 600 mg/day, 29.3% for 900
      mg/day (p=0.0387), and 35.2% for 1200 mg/day (p=0.0024). RESTORE 1 was conducted in the US
      and had two arms (placebo and 1200 mg/day EZG), while RESTORE 2 was conducted mainly in
      Europe and Australia with three different arms (placebo, 600, and 900 mg/day EZG). In RESTORE
      1 (n=301), the median reduction in seizure frequency among patients using 1200 mg/day EZG
      (n=151) was 44% compared with 18% among placebo users (n=150; p<0.001). In RESTORE 2, a
      significant reduction in partial seizure frequency was found in both EZG doses vs. placebo
      (p<0.001): 28% for 600 mg/day, 40% for 900 mg/day, and 16% for placebo.During these trials
      EZG was generally well tolerated; most adverse events (AEs) were mild or moderate with
      central nervous system (CNS) related AEs (dizziness, somnolence and fatigue) being most
      common. However, among non-CNS events, an increased incidence of bladder-related AEs,
      including UR, relative to placebo was observed with EZG, primarily with 1200 mg/day. Among
      the patients in EZG arms from all trials (n=813), 0.9% experienced UR compared with 0.5% in
      the placebo arms (n=427). In addition 5% of patients in the EZG arms compared with 3% of
      patients in the placebo arms experienced urinary symptoms, including dysuria, urinary
      hesitancy, and UR.

      There are concerns that these AEs may reflect the inhibition of bladder contractility
      secondary to EZG's effects on KCNQ (Kv7) voltage-gated potassium channels in the detrusor
      muscle of the bladder. However, the limited number of patients exposed to EZG during trials
      suggests that the risk of UR associated with exposure to EZG has to date been poorly
      quantified.

      A post-marketing safety surveillance study using a US health insurance claims database
      coupled with medical records review will be implemented to determine the risk of UR
      associated with exposure to AED polytherapy regimens containing EZG in a real-world setting.
      The risk of UR among epilepsy patients treated with EZG AED polytherapy will be compared to
      the risk among epilepsy patients treated with non-EZG AED polytherapy. In addition, both EZG
      and non-EZG AED polytherapy users will be described in terms of their demographic
      characteristics, concomitant AED use, co-morbidities, use of medications potentially
      associated with UR, and medical conditions pre-disposing to UR. Secondarily, off-label usage
      of EZG will be monitored and described. In addition, the risk of UR among epilepsy patients
      treated with non-EZG AED monotherapy will be determined.

      The primary objective of the study is to quantify the risk of UR associated with exposure to
      EZG AED polytherapy in a real-world setting. Specific aims include the following:1) to
      describe patients receiving EZG and non-EZG AED polytherapy in terms of demographics,
      concomitant AED use, co-morbidities/past medical history, use of medications potentially
      associated with UR, and medical conditions associated with UR; 2) to determine the magnitude
      of the risk and time to onset of UR associated with post-marketing use of EZG AED
      polytherapy, and to determine the incremental risk compared with non-EZG AED polytherapy use;
      and 3) to determine whether the risk and time to onset of UR associated with non-EZG
      monotherapy use.
    
  