
    
      Atopic dermatitis (AD), atopic eczema or eczema, is a very common, highly pruritic chronic
      inflammatory skin disorder. The intense itching, sleep disturbance, coupled with visible
      rashes, causes immense physical, psychological, economical and social implications. Not only
      does it impact on the quality of life of the patient, caregivers are also often affected. AD
      can manifest during childhood, adolescence or adulthood. Those with childhood-onset AD can go
      into remission during puberty and adolescence, or persist into adulthood. The natural course
      of AD is generally intermittent and seasonal, with phases of latency and exacerbation. AD is
      a heterogeneous condition with typical manifestations of other allergic disorders, but
      clinically, AD is defined as a single disorder. It is impossible to propose a definitive gold
      standard for the diagnosis of AD due to its heterogeneity. The most widely used diagnostic
      criteria is the Hanifin and Rajka criteria with reported sensitivity and specificity of
      87.9-96.0% and 77.6-93.8% respectively.

      SCORAD (SCORing Atopic Dermatitis) is one of the common clinical tools for assessing the
      extent and severity of AD. However, the molecular pathogenesis behind AD is still not fully
      understood, and the condition is not yet curable. The prevalence of AD is on the rise
      worldwide especially among industrialized countries, with an overall prevalence of around
      15-30% among children and 0.3-14% among adults. In China, the overall prevalence of
      childhood/adolescent onset AD and adult onset AD are estimated at around 3.1% and 4.6%
      respectively. Variability in the overall prevalence is most likely due to non-standardized
      diagnostic criteria applied across various studies, originally designed only for
      childhood-onset AD. In Hong Kong, the epidemiological data on AD is incomplete and only
      childhood-onset AD was studied. Given that a significant proportion of AD patients belong to
      the adult-onset group, it is important to determine accurately the epidemiology of both
      childhood-onset and adult-onset AD groups in Hong Kong.

      Recent evidence has also suggested that AD as a whole is attributed to a mixture of
      environmental and genetic factors, as AD has been shown to cluster in families and
      demonstrate high concordance in monozygotic twins. Various research studies have been
      conducted to identify environmental risk factors worldwide. In Hong Kong, Hon et al. from the
      Department of Pediatrics at The Chinese University, conducted a cohort study following up 82
      children with AD for 10 years, and found that risk factors are often related to urbanization
      and exposure to aeroallergens. However, it is unclear whether both genetic predisposition and
      environmental factors also play a role in adult-onset AD group.

      Apart from environmental factors, researchers have used different methods, such as
      genome-wide association study (GWAS), to search for genetic variations associated with
      childhood-onset AD. Several large-scale GWAS and candidate gene studies have been conducted
      on children-onset AD around the world to search for genetic risk factors using single
      nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). In China, Sun et al. performed the first GWAS in China in
      2011 among 1012 children cases and 1362 adult controls of Southern Chinese to search for
      common genetic variants using Illumina Human 610-Quad Beadchips, followed by three
      replication studies among Northern Chinese, Southern Chinese and German cases and controls
      using MassArray and TaqMan assay. Although no robustly replicated SNPs have been identified
      across all GWAS and candidate gene studies, the commonest associated genetic variants, are
      related to the different loss-of-function mutations that encodes for the filaggrin (FLG).
      Filaggrin is a filament-aggregating protein that binds keratin fibers in epithelial cells.
      The loss-of-function mutations in FLG leads to enhanced transepidermal water loss,
      ichthyosis, penetration of foreign antigens, and subsequent sensitization . Other genetic
      variants, related to defective immune pathway and impaired skin barrier function have also
      been suggested in the past as risk factors for pathogenesis of AD. Despite this, there is
      currently no published data comparing genetic variants between adult-onset and children-onset
      AD groups. In addition, GWAS study in AD patients has not been conducted in Hong Kong.

      The study will be conducted in compliance with local Institutional Review Board (IRB) and
      Good Clinical Practice (GCP).
    
  