
    
      In a previous research study the investigators developed and tested an effective tobacco
      prevention program to be used in 5th and 6th grade classrooms as tobacco prevention
      curriculum. The prevalence of e-cigarette (e-cig) use has recently increased dramatically,
      greatly exceeding that of cigarette use. Considering the health effects of e-cigs, and the
      increased probability that adolescents will become addicted to nicotine through the use of
      e-cigs a crucial need was recognized for the incorporation of e-cigs into the original
      tobacco prevention program. In Phase I the investigators were able to create two new
      activities that changed specific risk factors predictive of e-cig use. Two existing
      activities were modified to target not only risk factors related to smoking but also to
      e-cigarette use. Phase II will develop additional content targeting e-cigs and modify
      graphics and language throughout the program to include e-cigs. The finished program will
      contain 10 lessons to be used in fifth grade classrooms and a booster containing 6 activities
      to be used in sixth grade classrooms.

      This project, which targets 5th graders with a booster in 6th grade, aims to prevent the
      initiation of the use of tobacco products including e-cigs, later in adolescence. This
      school-based, internet delivered program targets established risk factors predictive of
      youth's behavioral intentions and willingness to use tobacco products, both predictors of
      subsequent use.

      This Phase II project proposes to complete development of the product by creating and
      integrating content that specifically targets risk factors/mechanisms predictive of e-cig use
      into all existing activities that previously targeted only conventional tobacco use. These
      modified activities will be integrated into a 10-lesson program and will be based on insights
      gathering during Phase I. The student user interface and teacher and administrative portals
      will be modified to increase ease of use. The entire program will be updated to contemporary
      web standards (e.g. HTML5/CSS/JavaScript) to allow for better integration into a broad range
      of school environments representing diverse hardware and software platforms. The resulting
      program will be assessed on both the effectiveness of decreasing youth's intentions and
      willingness to use both e-cigs and conventional cigarettes
    
  