
    
      The investigation will be approving by the Ethics Committee of Meir medical center.

      We retrospectively will review the medical records of 100 sarcoidosis patients seen in our
      outpatient pulmonary clinics of Meir medical center, between July 2009 and May 2010.

      All the patients will prospectively invite to our pulmonary outpatients clinic at Meir
      medical center.

      Sarcoidosis will be diagnosed based on the latest American Thoracic Society (ATS), European
      Respiratory Society (ERS) and World Association of Sarcoidosis and Other Granulomatous
      Disorders (WASOG) criteria. (6, 7) Each patient will undergo two-dimensional
      echocardiographic data, complete pulmonary function test results including spirometry, lung
      volume, CO diffusion capacity and 6-min walk test (6MWT) data and D-dimer assay during their
      visiting.

      Data will be collecting including patient demographics, symptoms, details of comorbid
      illnesses, sarcoidosis stage using the modified Scadding (8) classification system to stage
      chest radiography (CXR) findings and treatment.

      Pulmonary function tests included spirometry and lung volume measurement by body
      plethysmography, performed according to the recommendations of the American Thoracic Society.
      (9) The 6MWT was conducted in accordance with ATS guidelines. (10) All patients exhibited
      resting oxygen saturation (SpO 2 ) the > 88% at the beginning of the walk test and Borg
      dyspnea index (11) will be record at the beginning and end of the 6-min walk.

      All Computed tomography (CT) findings of the patients will be assess for the presence of the
      following recognized CT patterns (12): (1) mediastinal and/or hilar lymph node enlargement;
      (2) ground-glass opacity; (3) consolidation; (4) nodules <3 cm in diameter; (5) thickening of
      bronchovascular bundles; (6) linear opacity, including interlobular septal lines and
      interstitial thickening and (7) features indicating scarring and fibrosis (grouped together)
      that included traction bronchiectasis, honeycombing, cysts and/or volume loss.

      In addition, all CT will be review for findings that are known as a signs of PH including the
      pulmonary trunk diameter, right and left pulmonary arteries diameters and the pulmonary to
      aortic diameters ratio.

      The radiologist will be blinded to the echocardiological data as well as to the pulmonary
      function data and D-dimer levels.

      Diagnosis of PH was based on Doppler echocardiography and defined as an estimated right
      ventricular systolic pressure (RVSP) of the > 40 mm Hg in the absence of left ventricular
      dysfunction (i.e., an ejection fraction under 50%), ischemic heart disease (manifested by
      regional wall motion abnormalities) or valvular heart disease. Right ventricular systolic
      pressure was estimated based on the modified Bernoulli equation (13) RVSP = transtricuspid
      gradient + right atrial pressure (RAP), where transtricuspid gradient is 4v2 (v = peak
      velocity of tricuspid regurgitation in meter per second) and RAP was estimated to be 5, 10
      All the patients will undergo a D-dimer assay in the same day of the pulmonary function tests
      and Echo evaluations.
    
  