
    
      This is a Phase 1b/2, open label, multicenter, safety, clinical activity, pharmacokinetic
      (PK), and pharmacodynamics (PD) study of avelumab in combination with chemotherapy with or
      without other anti-cancer immunotherapies, as first-line treatment of adult patients with
      locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors. Initially, avelumab will be evaluated in
      combination with pemetrexed and carboplatin in patients with advanced non-squamous non-small
      cell lung cancer (NSCLC) (Cohort A1) and with gemcitabine and cisplatin in patients with
      cisplatin-eligible urothelial cancer (UC) (Cohort A2).

      Given the growing preclinical and clinical indications that combinations of anti-cancer
      immunotherapies potentially improve patient outcomes compared to results seen with single
      agents, in portions of the study to be added in the future, avelumab will be evaluated in
      combination with both standard-of-care chemotherapy and other anti-cancer immunotherapies in
      patients with advanced malignancies. Each cohort in the study will consist of a Phase 1b
      lead-in portion to evaluate safety and a Phase 2 cohort expansion to evaluate safety and
      efficacy.

      In the Phase 1b safety lead-in portion, up to 12 patients will be enrolled into each cohort
      and evaluated for dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) during the first 2 cycles of treatment. If
      investigational products administration in a cohort is deemed safe in the Phase 1b lead-in,
      enrollment may be expanded into the Phase 2 cohort expansion. Up to approximately 40 patients
      in each cohort (including those enrolled in the Phase 1b lead-in and those enrolled in the
      Phase 2 cohort expansion) will be enrolled and treated with avelumab plus chemotherapy in the
      initial portion of the study and, in future portions of the study, with avelumab plus
      chemotherapy with or without other anti-cancer immunotherapies.

      In the Phase 1b lead-in portions of NSCLC Cohort A1 and UC Cohort A2, avelumab is dosed at
      800 mg fixed dose every 3 weeks. Under Protocol Amendment 4, avelumab is dosed at 1200 mg
      fixed dose every 3 weeks in the Phase 1b lead-in portions of NSCLC Cohort A3 and in UC Cohort
      A4, in combination with the same standard-of-care chemotherapy doublets used in Cohort A1 and
      Cohort A2, respectively. For each tumor type, the study treatment combination with the
      highest avelumab dose determined to be safe may be advanced into Phase 2 cohort expansion.
    
  