
    
      [Note: As of 2/28/2001, due to toxicity studies and concern for safety, patients need to sign
      new informed consents. Patients who are taking capravirine and who currently have viral loads
      below 400 copies/ml may continue to take capravirine at 1400 mg twice daily. Capravirine will
      be discontinued in patients with viral loads greater than 400 copies/ml at their last visit
      and they will be switched to new therapies or continue with their background therapies as
      deemed appropriate by the investigators.] This study will take place in approximately 150
      centers in the US, Canada, Europe, Australia, Argentina, and South Africa. Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment groups and stratified by geographic sites (North American and
      non-North American), plasma HIV-1 RNA levels, and prior NNRTI use. Group 1 patients receive
      capravirine plus VIRACEPT plus 2 new NRTIs and Group 2 patients receive capravirine placebo
      plus VIRACEPT plus 2 new NRTIs. NRTIs will not be provided by the sponsor. Patients may
      remain on their assigned treatment for 48 weeks, with posttherapy follow-up occurring at 1
      and 3 months. Assessments, done at various times throughout the study, include medical
      history, HIV antibody test, complete or symptom-directed physical examination, vital signs,
      height, weight, serum pregnancy test, hematology, chemistry, and recording of concomitant
      medications and adverse events. Other select assessments are performed at specified visits.
      Plasma samples for resistance testing and blood specimens for peripheral blood mononuclear
      cells (PBMC) are obtained at several times. The plasma samples and PBMCs may be used for
      viral drug resistance testing. Blood samples for quantitation of capravirine, VIRACEPT, and
      M8 (a metabolite of VIRACEPT) plasma concentrations are collected several times. Additional
      blood samples for analysis of drug concentrations may be requested depending on concomitant
      NRTIs or other medications. A Data Safety Monitoring Board monitors patient safety at
      prescribed intervals during the study.
    
  