
    
      The NHLBI has prioritized research focused on the primary prevention of chronic lung
      diseases, including ILD. The overall goal of this study is to conduct studies preparatory to
      and requisite for the testing of ILD preventative interventions.

      In the current study, the investigators propose to examine the pulmonary histopathology and
      biology of early subclinical ILD in healthy adults with a first-degree relative with
      clinically diagnosed ILD. There are two currently accepted computed tomographic (CT)-based
      phenotypes of subclinical ILD: high attenuation areas (HAAs) and interstitial lung
      abnormalities (ILA). Investigators from Columbia University Medical Center have previously
      shown that HAA has strong construct validity as an imaging biomarker of early subclinical
      alveolar inflammation and fibrosis among community-dwelling adults using the Multi-Ethnic
      Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA), an ongoing NHLBI-funded prospective cohort study of 6,814
      adults age 45 and older at enrollment in 2000-02. Investigators found that greater HAA at
      baseline was independently associated with reduced lung function and exercise capacity at
      5-year follow-up, exertional dyspnea at 10-year follow-up, and elevated serum levels of
      matrix metalloproteinase-7 (MMP-7) and interleukin-6 (IL-6). ILA is a distinct qualitative
      and visually-identified early ILD phenotype on CT that has also shown strong construct
      validity for ILD. Neither HAA nor ILA has been validated histopathologically.

      The lipoprotein substudy will examine the role of high density lipoproteins in patients with
      ILD. Patients with IPF have previously been shown to have low levels of high density
      lipoprotein (HDL) and high levels of low density lipoprotein (LDL). Investigators have
      previously shown that high levels of high-density cholesterol (HDL-C) are associated with a
      reduction in lung injury, inflammation and fibrosis (subclinical ILD) on CT in
      community-dwelling adults enrolled in the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis. These data
      are consistent with animal model data showing that treatment with apolipoprotein A-I (ApoA-I;
      the main component of HDL) attenuates lung fibrosis. Investigators at Columbia University
      Medical Center are therefore proposing to examine the associations of HDL and its main
      components (apolipoprotein A-I, apolipoprotein A-II, and paraoxonase-1) with clinical
      outcomes (FVC decline, death, lung transplantation and respiratory hospitalizations) and
      serum biomarkers of lung injury, inflammation and remodeling (SP-A, MMP-7, ICAM-1, IL-1,
      IL-18) in patients with ILD. Investigators will also explore the structure (using
      quantitative proteomics) and function (using a macrophage efflux assay and paraoxonase-1
      activity assay) of HDL particles in adults with ILD and first-degree family members with
      subclinical ILD.

      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is highly prevalent among adults with interstitial lung disease
      (ILD) and maybe a risk factor based on our previous studies from MESA
      (https://www.mesa-nhlbi.org/) and other research studies completed at Columbia University
      Medical Center. Therefore, the investigators will examine the association between OSA and
      sub-clinical ILD in at-risk adults.
    
  