
    
      Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is the most common cause renal failure in Western countries,
      responsible for 45% of patients on renal replacement therapy.Diabetic nephropathy was
      characterized in the early stage by increased albumin excretion in urine, known as
      microalbuminuria. (DN) results from interactions between different pathological factors that
      include hyperglycemia, increased activity of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone-system (RAAS),
      uncontrolled high systemic and glomerular pressure . (DN) optimal therapy continues to
      evolve. The main lines of treatment include strict glycemic and blood pressure (BP) control.
      The angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors have been known to reduce proteinuria both
      in normotensive and hypertensive patients with diabetic nephropathy and in hypertensive
      individuals with end stage renal failure . The mechanism by which ACE inhibitors exert their
      effect on proteinuria reduction is still unknown. The control of high systemic arterial
      pressure can be beneficial by reducing the filtration pressure. However, no association has
      been found between antihypertensive effect and proteinuria reduction in several studies.
      Microalbuminuria which is an early sign of nephropathy can be decreased also by use of
      Angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus . Insufficient
      blockade of aldosterone may lead to inadequate anti-albuminuric effects. Studies show that
      renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system inhibition with ACEI/ARB alone sometimes does not
      achieve optimal renoprotective effects and does not reduce progression of renal disease,
      despite therapy. Addition of mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRAs) to
      angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor or angiotensin II receptor blocker therapy was found
      to reduce proteinuria in patients diabetic nephropathy and can delay progression of renal
      dysfunction.
    
  