
    
      The study is a prospective, randomized, non-blinded, single-center Phase Ib trial. Patients
      will be identified that have a diagnosis of breast or ovarian cancer, have completed their
      standard courses of therapy and are disease-free. They will be properly screened, counseled
      and consented prior to enrollment. Once enrolled, each patient's blood will be tested for
      HLA-A2 status (approximately 50% will be HLA-A2+). Additionally, their tumors will be tested
      for FBP-expression and this information will be tracked for purposes of correlative science.

      Patients who are HLA-A2+ will be stratified based on cancer diagnosis (breast versus
      ovarian), then randomized by computer tables to one of three arms for the PVS. Each arm will
      receive 6 monthly injections of peptide + GM-CSF. Arm A will receive six inoculations with
      E39 peptide; arm B will receive three inoculations with E39 followed by three with J65; and
      arm C will receive three inoculations with J65, followed by three of E39. Since J65 has not
      been previously used in humans, a two week waiting period will be instituted between the
      first and second patients enrolled in either Arm B or C. Immunologic data will be assessed at
      1 month and 6 months (±2 wks) after the PVS, specifically ex vivo immunologic recognition of
      E39 and J65 will be assessed by clonal expansion using a dextramer assay and the in vivo
      response will be assessed by Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH). Immunologic recognition of
      E39 will be the primary endpoint, with recognition of J65 serving as an additional data
      point. The 6 month post-PVS immunologic data will then be used to assess each patient for
      significant residual immunity (SRI), defined as ≥2-fold increase in E39-specific CD8+ T-cells
      from the pre-vaccination level. Patients will then be sorted into two groups: those with SRI
      and those without. Patients within each group will then be randomized to receive one booster
      of either J65 or E39. Each patient will return to clinic within 1-2 weeks of their 6mo
      post-PVS visit to receive their single booster inoculation. This second randomization will
      result in four groups: 1) patients with SRI receiving E39; 2) patients with SRI receiving
      J65; 3) patients without SRI receiving E39; 4) patients without SRI receiving J65.
      Immunologic data will then again be gathered at 1 month (±2 wks) and 6 months (±2 wks)
      post-booster. This final immunologic data will be analyzed for differences between the four
      groups. Additionally, toxicity data will be gathered.

      Patients will be monitored closely for one hour after each inoculation with questioning,
      serial exams, and vital signs every 15 minutes. Patients will then be asked to return to the
      vaccine clinic 48-72 hours after each inoculation for questioning regarding any local or
      systemic toxicity and to examine and measure the local reaction at the vaccination sites. The
      graded toxicity scale (NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, v4.03) will be
      utilized to assess local and systemic toxicity. GM-CSF dose reduction may be required if
      >10cm of erythema and induration is seen at the injection site after any given inoculation.
    
  