
    
      Primary research question: What is the effect of CHAPP on diabetes awareness, detection and
      management in rural communities in Zamboanga Peninsula, Philippines?

      Project Description:

      This 5-year program will be carried out sequentially as an embedded mixed methods research
      project.

      Objectives of the research:

        -  To identify optimal ways to adapt elements of the CHAP model to fit local conditions
           (sociocultural, economic and environmental) and focussing on the prevention and
           management of diabetes

        -  To evaluate the effectiveness, generalizability, and cost-effectiveness of the CHAPP
           intervention for use in rural communities in LMICs

        -  To foster uptake of findings from the CHAPP program to other organizations and groups in
           the Philippines and other LMICs

      Phase 1: Adaptation of CHAPP to the sociocultural and economic setting Design: Qualitative
      inquiry to modify and incorporate the CHAP intervention model to best fit the local setting
      in Zamboanga Peninsula.

      Participants: Department of Health Personnel; Provincial Health Office Personnel; Municipal
      Mayor and barangay (local term for a small village) officials; Municipal Health Officers,
      Public Health Nurses and Midwives; Local Lead Organization representatives; CHAPP target
      participants (residents 40 years and older).Three municipalities will be selected from each
      province for the KII.

      Research Instruments: Interview guides for use in individual and group interviews, document
      abstraction forms (to be developed once key documents have been identified).

      Data Gathering Procedure: Document review, Key Informant Interviews (KII), Focus Group
      Discussions (FGDs), and directed exercises (free listing, pile sort and taxonomy building).

      Data analysis and outcome: Thematic Framework Analysis (CITE).

      Phase 2: Pilot project of CHAPP in selected rural communities Design: 6-month prospective
      pilot project. The CHAPP intervention protocol developed in phase 1 will be pilot tested in
      selected municipalities in the Zamboanga Peninsula.

      Objective: To pilot test feasibility of the CHAPP The setting and study population: Two
      eligible communities Region IX. Target participants are permanent resident of qualified
      municipalities 40 years and older.

      Community Participant Sampling: Cluster random sample of 400 residents 40 years of age and
      older will be generated for each pilot Municipality.

      Other participants: CHAPP Local Lead Organizations (LLO) and volunteers, selected CHAPP
      participants, health workers (doctor, nurse, midwife).

      CHAPP intervention: The proposed CHAPP intervention will include:

        -  Diabetes risk assessment (modified FINRISK and assessment of lifestyle risk behaviours)
           sessions be at least every 2 weeks in accessible community locations, manned by trained
           volunteers of LLO

        -  Volunteers educate CHAPP participants regarding their diabetes risk factors and ways to
           practice healthy lifestyle (including referral to local resources/activities) using
           diabetes education materials adapted for local context

        -  Use of an accepted process have participant data transmitted to a central web database
           system through a combination of cell-phone and computer-based technology

        -  Have participant assessment result forwarded to the Municipal Health Officer (doctor)
           for follow-up and screening Data Gathering Procedures: Participant survey (risk profile,
           physical activity, diet), data collected during CHAPP sessions, Community Process
           Evaluation Data Analysis and Outcomes: Ease of conduct, difficulties encounters,
           revisions needed

      Phase 3: Effectiveness of CHAPP Design: Stepped-Wedge cluster RCT Objective: To determine if
      CHAPP program will significantly improve behaviours related to the prevention and treatment
      (physical activity, diet, medication use for diabetic patients) of diabetes among residents
      40 years of age and older compared to usual care.

      Randomization: The CHAPP will be implemented in 20 communities will be randomly selected,
      stratified by district and population size and randomly assigned to 1 of 4 wedges (5
      communities per wedge).

      Participant sampling: A cluster random sample of 400 residents 40 years of age and older will
      be generated for each of the 20 Municipalities at the onset.

      Intervention: The CHAPP intervention will be implemented during intervention periods of
      selected communities. During control periods, communities will follow usual practice.

      Research Instruments: Same research instruments will be used as in Phase 2 Primary outcome:
      For the general population, outcomes that will be assessed are physical activity measured by
      the International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ), Diet measured by the portions of
      the diet survey lines from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS)
      questionnaire. For diagnosed diabetics, outcome will also include medication compliance.

      Secondary outcomes: Hospital admission rates and mortality rates due to diabetes and
      diabetes-related illness (based on International Classification of Disease-9 codes), number
      of newly diagnosed residents with diabetes, and changes in the BP and BMI of CHAPP
      participants.

      Data collection: All data collection procedures will be similar to Phase 2 or may be modified
      based on the results of the pilot study and advice from the Advisory Committee.

      Statistical analysis: The primary analysis will be to compare communities receiving the CHAPP
      intervention to those receiving regular care according to the stepped wedge schedule.
    
  