
    
      Synthetic HGH was developed in 1985 and approved by the FDA for specific uses in children and
      adults (1996; 2003). In children, HGH injections are approved for treating short stature of
      unknown cause as well as poor growth due to a number of medical causes, including:

        -  Turner's syndrome, a genetic disorder that affects a girl's development.

        -  Prader-Willi syndrome, an uncommon genetic disorder causing poor muscle tone, low levels
           of sex hormones, and a constant feeling of hunger.

        -  Chronic kidney insufficiency.

        -  HGH deficiency or insufficiency.

        -  Children born small for gestational age.

      In adults, approved uses of HGH include:

        -  Short bowel syndrome, a condition in which nutrients are not properly absorbed due to
           severe intestinal disease or the surgical removal of a large portion of the small
           intestine.

        -  HGH deficiency due to rare pituitary tumors or their treatment.

        -  Muscle-wasting disease associated with HIV/AIDS.

      HGH supplementation is potentially useful in ovulation induction. Over the last decade, as
      recombinant HGH has become commercially available, there have been many studies looking at
      the effects of HGH on ovulation induction. Almost all of these studies administered HGH along
      with routine fertility medication during the ovulation induction cycle. Most studies used HGH
      doses between 4 units and 12 Units. A few studies started GH on day 21 of the previous cycle.

      A recent Cochrane review found that, while HGH did not improve results in routine IVF cycles
      there is "some evidence of increased pregnancy and birth rates in women who are considered
      'poor responders' to in vitro fertilization."

      HGH is reported to modulate the action of follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) on follicles by
      up-regulating local synthesis of IGF-1. A similar effect was, interestingly, noted by Casson
      et al. (Casson, Santoro et al. 1998; Casson, Lindsay et al. 2000) in early experiments using
      DHEA with treated patients having increased IGF-1. Much of the focus on gonadotropin /IGF-1

      interaction has revolved around the effects on granulosa cell cultures to increase aromatase
      activity, estradiol production progesterone production and Luteinizing Hormone (LH) receptor
      formation. However,Insulin-Like Growth Factor-1 (IGF-1) also has a proposed role in
      stimulating early follicle development and oocyte maturation (Yoshimura, Ando et al. 1996;
      Yoshimura, Aoki et al. 1996).

      Based on these observations, we believe that HGH in past trials has not been used to maximal
      effect. Since HGH, like DHEA, appears to affect small growing follicles, weeks to months
      removed from gonadotropin sensitivity, the greatest potential for HGH, under our hypothesis,
      would be its use, attempting to affect these small growing follicles. In analogy to DHEA
      supplementation, this would mean that HGH supplementation would have to be initiated at least
      6 weeks prior to IVF cycle stimulation start. Theoretically, administration of HGH during the
      6 week before starting an IVF cycle will have an effect on developing antral follicles to
      present a larger and better quality cohort of follicles when ovulation induction is begun.
    
  