
    
      The purpose of this prospective observational cohort study is to define the reliability and
      accuracy of Near Infrared Spectroscopy (NIRS) in the detection of intra-compartmental tissue
      perfusion in injured and noninjured extremities over time. Additionally, it will establish
      diagnostic perfusion value thresholds to be used in a subsequent interventional study
      confirming the efficacy of NIRS-based ACS monitoring. Through prospective measurements of
      NIRS values, vital signs, intracompartmental pressures and clinical examinations, guidelines
      and parameters will be established for the use of NIRS in diagnosing acute compartment
      syndrome (ACS), monitoring patients at risk for ACS and evaluating the adequacy of fasciotomy
      in patients treated for ACS.

      Null hypotheses:

        -  NIRS values do not correlate with intracompartmental pressures, when they are obtained
           in the course of routine care of patients in the combat theater.

        -  There is no difference in the NIRS values between non-injured, injured extremities and
           injured extremities treated with fasciotomy for ACS

        -  NIRS values from the upper extremity and feet do not correlate to NIRS values from the
           normal legs in critical control patients and patients with unilateral severe lower
           extremity injury.

      Specific Aims:

        1. Conduct observational, human-use, study to compile a normative reference database for
           NIRS-measured tissue perfusion in the uninjured upper extremity and the injured and
           non-injured legs of up to 120 injured subjects, from varying ethnicities (skin
           pigmentations) in varying degrees of hemodynamic status (stable, critically injured) to
           test the 3 hypotheses listed above. The study groups consist of one control group
           (critically ill without leg injuries) and one investigational group (critically injured
           with leg injuries):

             -  COHORT 1: 25 critically injured patients with NO severe traumatic lower extremity
                traumatic injuries to provide normative data for the "critically injured"
                physiological status ("Critical" CONTROLS)

             -  COHORT 2: 95 total (35 Cohort 2A; 35 Cohort 2B; 25 Cohort 2C) patients with
                "severe" traumatic lower extremity injuries presenting to a "participating" level 1
                trauma center within 12 hours of their injury, to provide data on the acute
                post-injury phase. (INVESTIGATIONAL COHORT)

             -  COHORT 2A: Patients meeting COHORT 2 inclusion criteria, who have UNILATERAL
                "severe lower extremity injuries".

             -  COHORT 2B: Patients meeting COHORT 2 inclusion criteria, who have BILATERAL "severe
                lower extremity injuries".

             -  COHORT 2C (ACS GROUP): Patients meeting COHORT 2 inclusion criteria, who have been
                clinically diagnosed by the treating provider using that treating provider's
                standards of diagnosing ACS and the patient, in addition to being diagnosed with
                ACS, undergoes four-compartment leg fasciotomy. Patients in this cohort need data
                collection to start BEFORE fasciotomy and continue AFTER fasciotomy.

        2. Record provider comments regarding usability of the technology in its new embodiment and
           areas of needed design improvement. Apply this knowledge to perfect the industrial
           design and functionality of the final device.

        3. Establish evidenced-based clinical guidelines for the diagnosis and management of ACS in
           traumatically injured soldiers to be tested in a subsequent interventional clinical
           (IDE) study.
    
  