
    
      Practicing mindfulness has been demonstrated to have a variety of benefits such as reducing
      stress, depression, anxiety, insomnia and pain symptoms. Positive psychology interventions
      have been shown to increase well-being by enhancing resilience, improving health and having a
      positive impact on levels of anxiety and depression.

      The clinical guidance for treating individuals with chronic pain recommends reducing stress
      and improving sleep and supporting patients to gain a greater sense of control over their
      illness. Mindfulness has been shown to be effective in supporting patients with chronic pain
      to achieve these outcomes.

      This study is the first of its kind to combine aspects of positive psychology and mindfulness
      to create an online programme specifically designed to enhance well-being. Previous
      participants who have undertaken the Positive Mindfulness Programme have experienced reduced
      depression and stress and an increase in well-being.

      Participants will be recruited through the Pain Management Centre at Oxford University
      Hospitals (Churchill site) and INPUT at St Thomas's Hospital. Patients with chronic pain will
      be asked by their clinician if they would like to participate in the study. Clinicians will
      then pass on (with consent) the contact details of interested potential participants to the
      researcher. Patients can alternatively choose to get in touch with the researcher directly
      themselves. Participants will undertake the online programme independently in any location
      they choose to access the programme.

      All participants will be sent an introductory email with a link to an online survey platform
      where they will be asked to complete 5 pre-validated questionnaires. Within this invitation
      email, the structure of the programme and daily commitment will be described. The
      researcher's contact details will be provided should potential participants have any
      questions regarding the 4-week programme. Participants will be asked to sign an online
      consent form as part of the initial completion of the outcome measures, before they commence
      the programme. Participants will logon to the online platform by creating a personalised,
      anonymous username and password.

      Once the participants have completed the baseline outcome measures, the experimental group
      will be sent a link to the Positive Mindfulness Programme online course and they will be able
      to begin the 4 week course. Participants will have controlled access to the website so will
      be unable to start earlier than their slot.

      Each week participants will watch a short video providing the theoretical basis for the
      aspect of Positive Psychology and mindfulness they will be practicing. Each video will be
      between 8 - 10 minutes long. At the end of the theory video, participants are asked to access
      and download an audio file which provides them with their daily meditation practice for the
      week. The audio files containing the daily meditation lasts 12-15 minutes. At the end of each
      meditation, participants are invited to engage in a daily activity that has a positive
      psychology focus. The topics covered include: self-awareness, positive emotions,
      self-compassion, autonomy, self-efficacy, meaning, relations with others and engagement.

      Participants are asked to practice the meditation daily. After practicing the meditation for
      4 days, participants will log back into the survey site to complete the next week's material.
      Participants continue this same process for the duration of the 4-weeks.

      Upon completion of the 4 weeks of material, participants will be given a wrap-up session that
      summarises each week of the programme. They will then be asked to complete the same
      questionnaires that were administered at the beginning of the programme, thus providing
      post-measures. One month after completion, participants will be contacted again to complete
      the same series of questions.

      Throughout the programme there will be a control group. This group will be asked to complete
      the same measures at the same time points as the study group (immediately, at 4 weeks, at 8
      weeks). However, these individuals will not participate in the weekly programme until 8 weeks
      has passed. Once they have waited 8 weeks they will be offered the 4 week programme.
    
  