
    
      The investigators aim to recruit approximately 40 women to allow for subject and technical
      drop-out, aiming for a minimum of 30 women in the final study who complete the full protocol
      successfully. The investigators will collaborate with the Sexual Medicine clinic to identify
      potential participants, as well as advertise via print (including local and regional
      newspapers, transport network), radio and online advertisements. Additionally, the
      investigators will liaise with the local Clinical Research Network (CRN) to contact
      potentially eligible patients via their General Practitioner (GP) surgery (via letter or text
      message). Potential participants who contact us via advertisements will initially be
      electronically sent a participant information sheet and self-report questionnaire, to be
      returned via email. If, following this, they are happy to take part and no obvious exclusion
      criteria are detected, they will be screened via telephone using a questionnaire. If
      eligible, they will be invited for a formal screening interview, where further questions
      regarding the study will be answered. After obtaining consent, a full medical and sexual
      history will be taken as well as a review of the diagnosis of assessment, an ECG, urinalysis
      to exclude pregnancy, clinical laboratory testing and completion of psychiatric and
      psychosexual questionnaires.

      Eligible participants will then enter the Intervention phase. Participants will be randomised
      (1:1) to one of two intervention sequences: a single dose of Bremelanotide or matching
      placebo, administered subcutaneously. All participants will attend for two study visits each,
      during which they will undergo a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scan while
      receiving either Bremelanotide or placebo. During the scan, participants will be presented
      with visual erotic stimuli in order to activate the brain, so that Bremelanotide's modulation
      of the melanocortin system can be measured. The participants will also be asked to use a
      behavioural potentiometer whilst in the scanner to rate their degree of sexual arousal. The
      crossover design, which allows participants to serve as their own control, will minimise
      inter-participant variability. Participants will also be sent a short questionnaire 24-hours
      after the study to assess the perceived duration of effect of Bremelanotide.

      The MRI data will be processed and analysed using current best practice methods, which will
      include (but may not be limited to) application of the General Linear Model (GLM) for
      neuroimaging data. Robust methods of correcting for multiple comparisons (e.g. permutation
      testing) will be used for statistical analysis and thresholding of the statistical brain
      images. Brain activation patterns will be presented by intervention and analysed by
      whole-brain and region of interest (including amygdala, thalamus, posterior cingulate cortex
      and entorhinal region. Correlations will be explored between brain activation and behavioural
      data, corrected for visit order as appropriate (including Pearson and Partial Correlation
      testing).
    
  