
    
      1. INTRODUCTION Patients undergoing invasive mechanical ventilation (IMV) have an intense
           predisposition to the development of muscle weakness in the first hours after the
           orotracheal intubation process, since they are exposed, among other factors, to sedative
           drugs, immobilization and properly controlled ventilation (DEMOULE et al., 2016). It is
           observed that approximately 25% to 50% of patients submitted to ventilatory support have
           muscle weakness and, of this proportion, 85% to 95% persist with neuromuscular
           impairment for a period of two to five years.

           In this context, the elderly deserve attention because the demographic transition
           process has the inversion of the age pyramid as one of its characteristics (WONG et al.,
           2006). This leads to a higher incidence of admissions of these patients in intensive
           care units compared to young people and adults, considering that they represent the
           largest portion of the population.

           Among the muscles affected by permanence in IMV in the general population and especially
           in the elderly, the diaphragm can be highlighted, which evolves with a reduction in its
           ability to generate tension due to the atrophy of its muscle fibers. This leads to an
           alteration called diaphragmatic dysfunction (DD). The mechanisms involved with DD are
           the reduction in the number of myofibrils (proteins that involve filaments of actin and
           myosin responsible for the production of muscle contraction), oxidative stress (inducing
           the activation of the forkhead box O1 protein, involved with the processes of
           gluconeogenesis and glycogenolysis) and the abnormal activation of a pathway responsible
           for the proteolysis of adenosine triphosphate, ubiquitin-proteasome.

           Considering the progressive characteristic of DD, some consequences such as increased
           IMV time, increased risk of respiratory complications and prolonged hospital stay can be
           observed, if no specific intervention is performed . Therefore, it is necessary to adopt
           measures that allow the early detection of diaphragmatic weakness, as well as the use of
           conducts that prevent or treat this clinical condition.

           As for the diagnosis of DD, it can be performed using instruments that measure
           inspiratory muscle strength, such as the manovacuometer, in addition to imaging tests
           that show the diaphragmatic thickness (FDI), such as pulmonary ultrasonography (PU) .
           The variable referring to inspiratory muscle strength in manovacuometry is the maximum
           inspiratory pressure (MIP), while the thickness of the diaphragm, verified through the
           PU, is represented by the diaphragmatic thickening index (DTI), obtained through the
           difference between the diaphragm thickness total lung capacity (DTTLC) and functional
           residual capacity (DTFRC), divided by DTTLC. The FDI contributes to the initial
           diagnosis of DD and is also relevant for monitoring the evolution of diaphragm function
           during the period of hospitalization and ventilatory weaning. According to Goligher et
           al. (2015), the decrease in FDI is associated with impaired function of the diaphragm
           and is correlated with low values of MIP in critically ill patients.

           After obtaining variables related to the function of the diaphragm, as previously
           described, conducts aimed at preventing or treating DD are important in an attempt to
           minimize possible damage to the critical patient. Within outpatient pulmonary
           rehabilitation, positive effects have been demonstrated with the use of electrotherapy,
           specifically through the technique of transcutaneous electrical diaphragmatic
           stimulation (TEDS) in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). This
           technique consists of placing electrodes on the skin, in places close to the motor
           points of the diaphragm, transmitting an intermittent current and generating action
           potentials capable of producing muscle contractions. However, in the literature, there
           is no evidence on the effects of this therapy on the FDI of elderly critically ill
           patients, or even to assess the impact of TEDS on the time of mechanical ventilation and
           hospitalization of this population. In view of the practicality of this treatment, its
           low cost and the scarcity of evidence on this topic, the objective of the present study
           will be to assess the influence of TEDS on respiratory muscle strength, diaphragm
           thickness and duration of mechanical ventilation in critically ill patients under care
           intensive.

        2. METHODS

           2.1. Study Design and Recruitment

           The present study will be a controlled randomized clinical trial. It will also be
           registered in the Clinical Trials.

           All research participants will be submitted to the assessment of respiratory muscle
           strength (manovacuometry) and diaphragm thickness (PU), and only EG patients will be
           exposed to an intervention through the use of TEDS.

           2.2. Sample

           The sample will consist of participants of both sexes, over the age of 60, who have
           undergone IMV. The research participants will be divided into a control group (CG) and
           an experimental group (EG) and will carry out the same evaluation steps during the
           spontaneous breathing test after weaning from mechanical ventilation, with only the EG
           undergoing TEDS. The details of the intervention will be exposed later.

           2.3 Proposed Procedures / Methods

           The evaluation of the research subjects will take place in the Adult Intensive Care
           Units (I and II) of the Hospital e Maternidade Therezinha de Jesus - Juiz de Fora.

           2.3.1. Distribution of Participants, Evaluation and Intervention

           The research participants will be submitted to the evaluation of the FDI through the PU,
           as well as of the respiratory muscle strength, through the manovacuometry, immediately
           after the ventilatory weaning. It is worth noting that weaning and extubation will be
           carried out following an institutional checklist (Appendix I) for greater patient
           safety.

           The EG, immediately after the 24-hour period on VMI, will be submitted to TEDS, twice a
           day, with an interval of six hours between therapies to prevent respiratory muscle
           fatigue. Initially, it will be performed with the patient in assisted-controlled
           ventilation mode and well adapted to ventilation. The sensitivity parameter will be
           adjusted to the value necessary so that the contractions produced by electrical
           stimulation do not trigger the mechanical ventilator, preventing episodes of asynchrony.
           After the suspension of drugs with a sedative effect (such as benzodiazepines and
           endogenous opioids) and the ventilatory drive is resumed, TEDS will continue to be used
           in EG patients until extubation, in spontaneous ventilation, following the same
           protocol, however with the sensitivity readjusted to the standardized values to prevent
           muscle fatigue. The procedures will be detailed below.

           2.3.2. Pulmonary Ultrasound

           Ultrasonography is a simple, safe and relatively low-cost procedure that, when using
           exact equipment and standardized techniques applied by trained professionals, provides
           relevant information on the respiratory system that has been demonstrated over the last
           few years (DEMI et al., 2014).

           The patient will position himself in the supine position and there will be the use of
           the linear transducer to evaluate the superficial structures and the cardiac transducer
           to evaluate the deep ones. There is a wide range of techniques to be employed, but the
           eight-zone assessment is practical and quick to perform in emergency assessment and in
           intensive care patients. The latter consists of the scanning of four areas by
           hemithorax, namely: zones 1 and 2 indicate the upper anterior chest wall and the lower
           anterior one respectively, and zones 3 and 4 indicate the upper lateral chest wall as
           well as the lower lateral wall, respectively.

           The equipment used to perform all pulmonary ultrasound exams will be the GE LogiqE
           (Logiq-E GE 2014, Contagem, MG, Brazil), from the Ultrasonography Sector of the Hospital
           and Maternidade Terezinha de Jesus, Juiz de Fora (MG).

           2.3.3. Assessment of Respiratory Muscle Strength

           According to the American Thoracic Society (2002), the appropriate protocol for
           obtaining the measurements related to respiratory muscle strength (MIP) must respect the
           following characteristics: a) environment with a temperature of approximately 21ºC; b)
           previous calibration of the manovacuometer; c) patient in a sitting posture (head
           elevated by 90 °); and d) execution of a maximum inspiration starting from the residual
           volume (RV) to reach the total lung capacity (TLC). The procedure must be repeated two
           more times, with an interval of two minutes between repetitions (prevention of muscle
           fatigue) and the measures of MIP and maximum expiratory pressure (MEP) considered will
           be the highest recorded. The equipment used will be brand M120, with a scale of 4 cmH2O,
           with variation of +/- 120 cmH2O.

           2.3.4. Transcutaneous Electrical Diaphragmatic Stimulation

           The TEDS protocol will consist of the following parameters: a) frequency of 30 Hz; b)
           pulse width of 0.4 ms; c) respiratory rate of 15 irpm; d) holding time of 1 s; e) rise
           time of 1 s; f) 2 s descent time; and g) 2 s non-stimulus time. Phrenics equipment
           (Dualpex 961, Quark®, SP, Brazil) will be used. The positioning of the electrodes will
           be performed according to a study by Cancelliero et al. (2012), who proposed the
           placement of two electrodes in the right and left paraxiphoid regions, and two others in
           the direction of the axillary midline, over the seventh intercostal space, also on the
           right and left sides. The duration of the procedure will be 30 minutes, twice a day,
           with a six-hour interval between applications, until the patient undergoes the
           extubation process. As long as it does not have a level of consciousness, is not in
           spontaneous ventilatory mode and without the use of drugs with a sedative effect, the
           sensitivity of the ventilator will be adjusted in a way that does not trigger the
           equipment, to avoid episodes of asynchrony. Immediately after recovering the level of
           consciousness, resuming the ventilatory drive and suspending sedative drugs, the patient
           during TEDS will be stimulated to inhale after the perception of the arrival of the
           electric current, in spontaneous mode, and with the sensitivity adjusted to the baseline
           values.

           2.3.4. Scratchs

           There are chances of hemodynamic decompensation and respiratory distress during the use
           of TEDS in EG patients, including changes in heart rate, blood pressure, as well as
           respiratory rate and synchronization with the mechanical ventilator. If the events
           described occur, the TEDS procedure will be stopped immediately. Ventilatory adjustments
           will be made by the researcher according to the demands presented and the doctor on duty
           will be informed to adopt conducts aimed at the patients' hemodynamic recovery,
           regarding medication adjustments. There will be supervision by the responsible
           researcher and the rest of the multidisciplinary team.

           2.3.5. Benefits

           Benefits may be generated for the study participants, including the reduction in the
           time of mechanical ventilation, hospitalization, in addition to the probable rapid
           reintegration of patients into activities of daily living after discharge, since
           diaphragmatic muscle weakness contributes substantially to the delay in the process of
           recovering functionality.

        3. FINANCIAL SUPPORT

      The equipment used in the research is available at the Therezinha de Jesus Hospital and
      Maternity Hospital in the city of Juiz de Fora, state of Minas Gerais.
    
  