
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the sixth most common cancer and the second most common
      cause of death from cancer globally. Although the development of imaging techniques has
      improved early HCC diagnosis, portal vein tumor thrombus (PVTT) is still identified in
      12.5-39.7% of HCC patients at their initial visits. Patients suffering from extremely
      aggressive HCC with PVTT have a median survival time of only 2.7-4.0 months if left
      untreated. The current standard of practice recommends sorafenib, which has been shown to
      prolong overall survival (OS) by nearly 3 months in advanced HCC patients and by 1.5-3.2
      months in those with PVTT.

      Transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) is the main treatment modality for unresectable HCC
      patients. Some recent prospective studies have demonstrated that TACE can serve as a safe and
      effective procedure in selected HCC patients with PVTT. TACE is recommend for a part of
      patients with HCC and PVTT by the treatment guidelines in China and Japan. However,due to the
      poor blood supplement of PVTT,the local control rate of PVTT after TACE treatment is low.
      Besides,as to some hypovascular intrahepatic tumors, TACE also could not controlled
      effectively. As regard to the high local control rate of radiofrequency ablation (RFA) for
      intrahepatic lesions and PVTT reported in some studies, we thus suggested that the
      combination of TACE and RFA might have higher tumor control rate and survival benefit than
      TACE alone.

      We design this study to compare survival outcomes of TACE plus RFA and TACE alone in patients
      with HCC and PVTT.A total of 240 patients are needed according to statistician's
      calculation.They will be divided into two groups randomly by computer after sign the informed
      consent form.One group of patients received TACE plus RFA and the other group of patients
      received TACE alone.After treatment,patients will be followed-up on their survival, tumor
      response and adverse events.
    
  