
    
      Background The association between cancer and the occurrence of psychological disturbances
      has been shown in several studies. For cancer patients participating in phase I trials,
      psychological disturbances have also been found to be present, although with no comparison
      group.

      Relatives to patients in phase I trials are also found to have higher levels of perceived
      stress and anxiety among 88 relatives compared to population norms measured with validated
      instruments.

      Recognizing the aim of a phase I trial as dose escalation was found among a minority of
      patients (mean, 33%; range, 17-44%) in a systematic review. This review also found that a
      mean of 62% (range, 22-92%) of patients expected personal benefit from the new drug and a
      mean of 27% (range, 7-38%) expecting a cure for their cancer.

      Regret has only been explored to a limited extent among patients in phase I trials and has
      only been found among a minority.

      Applied scales in the study

        -  Psychological well-being will be measured with the Perceived Stress Scale (PSS), the
           Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD7), and the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9).

        -  Health-related quality of life will be measured with the EORTC Quality of Life
           Questionnaire (QLQ-C30) for patients and the Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36) for
           relatives.

        -  Quality of Informed Consent (QuIC)

        -  Expectations

        -  Decision Regret Scale

      Perspectives This study will contribute with a characterization of the psychological
      well-being of patients referred to the Phase I Unit and possible factors of importance for
      this, including the relatives' well-being. This knowledge can lead to a greater attention to
      patients at risk of developing psychological disturbances and define challenges for
      recruitment and maintenance in phase I trials.

      The study will contribute to knowledge of patients' understanding of phase I trials and how
      this can affect expectations and regret. Moreover, this study will be the first to
      investigate if relatives' understanding of trial influences patients' perception of trial.
      These findings are important for the evaluation the dialogue when information is given and to
      considerations regarding involvement of relatives as possible resources for the patients.
    
  