
    
      This research project will achieve its objectives and outcomes in five phases:

      There are 5 phases for this research work: (1) preparation phase, (2) Therapeutic
      intervention phase, (3) Evaluation phase, (4) Phase of data and statistical analyses, (5) The
      phase of Result Publication Phase.

      Phase (1): Preparation phase.

      This phase have been undertaken to set up and identify the inclusion and exclusion criteria
      of participant patients, determination of the sample size and randomization procedure for
      this study, purchasing the instruments that will be used in the study.

      1.1 Setting up participant criteria. (This phase has completed) 1.2 Determination of the
      sample size and randomization procedure. Sample size: 40 patients will participated in this
      study. They will divided randomly to equal groups.

      Randomization: (Not yet recruiting) In order to eliminate bias in treatment, randomization
      will be established for the patients who will be included in both experimental group A &
      control group B. It permits the use of probability theory to express the likelihood that any
      difference in outcome between treatment groups merely indicates chance. Evaluation of the
      patients with stroke will be performed by evaluators who will not participated in application
      of intervention and the therapists will be blinded from the randomization and blinding
      process. Simple randomization using a randomization table created by computer software (i.e.
      computerized sequence generation)

      1.3 Purchasing the instruments. (This phase has completed) The following device has been
      already purchased: Armeo Functional upper extremity rehabilitation (MRF; Hocoma,
      Switzerland). (For treatment)

        -  Other evaluation instruments that will be used in this study are available in the
           University Research Labs

      Phase (2): Therapeutic intervention phase. (This phase has not yet started)

      Therapeutic intervention will be carried out three sessions per week for twelve successive
      weeks for both experimental and control groups. The treatment session will continue 2 hours
      with 15 minute rest between the first and the second hours. (More details are explained in
      the intervention section)

      Phase (3): Evaluation phase. (This phase has not yet started)

      The evaluation phase include the examination of the study predetermined parameters at both
      baseline, and 12 weeks after intervention commencement

      Phase (4): Data and Statistical Analysis phase. This phase will start after all participants
      who will recruited for this study will be examined for the purposes of final collection of
      out-come data.

      The statistical analysis will include:

      The differences in demographics (such as age, height and weight) between study/experimental
      and control groups before treatment will be examined using one-way ANOVA.

      Paired t test will be used to identify the mean differences in outcome measures within groups
      to compare the means of primary and secondary outcome measures between pre-treatment and
      post-treatment for each group.

      One-way ANOVA with post-hoc tests will be used to identify the mean differences in primary
      and secondary outcome measures between study/experimental and control groups.

      Phase (5): Result Publication Phase. This phase will start after all participants who will
      recruited for this study will be examined for the purposes of final collection of out-come
      data
    
  