
    
      The purpose of this 8-week single center, randomized, open-label phase III trial to compare
      recombinant von Willebrand factor (rVWF, Vonvendi速)) plus tranexamic acid (TA, Cyclokapron速)
      vs. rVWF alone to prevent postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) in women with Von Willebrand disease
      (VWD). VWD is an inherited bleeding disorder that occurs in 1% of the population. It is
      caused by deficient or defective von Willebrand factor (VWF). Treatment at delivery is with
      VWF concentrate, based on U.S. and European guidelines, and as DDAVP, a non-VWF protein, is
      contraindicated as it may cause hyponatremia (low salt) and seizures due to fluid replacement
      at delivery. Yet, blood loss is 1.5-fold greater in VWD than non-VWD controls. The
      investigators believe this is due to physiologic (protective) fibrinolysis (clot breakdown)
      in the first 3 hours after delivery, which may protect controls from excess clotting after
      delivery, but which may increase bleeding in subjects with VWD. PPH a significant cause of
      maternal morbidity and mortality in women. PPH is defined as >1000 ml within the first 24
      hours of vaginal or cesarean delivery. PPH peaks in the first 2-3 hours postpartum, a time
      during which there is early activation of the fibrinolytic system, with a 2-fold increase TPA
      (tissue plasminogen activator). So while uterine atony is the major cause of PPH, accounting
      for 63% of PPH cases, but in 37% of cases, uterotonic agents fail.

      TA is an anti-fibrinolytic therapy (prevents clot breakdown) which reduces bleeding and
      prevents clot breakdown in surgery, trauma, and in controls at delivery, if it is given
      within 3 hours of delivery. In the WOMAN trial, a large trial of over 10,000 women without
      bleeding disorders, TA was safe and effective in reducing PPH when given intravenously (in a
      vein) within 3 hours of vaginal or cesarean delivery. As TA is approved by the US. Food and
      Drug Administration (FDA) to treat and prevent bleeding in VWD, the investigators propose to
      study rVWF plus TA vs. VWF alone to reduce PPH in subjects with VWD. This is a pilot study to
      determine if recruitment, randomization, and study drug administration can be performed
      successfully, and shows preliminary safety and efficacy in subjects with VWD. rVWF
      (Vonvendi速) will be administered by intravenous infusion before delivery and on day 1 and day
      2 postpartum. Tranexamic acid (Cyclokapron速) will be administered by intravenous infusion
      within 3 hours postpartum. Randomization will be at delivery to either rVWF at delivery and
      on day 1 and day 2 postpartum, plus TA within three hours postpartum; or rVWF alone at
      delivery and on day 1 and day 2 postpartum.
    
  