
    
      Autoimmune destruction of the adrenal cortex is the main cause of primary adrenal
      insufficiency (Addison's disease, AD). Autoimmune AD (AAD) becomes clinically manifest when
      90 % of cortex of adrenal gland is destroyed. Current dogma says that adrenal insufficiency
      ultimately is complete, that is the adrenal cortex stops producing steroids altogether.
      However, several case reports indicate that there might be a subgroup of patients that retain
      some steroid production, even years after the diagnosis. This ability could be beneficial as
      it could protect against adrenal crises, ease medication, and leave the patient with better
      quality of life.

      The objective of the study is to systematically assess to what extent patients with AAD have
      residual adrenocortical function, and to characterize this subgroup.

      The study will be an open non-randomized three-stage multicenter clinical trial comprising
      patients from the Norwegian Registry for organ-specific autoimmune disease (ROAS), the
      Swedish Addison registry, and Germany. In stage 1, patients will be asked to fill out
      questionnaires and deliver medication-fasting samples for analyses of adrenal steroids. In
      addition, patients with congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) and bilaterally adrenalectomized
      will serve as negative controls for adrenal steroids. In stage 2, AAD patients with residual
      steroid production will be invited to a cosyntropin stimulation test to estimate the maximum
      steroid output from the adrenal glands. Twenty patients with no sign of residual function
      will also be tested as a control group. In stage 3, AAD patients with confirmed residual
      function will be invited to go through a 30-hour ambulatory sampling of interstitial fluid
      for investigation of diurnal variation in adrenocortical hormone levels. Also, newly
      diagnosed AAD patients will be invited to repeated cosyntropin testing as a means of
      delineating the natural progression of adrenocortical failure.
    
  