
    
      1. a detailed record of the irradiation dose and R-V point dose for all patients PIBS /
           PIBS ± 2cm, VRL data were taken.

        2. according to CTCAE v3.0 standard, accurate and detailed record of patient treatment,
           after treatment of 2 years and the incidence of vaginal complications were recorded.

        3. COX regression model was used to find dose-effect relationship between the reference
           point and vaginal complications.

      Clinical Scheme:

      Inclusion criteria: Pathologically confirmed cervical cancer patients, FIGO stage ⅠA- ⅣA
      patients who underwent radical radiotherapy, Any pathological type

      Exclusion criteria: FIGO staging of cervical cancer ⅢA; Age > 60 years due to vaginal
      stenosis during the treatment course

        1. pre-treatment: Abdominal and Chest CT scan before treatment. Patients were given pelvic
           MRI after EBRT to measure VRL before the start of brachytherapy.

        2. 3DCRT / IMRT was used and according to RTOG target outlined recommendation dose of
           46-50Gy / 23-25f; recording PIBS WP and R-V WP dose.

        3. Intracavitary irradiation starts at the end of the external beam radiation using
           image-guided CT / SIM. catheterization of full bladder. Patients were advice to have
           empty rectum before CT scan

           The first treatment method:

             1. Catheterization: placement of catheter inside bladder and injection of contrast
                agent-containing 7ml liquid

             2. Place uterine and vaginal applicator device (must double the bulb), vaginal
                orifices ball from 3cm, and record

             3. Vaginal packing with gauze is done to keep the applicator fixed.

             4. Barium into the rectum and anal canal.

             5. CT/SIM (transverse axis) is done to complete 3D / 2D treatment planning.
                measurement VRL, PIBS and PIBS ± 2cm, R-V were recorded;

             6. Brachytherapy plan: Point A: 24-30Gy / 4-5f, or 21-28Gy / 3-4f HR-CTV: ≥85Gy,
                IR-CTV 65Gy dose records;

        4. Concurrent chemotherapy: DDP 30-40mg / m2 * 5w or T 135mg / m2D1 + DDP 30mg / m2 d1-3;

        5. vaginal washing method is every day from the beginning of radiation therapy for six
           months. After 6 months, it was done twice per week for 2 years.

        6. vaginal radiation complications were recorded according to CTCAE 3.0 standard

        7. Gynecological examination and MRI was performed before radiotherapy and brachytherapy
           treatment and also after the entire treatment period. Patients follow-up was done on the
           1,3,6,9,12,18 and 24th month after treatment during which vaginal radiation complication
           were evaluated according to CTCAE 3.0 standard

        8. COX regression model was used to find dose-effect relationship between the reference
           point and vaginal complications.
    
  