
    
      Design, Method, Material. Design: This is a randomized, 6-month, placebo-controlled Phase 2
      study of anthocyanins (Medox) in people with increased risk for dementia, to explore the
      effects of anthocyanins on cognitive performance and a range of biological markers including
      blood markers of inflammation and oxidative stress, antioxidants, lipid profile, urine,
      faeces, and cardiovascular functions.

      Method: Patients will be randomized (by means of a computerized program) to identically
      appearing capsules with Medox or placebo, 1:1 (produced by MedPalett). Patients will undergo
      monthly cognitive testing online. Brain MRI, structural and functional, will be performed
      before study start and at week 24. FDG-PET will also be done at sudy-start and study-end in a
      sub-group. Blood samples for analyses will be drawn at study start, after 12 weeks and at
      study end (week 24). Lumbar puncture for cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analyses, and faeces
      analyses and urine will be done at study-start and study end, and additionally at week 12 for
      feces and urine. Cardiovascular test inlude cardio ankle vascular index (CAVI), and
      photopletysmography (PPG) measurements will be done at study start (baseline) week 2, 6, 12
      and at study end (week 24). In a sub-group Flow mediated dilatation of brachial artery (FMD)
      will be done at study start, week 12 and study end.

      The cognitive assessment battery consists of the CogTrack, an online cognitive test battery
      with proven utility, reliability, sensitivity and validity and sensitivity to change. The
      battery consists of ten subtests, which, based on factor analysis, are combined into the
      following domains: attention, memory and cognitive speed. The 15 word lists of the verbal
      memory test have been translated into Norwegian. The primary outcome measure will be the
      Quality of Episodic Memory combination of 2 accuracy scores from each of immediate and
      delayed word recall, word and picture recognition (4 tasks in total), which has been shown to
      be sensitive to cognitive changes . The battery will be administered online monthly at home,
      or with assistance from a research associate at SESAM/local research site if Internet is not
      available at home. Collection and registration will be performed securely online.

      Patients will be tested at the same time of day on all occasions, usually in the morning.
      Testing procedures will be standardized (i.e. temperature, room, research associate, coffee
      intake).

      Protocol amendment 17.08.20 Study: A randomized, 24-week parallel-group placebo-controlled
      multicenter (Phase 2) study of anthocyanins in people at risk for dementia.

      Background for amendment Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which has led to disease and even
      death within the Wesnes Cognition Ltd and contracted developers supporting the CogTrack
      cognitive testing, the maintenance of the CogTrack platform suffered and went fully down in
      June 2020. Accordingly participants were unable to access the platform and unable to complete
      the cognitive testing as part of the ACID study. A lot of resources were directed towards
      correcting the challenges. We have now been able to set up a different but nearly identical
      system, eCogPro, as an alternative test system. This system is expected to be ready to be
      administered to the participants in late August or early September.

      Because of this inclusion of new participants has stopped, after having randomized 206
      participants. There are 27 ongoing participants who have scheduled cognitive testing from
      today and until early October. The company producing active and placebo capsules, MedPalett,
      has agreed to distribute additional capsules to the remaining participants, enabling them to
      continue treatment until the cognitive test platform is up and running. Staff at MedPalett
      are unblended to allocation, and based on the study ID list of the remaining participants,
      will be able to deliver the correct capsules to study participants.

      Other assessments, including physical testing and biomarker collection, are now running as
      normal, after having been shut down during the midst of the pandemic in April and May.

      There have not been any safety concerns in the study so far, and no additional safety
      procedures will be initiated.

      Amendment summary:

      Participants who are still in the study will continue treatment up to 4 weeks beyond the
      scheduled 24 weeks.
    
  