
    
      High-dose opioid anesthesia during cardiac surgery has been the mainstay of cardiac
      anesthesia for decades due to its ability to preserve hemodynamic stability and attenuate
      hormonal and metabolic response to surgical stress (1) . However, large doses of long-acting
      opioids required patients to be ventilated post-operatively for 12-24 h. Modifications in
      these practices have been dictated by the increasing cost, complications of prolonged
      mechanical ventilation, and the changes in demographics of patients presenting for cardiac
      surgery (2) . Moreover, the intraoperative use of large bolus doses or continuous infusions
      of potent opioids may be associated with postoperative hyperalgesia and tolerance (3). When
      it comes to ambulatory surgery, opioid related side effects, such as postoperative nausea and
      vomiting (PONV), prolonged sedation, ileus and urinary retention may delay recovery and
      discharge or cause unanticipated hospital readmission (4) . Such complications might, at
      least in part, also apply to cardiac anesthesia.

      Recent evidence suggests that increased total dose of opioids during cardiac surgery may lead
      to increased in-hospital, as well as long-term post-operative pain medication requirements
      for up to one year (5). Moreover, according to Hirji et al study , ongoing opioid use three
      months after CABG was present in 21.7% of opioid-exposed patients versus 3.2% of opioid-naive
      patients (6). In addition, Opioids have many known side effects such as somnolence, brainstem
      and respiratory depression , and chronic opioid dependence (7-9), and there is a national
      trend to decrease opioid use during non-cardiac surgery to promote faster recovery and
      decrease narcotic use post-operatively (1) .

      Several studies demonstrated the effectiveness of Opioid-free Anesthesia (OFA) in patients
      undergoing non-cardiac surgery(4,10,11). Preoperative use of COX inhibitors, GABA analogues
      and acetaminophen have been shown to decrease use of opioids postoperatively(10).
      Intraoperative use of agents that lead to opioid sparing effects via sodium channel blockade,
      blockade of G protein-coupled receptors, NMDA blockade, central alpha-2 agonists and
      anti-inflammatory effects can make opioid-free anesthesia (OFA) possible (12,13). On the
      other hand, there have been no studies demonstrating the effectiveness of an OFA technique in
      patients undergoing cardiac surgery except for two case reports who successfully implemented
      the OFA regimen in two patients undergoing valve replacement surgeries (14,15). The
      investigators therefore propose this prospective randomized controlled trial to investigate
      whether a multimodal opioid-free anesthesia regimen will be suitable as an alternative to
      conventional opioid-based regimen in patients undergoing valve surgery.
    
  