
    
      This was a single centre, 3 day, randomised, examiner blind, two treatment arm, parallel
      design, stratified (by maximum baseline Schiff sensitivity score of the two selected test
      teeth), controlled study in participants with at least two sensitive teeth that met the study
      criteria at the Screening and Baseline visits. Study participants were in good general
      health, with pre-existing self-reported and clinically diagnosed tooth sensitivity at
      screening. Participants were assessed at Baseline (pre-treatment), immediately after first
      treatment, and after 3 days twice daily treatment, to monitor clinical efficacy and safety.
      At the Screening visit, participants gave their written informed consent to participate in
      the study. Demography, medical history and concomitant medications were recorded, followed by
      an oral examination which included an oral soft tissue (OST) examination and assessments to
      determine eligible teeth. Eligible participants were supplied with a regular fluoride
      dentifrice (containing 1450 parts per million (ppm) fluoride as sodium monofluorophosphate)
      to use twice daily (morning and evening) during the acclimatisation period (4-8 weeks)
      between Screening and Baseline. Each brushing occasion was recorded in a product use diary.
      First use of the acclimatisation dentifrice was carried out under supervision at the study
      site. At Baseline (Day 0, pre-treatment), eligibility to continue was assessed. Following an
      OST examination, tooth sensitivity was assessed (first to a tactile stimulus [Yeaple probe,
      maximum 20 grams (g) pressure], and then to an evaporative air stimulus [Schiff sensitivity
      scale]), and the inclusion/exclusion criteria were reviewed. Eligible participants were
      stratified and randomised to treatment. First use of allocated study treatment was by direct
      application to the 2 selected test teeth, and was carried out under supervision at the study
      site. The sensitivity of the 2 test teeth was reassessed immediately post-treatment, first to
      a tactile stimulus (Yeaple probe, maximum 80g pressure), and then to an evaporative air
      stimulus (Schiff sensitivity scale). Participants completed a supervised whole mouth brushing
      with their allocated study treatment prior to leaving the study site. Sensitivity was
      re-assessed after 3 days twice daily treatment. Each use of study treatment was recorded in a
      product use diary. Adverse events (AEs) were documented from completion of the first use of
      acclimatisation dentifrice until 5 days following last administration of study product.
      Incidents were documented from completion of the first use of investigational product until 5
      days following last administration of study product.
    
  