
    
      Hyperkyphosis, which is defined as a thoracic curvature higher than normal limits, is among
      the reasons that decrease chest wall mobility and lung function. In modern society, kyphosis
      in the thoracic vertebra increases with the increase in sitting time of people. It has been
      identified in studies that an increase in thoracic kyphosis and a decrease in the mobility of
      the thoracic region of the spine are associated with a decrease in respiratory functions such
      as Forced Vital Capacity (FVC) and Forced Expiratory Volume in 1 Second (FEV1).

      Manual therapy approaches consisting of different techniques (manipulation, joint
      mobilization and soft tissue mobilization) can be an effective approach to improve pulmonary
      function by increasing chest wall mobility. Manual therapy techniques applied to the thoracic
      region have been shown to cause a significant reduction in thoracic kyphosis. In a study, it
      has been shown that thoracic joint mobilization is effective in increasing FVC, FEV1 and Peak
      Expiratory Flow (PEF) in people with hyperkhyphosis and chronic neck pain. In addition,
      identified studies shows that manual therapy approaches applied to improve respiratory
      functions should include both the thoracic and cervical regions due to the relationship
      between cervical and thoracic spine movements.

      Inspiratory Muscle Training (IMT) leads among the approaches used in the current literature
      to increase respiratory functions. There is important evidence that this technique which aims
      to increase the strength or endurance of the diaphragm and respiratory assist muscles
      activated during inspiration, improves respiratory function in the patient and healthy
      population. In the literature, there are studies examining the effects of IMT and manual
      therapy approaches on respiratory functions in individuals with chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease (COPD), asthma and smokers. In a study conducted on smokers, the effects of manual
      therapy added to the IMT program on maximum inspiratory pressure (MIP) and other respiratory
      parameters were examined and a significant increase in MIP was observed, but a significant
      increase in other respiratory parameters not observed. In another study, it was stated that
      the addition of manual therapy and therapeutic exercise protocol to IMT in asthmatic
      individuals was more effective than IMT in improving forward head posture and kyphotic
      posture.

      Although the studies on the effects of using IMT and manual therapy techniques together in
      healthy individuals on respiratory functions are very limited in the literature, more acute
      effects were investigated in these studies. In this context, the aim of our study is to
      evaluate the cervical and thoracic region manual therapy approaches added to IMT and IMT
      program in healthy individuals with hyperkyphosis; It is the determination of the effects on
      respiratory function values such as FVC, FEV1, tiffeneau index (FEV1 / FVC) and PEF, forward
      head posture and hyperkyphosis.
    
  