
    
      Pain after Cesarean delivery is a common occurrence on the labor and delivery unit. The
      increased use of neuraxial anesthesia has allowed the administration of neuraxial opioids to
      help with postoperative pain control. Many patients, however, still require IV and oral
      opioids in the post anesthesia recovery unit (PACU), and on the postpartum nursing floor.
      Post Cesarean delivery pain not only has the usual adverse effects common to all
      postoperative pain (i.e. increased risk for deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism,
      coronary ischemia, pneumonia, poor wound healing, and psychological dysfunction) but also has
      the potential to adversely affect mother-baby bonding, time spent in skin-to-skin contact and
      success of initiating effective breastfeeding.

      Systemic administration of lidocaine has been shown to decrease opioid consumption, improve
      recovery of bowel function and promote a better recovery after inpatient procedures.
      Lidocaine has been shown to have analgesic, antihyperalgesic and anti-inflammatory
      properties. It also has an excellent safety profile when given by a low-dose infusion.

      Assessing a patient's quality of recovery has become an important outcome in several studies.
      The patient's capacity to return to her normal activities and effectively care for her
      newborn is one of the most important signs of a successful surgical procedure, and it has
      significant economic, sociological and psychological implications.

      Quality of recovery -40(QoR-40) is a validated 40-item instrument to assess the quality of
      post-operative recovery (10). Myles et al. have concluded that the QoR-40 would be a useful
      outcome measure to assess the impact on changes in health care delivery, but anesthesia
      studies underutilize this instrument.

      This study will evaluate the effect of perioperative systemic lidocaine in the postoperative
      quality of recovery of patients undergoing Cesarean delivery.
    
  