
    
      Main inclusion criteria:

      Adult patients (age ≥ 18 years) with steroid refractory (SR) acute GvHD (aGVHD) grades II-IV
      after allo-HSCT.

      Signed written study informed consent once SR-aGvHD is confirmed.

      Main exclusion criteria:

      Presence of an active uncontrolled infection requiring treatment. Has received systemic
      treatment for aGvHD apart from steroids. Clinical presentation resembling de novo chronic
      GvHD or GvHD overlap syndrome. Known human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV). Patients
      suffering on active tuberculosis or viral hepatitis. Significant respiratory disease Presence
      of severely impaired renal function Patients with coagulopathy Pregnant or nursing
      (lactating) women Malignancy that has required treatment in the previous two years Any
      condition that would, in the Investigator's judgment, interfere with full participation in
      the study.

      Design:

      This is a phase I/II, multicenter, open-label trial of DSC in patients with steroid
      refractory acute GvHD grades II-IV.

      The trial will consist of 2 main parts: Phase 1 (open, non-randomized, 3+3 DSC dose
      escalating scheme), and Phase II, randomized (1:1), open label study investigating the
      efficacy and safety of DSC vs. BAT added to the patient's immunosuppressive regimen in adults
      with SR-aGvHD.

      Phase I dose escalating study. The main objective of the first part of the study is safety
      and tolerability of two different doses of DSC and to establish the optimal dose for the
      second, Phase II, part of the study. Six patients will be enrolled, 3 patients given the
      lower dose (1x10^6 DSC/kg) and 3 patients given the higher dose (3x10^6 DSC/kg). Patients
      will receive 2 doses of DSC (low or high) one week apart. If none of the initial 3 patients
      in the low-dose cohort experience a Severe Adverse Event (SAE), enrolment into the high dose
      level will commence. If the low and high dose in the Phase I study show similar safety
      results, the lower dose will be chosen for the Phase II, randomized study. The reason for the
      chosen doses in the phase I part is that in the pilot study, 1x10^6/kg showed very promising
      clinical results without any significant side-effects. The higher dose is chosen as this is
      the highest dose used clinically without any severe side-effects.

      The dose proposed for cohort 2 may change pending review of the data from the previous cohort
      by the Safety committee.

      In the second part of the study (Phase II) primary objectives will be safety and to compare
      durable overall response (DOR) at 56 days after randomization between patients receiving DSC
      with patients receiving BAT as treatment for SR acute GvHD grades II-IV. Target enrollment is
      50 patients, 25 in the DSC treatment-arm and 25 in the BAT arm. Patients will be given the
      optimal dose of DSC from the Phase I, dose escalating part of the study, as mentioned above.
      At least 2 doses of DSC will be given one week apart. Additional doses of DSC (maximum 6
      doses) may be given depending on response. Additional doses (beyond the first 2 doses) may be
      given one week apart until response, or whenever needed if aGVHD flare occur within 6 months
      after randomization (EOT).

      BAT: Investigator's choice Best Available Therapy (BAT) will vary depending upon
      Investigator's choice identified prior to randomization. Dose and frequency will depend on
      label (where approved) and institutional guidelines for various BAT.

      Primary objective

      In the phase I part:

        -  Assess the safety and tolerability profile of DSC

        -  Select the recommended DSC dose for the phase II study.

      In the phase II part:

        -  Assess the Safety of DSC.

        -  Durable Overall Response (DOR) at Day 56.

      Secondary objectives

        -  To assess Overall Response Rate (ORR) at day 28

        -  To assess 1-year Overall Survival (OS)

        -  To assess 1-year Non-Relapse Mortality (NRM)

        -  To assess incidence of infections

      Exploratory objectives

        -  To assess the cumulative steroid dose until Day 56 and Day 90

        -  To assess Event-Free Survival (EFS)

        -  To assess incidence of Malignancy Relapse/Progression

        -  To measure the incidence of chronic GvHD

        -  To measure immune reconstitution

        -  To evaluate changes in Patient Reported Outcomes
    
  