
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, non-blinded trial of office-based pessary care. The
      primary outcome of this study is vaginal epithelial abnormalities, including granulation
      tissue and ulceration. Secondary outcomes include participant satisfaction, degree of bother
      due to vaginal discharge, number of unscheduled visits and progression of pelvic organ
      prolapse quantification score (POPQS).

      At baseline (visit 1; see "Visit Schedule", below), women who have consented to participate
      will be randomized 1:1 to one of two groups:

        1. routine group: pessary care with removal and cleaning every 12 ± 2 weeks, or

        2. extended group: pessary care with removal and cleaning every 24 ± 2 weeks.

      Randomization will be performed using a randomization scheme available through Excel. Each
      consecutive/sequential participant will be assigned to whichever group corresponds to that
      sequential study entry number.

      For both groups, the pessary will be removed and cleaned and a vaginal examination will be
      performed at every visit regardless of complaints. The only difference will be frequency of
      visits. All pelvic examinations will be performed by the same individual.

      The study will be conducted for approximately one year, with additional time for analysis and
      preparation of abstract(s) and manuscript(s). Subjects' participation will consist of five
      visits in the routine group, three visits in the extended group. Consent to study
      participation will be obtained at the first visit. Visit schedule is shown below:

      Visit Schedule Routine Group Visit #1, initial visit (week 0), procedures: Consent to
      participate, Collect Demographics, Pelvic examination /pessary removal Consent to participate
      Visit #2, interim visit (week 12 ± 2), procedures: Interview, Pelvic examination /pessary
      removal Visit #3, interim visit (week 24 ± 2), procedures: Interview, Pelvic examination
      /pessary removal Visit #4, interim visit (week 36 ± 2), procedures: Interview, Pelvic
      examination /pessary removal Visit #5, final visit (week 48 ± 2), procedures: Interview,
      Pelvic examination /pessary removal

      Extended Group Visit #1, initial visit (week 0), procedures: Consent to participate, Collect
      Demographics, Pelvic examination /pessary removal Consent to participate Visit #2, interim
      visit (week 24 ± 2), procedures: Interview, Pelvic examination /pessary removal Visit #3,
      final visit (week 48 ± 2), procedures: Interview, Pelvic examination /pessary removal

      Participants who are approaching the upper bound of their visit window will be reminded of
      the need for a visit. Those who still present outside of the window for the interim visit
      will be scheduled their next appointment as it would have been scheduled if they had
      presented for the visit at the correct time. Any such cases will be noted in the analysis and
      a protocol deviation form will be completed and sent to IRB. Any participant who misses three
      visits within the scheduled window will be withdrawn from the study.

      Consent to study participation will occur at visit #1, a vaginal examination will be
      performed to document a pelvic organ prolapse quantification score8 (POPQS) and to exclude
      the presence of vaginal epithelial abnormalities (granulation tissue, erosion), or fistula
      and to note the presence of vaginal adhesions.

      Additional data will be collected at the initial visit: age, body mass index (BMI), smoking
      status, history of diabetes mellitus, history of surgery for incontinence or pelvic organ
      prolapse, history of hysterectomy, indication for pessary use, pessary size and type,
      duration of pessary use of the current pessary and in total if the participant has used other
      pessaries in the past, whether the participant has an intimate partner, use of aspirin (ASA)
      and dose, use of anticoagulation therapy, parity, bother from vaginal discharge, presence of
      vaginal bleeding, and history of vaginal epithelial abnormalities. The investigators also
      will document if the participant is using hormone replacement (HRT). If the participant is
      using HRT, the investigators will document medication, dose, route and frequency.

      Participants will be followed for 48 ± 2 weeks. At interim visits, data will be assessed for
      updates:

      Has the participant started new medications (ASA, anticoagulation, HRT)? Is the subject
      bothered by vaginal discharge? Is vaginal bleeding present?

      At interim visits, when a pessary is removed, a vaginal examination will be performed to
      evaluate for the presence of vaginal epithelial abnormalities and vaginal adhesions. When
      abnormalities are noted, they will be described in appearance, location, number, and size.
      Additionally, abnormalities will be staged using the following system:

      Stage Description

        1. Epithelial erythemya without epithelial breaks or presence of granulation tissue ≤1cm in
           size.

        2. Epithelial break or erosion ≤ 0.5 cm in diameter or presence of granulation tissue >1cm
           in size.

        3. Epithelial break or erosion 1-2cm in diameter.

        4. Epithelial break or erosion > 2 cm in diameter.

      If there is more than one epithelial abnormality noted, each will each be assigned a stage.
      The highest stage abnormality will determine the overall stage of the epithelial abnormality.

      If there is a change in pessary type or size, this will be documented. If the pessary is
      changed to a type other than ring or gellhorn, the participant will continue in the study as
      scheduled. If a pessary is removed and left out of the vagina, this will be documented. At
      the final visit, all participants will undergo a pelvic examination with pessary removal.

      Data will be collected on forms designed according to study group (routine/extended) and
      visit number. In the case that a participant has a pessary complaint and requires evaluation
      in the office outside of the scheduled visits according to their group allocation, an
      unscheduled visit form will be used to collect data at this visit. At an unscheduled visit,
      the same data will be collected as is collected at a scheduled follow-up visit. Additionally,
      the participant's complaint/visit reason will be described.
    
  