
    
      People who suffer a stroke are often left with disabilities such as weakness, or problems
      with speech, thinking, or control or bodily functions. Severe strokes often result in death.
      The results of a recent European study indicated that patients who commence mobility training
      very early after a stroke (Day 1) recover the ability to walk more quickly and return home
      sooner and in greater numbers than those who start training one week or later after stroke.
      Recently a phase II (pilot) AVERT study was conducted in which the investigators tested the
      safety and feasibility of very early mobilisation (European model) Stroke patients in this
      study randomly received either standard care or very early mobilisation (VEM). The study
      showed that there was no harm to patients in the VEM group compared to those who had standard
      care and that delivering VEM was feasible. Consequently, a grant to conduct the larger phase
      III study, to test the effectiveness of the intervention was obtained.

      In this next phase III trial, the investigators aim to look at 2104 patients across stroke
      care units in city and regional hospitals. Each hospital will be asked to include between 30
      and 60 patients per year to the study. All stroke patients admitted to the hospital Stroke
      Unit or ward at the hospital will be invited to participate. Medical clearance will be
      obtained for all potential participants. Those unconscious or too ill, together with those
      already participating in acute drug trials will be excluded. Patients who are able will
      provide their own consent to participate. Those who are not able to consent for themselves
      will have a third party (usually a relative) acknowledge their participation in the study. As
      this is a blinded controlled trial, keeping the assessor and patients unaware of their
      treatment group is important. The investigators will inform patients that they will have a
      50% chance of receiving one of two rehabilitation types during their hospitalization if they
      decide to participate. Patients in the VEM group will commence treatment within 24 hours of
      admission to hospital. VEM will be provided by a trained AVERT physiotherapist, and AVERT
      study nurse and aims to improve functional mobility. The mobilization activities will depend
      on the patient's functional ability and tolerance to exercise. Patients will be closely
      monitored prior to mobilization and will only be mobilised if they meet requirements for
      blood pressure and other vital signs. The number of sessions and the time spent for each
      patient will vary, however specific targets are to be met according to the intervention
      protocol. The content and timing of all treatment received by participants in either group
      will be recorded. The treatment period for this study is from the time of the patients
      consent, until day 14 or discharge from the stroke unit or ward. (Whichever is earlier). All
      participants will be assessed at admission to the study, 3 months, and 12 months after their
      stroke. Information collected by the AVERT physiotherapists and nurses and the assessor will
      be recorded on individual case record forms and on a secure web based data base. Therapists
      also add some information to a palm pilot, and then download it onto the secure website. All
      information collected from patients will be treated as confidential in line with
      international guidelines and local law.

      The primary outcome measure for the study is the number of patients dead and disabled at 3
      months after stroke. Other secondary outcome measures include the safety of patients, quality
      of life, and cost effectiveness. An independent Data Monitoring committee will monitor the
      safety, conduct and efficacy of the trial. In addition, an independent outcomes committee
      will be reviewing all events that are reported as serious.
    
  