
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Asthma incidence is increasing, and in adults work-related exposures may be an important
      factor-occupational asthma (OA) incidence increased 70 percent over the last decade according
      to a recent registry based study. The true contribution of occupational exposures to
      adult-onset asthma is unknown because the methods for measuring OA give conflicting results.
      Methods based on surveillance of clinically diagnosed OA account for less than one to five
      percent of adult-onset asthma. However, case-control methods of measuring asthma risk by
      industry suggest that six to 33 percent of adult-onset asthma is caused by workplace
      exposures. The conflict may occur because of two factors: physicians often fail to diagnose
      and report OA, and irritant exposures may increase the risk the risk of asthma without
      causing cases that meet the clinical definition. Both factors have important implications for
      proper treatment and prevention of asthma in adults.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Clinical and case control methods were used to identify the role of irritant exposure in
      adult-onset asthma in a community-based prospective study of asthma incidence. The study
      cohort was a typical US working population enrolled in an HMO. Additional benefits of the
      study design were the opportunities to validate a questionnaire for exposure assessment and
      for detection of work-related asthma. Specifically, the study: 1) Investigated incident cases
      in a cohort of over 80,000 adults over three years and determined the proportion that met a
      clinical definition of occupational asthma (OA); 2) Used a nested case-control study to
      determine the incidence of all asthma by occupation and workplace exposure; 3) Determined
      whether clinical OA accounted for the excess incidence of adult-onset asthma associated with
      workplace exposure to sensitizers and irritants; 4) Prospectively followed asthmatics for two
      years after diagnosis to determine the impact of adult-onset asthma on lung function,
      employment, income, and quality of life, and to determine whether prognosis differed for
      clinical OA and for asthma associated with workplace irritant exposure; 5) Tested an
      intervention designed to increase appropriate clinical diagnosis, and thus secondary
      prevention of OA.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  