
    
      Peripheral artery disease (PAD) affects anywhere from 8-12 Million people in the United
      States. Many of these people go on to develop claudication, rest pain, and tissue loss.
      During the workup for these disease states many imaging modalities are conducted including
      Pulse Volume Recording, Duplex Ultrasound, Angiography, and IVUS, but an emerging catheter
      based imaging has been developed that may supplement the current modalities used.

      Intravascular optical coherence tomography (iOCT) is based on near-infrared light system. The
      light reflects off plaque and other objects within vessels and the signals are processed into
      a series of axial images (A-scans) at different positions along the artery to generate a
      two-dimensional dataset (B-scans). These images are created at an extremely fine resolution
      of 10-15 μm, which has allowed iOCT to be used in many research settings including PAD and
      coronary artery disease. OCT has been approved for clinical use in the coronary territory by
      the FDA in May 2010. Since then many centers have been using iOCT in the daily clinical
      practice. However, it's still not widely in the clinical management of patients with PAD.
      There is hope that the high resolution capabilities of iOCT may help before and after an
      intervention to predict outcomes or correct errors in stent deployment.

      The iOCT procedure for lower extremity PAD is fairly straightforward. An introducer is placed
      into the femoral artery. After which a wire is placed past the lesion of interest and the
      iOCT catheter is inserted. The catheter is then attached to an automated pullback device.
      Next an optical medium is needed to displace the erythrocytes. Due to the high resolution of
      the iOCT this is necessary for a cleaner image to analyze. At the time of injection of the
      optical medium a sensor triggers the catheter to be withdrawn (distal to proximal) at
      anywhere from 10-25 mm/sec. The images are captured and processed and arterial plaque can be
      characterized.

      The greatest strength of the iOCT catheter is its high resolution images but the problem is
      that the imaging signal is substantially attenuated by blood. In order to remedy this
      complication techniques such as proximal balloon occlusion and continuous infusion of a fluid
      have been used to acquire improved iOCT images. In the continuous infusion methods, different
      mediums have been injected such as contrast, dextran, and even an oxygen-carrying substitute
      in hopes of improving decreasing the attenuation by blood.

      In order the overcome the attenuation of red blood cells during iOCT imaging, we are
      proposing a novel approach involving CO2 injection to clear the erythrocytes. Currently CO2
      is used as medium for digital subtraction angiography in patients with renal insufficiency
      and was first used in humans by Hawkins in 1982. The other alternative for angiography,
      iodinated contrast medium, is nephrotoxic and thus is avoided in these patients for fear of
      exacerbating the patient's acute or chronic problem. Another group where CO2 angiography is
      employed is history of a contrast allergy. Although this technique is usually used under
      these circumstances, Kerns et al reports conducting CO2 angiography in as high as 20% of
      their patients with abdominal and lower extremity studies.

      In addition to the benefits of patients with allergies and renal insufficiency, CO2 is
      extremely safe in a variety of arterial and venous applications. It is 20 times as soluble as
      room air and is expired through the lungs in a first-pass-type effect. The current
      contraindication to CO2 digital subtraction angiography is that the cerebral arterial
      circulation should never be exposed to CO2 because of possible neurotoxicity. Relative
      contraindications include use in the presence of a large arteriovenous shunt, with nitrous
      oxide anesthesia, and used cautiously in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

      Dextran has been used in the past in the critical care setting of human as a volume expander
      with the rare side effects of anaphylaxis and nephrotoxicity. It has also been used in human
      coronary arteries with iOCT as a blood displacement medium. Finally it has been used with
      iOCT in a proximal occlusion model. The main complaint in the final study was a burning
      sensation that lasted < 10s.

      Iodinated contrast is the current gold standard for infrainguinal angiography imaging in
      patients without renal insufficiency and has also been used with iOCT to improve image
      quality in human coronary arteries as well as carotid arteries. The current debate in the
      literature for iOCT medium is between iodinated contrast and dextran and CO2 may offer a
      superior method of iOCT imaging during lower extremity occlusive disease interventions.
    
  