
    
      The recognition of lithium as a neurotrophic agent has provided a rationale for evaluation of
      this agent in animal models of cerebral ischemia. Numerous animal and in vitro studies have
      shown lithium-mediated neurotrophic effects involve mechanisms highly relevant to the
      post-stroke population: the induction of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and
      inhibition of abnormal activity of glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3). Lithium has
      consistently been shown to increase serum concentration of the neurotrophic factor, BDNF.
      BDNF is involved with neuronal proliferation, survival, and differentiation and it
      facilitates cortical reorganization and functional recovery after focal ischemia (in rats).
      GSK-3 is a neurotrophic intermediary. In animal and in vitro models, lithium treatment
      effectively reduces the severity of ischemic damage and protects against ischemic damage of
      central nervous system (CNS) neurons resulting from glutamate-induced cell death.
      Importantly, these benefits were present when lithium was given after ischemic events rather
      than prophylactically.

      The goal of pharmacotherapy post-stroke is to enhance restoration of neurological function
      and limit structural degradation. Gray matter atrophy is a relevant post-stroke relevant
      outcome as it has been implicated in the development of vascular cognitive impairment after
      stroke and is a result of the series of neurochemical processes that are activated by
      ischemia. While the first clinical studies examining the neurotrophic effects of lithium and
      its effects on total gray matter volume in bipolar subjects have just emerged, this has yet
      to be explored in the post-stroke population. Our primary objective is to determine the
      tolerability of lithium following a stroke and to examine its effects on clinical outcomes
      including total brain gray matter volume as measured by volumetric magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI).

      In this feasibility study, lithium carbonate (target 0.4 to 0.8 mmol/L) will be given
      open-label for 60 days, to consenting patients with unilateral ischemic cortical lesions.
      Total gray matter volume using magnetic resonance imaging will also be measured at baseline
      and termination, and related to changes in clinical outcomes (standardized scales measuring
      cognitive, activities of daily living, motor recovery) performed at the time of the MRIs. We
      expect to find that post-stroke patients receiving lithium will have increases in gray matter
      volume, and that increase in gray matter volume will predict improvements in clinical
      outcomes over 60 days. In addition, since lithium has been shown to increase serum
      concentration of the neurotrophic factor, BDNF, we will explore the relationship between
      plasma BDNF concentrations and neurological and clinical outcomes.

      This study will provide key information of clinical importance that will determine whether a
      clinical trial with lithium is desirable and feasible. Results of this project have the
      potential to focus the development of lithium as a new treatment strategy that would improve
      outcomes at both the individual and societal level.
    
  