
    
      Ocular trauma is an important public health problem which is preventable and its etiology,
      severity, and outcome depends on many factors in the changing environment . Even eyes
      represent only 0.27% of the body surface area and 4% of the facial area, they are the third
      most commonly trauma-exposed area after the hands and feet . It is estimated that, worldwide,
      there are approximately 1.6 million people blind from eye injuries, 2.3 million bilaterally
      visually impaired and 19 million with unilateral visual loss; these facts make ocular trauma
      the most common cause of unilateral blindness . In population-based surveys, the percentage
      of monocular blindness due to trauma ranged from 20% to 50% and of bilateral blindness from
      3.2% to 5.5% .

      Ocular injuries vary with a broad range of severity and include simple subconjunctival
      injury, lid laceration, corneal abrasion, traumatic iritis, hyphaema, lens injury, vitreous
      haemorrhage (VH) , retinal detachment, traumatic optic neuropathy, retrobulbar haemorrhage,
      orbital fracture, and ruptured globes. Ocular injuries are classified into 2 groups as open
      and close globe injuries. Ruptured globes fall into the category of open globe injuries,
      which are injuries resulting in a full-thickness laceration of the cornea and/or sclera.
      Wounds can be penetrating (with one entry wound and no exit wound), or perforating (a
      through-and-through injury with both entrance and exit wounds) . Closed globe injuries
      resulting from blunt trauma can cause hyphaema, vitreous haemorrhage, retinal tears and
      detachment, choroidal rupture, macular oedema, and even globe rupture, retrobulbar
      haemorrhage and traumatic optic neuropathy .

      In Kasr El Aini Hospital The majority of ocular trauma in their population was due to
      assaultive injuries occurring mainly in males. Open globe injuries were more common than
      closed globe injuries, and globe lacerations were more common than ruptured globes .

      IN Upper Egypt Pediatric ocular trauma among patients referred to their tertiary
      ophthalmology referral center over a period of 1 year was 3.7%. Of these, 67.3% of cases had
      open globe injury, 30.7% had closed injury, and only 2% had chemical injury.

      Posterior segment ocular trauma is still an important cause of visual loss and disability in
      working-age population. With modern surgical approaches, many eyes can be salvaged with
      retention of vision(9). These complications are retinal detachment (RD), vitreous
      hemorrhage(VH), posterior intraocular foreign body (IOFB), dislo-cated lens, choroidal
      detachment(10)
    
  