
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) of
           ixabepilone in young patients with refractory solid tumors (closed to accrual as of
           10/4/2007) or relapsed or refractory leukemia.

        -  Determine the toxicity spectrum of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine the plasma pharmacokinetics of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine the pharmacodynamics of this drug in these patients.

        -  Assess the nerve growth factor levels, before and after the initiation of this drug, as
           a potential surrogate marker for the development of peripheral neuropathy in these
           patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the response of patients treated with this drug.

        -  Compare the tolerability, toxicity profile, MTD, DLT, pharmacokinetics, and
           pharmacodynamics of this drug in young patients treated on this study vs adults with
           solid tumors (closed to accrual as of 10/4/2007) treated on the ongoing Medicine Branch,
           NCI, phase I study.

        -  Assess the safety and tolerability of ixabepilone at the solid tumor MTD (expanded
           leukemia cohort).

        -  Evaluate the plasma pharmacokinetics of in young patients with refractory or relapsed
           leukemia.

        -  Evaluate the extent of tubulin polymerization in leukemic blasts at baseline after
           treatment with ixabepilone ex-vivo.

        -  Compare the effects of tubulin polymerization in leukemic blasts with ixabepilone versus
           paclitaxel ex-vivo with an without the presence of a potent P-glycoprotein inhibitor.

        -  Evaluate the activity known drug transporters in drug-resistant leukemias in leukemic
           blasts.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive ixabepilone IV over 1 hour on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of ixabepilone until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 or more of
      6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Intrapatient dose escalation to one dose level
      above the enrollment dose level is allowed in patients who have stable or responding disease
      or are experiencing other benefits from therapy (e.g., decrease in tumor-related pain
      symptoms) and who have no grade 2 or greater non-hematologic toxicity and no grade 3 or
      greater hematologic toxicity. Additional patients are treated at the MTD. Patients treated at
      the MTD may not undergo intrapatient dose escalation.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 30 patients will be accrued for this study within 1-2 years.
    
  