
    
      This is a Phase II single center, open-label, non-randomized study in patients with locally
      recurrent, inoperable, and/or metastatic inflammatory breast cancer with lymphangitic spread
      to the chest wall. Patients will be treated with pembrolizumab administered as an intravenous
      infusion at 200 mg in 21-day treatment cycles and oral cyclophosphamide (CTX) 50 mg per day
      in metronomic administration as a 21 days cycle. Forty-six patients will be required for the
      study. The study will be open to participants with histologically confirmed, inoperable,
      locally recurrent and/or metastatic breast cancer (mBC) with lymphangitic spread to the chest
      wall (chest wall disease), which had received one or more prior cytotoxic treatment. Key
      exclusion criteria consist of prior anti-PD1, anti-CTLA-4 or other immune pathway-targeted
      therapy. Patients with autoimmune diseases and/or receiving drugs who interfere with the
      immune system will not be eligible. Patients will be monitored carefully for the development
      of adverse experiences and will be monitored for clinical and/or radiographic evidence of
      disease progression according to usual standards of clinical practice. Adverse experiences
      will be evaluated according to criteria outlined in the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for
      Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 3.0. For individual patients that experience dose-limiting
      toxicities, criteria for dose modification of pembrolizumab and CTX are outlined in details
      in the protocol. Treatment with pembrolizumab and metronomic chemotherapy will continue until
      documented disease progression, unacceptable adverse events (as reported by the site),
      intercurrent illness that prevents further administration of treatment, Investigator's
      decision to withdraw the subject, subject withdraws consent, pregnancy of the subject,
      noncompliance with trial treatment or procedure requirements, completion of 24 months of
      treatment with pembrolizumab, or administrative reasons requiring the cessation of treatment.
      Subjects who attain complete response (CR) confirmed by central radiology review may consider
      stopping trial treatment after receiving at least 24 weeks of treatment. Subjects who
      discontinue treatment after 24 months of therapy for reasons other than disease progression
      or intolerability or who discontinue treatment after attaining a CR may be eligible for up to
      one year of retreatment after they have experienced radiographic disease progression. The
      decision to retreat will be at the discretion of the Investigator, only if no cancer
      treatment was administered since the last dose of pembrolizumab, the subject still meets the
      safety parameters listed in the Inclusion/Exclusion criteria and the trial remains open.

      Primary Objective: assessment of the efficacy of pembrolizumab and metronomic
      cyclophosphamide according to immune-related RECIST (irRECIST) criteria in patients with
      chest wall breast cancer. Primary endpoint will be objective response (confirmed CR or PR as
      best overall response) based on irRECIST criteria and also based on evaluable disease.

      Secondary objectives: duration of response (DoR); time to progression (TTP); progression-free
      survival (PFS); overall survival (OS).

      Exploratory Objectives: responses according to levels of PD-L1, measured by
      immunohistochemistry IHC in unresectable locoregional lesion. Responses according to levels
      of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes. Responses according to ER status. Responses according to
      FISH ratio and HER2 copy number. Tumor dynamics during the disease course as well as
      emergence of new clones (i.e.: resistance mechanisms) by determination of circulating tumor
      DNA (ctDNA). Sequencing of material from tumor biopsies to determine molecular profiles of
      responders and non-responders. Evaluation of efficacy by immune-related RECIST (irRECIST)
      (i.e.: irORR, irDoR, irPFS, irDCR). Through analysis of peripheral blood transcriptome in
      patients treated with pembrolizumab and cyclophosphamide therapy (P and CTX) combination
      therapy the investigators aim at:

        1. Defining baseline peripheral blood gene signatures associated with treatment
           responsiveness (pre-treatment biomarkers);

        2. Defining molecular perturbations associated with the administration P and CTX
           combination therapy and their relationship with immune-related adverse events
           (post-treatment predictive biomarkers) and clinical outcome.
    
  