
    
      Removal of third molars is a common procedure performed in North America. Many surgeon choose
      to complete the procedure using procedural sedation. The most commonly used combination of
      medications to achieve procedural sedation consists of midazolam, fentanyl, and propofol.
      Propofol has been gaining increasing attention as a sedative agent due to its predictable
      pharmacokinetics and favorable amnestic properties. These properties make propofol an
      attractive sedative agent when compared to the benzodiazepines which are known to have a
      slower onset coupled with a much longer offset resulting in a prolonged sedative effect well
      beyond that required for completion of the procedure. Several studies have compared the use
      of propofol in combination with other sedatives with various control groups. These studies
      reliably confirm both the safety and efficacy of propofol. Some researches have speculated
      that the differences in nausea and vomiting reported by patients are secondary to the
      differences in dosage of fentanyl between groups. Others have concluded that fentanyl
      provides no advantage when using intermittent propofol in short duration procedures. Recent
      studies have found favourable results when using propofol only to achieve procedural
      sedation. On review of the Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery literature regarding this topic, a
      lack of internally and externally validated research was discovered. Oral and Maxillofacial
      surgical procedures are unique in duration of procedure and use of local anesthesia making it
      difficult to generalize data obtained from other specialties.

      All eligible patients will be assigned to a single group. They will be asked to fill out a
      survey to determine their level of anxiety prior to the procedure. Participants will then
      proceed the same as non-study patients to see the nurse for a pre-operative assessment. After
      seeing the nurse, patients will see the surgeon for the procedure. Most of the data (blood
      pressure, heart rate, breathing rate etc.) is collected during the procedure. During
      procedural sedation monitoring is performed as usual but study patients will have capnometry
      added to the standard of care. Capnometry is a way of examining your breathing. It is the
      measurement of the carbon dioxide in the air that you breathe out through you nose. After the
      procedure is complete patients are transported to recovery where they must remain for a
      minimum of 30 minutes prior to discharge. The nurse in recovery will monitor you recovery
      continuously during your stay. The nurse will also apply a standard recovery score to your
      recovery every 5 minutes to track your progression. Once you are recovered from the
      procedural sedation you will be asked to complete a short questionnaire about your procedural
      sedation experience. After discharge patients will be contacted by phone 24 to 48 hours later
      to review a final questionnaire.
    
  