
    
      BACKGROUND:

      International studies have shown prevalence rates of child abuse globally, with around 20
      percent of all children being exposed to violent or abusive parenting (Stoltenborgh,
      Bakermans Kranenburg, Ijzendoorn, & Alink, 2013). A Swedish study showed that 15 percent of
      children living in Sweden sometime had experienced physical violence from a parent or close
      relative, from which half had been exposed several times (Annerbäck, Wingren, Svedin, &
      Gustafsson, 2010). Apart from the suffering caused by the abuse in itself, does the
      experience of child abuse act as a risk-factor for future problems. It has for example been
      shown that children who have experienced child abuse run a greater risk for developing
      depression, anxiety disorders, eating disorders, conduct disorders and substance abuse
      problems (Norman et al., 2012).

      Despite the apparent need for effective interventions to prevent child abuse, few
      well-designed studies of intervention effects have been published. In a recent meta-analysis
      including all randomized trials of all types of interventions to prevent or treat child
      abuse, only 23 studies were included (Euser, Alink, Stoltenborgh, Bakermans-Kranenburg, & van
      IJzendoorn, 2015). The results of that analysis was also a disappointment, since the overall
      effect in terms of reducing or preventing child abuse was d=0.13, an effect that turned out
      to be non- significant after taking publication bias into account. However, a moderation
      analysis showed that interventions based on parent training (N=10) showed significantly
      larger effects than other types of interventions. In support of that result, another
      meta-analysis including studies of parent training interventions only, did show a significant
      overall effect of 11 percent absolute reduction in risk of reabuse (Vlahovicova,
      Melendez-Torres, Leijten, Knerr, & Gardner, 2017). Thus, even if parent training
      interventions show some promise, the small to non-existent intervention effects found in the
      meta-analyses also point to the need of developing more effective interventions.

      The application of manualized interventions is rare within the social services in Sweden, but
      there have been a few projects in recent years with the purpose of implementing interventions
      that previously have been evaluated in foreign studies. One example is the iRisk-project
      (Broberg et al., 2015). The main purpose of that project was to investigate the ability of
      regular service providers to implement the interventions fith fidelity and sustainability.
      The effects of the interventions were also measured, but only with pre-post design without a
      matched control group. Both parents and the practitioners appreciated the interventions.
      There were also positive effects on outcome measures between pre and post the interventions,
      but since no matched control group was included, no safe conclusion of intervention effects
      could be drawn. However, several challenges were also identified in terms of implementation
      and sustainability. First, it was found that it was harder than expected to recruit and
      engage caregivers in the interventions. Secondly, several of the included service units had
      difficulties getting started with interventions and many reported that contacts were
      terminated prematurely. A third conclusion was that several practitioners described
      difficulties in sustaining the work with the more time consuming interventions at their
      service unit. A final conclusion was that practitioners found it difficult to maintain
      continuity in the longer interventions, due to logistic challenges for the practitioner and
      the families.

      In summary, most previously evaluated interventions demand considerable time and resources,
      and there have consequently been reports of challenges in terms of implementation. In view of
      the prevalence of child abuse, it is therefore apparent that many families that are
      investigated within the services never will get access to such interventions. Furthermore, a
      condition in several of the existing interventions is that the suspected caregiver
      acknowledges the abusive act that has been committed, either in the investigation that
      precedes the intervention, or as a part of the intervention itself. This may pose challenges
      in terms of stigma and motivation to engage in the intervention. In light of these
      challenges, it is important to develop interventions that a) readily can be implemented with
      fidelity and sustainability in regular social service units, b) is less demanding and time
      consuming - both to be able to serve a larger number of investigated families, but also to
      prevent fatigue and premature termination in participating families, c) that minimize stigma
      and therefore can engage reluctant caregivers.

      It was with some of the above challenges in mind that the City of Stockholm developed the
      intervention Safer Kids (Tryggare barn in Swedish), which will be evaluated in the present
      study. The intervention is based on the Comet program (Komet in Swedish), which is an
      established parenting program based on social learning theory. Practitioners at several
      social service units participated in the development and necessary adjustments for the target
      group. The program was developed in 2013-2014 and has since been implemented within the
      Social services and is well perceived by practitioners and caregivers, but there is no
      published study of its effectiveness.

      PURPOSE AND RESEARCH QUESTIONS:

      The purpose of this project is to evaluate the effects of Safer Kids, that is offered within
      the social services to caregivers suspected for child abuse. Families who are reported to the
      social services will be recruited and randomized to either receiving intervention as usual
      (IAU) or IAU plus Safer Kids. The study will answer questions pertaining possible additional
      effects of supplementing regular interventions with Safer kids.

      The specific research questions will be:

        1. What is the additional effect of Safer kids on the occurence of/time to reabuse?

        2. What is the additional effect of Safer kids on established risk-factors for child
           abuse/reabuse?

        3. What is the additional effect of Safer kids on the well-being of the abused child?

        4. What is the additional effect of Safer kids on the quality of the relationship between
           the caregivers and the child?

        5. What is the additional effect of Safer kids on the frequency of caregivers who
           prematurely terminates contact with the social services?

        6. How is practitioner and caregiver adherence to the Safer Kids manual related to
           outcomes?

        7. How are practitioners experiencing the feasibility of Safer Kids?

      METHOD:

      Participants:

      Families will be recruited through the social service units that take part in the research
      project. Service units from all parts of Sweden are invited to the project. The following
      inclusion criteria will be applied 1) at least one caregiver in the family is suspected to
      have perpetrated an abusive act towards a child, 2) at least one child in the family is
      between 3 and 12 years old and 3) there is a decision of a formal investigation of the
      matter. The exclusion criterium is that families already involved in an ongoing intervention
      within the social services at the time of the report of the suspected act will be excluded.

      Design:

      The study is a randomized controlled trial. Families who are recruited to the study from the
      units who take part of the project will be randomized to either the intervention as usual at
      the unit (IAU) or to IAU plus Safer Kids. In the later condition, practitioners trained in
      Safer Kids will offer that intervention. The service units reports to the research team when
      a caregiver has been recruited and an assistant conducts the randomization.

      The participating caregivers will answer questionnaires before the intervention, after 4
      month and after 7 month. If the child participates in meetings, the practitioner will also
      conduct a brief interview with the child. After 4, 7, 18 and 30 months after the first
      assessment, the practitioner will also complete a report for the research team, based on
      records the unit keeps for every family they have served.

      Intervention:

      Safer Kids was developed in 2013-2014 by the City of Stockholm. It was a joint effort between
      practitioners at a selected number of social service units, and researchers and developers
      within the City of Stockholm. The content of the program was based on the Comet program,
      which is a regular parent training program based on social learning theory. The Comet program
      has shown medium to large effects on child conduct problems in previous randomized trials
      (Kling, Forster, Sundell, & Melin, 2010; Stattin, Enebrink, Özdemir, & Giannotta, 2015). The
      intervention is delivered individually to caregivers and offered immediately after the report
      of suspected child abuse have reached the social services. Thus, the question of guilt for
      the suspected acts is not addressed with the caregiver. Instead the program is presented as a
      preventive effort offered to all caregivers reported to the social services, regardless of
      whether an investigation is started and regardless of results. The advantage with this
      procedure is that the practitioner can start the work with the caregivers at a moment when
      motivation is higher, rather than at a later point after an investigation that may take time
      and result in fatigue. The first step of Safer Kids is 1-3 sessions with motivational
      interviewing. If the caregiver decides to continue after that phase, six individual sessions
      with general parenting content follows (e.g., child directed play, communication skills,
      praise, and anger management). The six parenting sessions are followed by 1-3 follow-up
      sessions depending upon the need in the family. Besides the meeting with the caregiver, Safer
      Kids also include two individual sessions with the child (without parents if possible).

      Sample size calculation:

      The effects of interventions on child abuse have generally been non-existent or small (Euser
      et al., 2015; Vlahovicova et al., 2017). However, the effects on indirect variables (i.e.,
      risk factors) have been in the medium range (Chen & Chan, 2016; Lundahl, Nimer, & Parsons,
      2006). If an intervention should have a practical meaning, the effect sizes at least have to
      be between small and medium according to Cohen's standards. It was therefore decided that the
      sample size should be large enough to at least be able to detect effect sizes in that range.
      A recruitment of at least 54 families result in a statistical power of 80% to detect effect
      sizes of d > .35 (Faul, Erdfelder, Buchner, & Lang, 2009). This is however under optimal
      circumstances with no drop-out and expected heterogenity in the outcome measures. The goal is
      therefore set to 100 recruited families. It is expected that a rather large portion of
      included families will drop put, considering the high pressure and burden this group of
      families often experience, as well as the sensitive situation of being the subject of
      interventions within the social services.

      Statistical analyses:

      To examine possible differences between participants before the interventions, chi-squared
      tests will be used for categorical variables, and independent t-tests for normally or
      Mann-Whitney U-test for non-normally distributed continuous variables. Generalized Linear
      Mixed Modelling (GLMM) will be employed for analyses of most outcome, except for the analyses
      of time to reabuse (part of research question 1) and time to premature termination (part of
      research question 5). For those outcomes, survival analysis (Cox regression) will be used.
    
  