
    
      1. The introduction of the problem Preservation of a stable health status as well as
           functionality in activities of daily living of older inpatients is a primary objective
           of care management, in order to avoid deconditioning, long hospital stays and related
           higher costs. Geriatric Inclusive Art (GIA) painting sessions have been associated with
           a decrease of in-hospital mortality and length of stay, particularly in patients with
           cognitive impairment. A cycle of Geriatric Inclusive Art (GIA) painting sessions could
           be a complementary and have a synergistic action with usual care provided to older
           inpatients.

        2. The purpose of the study The overall objective of the study is to examine the effects of
           Geriatric Inclusive Art (GIA) painting sessions on neuropsychological and health
           conditions in older inpatients with cognitive impairment (i.e.; from mild to severe
           dementia) admitted in medical wards of the Division of Geriatrics at the Jewish General
           Hospital (Montreal, Quebec).

        3. The motivation for this approach Patients with dementia in a hospital setting are highly
           vulnerable. Prospective studies show higher rate of adverse outcomes including
           mortality, delirium, and longer hospital stays. There are limited pharmacological
           treatment options for demented patients with many adverse effects and the possibility of
           worsening the illness. Thus, non-pharmacological approaches have their place in the
           treatment of these patients: they should always be prioritized and used in combination
           with medication if needed. Art therapy has been used as a non-pharmacological approach
           in different categories of patients.

        4. The general description of the study The study is a clinical trial, single-centered
           (Jewish General Hospital, Montreal, Quebec), non-randomized, controlled, superiority
           trial, open, intent-to-treat, with two parallel arms (intervention and control groups),
           comparative (comparison of two groups of participants: Intervention group which will
           have GIA painting sessions and control group will have usual care).

      This study has been divided into two consecutive periods (i.e.; feasibility and full periods)
      in order to increase the possibility to show the effects of GIA painting sessions by
      measuring the right outcomes with the right tools and no lack of power analysis: The
      feasibility period will last three-months, which will assess the feasibility of measures of
      outcomes, estimate the magnitude of changes for the primary outcome of the study and the
      number of sessions needed for a cycle of GIA painting. The full period will consist of the
      open non-randomized clinical trial to determine effects of GIA painting sessions. This phase
      will depend on the findings of the feasibility period.

      The population recruited in the study, will be older inpatients admitted in medicals wards of
      Division of Geriatrics at Jewish General Hospital. Inclusion criteria are the following: age
      of 65 years and older, cognitive impairment corresponding to a dementia from mild to severe
      stage, regardless the etiology, admission in medicals ward of Division of Geriatrics at
      Jewish General hospital, medically stable (i.e.; no acute organ failure) patients.

      The population will be separated in two groups: Intervention group: participants who will
      practice GIA painting session, and Control group: participants who will not practice GIA
      painting sessions. All participants of this group will be matched on Age (± 3 years), sex,
      reason for admission and cognitive impairment.
    
  