
    
      Background: Tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) is the most common cyanotic heart defect consisting of
      7-10% of all congenital heart disease with an estimated annual global incidence rate of
      38,000. It is fatal if untreated; only 50% of patients are alive at 1 year of age. Surgery
      has dramatically improved the survival so that >95% of repaired TOF children are alive by one
      year. The initial justified enthusiasm for the benefit of surgical therapy are now tempered
      by the findings of late sudden cardiac death secondary to right ventricular (RV) dysfunction.
      The original trans-ventricular/trans-annular patching repair results in significant pulmonary
      insufficiency which leads to RV dilation, subsequent functional tricuspid regurgitation,
      atrial arrhythmias, and eventual RV failure and ventricular arrhythmias. In attempt to break
      this cycle, an increasing number of patients are undergoing late pulmonary valve
      implantation.

      Recognizing that the RV adapts to stress signals has led to the idea that leaving mixed
      residual stenosis and regurgitation may yield to an adaptive change that limits RV dilation
      while still allowing for adequate cardiac output. Early attempts to limit pulmonary
      insufficiency and RV damage involve minimal trans-annular patching or complete annulus
      preservation (AP). Emerging data suggest that patients with a mixed lesion have improved
      survival, so that 96.6% are alive at 25-years in comparison to 85-90% survival for the
      conventional technique.

      Preliminary Data: A review of data comparing AP to TAP repair at our institution (n=185, AP
      repair=124, TAP=61) demonstrated that at 10-15 year follow-up those who received an AP repair
      had smaller RV volumes and pulmonary regurgitant jet width. They were also seen to have
      improved exercise capacity as measure by VO2 max tests. The AP technique also has been seen
      to significantly decrease the risk of reoperation in comparison to TAP, 11% and 29%
      respectively.

      Current Problem: Although trans-ventricular VSD closure along with a TAP is known to result
      in increased risk of long-term morbidity and mortality, it continues to be the predominant
      repair strategy implemented globally according to STS/EACTS databases. Reasons for this are:

        -  Trans-ventricular/TAP approach is technically easier than annulus preservation, which
           often requires multiple pump runs

        -  There is a fear of leaving too much obstruction

        -  High quality evidence supporting one approach over the other is lacking.

      Gaps in Literature

        1. Most data on the impact of surgical strategy emerge from single centre experiences that
           are retrospective and based on small patient population. This makes the results
           difficult to standardize to the general TOF population.

        2. Retrospective registry data published by STS and EACTS omit many crucial surgical and
           clinical variables that can potentially impact outcomes.

        3. None of the current evidence are based on anatomically matched/adjusted patients
    
  