
    
      This is a prospective observational non-interventional clinical study.

      1. Patient population:

      Three hundred non-asthmatic and 300 asthmatic children will be recruited.

        1. Non-asthmatic group: healthy children from 4-12 years will be recruited from the Capital
           Institute of Pediatrics nearby schools

           Inclusion criteria:

             1. Willingly attend this investigation

             2. Chest physical tests are normal

                Exclusion criteria:

             1. The child had been hospitalized for any severe respiratory condition

             2. A physician had ever stated that the child had asthma, reactive airway diseases, or
                the child had taken antiasthma medications for symptoms

             3. The child was diagnosed with congenital heart disease requiring surgery or
                medications for management

             4. There are positive responses concerning other serious chest problems, chest
                surgery, chronic productive cough, recurrent intractable wheezing, and shortness of
                breath

             5. The children can not finish the test that met American Thoracic Society criteria
                for preschool children in a maximum of 6 attempts and are unable to successfully
                complete post-bronchodilator (BD) spirometry

        2. Asthmatic group: 4-12 years old asthmatic children will be recruited from the asthma
           clinic of the Capital Institute of Pediatrics

           Inclusion criteria:

             1. Diagnose asthma by specialist of asthma (based on symptoms): criteria for the
                diagnosis of asthma made by the asthma specialist included a history of recurrent
                coughing, wheezing, or shortness of breath at rest or with exercise, symptomatic
                improvement after bronchodilator use, and exclusion of other diagnoses

             2. Asymptomatic or mild symptomatic with no physical signs of wheeze at the time of
                testing

             3. Not receiving controller medication 6 weeks prior to the initial evaluation

             4. Willing to attend this investigation

           Exclusion criteria:

           1) Using short β2 agonists within 6 hours 2) Using long acting β2 agonists within 24
           hours 3) Can not finish the test that met American Thoracic Society criteria for
           preschool children in a maximum of 6 attempts and are unable to successfully complete
           post-bronchodilator spirometry.

           2. Preparation before tests

           1) Sign the consent form. 2) Fill the asthma severity form according to NEAPP guideline
           (asthmatic group).

           3) Chest physical test, record on the form of test. 4) Standing height and weight will
           be measured. 5) Calculation of age: The date of test subtracts the date of birth.

           3. Pulmonary function tests

           Standardized pulmonary function tests will be conducted.

           Contents of tests:

           Pre and post flow volume: forced volume vital capacity (FVC), FEV0.5, FEV1, FEV1/FVC
           ratio, PEF, forced expiratory flow 25 (FEF25), FEF50, FEF75, FEF25-75, forced expiratory
           time (FET), back-extrapolated volume (VBE), VBE/FVC.

           The BDR is based on pulmonary function measurements before and after administration of
           2.5 mg albuterol by nebulizer. BDR is calculated as [(postbronchodilator FEV1- baseline
           FEV1)/baseline FEV1] x 100%.

           Study Procedures:

           1. Spirometry preparation The spirometry was purchased from VIASYS Healthcare, Hochberg
           Germany (MasterScope).

             1. Check: Before switch on, check the conjunction between flow sensor and the hand
                knob, ensure that the black compact is tightness.

             2. Calibration: Before calibration, the room temperature, pressure, humidity should be
                tested and recorded and all of the parameter should be reconciled to BTPS
                condition.

           Using 2 liters scalar to calibrate flow. Every day do the even flow calibration. Every
           week do the flow linear calibration, include high, media and low flow these three
           different flow calibration. The variety should be less than 3%.

           The record of calibration should be printed, and the technician should be signed on it
           and save it.

           2. Test method The training process is the same as Eigen H. et al (ref 8). The entire
           instruction and testing session for each child is strictly limited to 15 min, during
           which time children are instructed in the techniques of spirometry and performed at
           least three forced vital capacity maneuvers. A highly experienced children's pulmonary
           function technologist does the instruction for each child. At the time of testing, each
           child is given an explanation of the testing procedure individually and then tested
           using coaching techniques used in our pulmonary function laboratory in evaluating
           younger children.

           3. Criteria for accepting Data (ATS/ERS 2005) The principles of spirometry quality
           control in preschool children are the same as for adults.

             1. It is necessary to visually inspect the flow-volume and volume-time traces, and
                exclude maneuvers that are visibly inadequate. Maneuvers should be excluded if the
                flow-volume curve does not demonstrate a rapid rise to peak flow, or a smooth
                descending limb, with no evidence of cough or glottis closure.

             2. The start of test should be quantified by calculating the VBE. Some investigators
                reported that more than 80% of the studied preschool population achieved a VBE of
                less than or equal to 80 ml or less than 12.5% of the FVC. Alternative criteria are
                presented, but these should be viewed as a guide to assist visual inspection,
                rather than as exclusion criteria.

             3. The end of test should be quantified by reporting the point of cessation of flow.
                It is known that many preschool children cannot sustain forced expiration for 1
                second, let alone the 6 seconds previously stipulated for adults (ref 9) , and the
                forced expired time should be reported but should not be used to exclude maneuvers.
                This pattern should not be misinterpreted as early termination (ref 10).
    
  