
    
      The acceptance and advancement of natural orifice translumenal endoscopic surgery (NOTES) has
      forced investigators to challenge many firmly accepted surgical practices. The most obvious
      one being: violating a remote hollow viscous that is uninvolved in the desired surgical
      intervention. This of course brings into question (1) "How much peritoneal contamination can
      be tolerated without raising infection risk?" and (2) "How will one repair this intended
      visceral injury?" This study is intended to bring to light what has been done in animal
      models, and further, how it will translate in to the now more important human arena.

      In this study, patients who are undergoing an elective colectomy will be investigated to
      quantify what amount of peritoneal contamination is tolerated despite rare abscess formation
      occurring. Subject will undergo peritoneal washings before and after colonic resection to
      measure the bacterial load spilled. This data would be beneficial to support that patients
      who are undergoing a NOTES procedure can and will be able to tolerate a definite quantity of
      bacterial contaminate. Furthermore, by observing the exact values of peritoneal contamination
      present there may be a certain level to which infectious complication are more likely to
      occur. This may provide some insight in NOTES as to when patients may benefit
      post-operatively from a prophylactic course of antibiotic therapy in response to their higher
      than tolerable intra-peritoneal bacterial load.

      The other component to this study will be to challenge how investigators are examining
      closure devices in the animal model. Many researchers, including authors of this protocol,
      have utilized bursting pressure as an objective test to assess the integrity of a completed
      closure. Current surgical practice uses the insufflation of an endoscope or even a bulb
      syringe to test for leak of a colonic anastomosis. We intend to measure the pressures that
      are achieved in a clinical setting to determine the bursting pressures that are required to
      assess NOTES closure and eliminate the likely unsupported value being placed on a higher
      bursting pressure commonly quoted in NOTES closure studies.
    
  