
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the feasibility and safety of dual delivery of chlorotoxin
      (EQ)-CD28-CD3zeta-CD19t-expressing CAR T-lymphocytes NCI SYs (chlorotoxin [CLTX]-CAR T cells)
      for participants with MMP2+ recurrent or progressive glioblastoma.

      II. Determine the maximum tolerated dose schedule (MTD) and a recommended phase 2 dosing plan
      (RP2D) for dual delivery of CLTX-CAR T cells for participants with MMP2+ recurrent or
      progressive glioblastoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Describe persistence, expansion, and phenotype of endogenous and CLTX-CAR CAR T cells in
      tumor cyst fluid (TCF), peripheral blood (PB), and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF).

      II. Describe cytokine levels in PB, TCF, and CSF over the study period.

      III. In research participants who receive the full schedule of 3 cycles of CLTX-CAR T cells:

      IIIa. Estimate the six month progression free survival (PFS) rate. IIIb. Estimate the nine
      month overall survival (OS) rate. IIIc. Estimate disease response rates. IIId. Estimate
      median overall survival (OS).

      IV. In study participants who undergo an additional biopsy/resection or autopsy:

      IVa. Evaluate CAR T cell persistence in the tumor tissue and the location of the CAR T cells
      with respect to the injection site.

      IVb. Evaluate CLTX-targeted antigen expression levels on tumor tissue pre and post CAR T cell
      therapy.

      V. Use mathematical modeling of tumor growth to evaluate benefit of treatment.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive chlorotoxin (EQ)-CD28-CD3zeta-CD19t-expressing CAR T-lymphocytes NCI SYs via
      dual delivery starting on day 0 for 3 weekly cycles over 28 days. Each treatment cycle begins
      with one or two CAR T cell infusions (one at each catheter site) and lasts for 1 week.
      Beginning 1 week after cycle 3, patients may continue with CAR T treatment per principal
      investigator and patient discretion. Treatment continues in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, 3, 6, 9, and 12
      months, and then yearly for up to 15 years.
    
  