
    
      The purpose of this study is to investigate if a Full Liquid Diet is not inferior to a Clear
      Liquid Diet in preparation for Screening Colonoscopy. Based on the data presented above, the
      investigators hypothesize that a Full Liquid Diet will be better tolerated by participants
      and will not adversely affect colonoscopy outcomes in terms of bowel cleansing(BC), adenoma
      detection rate(ADR), time to cecal intubation(TCI).

      The results of this study may help guide dietary interventions in preparation for Colonoscopy
      in the Department of Defense(DOD) Military Treatment Facilities.

      The relationship between adequate colon cleansing and adenoma detection rate(ADR) has been
      already established. Almost 25% of patients, however, have a poor bowel preparation at the
      time of Colonoscopy(1). After reviewing 5832 colonoscopies, Froehlich, et al., found that
      poor bowel preparation is associated with longer colonoscopy times, more difficult procedures
      and a higher rate of incomplete procedures(2).

      Among other causes, bowel cleansing is affected by purgative selection and timing of
      administration, compliance with recommended pre-procedural diet and compliance with purgative
      administration. Recently, it has been found that the classically recommended clear liquid
      diet(CLD) is not indispensable for adequate bowel prep. Stolpman, et. al, found that a
      low-residue diet is non-inferior to clear liquid diet(CLD), in a group of 201 patients(3).
      Similarly, Melicharkova, et al, found that the bowel cleansing efficacy of a low-residue
      breakfast, the day before colonoscopy, was comparable with a clear liquid diet(CLD) in a
      sample of 213 patients administered a low volume purgative in preparation for colonoscopy(4).
      They also found a statistically significant difference in the level of patient's acceptance
      of the low-residue diet.

      A group from South Korea, led by Dr. Jung Yoon, found similar rates of bowel cleansing in
      patient undergoing afternoon colonoscopy, when offered Regular Diet(5). A study, in a small
      study population, presented as an abstract at the American College of Gastroenterology
      Conference in 2011, reported comparable bowel cleansing, polyp detection rate, and
      colonoscopy times in patients allowed a full liquid diet before the procedure(6). Taken
      together, these studies show that a clear liquid diet may not be necessary in order to obtain
      a good bowel cleanse in preparation for colonoscopies performed in the outpatient setting.

      A clear liquid diet is still the recommended diet, however, before this procedure.

      Given the diverse population served at Military Treatments Facilities across the United
      States, and abroad, the investigators aim to investigate if diet liberalization to a Full
      Liquid Diet(FLD) is associated with similar bowel cleansing as compared with a Clear Liquid
      Diet(CLD). In addition, the investigators will compare the performance of these diets
      regarding adenoma detection rates(ADR), time to cecal intubation(TCI), withdrawal time, and
      patient satisfaction.

      This study will be conducted as a prospective, randomized trial. The investigators and
      endoscopists will be blinded to patient's diet group.

      Patients 50 y/o, or older, undergoing screening colonoscopy will be offered participation in
      the study.

      If written, informed consent is obtained, participants will be randomized to (A)Control Group
      or (B) Study Group(in a 1:1 fashion). Study randomization will be performed by using serially
      numbered envelopes containing instructions for CLD or FLD. The control group will be allowed
      to have a Clear Liquid Diet the day before colonoscopy and the Study Group will be allowed to
      have a Full Liquid Diet the day before colonoscopy. These envelopes will be prepared in
      duplicates. One envelope will be provided to the participant and one envelope will be
      maintained, sealed, by the study group.

      Study participants will complete a Bowel Preparation consisting of bisacodyl 10mg per mouth
      x1(at noon, the day before colonoscopy) and 4L Polyethylene Glycol solution(split dose).
      Subjects will drink 2 L of Polyethylene Glycol at 17:00 the day before colonoscopy and the
      other 2 L at 04:00, the morning prior to colonoscopy.

      They will follow one of the diets described above, based on randomization, and will present
      to the BAMC Gastroenterology Clinic for Colonoscopy. Before the procedure, subjects will be
      administered a questionnaire in order to assess their compliance, tolerability and
      satisfaction with the diet. Research team and Endoscopists will also be blinded to these
      questionnaires until the data collection process has finished.

      Colonoscopy will be performed in the usual fashion. Endoscopists will assess the level of
      subject's colon cleansing by means of the Boston Bowel Preparation Scale(7). Time to Cecal
      Intubation and Colonoscope Withdrawal Time will be documented, as is currently done at the
      BAMC Gastroenterology Clinic.

      Adenoma Detection Rates(number of screened patients with at least one adenoma divided by
      total number of patients screened with colonoscopy) will be calculated.

      Investigators will compare Bowel Prep Quality/Colon Cleansing, Time to Cecal Intubation, ADR,
      and Patient's Compliance and Satisfaction with the bowel preparation between the two groups.

      Primarily, the investigators want to assess whether Bowel Prep Quality/Colon Cleansing and
      ADR for the experimental group is non-inferior to Bowel Prep Quality and ADR for the control
      group. In addition, the investigators will asses whether participant's Compliance and
      Satisfaction is similar or superior in the experimental group vs the control group.
    
  