
    
      Permanent pacemaker implantation is a widely recognized clinical event associated with TAVI
      becoming evident within a few days after the procedure.

      While a number of registries have documented the rates of PPI with different valves, much
      less evidence has been provided for

        1. patient based characteristics (e.g. RBBB etc.) affecting the likelihood of PPI and for

        2. procedural variables (e.g. implantation hieght, valve size etc.) that should be
           considered to perform as safe and minimal invasive procedure as possible.

      Prior Research To date there are 8 published reports on pacemaker rates and predictors
      associated with the use of the Edwards SAPIEN 3 THV.

      These studies suggest that the need for pacemaker implantation in single centers ranges
      between 14.4 and 20.4% based on patient numbers between 131 and 335 patients.

      These analyses resulted in the identification of pre-existing conduction disturbance, aortic
      valve calcification, heavily calcified LVOT, RBBB, persistent complete heart blocks,
      prolonged QRS duration or short membranous septum as patient related factors associated with
      PPI during Edwards SAPIEN 3 THV TAVI. Similarly, procedural variables such as implantation
      height /oversizing as procedure related variables are associated with PPI after TAVI.

      The literature regarding procedure related variables associated with permanent pacemaker
      implantation in patients receiving an Edwards SAPIEN 3 valve shows multivariable analyses
      with slightly different views to the requested procedural variables.

      Tarantini et al. suggest a higher valve implantation (ventricular ratio >60/40 at qualitative
      assessment or depth <8mm at qualitative assessment). A similar outcome was reported by De
      Torres-Alba et al.. Due to the longer stent of the SAPIEN 3 they suggest an even higher
      implantation, intending a shorter extension of the stent into the LVOT by increasing the
      percentage of the stent in the aorta to >70%. Schwerg et al. compare the PPI rate in "low
      implantation" with "high implantation" independently from the patients pre-existing
      conduction disturbances, and suggest to minimize the risk of PPI by choosing a higher
      implantation technique with the central marker 2 mm or more over the annular plane.

      Furthermore Mauri et al. encourage to choose a implantation height of <25.5% (Implantation
      height was expressed as the percentage of the ventricular part of the stent frame in relation
      to the overall stent frame length).

      Another procedural factor is found to be aortic annulus oversizing ratios which are known to
      prevent paravalvular leakage. Leber et al. show the rate of post-procedural permanent
      pacemakers tended to be lower in patients with <15% oversizing compared to those with >25%
      oversizing for Edwards Sapien XT. Using SAPIEN 3 valves Husser et al. show a higher PPI rate
      in patients with out of range oversizing.

      Gonska et al. conclude that neither implantation height nor oversizing has an effect on PPI
      rate.

      On the other hand the need for pre-dilatation by balloon valvuloplasty and post-implant
      dilatation have not been identified as potential contributing factors for PPI as it is
      believed the impact of the dilatation on the conduction tissue is transient and short lived.

      Nevertheless, pre- and post-dilatation should be further considered and analysed.

      Hypothetically, also the following procedural parameters, which have not been investigated in
      detail so far, could be risks for PPIs: Stiff guidewire use or a no touch policy and should
      be considered in this research.

      Limitations of prior research Current evidence though is limited by patient numbers versus
      event rates (with a max. of 62 PPI considered in any of the available datasets) resulting in
      a limited power in multivariable analyses, the single center design of these ventures, the
      lack of a consistent definition of variables potentially associated with PPI and the
      unexplained differences in the number and type of variables identified.

      Aims This registry aims to assess procedural variables and to verify risk factors in a
      prospective multicenter registry.

      To identify predictors of PPI patients with a high risk for PPI will be preferably included
      to increase the power compared to pre-existing database analyses from single centres. The
      target is to identify general procedural predictors and to verify risk factors of PPI post
      TAVI with the Edwards SAPIEN 3 valve which when identified and avoided will reduce the need
      of PPI in the future.
    
  