
    
      This study will focus on the following:

        1. Cardiac function assessment: The conventional method for assessing heart function (in
           terms of 'ejection fraction') in patients being treated for cancer uses nuclear medicine
           (MUGA scan). MRI can also provide this information but it is not typically used for
           cardiac function assessment in these patients. MUGA scans are typically performed before
           chemotherapy in selected patients at higher risk of cardiotoxicity and in all cases
           before starting anti-HER2 antibody treatment (trastuzumab, pertuzumab). Patients
           receiving anti-HER2 antibody treatment receive repeat cardiac assessments at 3-4 month
           intervals until the completion of treatment - it is not practical or cost-effective to
           scan more frequently. This study will determine whether an alternative and inexpensive
           method for monitoring heart function (Impedance Cardiography, ICG) can adequately
           quantify changes in ejection fraction during treatment. If it can, then this technique
           could be used more frequently during and following treatment, with the aim of
           determining the treatment stages during which the heart is most at risk of damage. The
           ability of ICG to dynamically characterise a relatively rapid decline in cardiac
           function in breast cancer patients has not been established. Neither has its performance
           been compared with MRI or MUGA in this population. This study will investigate whether
           ICG is a sufficiently accurate and reliable alternative to MRI/MUGA for determining
           cardiac dysfunction during and following cancer treatment.

        2. Cardiac rhythm and autonomic function assessment: Heart rate variability (HRV) reflects
           the modulation of the heart by the autonomic nervous system, and it can be quantified
           using several different methods based on analysis of the temporal changes between
           successive heartbeats. The development of autonomic dysfunction in breast cancer
           patients has been shown in a few small clinical studies, but the majority of these
           studies have considered HR rather than HRV, which is a much less robust measure of
           autonomic function. The few studies that have used HRV analysis have demonstrated
           significant reductions in HRV following the completion of anthracycline-based therapy.
           Previous research on other ECG markers (e.g. QT and QRS duration) in breast cancer
           patients has mainly focused on anthracycline-based regimes; the influence of trastuzumab
           treatment on ECG makers has been evaluated in only two studies to date. It is still not
           clear whether these changes can predict subsequent LV dysfunction although QT
           variability is a possible marker of myocardial contractility and has been shown to
           increase as a result of anthracycline therapy in breast cancer patients. This study aims
           to characterise the impact of different treatment regimes on the temporal properties of
           the ECG and will compare beat-to-beat QT variability and beat-to-beat T wave variability
           in breast cancer patients receiving a range of treatment regimes.

        3. Body composition and cardiorespiratory fitness assessment: This study also aims to
           characterise the patterns of change in body composition, physical activity and
           cardiorespiratory fitness in breast cancer patients. The study will examine whether
           these modifiable factors might influence a patient's susceptibility to cardiac changes
           during treatment and, in turn, how these factors are affected by treatment. Of
           particular interest, it has been suggested that cardiorespiratory fitness (measured by
           the rate of oxygen uptake) is impaired in breast cancer patients compared to healthy
           controls, even seven years following the completion of treatment. Oxygen-uptake analysis
           will be performed in this study to explore possible compensatory mechanisms for abnormal
           pathology- or treatment-induced cardiac function in breast cancer patients. Fitness,
           physical activity and body composition will be assessed quantitatively using a range of
           objective techniques, including cardiopulmonary exercise testing on a cycle ergometer
           (fitness) with breath-by-breath gas analysis (cardiorespiratory function),
           accelerometery (activity levels) and DEXA radiography scans (body composition).

      The main research questions in this study are:

        1. Is the CARE-B protocol practically feasible and tolerable to early-stage breast cancer
           patients?

        2. What is the level of agreement between cardiac (ventricular) function determined using
           cardiac MRI, MUGA and Impedance Cardiography in breast cancer patients receiving SAT?

        3. Is cardiac rhythm (heart rate and QT variability) altered in breast cancer patients
           receiving SAT?

        4. Is oxygen transport and oxygen uptake into tissue altered in breast cancer patients
           receiving SAT?

        5. Does a patient's baseline physical activity, fitness and body composition affect their
           susceptibilities to treatment-induced cardio-respiratory problems?

        6. Does a patient's physical activity, physical fitness and body composition change
           appreciably during SAT in these patients?
    
  