
    
      Major depression represents a major public health problem worldwide and in the U.S. Fifteen
      percent of the U.S. population has depression at some point in life (40 million individuals),
      with a female to male ratio 5:2. Presently, 6-8% of all outpatients in primary care meet
      diagnostic criteria for major depression. Fifteen percent of untreated depressed patients
      commit suicide-most suicides have depression. In the U.S., in the year 2020 suicide will be
      the 10th cause of death. In addition to mortality due to suicide, major depression is
      associated with severe morbidity, that includes decreased hippocampal volume, cardiovascular
      illness, and decreased bone mineral density. Moreover, after myocardial infarction, patients
      with depression have a higher mortality rate than those without depression (adjusted risk
      ratio 4:29). Because such morbidity can be differentially affected either by increased or
      decreased levels of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function, it is necessary to study
      HPA function in our populations. Additionally, based on our previous data, we have
      hypothesized that depressed patients with melancholic features would have increase HPA
      function, while those with atypical features would have decreased HPA function. Using this
      protocol, over the past four years we have developed, refined, and repeatedly conducted
      detailed patient-oriented studies that have expanded the frontiers of existing knowledge on
      HPA regulation in healthy humans and depressed subjects. This protocol has already
      demonstrated the existence of two distinct biological subtypes of major depression, with the
      important finding of a decrement of HPA function in patients with atypical features. Thus,
      the atypical classification is not restricted to phenotype but represents a subtype with
      specific biological characteristics. This finding shows that there are unique strategies,
      targets, and potential interventional approaches to patients with either atypical or
      melancholic features. The elucidation of the neuroendocrinology of major depression has been
      a key goal of our branch, and this protocol offers the potential to unravel the biology of
      phenotypically distinct subtypes of major depression. Moreover, the elucidation of the
      medical consequences of major depression requires the precise longitudinal characterization
      of HPA function that is accomplished by this study.
    
  