
    
      Screening: Screening will include demographics, medical and psychiatric histories and a
      clinical interview to determine psychiatric diagnosis. Screening will also include a physical
      examination and laboratory assessments (CBC, electrolytes, kidney function, liver function,
      TSH) to rule out concurrent medical illness that could be a contraindication to amantadine
      treatment. Blood will also be drawn for fasting lipid profile, glucose, insulin, C reactive
      protein, adiponectin, and leptin. Subjects will also have the option of allowing us to draw 2
      additional tubes for as yet to be determined studies, not to include HIV or genetic testing.
      Subjects will also have the option of allowing us to draw 1 additional tube for
      platelet-specific protein assay, termed SEPT5. The rationale for measuring SEPT5 levels is to
      test a hypothesis that individuals with clinically-defined mental disorders have altered
      levels of this protein in their circulating blood platelets. A urine drug screen will be
      performed.

      Phase 1: Subjects may enter Phase 1 within the first 12 weeks of treatment with olanzapine.
      At entry into Phase 1, anthropometric measurements will be taken (height, weight, waist and
      hip circumference) and BMI calculated. Baseline assessments will include questionnaires about
      hunger (to be done in the fasting state) (Subjective Satiety Scale), and activity (Baeckea
      Activity Questionnaire), respiratory quotient (RQ) and resting energy expenditure (REE)
      assessed using the Medgraphics metabolic cart, and body composition determined by dual x-ray
      absorptiometry (DXA, Hologic Delphia). Prior to every DXA scan Body Composition Lab personnel
      will administer a safety questionnaire and women of reproductive age will have a blood
      pregnancy test. Visits will be scheduled weekly to monitor weight and to provide healthy
      lifestyle counseling based on the Solutions for Wellness program developed by Lilly. During
      the first 3 weeks, subjects will be called by research personnel once per week to complete a
      24 hour diet recall by phone. During the first 4 weeks of the study, RQ and capillary glucose
      will be repeated weekly since it is anticipated that changes to these parameters may occur
      early on. At monthly intervals clinical interviews will monitor for changes in psychosis and
      blood pressure will be assessed. When subjects gain 1 BMI unit, fasting bloodwork and
      baseline assessments are repeated and they are enrolled in Phase 2. Subjects who do not gain
      1 BMI unit within 12 weeks of olanzapine treatment will end study participation at the end of
      Phase 1.

      Phase 2: Subjects may enter Phase 2 following Phase 1 or enter directly if there is
      documentation of more than 1 but less than 3 BMI units of weight gain and they have started
      olanzapine within the previous 12 weeks. Phase 2 is a double blind placebo controlled
      addition of amantadine to ongoing olanzapine therapy. All subjects entering Phase 2 will have
      anthropometric measurements, and BMI will be calculated. Fasting lipid profile, glucose,
      insulin, C reactive protein, adiponectin, and leptin will be obtained, as will liver function
      tests and a urine drug screen. Body composition by DXA as well as RQ and REE will be
      determined. Prior to every DXA scan the Body Composition Lab will administer a safety
      questionnaire and women of reproductive age will have a pregnancy test. A Food Propensity
      questionnaire will be administered to document recent trends in food choices, and the
      exercise and hunger questionnaires will also been done. Following completion of baseline
      assessments, randomization to amantadine or placebo will occur. Subjects will begin taking 1
      capsule daily for 2 days, 2 capsules daily for 5 days, and then 3 capsules daily. Amantadine
      capsules will each contain 100 mg of amantadine. Clinical state and emergence of side
      effects, including orthostatic hypotension, will be monitored at all visits by research
      clinicians. If subjects experience mild side effects with increase in number of capsules, the
      titration will be slowed. During Phase 2, subjects will be called by research personnel on 3
      nonconsecutive days to complete a 24 hour diet recall by phone. Biweekly, all subjects will
      meet with a study physician or nurse for standardized healthy lifestyle counseling based on
      the Solutions for Wellness program available from Lilly. BMI will be calculated biweekly and
      baseline measures will be repeated at the final study visit. Urine pregnancy test will be
      performed monthly on all women. When subjects gain an additional 3 BMI units (approximately
      15 lbs), or when they complete 16 weeks of double blind medication they will repeat all Visit
      13 measures and end study participation.
    
  