
    
      Urinary incontinence is a prevalent health and quality of life concern affecting an estimated
      49.6% of women over the age of 20 years in the USA. (1) Of these, 49.8% describe pure stress
      urinary incontinence (SUI) and 34.3% report mixed stress and urgency urinary incontinence.
      (1)

      Midurethral sling (MUS) surgery is used to treat women with SUI, but accepted protocols for
      voiding trials after midurethral sling placement do not exist. Primarily, many surgeons
      measure postvoid residual (PVR) urine volume. This is done by retrograde filling of the
      bladder with a predetermined amount of normal saline or water. The catheter is then removed
      and the patient is permitted to void into a collection basin. The amount in the basin is
      subtracted from the filled amount. The need for catheterization is generally based on
      arbitrarily determined ratios of voided urine to PVR or postoperative.

      The acceptable amount voided during catheterization varies among practitioners. In a study by
      Kleeman et al, the patient was required to void >50% of volume filled during retrograde fill
      for discharge from hospital without an indwelling Foley catheter (2). Pulvino et al, required
      that the patient void > 2/3 the amount of the volume placed during retrograde fill (3). The
      force of stream trial (FAST) does not prioritize amount voided, but rather the patient's
      subjective force of stream. The bladder is retrograde filled with 300cc normal saline or
      water and the patient is instructed to void.. Using FAST, a patient uses a VAS scale to
      quantify her force of stream. If she states that her Force of Stream (FOS) is >50% stronger
      than prior to surgery, independent of the amount voided, she is discharged without a
      catheter. If the FOS is <50% a PVR via bladder scan is performed. If her PVR is <500cc the
      patient was discharged home without a catheter in place. If the PVR, via bladder scan was >
      500cc she was discharged with a catheter. Ingber et. Al. showed the FAST method was a safe
      method for predicting postoperative voiding dysfunction and/or urinary retention. No patients
      presented to the office or emergency room for voiding dysfunction or urinary retention (4).

      Urinary retention is a concern of many surgeons who perform midurethral sling surgery; 25% of
      urologists routinely discharge patients home with a catheter and 31% admit patients overnight
      or for 23 hour observation, with 42% doing so for the primary purpose of facilitating the
      voiding trial. (5)

      Published catheterization rates for these protocols can approach 39%. (6,7) Temporary
      catheterization does not pose a significant medical risk, but it is perceived as an
      inconvenience and source of discomfort for many patients. Proper care of an indwelling foley
      catheter requires extra teaching from nursing and/or house staff.

      No randomized control trials (RCT) have been performed comparing the FAST method to the
      traditional retrograde voiding trial. In our practice we assess postoperative voiding
      function using the retrograde fill with 300cc saline or water. We also require a 2/3 quantity
      voided for discontinuation of catheter.

      All patients after outpatient midurethral sling or vaginal prolpase surgery must complete a
      voiding trial if they are to be discharged without a catheter. This is standard of care and
      followed in our practice. We would like to compare both postoperative voiding trials in
      patients who have undergone surgical repair concomitant midurethral sling with or without
      anterior colporrhaphy. We will include those patients who also had an anterior colporrhaphy
      at time of sling placement as this procedure is commonly performed at the time of sling
      placement for stablization of MUS. We will assess the number of emergent or unexpected visits
      for voiding dysfunction. An unexpected visit to the office will be defined as any visit
      outside of the patient's prior scheduled postoperative visits.
    
  