
    
      Generalized secondary peritonitis is one of the most common emergencies encountered in
      surgical departments . It is a major surgical condition with a mortality of up to 20% and
      classified as the third most common cause of surgical abdomens after appendicitis and
      intestinal obstruction . Delays in surgical management are conditions that increase
      mortality. While early prognostic assessment of peritonitis is essential for the objective
      classification of the severity of the disease, the late presentation of the majority of
      patients to health facilities affects this situation, further complicating effective
      management and promoting the occurrence of complications . It has been observed that
      classifying the severity of peritonitis has a major contribution to decision-making and
      improves management. Thus, many scoring systems have been designed and successfully used to
      assess the severity of acute peritonitis, including: Acute physiology and chronic health
      evaluation (APACHE) II score, Simplified acute physiology score (SAPS), Sepsis severity score
      (SSS), Ranson score, Imrite score, Mannheim peritonitis index (MPI) 6. The Mannheim
      Peritonitis Index (MPI) is a specific score, which is highly accurate and allows clinical
      parameters to be easily manipulated, allowing the individual prognosis of patients with
      peritonitis to be predicted . In Haiti, few studies on surgical pathologies are available.
      And with regard to peritonitis, only two thesis works have been listed on the subject,
      including one carried out at the Justinian University Hospital of Cap-Haitian on 176 patients
      by Dr. Jacques Julmice, who presents the main etiologies of peritonitis over a 5-year period.
      And the other one carried out at the Albert Schweizer Hospital by Dr. Moise Aristide, still
      on the etiological factors of peritonitis. These two studies are carried out outside the
      country's metropolitan region (the most populated region) and that they only explored the
      different etiologies without taking into account the time required for treatment and the
      gravity factors of peritonitis. Therefore, our study aims to explore the demographic,
      clinical and etiological factors of peritonitis in the main referral hospital in the
      metropolitan region of the country, as well as the time required for treatment and its
      relationship with the severity of the disease.
    
  