
    
      Chronic stroke is often accompanied by tactile impairments that contribute to long-term
      disability in activities of daily living. While new rehabilitative interventions recently
      became available in the motor domain by using transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS),
      there is no generally accepted treatment for tactile impairments after chronic stroke.
      Previous studies in healthy volunteers demonstrated that tactile acuity and haptic skills can
      be improved by applying a passive learning protocol to the fingertip (peripheral
      high-frequency stimulation, pHFS). Based on these findings, the purpose of this protocol is
      to enhance the beneficial effect of pHFS on implicit tactile and haptic learning in chronic
      stroke patients by a combined application of pHFS with tDCS (pHFS+tDCS) applied to the
      somatosensory cortex of the affected hemisphere. This approach might identify novel
      strategies to enhance functional recovery after stroke and might provide deeper insight into
      mechanistic information on the neural substrates involved in these behavioral gains. Primary
      outcome measures will be performance in a tactile grating orientation discrimination task
      (GOT) and in a haptic object recognition task. In order to obtain descriptive preliminary
      information on the relation between sensory improvements and motor deficits in chronic stroke
      patients, secondary outcome measures will be fine motor tasks such as a tapping task and a
      pegboard test (PBT) that require manual dexterity, handeye coordination, steadiness, and
      perceptual motor skills. To identify the operating mechanisms underlying hypothesized
      performance improvements after pHFS+tDCS, we will use paired-pulse protocols to evaluate
      changes in cortical excitability as well as fMRI in a subset of patients to identify cortical
      map reorganization in primary (SI) and secondary (SII) somatosensory cortex as well as in
      primary motor cortex (MI). Healthy volunteers will be tested (a) since there are no data
      available on performance of the haptic task in healthy subjects, (b) to obtain descriptive
      information on the influence of our interventions on this task for hypothesis generation
      purposes in our future investigations, and (c) because sensorimotor performance in the
      non-paretic hand of stroke patients is often not normal and therefore a poor sole control for
      performance of the paretic hand. Studies in chronic stroke patients will help address the
      main experimental hypothesis.
    
  