
    
      Catheter ablation (CA) is a class 1 indication for patients with symptomatic drug-refractory
      atrial fibrillation (AF). With standard pulmonary vein isolation (PVI), the success rate
      ranges from 60-80% in patients with paroxysmal AF. Despite PVI, certain patients have
      recurrent AF and often require a repeat ablation procedure.

      There is no standard ablation strategy for patients who undergo repeat ablation for recurrent
      AF. The largest randomized trial to date comparing ablation strategies found that the
      addition of LA roof and mitral isthmus ablation lines or ablation of LA ganglia was no better
      than standard PVI. Moreover, the addition of ablation lines in the LA, if not complete, may
      be pro-arrhythmic and lead to the development of LA AFL, which is often more symptomatic that
      AF itself.

      Ultra-high density mapping during sinus rhythm allows for rapid creation of isochronal late
      activation maps (ILAM) in patients with ventricular tachycardia. To date, creating ILAM of
      the LA has not been reported and it is not known whether additional ablation in these areas
      improves freedom from all atrial tachyarrhythmias at 1 year follow-up. Moreover, ablation at
      the deceleration zones and/or gaps identified using ultra-high density mapping is a promising
      strategy to improve ablation success and decrease the potential for recurrent AF.

      The rationale of the study is two-fold.

        1. This study would be the first to report ILAM in the LA and confirm that the diseased LA
           may behave similarly to the diseased left or right ventricle.

        2. Ablation of gaps and/or deceleration zones in the LA would be a novel approach to treat
           patients with recurrent AF after initial PVI, and if successful, provide another
           strategy to treat these refractory problems.

      Co-PIs:

      Hemal Nayak, MD Guarav Upadhyay, MD Andrew Beaser, MD Zaid Aziz, MD
    
  