
    
      Objective: The U.S. health care system requires critical nursing services around the clock,
      resulting in many nurses working overnight hours and having irregular shifts. One symptom
      commonly associated with the nursing workplace is fatigue, affecting up to 80% of Registered
      Nurses (RNs). Fatigue is problematic for RNs because it is associated with burnout,
      absenteeism, job-related injury and reduced job performance. Factors

      known to contribute to fatigue are physiological (e.g. sleep disturbances, physical health
      and nutritional deficiencies), psychological (e.g. depression, anxiety, coping style), and
      situational (e.g. shiftwork and high work demands). Fatigue in turn negatively affects
      cognitive performance including memory, attention, and reaction time, as well as mood and
      quality of life. The pathophysiological mechanisms underlying fatigue are complex and not
      well understood. Hypothesized pathways include inflammation and autonomic dysregulation. The
      specific physiological, psychological and situational factors contributing to fatigue in RNs
      are unclear. Most studies in nurses look at fatigue in general, with few examining specific
      subtypes such as mental, physical, and emotional fatigue. Very few studies have examined
      fatigue in RNs longitudinally, nor have they explored the underlying pathophysiology. Little
      is known about the downstream effects of fatigue on nurses cognitive performance or on their
      ability to enjoy and participate in life outside of work. Thus, the objective of this study
      is to characterize fatigue experienced by RNs and to examine the physiologic, psychologic,
      and situational factors that contribute to fatigue and its subtypes.

      AIMS: The primary AIM is to characterize the levels and types of fatigue experienced by RNs,
      and to examine the physiologic, psychologic and situational factors contributing to fatigue
      and its subtypes in RNs. The secondary AIM is to examine the relationship between fatigue
      with cognitive performance, mood, life satisfaction, and the ability to participate in social
      roles/activities in RNs and to assess changes in cognitive performance and mood over the
      course of three working days. The exploratory AIM is to explore molecular and clinical
      biomarkers associated with fatigue in a subset of RNs.

      Study population: This study will occur in two parts. Phase I will recruit from a pool of
      approximately 1,275 RNs at the NIH Clinical Center, and we anticipate that 400 RNs will
      participate. Phase II will enroll up to 60 RNs, in order to obtain 40 RNs who complete all
      study timepoints.

      Design: This study will utilize an adaptive design whereby a preliminary, anonymous
      cross-sectional surveyinvolving a large cohort of RNs will address the primary and secondary
      AIMs (Phase I). Phase II will utilize a prospective, repeated measures design to collect
      biomarkers of fatigue and health, along with more detailed psychologic, situational, and
      performance outcomes in a small subset of RNs (n = 40) at multiple time points including
      baseline (48+ hours after last working) and at the start and conclusion of three consecutive
      workdays. Phase II will address the primary and secondary AIMS in greater depth and over
      time, while addressing the exploratory AIMs of the study.

      Outcome measures: The primary outcome is fatigue, using the Multidimensional Fatigue Symptom
      Inventory- Short Form (MFSI-SF) and Occupational Fatigue Exhaustion Recovery (OFER) scale
      used to: (1) determine the levels and types (general, physical, emotional, mental, acute and
      chronic) of fatigue experienced by RNs (Phase I), (2) examine whether fatigue and its
      subtypes change over time (Phase II); and (3) determine which physiologic (sleep disturbance,
      physical health, nutritional status), psychologic (depression, anxiety, self-efficacy, coping
      style), and situational (job type, work hours, work demands, professional quality of life,
      outside demands) factors contribute to fatigue in RNs. Secondary outcomes include downstream
      performance outcomes believed to be related to fatigue including NIH toolbox measures of
      cognitive performance, Profile of Mood States (POMS), and PROMIS measures of life
      satisfaction and the ability to perform social roles/activities. Exploratory factors that
      potentially influence fatigue (MFSI-SF) will be examined in Phase II including markers of
      autonomic function (orthostatic blood pressure (BP) and inflammation (hs-CRP, TNF-alpha,
      IL-6, IL1-beta, and GlycA).
    
  