
    
      This research concerns the study of serotonin (5-HT) synthesis, metabolism (turnover), and
      release. We hypothesize that neuronal 5-HT turnover and release is altered in alcoholic
      individuals, and that this plays a role in alcohol seeking behavior. We wish to determine the
      following:

        1. Whether there are differences in 5-HT turnover and release in alcoholics compared to
           healthy research comparison participants, before and after Acute Tryptophan Depletion
           (ATD);

        2. Whether putative differences in 5-HT turnover are governed primarily by genetic
           variation in the 5-HT transporter (5-HTT) in alcoholics;

        3. Whether 5-HTT genetic variation correlates with [(18) F]-FCWAY/5-HT(1A), binding, and
           cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) 5-Hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) concentration, before and
           after ATD; and,

        4. If regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) differs at baseline and after ATD in alcoholics
           and healthy research comparison participants.

      To investigate the underlying biochemistry of 5-HT neurometabolism, we will use two
      experimental strategies, Acute Tryptophan (TRP) Depletion (ATD) and positron emission
      tomography (PET) imaging, to investigate 5-HT neurochemistry. We will deplete plasma TRP,
      using ATD, while simultaneously collecting CSF 5-HIAA and performing intermittent plasma
      sampling via indwelling catheters. TRP is the amino acid (AA) precursor needed for 5-HT
      synthesis. 5-HIAA is the principal metabolite of 5-HT. It is a neurochemical marker of
      neuronal 5-HT metabolism. PET will allow indirect measurements of synaptic 5-HT concentration
      by measuring binding of [(18)F]-FCWAY, a 5-HT (1A)-receptor antagonist. rCBF will be measured
      with [(15)O]-water imaging. Studies will be performed before and after ATD. Individuals will
      be genotyped for the 5-HT transporter (5-HTT). Plasma TRP and Large Neutral Amino Acids
      (LNAAs), and CSF TRP and 5-HIAA concentrations will be measured using High Performance Liquid
      Chromatography (HPLC).
    
  