
    
      Objective:

        -  Primary objective: To study natural disease progress of Dupuytren Disease (DD) in
           different stages of disease in males and females above 18 years of age.

        -  Secondary objectives:

             1. To study the effect of potential risk factors for DD on natural disease progress.

             2. To study at what stage of disease patients with DD experience problems in daily
                life.

             3. To study the incidence and course of recurrent disease. Primary Hypothesis: The
                natural course of disease is an exponential function of time.

             4. To study the intrarater reliability of the measurements

           f. To determine whether the echogenicity of the nodules can predict progression g. To
           determine whether extension deficit measurements can be replaced by measurements of
           extension, and whether this will facilitate the statistical analysis h. To determine the
           association between passive and active measurements of extension and extension deficit,
           and to see whether active measurements can be derived from passive measurements and vice
           versa.

        -  Study design: The study is designed as a prospective observational pilot study with a
           follow-up of 10 years.

        -  Study population: Males and females above 18 years of age with all stages of primary
           Dupuytren's disease in at least one hand

        -  Main study parameters/endpoints: The natural course of progression of DD measured as the
           increase or decrease in size of nodules and cords in millimetres and/or increase of
           total passive extension deficit in degrees, from baseline to endpoint.

        -  Secondary study parameters:

             1. Patient-reported hand function (Michigan Hand Outcomes Questionnaire (MHOQ),
                Patient-Rated Wrist/Hand Evaluation (PRWHE) and Unité Rhumatologique des Affections
                de la Main (URAM) scale

             2. incidence and course of recurrent disease

             3. disease activity (ultrasonography and tonometry)

        -  Procedure Patients visit the outpatient clinic every 6 months (first 5 years of
           follow-up) and later on every 12 months (last 5 years of follow-up) for an anamnestic
           interview, physical examination of the hands, ultrasonography, tonometry and for filling
           out the PROMs.
    
  