
    
      Meniere's disease characterized by recurrent attacks of vertigo, fluctuating hearing loss and
      tinnitus, is a common disease with an incidence of 15-50 per 100,000 population. Some
      patients with Meniere's disease are strongly prevented from participating in activities of
      daily life and interaction with their social environment, such as work and schooling, due to
      frequent attacks of vertigo especially with progressive sensorineural hearing loss, in spite
      of various kinds of medication. This type of Meniere's disease is called intractable
      Meniere's disease. Although the oto-pathology in Meniere's temporal bones was revealed in
      1938 to be inner ear endolymphatic hydrops, the definitive pathogenesis of Meniere's disease
      is still unknown and there is no radical treatment for this disease.

      It has, however, been reported that Meniere's disease is usually triggered by immune,
      metabolic, infectious, traumatic or other insults to the inner ear, associated with a small
      misplaced malfunctioning endolymphatic sac. Among these insults, immune-mediated responses in
      the inner ear endo-organs such as the endolymphatic sac, stria vascularis and spiral
      ligament, are thought to be the main reason for the development of symptoms in Meniere's
      disease. Thus, systemic administration and/or local perfusion of corticosteroids into the
      middle ear have been adopted as an anti-immune or anti-inflammatory therapy for patients with
      intractable Meniere's disease. These treatments were reported to result in good relief from
      vertigo and improvement of hearing in some cases. However, these results especially for
      hearing did not last long enough to discontinue additional repetitive applications of
      steroids. Since Meniere's disease is characterized by repeated attacks of vertigo with
      fluctuating and/or progressive hearing loss unlike other inner ear diseases without
      recurrence such as sudden deafness and vestibular neuritis, it is necessary to refrain from
      repetitive applications of steroids for the long-term follow-up with Meniere's patients
      because of side effects.

      For inner ear drug delivery, we noted another hopeful but unevaluated route, the longitudinal
      route from the endolymphatic sac to the cochlea and vestibule, suggested by several lines of
      evidence in animal studies. Morgenstern et al. and Lee et al. demonstrated that the
      intra-endolymphatic sac materials could reach the cochlear endolymphatic site through the
      vestibular aqueduct using a test marker and an oto-toxic drug, respectively. Recently,
      Yamasoba et al. suggested the possibility of gene therapy through the vestibular aqueduct
      route. We also revealed that intra-endolymphatic sac steroids could up-regulate a water
      channel molecule, aquaporin-3 mRNA in the cochlea.

      In the present study, we examined the intra-endolymphatic sac application of large doses of
      steroids as de novo treatment for intractable Meniere's disease.
    
  