
    
      Mental health care in the United States and Western Europe is undergoing a seismic shift in
      values. The paternalistic, medical model of care that has dominated practice for more than
      75-years is being challenged by an activist group of consumer-survivors, with the support of
      public officials and an increasing number of professionals. The centerpiece of this shift is
      the recovery model, which assumes that all consumers have the capacity to improve and develop
      a life distinct from their illness. The consumer model of recovery involves a non-linear
      process in which the consumer gradually adapts to, and moves beyond the illness. It
      emphasizes hope, empowerment, and control of one's life. This model stands in contrast to
      scientific and clinical models, which view recovery as an outcome, primarily involving
      reduced symptoms and improved functional capacity.

      The public health significance of the consumer perspective is underscored by the President's
      New Freedom Commission on Mental Health (2003), which enunciated two guiding principles for
      mental health services in the US: First, services and treatments must be consumer and family
      centered, geared to give consumers real and meaningful choices about treatment options and
      providers. Second, care must focus on increasing consumers' ability to successfully cope with
      life's challenges, on facilitating recovery, and on building resilience, not just managing
      symptoms. In response to the Commission report the VA has mandated a shift to a recovery
      model and committed a large amount of resources to implementing it throughout the system.

      Despite this political and programmatic change, there is little scientific literature on the
      nature of recovery or the factors that contribute to it. Systems change is being driven by
      social mandate and consensual agreement rather than empirical support. It is essential that
      the consumer model of recovery be subjected to empirical study if it is to have a meaningful
      and lasting impact on systems and patterns of care. It is also critical to evaluate the
      recovery-oriented systems of care that have been developed. Two factors that have limited
      empirical study of the construct and treatment programs are: a) the absence of a
      scientifically grounded conceptual model of recovery, and b) the lack of a reliable and valid
      assessment instrument to measure recovery status. The purpose of this project is to develop
      and evaluate a psychometrically sound assessment scale using Bandura's social cognitive
      theory as a conceptual model for the recovery construct.

      The Specific Aims are: 1) to evaluate and refine the draft version of the Maryland Assessment
      of Recovery in Serious Mental Illness (MARS), 2) evaluate its test-retest reliability and
      validity, and 3) to examine recovery status and the relationship of recovery to hypothesized
      mediators and moderators over a 1-year retest interval.
    
  