
    
      The sympathomimetic balance was measured using a Holter-ECG heart rate monitor. The
      parameters collected were used to calculate the variability of the heart rate, the high
      frequencies (HF, reflection of the parasympathetic system), the low frequencies (LF,
      reflection of the sympathetic system and the parasympathetic system) and the ratio // LF / HF
      (reflection of the sympathetic activity) thanks to Fourier analysis and the use of
      HRVanalysis software.

      The measurements were taken at night, to overcome the great sympathomimetic variabilities due
      to external stimulations during the day: one night 3 month before surgery/before the first
      chemotherapy, one night between 2 and 4 weeks before hospitalization (remotely of possible
      chemotherapy), the night before the intervention (context of hospitalization and preoperative
      stress), one night between D7 and D10 (context of hospitalization, and distance from
      anesthetic drugs), one night at home between 4 and 8 weeks post-operative, and one night at
      home at 3 months post-operative.

      The measurements were therefore not carried out the first nights following the intervention
      to overcome the anesthetic drugs that affect the balance of the autonomic nervous system.

      A baroreflex measurement was carried out at the patient's entrance, the day before the
      intervention, during hospitalization, and the day of discharge. This measure was renewed at 3
      months.

      A measurement of patient activity was carried out preoperatively by wearing an actimeter
      watch for 1 week then renewed at 3 months.

      A Respiratory Functional Exploration associated with a stress test with calculation of the
      VO2max is systematically carried out before the esophageal surgery. A Respiratory Functional
      Exploration was renewed 4 to 8 weeks after the intervention, and then at 3 months. the
      6-minute walk test was performed at the same time.
    
  