
    
      The working hypothesis behind this study is that the deleterious effects of SARS-CoV-2 are
      largely attributed to the deprivation of the affected target cells from their advantageous
      ACE-2-Ang 1-7-MasR machinery on one hand, and to the use of ACE2 as a Trojan horse to infect
      and destroy these cells on the other in a vicious feed-forward cycle.

      120 confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infected patients who exhibit moderate- clinical symptoms including
      dyspnea, cough and fever, hospitalized in the KETER department in several hospitals in
      Israel, will be enrolled. 60 patients will receive Ang 1-7 subcutaneously 500 mcg/kg /day. 60
      patients will receive placebo : NaCl 0.9% 2 ml -control arm .

      Treatment duration: 14 days or until clinical improvement that enables discharge from
      hospital.

      All patients will be treated by Dexamethasone and Remdesivir, according to the published
      guidelines. Moreover, if other promising medications will be approved for COVID-19, the
      patients will also be treated by these medications. The current trial will not exclude
      promising COVID-19 treatments.

      Each patient will be closely followed up, where routine physical sings, respiratory and
      hemodynamic parameters will be documented. In addition, the following complications will be
      monitored: thromboembolic events, myocarditis, impaired liver function and acute kidney
      injury. Allergic reactions will be treated by corticosteroids, antihistamines and adrenalin
      if needed. Patients experiencing allergic reactions will be excluded from continuing the
      trail.

      In addition, biochemical (kidney function tests, electrolytes, liver enzymes, albumin,
      protein, ferritin, troponin- 5 ml) and hematological (CBC-(3 ml), and coagulation tests-(3
      ml)) analysis will be performed on the day of enrollment and every 3 days . Other blood tests
      for immunophenotyping, cytokines, COVID-19 PCR, Angiotensin II (Ang II) levels, Angiotensin
      1-7 (Ang 1-7) levels, ACE and ACE-2 will be collected at baseline and at days 6,15,21 and 30
      days after enrollment. and every week ( 2 chemistry (10 ml) and 2 CBC tubes (10 ml)).

      In addition chest X-ray will be performed at enrollment and at days 6,15,21 and 30 days after
      enrollment.
    
  