
    
      Primary repair for flexor tendon lacerations remain the standard of care. However, despite
      recent advances in knowledge of tendon healing, suture material, and post-operative
      protocols, outcomes have been reported as fair or poor in 7-20% of patients. Complications
      encountered include adhesion formation, development of joint contractures, tendon rupture,
      triggering, bowstringing and quadrigia. Tendon surgery is unique because it should ensure
      tendon gliding after surgery It has been a standard practice to obtain local or general
      anesthesia and apply a tourniquet to perform tendon surgery. However, this practice has been
      changed in recent years...

      Tendon surgery now can be performed under local anesthesia without tourniquet, by injecting
      epinephrine mixed with lidocaine, to achieve vasoconstriction in the area of surgery. This
      method allows the tendon to move actively during surgery to test tendon function
      intraoperatively and to ensure the tendon is properly repaired before leaving the operating
      table.

      The surgeon can inspect for bunching, gapping, and triggering of the repair site in an active
      fashion. Thus, an opportunity is available to revise the repair, trim or add extra sutures,
      revise pulley reconstruction, or de-bulk tendons before wound closure Wide awake hand surgery
      is well described by its other name, WALANT which stands for wide awake local anaesthesia no
      tourniquet. The only two medications most patients are given for wide awake hand surgery are
      Lidocaine for anaesthesia and epinephrine for haemostasis. In the period before 1950, the
      belief developed among surgeons that epinephrine causes finger necrosis .The source of the
      epinephrine myth stemmed from the use of procaine (Novocaine).8 It was the only safely
      injectable local anaesthetic until the introduction of Lidocaine in 1948. More fingers died
      from procaine injection alone than from procaine plus epinephrine injection .no lost finger
      no case require phentolamine in many studies.The "smoking gun" paper that established that
      procaine was the actual cause of finger deaths published in the Journal of the American
      Medical Association that found batches of procaine with a pH of 1 destined for injection into
      humans.
    
  