
    
      Fecal incontinence (FI) affects 9% of U.S. adults and occurs weekly or more often in 2.7%.
      Prevalence increases with age reaching 15% by 70 years. FI has a devastating impact on
      quality of life and substantially increases caregiver burden when patients have comorbid
      conditions requiring caregiver assistance. The investigators propose an effectiveness trial
      whose overall goal is to determine whether a conservative intervention which has been shown
      to be effective in single-site studies will sustain its efficacy when disseminated to a home
      bound population by home health care nurses. The treatment includes patient education about
      the physiology of how continence is maintained, pelvic floor exercises, behavioral strategies
      for preventing FI, and use of fiber or nonprescription medication to treat diarrhea or
      constipation. To minimize drift when the treatment is disseminated to a large group of
      providers, patient education and other basic components of treatment are included in a
      printed training manual and are available to nurse providers on a website; however, nurse
      supervision to individualize treatment remains important. The study will be carried out in 8
      counties in central North Carolina which are served by the University of North Carolina Home
      Health Care and Rex Home Health Care agencies (partners in this study). Nurses in these
      agencies will be randomly assigned to two groups. For the first two years all patients of the
      nurses in one group will receive the active intervention while all patients of nurses in the
      other group will receive usual care plus a training manual and symptom monitoring to control
      for expectancy. After two years, all patients in these home health care agencies will receive
      the active intervention. After excluding patients with severe cognitive impairment and those
      with stomas, the investigators estimate 252 - 340 patients with FI who are over age 50 will
      receive treatment (at least 189 in active treatment and 63 controls). Specific aims are (1)
      to show that the active treatment is more effective than the control treatment for improving
      FI severity, patient quality of life, and caregiver burden, and that improvements are
      maintained for at least 6 months; (2) to identify moderators of treatment effectiveness
      (candidate variables are cognitive status, mobility impairment, willingness of family
      caregiver to assist with treatment, anxiety, depression, age, and race); and (3) to explore
      whether successful treatment of FI reduces the risk of nursing home referral.
    
  