
    
      Counselling programmes used in many humanitarian settings are often non- specific with
      unknown efficacy and safety. Only a few interventions in humanitarian crises have been
      rigorously tested, and most studied interventions focused on posttraumatic stress disorder.
      Beyond posttraumatic stress disorder, individuals may have a range of problems including
      depression, anxiety, and not being able to do daily tasks necessary for survival and
      recovery. However, interventions are often limited since they tend to target only a single
      outcome, are usually of longer duration (8-16 sessions) or require professionals.

      In low resourced settings interventions need to be short of duration, and be carried out by
      lay people in the communities to make them sustainable and feasible to implement on a broader
      scale. World Health Organization aims to develop a range of low-intensity scale-able
      psychological interventions that address these issues, as part of its mental health Gap
      Action Program. As a first step a simplified psychological intervention Problem Management
      Plus (PM+) has been developed. It has 4 core features that make the intervention suitable for
      low resourced setting exposed to adversities. First, it is brief intervention (5-sessions),
      delivered individually or in groups; second, it can be delivered by paraprofessionals (high
      school graduates with no mental health experience), using the principle of task shifting/
      task sharing; third, it is designed as a trans- diagnostic intervention, addressing a range
      of client identified emotional (e.g. depression, anxiety, traumatic stress, general stress)
      and practical problems; fourth, it is designed for people in low-income country communities
      affected by any kind of adversity (e.g. violence, disasters), not just focusing on a single
      kind of adversity. Recent PM+ trails in Pakistan and Kenya have indicated PM+ to be effective
      in diminishing depression and anxiety and improving people's functioning and self- selected,
      culturally relevant outcomes. Group PM+ has been piloted in a district in Nepal, which was
      affected by the 2015 earthquakes. The pilot was conducted to gather information about the
      feasibility, safety and delivery of the intervention in the Nepali community settings; and to
      identify issues around training, supervision and outcomes measures. The pilot trial was
      successful in terms of acceptability and feasibility and detecting possible problems of
      compliance, delivery of the intervention, recruitment and retention. The current definitive
      study will evaluate the effectiveness of Group PM+ in Nepal through a pragmatic cluster
      randomized controlled trial.
    
  