
    
      Background It is commonly reported that individuals experience a sense of relaxation during
      acupuncture treatment. However it is not known if the effects are related to the specific
      effects of needling or non-specific effects associated with the treatment procedure e.g. the
      communication with the therapist. It is well known that the way in which patients and
      clinicians communicate with each other affect treatment outcome, and one of the possible
      mechanisms to mediate the communication-related treatment outcomes is patient expectations.

      Aims The aim of the study is therefore to investigate if it is possible to influence the
      individuals' expectations to improve outcome; in this particular setting the relaxing effects
      of one single acupuncture treatment with genuine or sham needles combined with positive or
      neutral communication regarding expected relaxing effects. The investigators also aim to
      investigate if different therapists influence how individuals perceive treatment effects,
      blinding and the communication during treatment with genuine and sham acupuncture.

      Procedure Nine therapists performed treatments on voluntary healthy individuals who were
      randomized to a 30 minute treatment session with a) genuine penetrating acupuncture in
      traditional acupuncture points or b) non-penetrating sham needles in sham points. Within
      groups, individuals were further randomized to two communication styles 1) neutral
      communication or 2) strengthened positive communication regarding expectations concerning
      relaxing effects.

      Outcome measures Perceived degree of expectancy and relaxation was measured directly before
      and after the treatment. The individuals also rated how they experienced the therapist´s
      communication style regarding grade of positivity and if they believed that the therapist had
      given them genuine or sham acupuncture directly after treatment.
    
  