
    
      Surgery, especially if followed by adjuvant chemotherapy, offers the only chance of cure of
      pancreatic cancer. At first diagnosis, after careful assessment, only 10 to 15% of patients
      are considered to be candidates for surgical resection and about 7% have a potentially
      resectable disease. These potentially resectable tumors called "borderline resectable
      pancreatic cancer" (BRPC) are conceptualized as those that involve the mesenteric vasculature
      to a limited extent and those for which resection, while possible, would likely be
      compromised by positive surgical margins (R1) in the absence of neoadjuvant treatment. R0
      resection is indeed considered as an independent prognostic factor for survival when the
      surgical procedures, histological examination and definition of microscopic invasion are
      standardized.

      The objectives of neoadjuvant treatments of BRPC is to reduce tumor volume before surgery in
      order to improve the chances of radical (R0) resection and to reduce the rate of lymph node
      positivity and recurrences. The primary outcome in published studies is usually R0 resection
      rate, but these results also depend on the number of margins examined and the definition of
      microscopic margin involvement. Prospective studies with consistent selection criteria and
      standardized assessment criteria are needed.

      Different neoadjuvant therapeutic strategies have been tested in pilot studies: preoperative
      chemoradiotherapy or neoadjuvant chemotherapy, followed or not by a preoperative
      (chemo)radiotherapy. Due to the lack of randomized studies, the best sequence of treatment
      administration has not been established.

      The aim of this prospective, randomized, multicenter, trial is to evaluate the R0 resection
      rate with neoadjuvant Folfirinox, followed or not by radiochemotherapy for patients with
      borderline resectable pancreatic cancers.
    
  