
    
      BPD is a serious lung condition that primarily affects premature newborns and newborns with
      low birth weights. iNO has been proven to be a safe and effective treatment for pulmonary
      hypertension and hypoxemic respiratory failure-both of which are abnormal lung conditions-in
      full-term newborns. However, in babies born prematurely, the effects of iNO on lung function
      are not well defined. Also, previous studies have mainly examined whether iNO reduces the
      incidence of BPD in newborns who are on mechanical ventilation. However, intubation and
      mechanical ventilation of premature newborns is now increasingly being avoided, and
      non-invasive support, including the use of nasal continuous positive airway pressure (NCPAP),
      is being used. Early treatment with low-dose iNO may reduce the incidence of BPD in premature
      newborns who do not require mechanical ventilation and intubation after delivery. The purpose
      of this study is to determine if low-dose, non-invasive iNO reduces the risk of BPD,
      pulmonary hypertension, and death in premature newborns who do not require mechanical
      ventilation.

      This study will enroll premature newborns who require extra oxygen but do not require
      intubation or mechanical ventilation for respiratory failure in the first 72 hours of life.
      Participants will be randomly assigned to receive low-dose, non-invasive iNO or nitrogen
      (placebo) during their hospital stay. While hospitalized, participants' heart rate, blood
      oxygen level breathing rate, blood pressure, and medications will be monitored, and blood
      collection will occur at various times. Monitoring will continue until participants are 30
      weeks corrected gestational age or for at least 14 days if participants are born at 29 weeks
      or more. All participants will undergo an ultrasound of the head when they are 7 days, 28
      days, and 36 weeks of age. They will undergo an echocardiogram, which is an ultrasound of the
      heart, at 7 and 21 days of age and 4 weeks before the original expected due date. A chest
      x-ray will be performed before hospital discharge, and a breathing status test will be
      performed either 4 weeks before participants' original expected due date or before hospital
      discharge. Follow-up study visits will occur at Years 1 and 2, and will include a physical
      examination and developmental and behavioral testing. Another echocardiogram will also be
      performed at the Year 1 visit.
    
  