
    
      The purpose of this implementation science study is to determine whether Deliberative Loops
      are effective in increasing providers' adherence to the non-cavitated caries component of the
      American Dental Association's pit-and-fissure sealant evidence-based clinical practice
      guideline. The investigators use a stepped wedge design to randomly assign dental clinics to
      the Deliberative Loop intervention. In a Deliberative Loop, stakeholders receive background
      information, participate in a facilitated discussion, and share their views with leadership.
      The Deliberative Loop intervention is designed to help stakeholders form informed opinions;
      in this study, stakeholders will be forming informed opinions about the implementation
      interventions they think will increase their clinic's adherence to the guideline. The
      investigators hypothesize that compared with the pre-intervention period, following the
      intervention, providers will place or treatment plan sealants for significantly more occlusal
      non-cavitated carious lesions (NCCL).

      All persons employed by Kaiser Permanente Northwest or Permanente Dental Associates and who
      work in a Kaiser Permanente Northwest dental clinic at any level [e.g., part time, full time]
      will be eligible to participate in the study. This includes both service providers and
      front-of-the-house staff, approximately 1,200 employees.

      This is a Stage III study.

      Participating sites include the 16 general dental clinics of Kaiser Permanente Northwest. All
      clinics are located within the United States.

      The estimated time from when the study opens to enrollment until completion of data
      collection is 16 months. It will take approximately one to two months for each individual
      participant to complete all study-related tasks, depending on how soon after the introductory
      session the Deliberative session can be scheduled.
    
  