
    
      African American and low-income populations bear a disproportionate burden of dementia and
      have been underrepresented in trials of cognitive impairment. The Systolic Blood Pressure
      Intervention Trial (SPRINT) showed that an intensive blood pressure (BP) intervention (target
      systolic BP <120 mmHg) lowered the risk of cognitive impairment compared to a standard BP
      intervention (systolic BP target <140 mmHg). The next important step is to determine how the
      successful SPRINT intensive blood pressure intervention can be implemented in a real-world
      clinic setting to prevent cognitive decline. The overall objective of the proposed study is
      to test a multifaceted strategy for implementing an intensive BP intervention protocol
      adapted from SPRINT targeting systolic BP <120 mmHg on cognitive decline in racial minority
      and low-income hypertensive patients in resource-constrained primary care practices in
      Louisiana and Mississippi. The RE-AIM (Reach Effectiveness Adoption Implementation
      Maintenance) framework has been used to guide the development and evaluation of the
      multifaceted implementation strategy, including protocol-based treatment that employs the
      SPRINT stepped-care intensive BP management algorithm, dissemination of SPRINT findings,
      shared- decision making, team-based collaborative care, BP audit and feedback, home BP
      monitoring, and patient health coaching. Building on the ongoing Implementation of
      Multifaceted Patient-Centered Treatment Strategies for Intensive Blood Pressure Control
      (IMPACTS-BP) trial, the investigators will cost-effectively conduct a cluster- randomized
      trial in 46 primary care clinics that serve low-income populations in Louisiana and
      Mississippi. The primary outcome in the proposed trial is the net difference in mean change
      of global cognitive composite z-score from baseline to an average of 42 months between the
      intervention and enhanced usual care groups. Secondary outcomes include net difference in
      mean change of executive function and memory composite z-scores, systolic and diastolic BP,
      adverse effects, and quality of life. Implementation outcomes, including acceptability,
      adaptation, adoption, feasibility, fidelity, penetrance, and cost-effectiveness, will also be
      collected and used to improve intervention delivery during the trial. The proposed trial,
      with a sample size of 46 clinics (20 patients/clinic), has 85% statistical power to detect a
      0.30 or higher difference in the global cognitive composite z-score at a 2-sided significance
      level of 0.05 assuming 20% loss to follow-up and an intra-cluster correlation of 0.05. In a
      meta-analysis of 5 clinical trials, the pooled effect size was 0.35 (95% CI 0.32, 0.38) for
      the global cognitive composite z-score. This study will generate urgently needed data on
      effective, adoptable, and equitable intervention strategies to reduce blood pressure-related
      cognitive decline in low-income and minority populations. If proven effective, the
      implementation strategy for intensive blood pressure reduction could be adapted and scaled up
      in diverse primary care settings to prevent cognitive decline and clinical dementia.
    
  