
    
      According to the clinical classification of the World Health Organization, COVID-19; It
      manifests itself in a wide spectrum, ranging from mild illness, Pneumonia, Severe pneumonia,
      Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), to Sepsis and septic shock, resulting in death.
      In the presence of acute respiratory failure, a decrease in lung compliance leads to
      increased respiratory work, impaired blood oxygenation, and rapid and superficial breathing
      patterns. In this case, minimizing inspiratory effort and maximizing the mechanical
      efficiency of breathing is the most important approach of treatment. In these clinical
      conditions, the strength of the respiratory muscles may also be reduced.

      The challenge of COVID-19 requires a multidisciplinary approach. Rehabilitative intervention
      should be a part of the treatment pathway from the early stages of the disease. There is an
      urgent need to build information based on the most effective non-pharmacological measures to
      ensure the earliest discharge and best recovery after complex COVID-19 infection. Multimodal
      rehabilitation at all stages of the disease should be part of a holistic medical approach,
      but there is still no consensus on the timing and type of intervention.

      According to the clinical classification of COVID-19 disease, especially according to the WHO
      clinical classification, 2.-4. The respiratory system is significantly affected during the
      stages. In addition, after the active phase of the disease, it is not clear how much damage
      or sequelae will remain in patients, as there is not enough information about the long-term
      consequences. In the appropriate patient, pulmonary rehabilitation interventions at the
      appropriate time will definitely be required.

      The aims of pulmonary rehabilitation in general are:

      • To keep the respiratory tract open; To reduce respiratory tract resistance and improve
      ventilation by preventing secretion accumulation with positioning, mobilization, effective
      cough and other secretion drainage methods, The diaphragm and other respiratory muscles in a
      more normal position and function.

      to ensure that With a breathing pattern that improves the respiratory task and reduces air
      entrapment reducing the respiratory rate,

        -  To reduce respiratory work / burden and energy consumption during breathing with
           appropriate training,

        -  To prevent or increase chest mobility with exercises suitable for the individual, to
           detect postural deformities in the musculoskeletal system due to lung disorders, to
           prevent and / or correct deformity development with appropriate exercise prescription,

        -  To reduce dyspnea and to relax,

        -  To improve endurance and general exercise tolerance,

        -  Suppressing anxiety, depression and anxiety,

        -  To improve the loss of function and quality of life.

      Pulmonary rehabilitation consists of the following items in scope:

      Exercise training; respiratory and physical exercise training and breathing strategies

        -  Work and occupation therapy

        -  Patient education and smoking cessation

        -  Nutritional assessment and support

        -  Psychosocial support

        -  Long-term oxygen therapy

        -  Use of non-invasive and invasive mechanical ventilation

      Exercise training in pulmonary rehabilitation; It is the most important and obligatory one
      among the PR elements, it can be thought that it will be the most effective in meeting the PR
      objectives.
    
  