
    
      This Phase I/Pilot study will assess the safety and feasibility of the GI-4000 series vaccine
      with or without adoptive T cell transfer in subjects with locally advanced pancreatic cancer
      undergoing chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and surgical resection. Subjects will be randomized to
      either ARM A (GI-4000vaccine) or ARM B (GI-4000 vaccine and activated T cell transfer). All
      subjects will undergo apheresis of mononuclear cells immediately before receiving four cycles
      of gemcitabine/oxaliplatin (GemOx) chemotherapy ("immune preservation phase"). After the
      completion of chemotherapy, the apheresis product will be reinfused, and the subjects will
      enter the "priming phase," in which two biweekly doses (dose #1 and #2) of the appropriate
      GI-4000 vaccine (the one that best matches the mutations found in the patient's tumor) and a
      single dose of the Prevnar pneumococcal conjugate vaccine will be administered. At this time,
      those subjects who have not developed distant metastatic disease by CT/MRI will undergo
      chemoradiation, with ARM B subjects receiving a second apheresis immediately prior to the
      initiation of the chemoradiation. The pheresed product will be activated and expanded ex vivo
      and reinfused after chemoradiation is completed. All subjects will receive two more biweekly
      boosts of the GI-4000 vaccine (doses #3 and #4) while undergoing restaging with CT/MRI
      ("boosting phase"). Those who have not developed metastatic disease will undergo surgical
      evaluation for tumor resection. Patients who undergo R0 or R1 resection will receive up to
      three more weekly doses of GI-4000 prior to the initiation of adjuvant gemcitabine, monthly
      doses of GI-4000 during the four cycles of gemcitabine chemotherapy, and monthly GI-4000
      doses thereafter. At the end of gemcitabine chemotherapy, apheresis will be performed for
      endpoint correlative studies. Those who are not candidates for surgery or whose tumors are
      not completely resected will continue to receive GI-4000 monthly booster vaccination.
    
  