
    
      Functional ischemic mitral regurgitation (MR) has been reported to occur in up to 40% of
      patients after myocardial infarction, and the prevalence of functional MR is likely to
      increase with an aging population and improved survival rates for myocardial infarction. The
      presence of functional MR is associated with an increased incidence of heart failure and
      death, and patients with significant functional MR incur about a two-fold increase in the
      risk of mortality and about a four-fold increase in the risk of heart failure. Functional MR
      is caused by adverse left ventricular remodeling after myocardial injury with enlargement of
      the left ventricle (LV), apical and lateral displacement of papillary muscles, leaflet
      tethering and reduced closing forces. The leaflets are normal in secondary functional MR and
      the treatment is considerably different between functional and primary MR. Surgery is the
      only definitive therapy for primary severe MR and primary MR can usually be cured by surgical
      valve repair. However, surgical indications are unclear in severe functional MR, because
      outcomes after surgery for functional MR remain suboptimum. Operative mortality, long-term
      mortality and heart failure rates are still high in patients with severe functional MR
      despite surgical improvements. According to the current guidelines, mitral valve surgery may
      be considered only for severely symptomatic patients with severe secondary functional MR who
      have persistent symptoms despite optimal medical therapy for heart failure.

      Because secondary functional MR usually develops as a result of LV dysfunction, diuretics,
      beta blockers, angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors or angiotensin receptor
      blockers (ARB), and aldosterone antagonists are given to patients with functional MR in line
      with the guidelines in the management of heart failure. However, functional MR appears to
      remain common despite use of these drugs and current medical treatment is usually
      insufficient for reducing MR or reversing the adverse LV remodeling. Persistence of
      functional MR due to the insufficient effectiveness of current medical treatment
      significantly increases morbidity and mortality, and compared with surgical or percutaneous
      revascularization, significantly higher mortality was observed in patients managed with
      medical therapy.

      Quantitative assessment of MR is strongly recommended in the guidelines and the regurgitant
      volume and the effective regurgitant orifice area (EROA) of MR can be measured accurately and
      reproducibly by Doppler echocardiography. The EROA of MR has an important prognostic value in
      primary and secondary functional MR. Because functional MR carries an adverse prognosis with
      a graded relationship between MR severity and reduced survival, therapies that induce
      beneficial reverse remodeling of the LV and reduce MR, may improve survival. ACE inhibitors
      and ARBs could partially attenuate LV dilatation and remodeling after myocardial injury, but
      there are no published data from prospective trials regarding whether attenuation of
      remodeling by ACE inhibitors or ARBs reduces functional MR.

      LCZ696 is a dual-acting inhibitor of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) and
      neutral endopeptidase (NEP). As LCZ696 offers the therapeutic advantages of concomitantly
      blocking both RAAS and NEP, LCZ696 was more effective in reducing the risk of death from
      cardiovascular causes or hospitalization for heart failure in patients with chronic heart
      failure than ACE inhibitor. Because NEP is involved in the metabolism of a number of
      vasoactive peptides such as natriuretic peptides, NEP inhibitor has vasodilating effects,
      facilitates sodium excretion and has profound effects on LV remodeling. Trials of
      hypertension and heart failure with a preserved ejection fraction also showed that LCZ696 had
      greater hemodynamic and neurohormonal effects than ARB alone. To date, there has been no
      proven pharmacological therapy to improve functional MR, and the development of medical
      therapy should be at the forefront of research considering the limited role of surgery in
      managing functional MR. Investigators hypothesize that LCZ696 is superior to ARB alone in
      improving functional MR in patients with LV dysfunction and functional MR via synergistic
      effects of NEP and RAAS inhibition on LV remodeling, and try to examine this hypothesis in a
      multicenter, double-blind, randomized comparison study using echocardiography.
    
  