
    
      This is a Phase III, double-blind, randomized placebo-controlled trial comparing efficacy of
      BCG vaccination to that of placebo in reducing severity of Covid-19. Participants will need
      to meet eligibility criteria in order to be included in the study. Those selected, will be
      asked to provide a blood or saliva sample for Covid-19 serological test and an Interferon
      gamma release assay (IGRA) test for tuberculosis infection, only if IGRA or tuberculin skin
      test (TST) result is not available from the previous year. Participants will be randomized in
      a 1:1 allocation to receive intradermal administration of BCG vaccination or placebo at
      baseline. During follow-up, the study team will extract participants information from nursing
      home records regarding Covid-19-like symptoms, diagnosis, outcomes, as well as any adverse
      side effects of BCG vaccination. At 6 and 12 months of follow up, an additional blood or
      saliva sample will be collected to perform a Covid-19 serological test.

      The investigators will screen 2,500 individuals to enroll 2,100 participants, resulting in
      1,050 receiving BCG vaccine and 1,050 receiving placebo. The proposed enrollment sample size
      is designed to provide 80% power to detect 60% vaccine efficacy (a relative risk of 0.4 among
      the vaccinated) with 0.05 type-1 error in a two-tailed test, assuming a Covid-19 attack rate
      of 10% in elderly NH and 38.5% severe Covid-19 among the infected patients, and a design
      effect = 1.2, and 15% lost during the 6-month follow-up. The number of individuals screened
      assumes about 20% will not be eligible/agree to be enrolled.

      Note that the 60% vaccine efficacy was based on the observed three-fold decline in
      respiratory infections in the adolescent cohort.

      Objective: To assess the efficacy of BCG vaccination compared to placebo in reducing severe
      Covid-19 disease among elderly residents of skilled nursing facilities.

      Primary Endpoint 1: Cases of Covid-19 disease classified as severe. Severe COVID-19 disease
      will be defined as: COVID-19 disease with hospitalization, death, or non-hospitalized severe
      disease where non-hospitalized severe disease is defined as a change in status including
      administration of new supplemental oxygen or decline in oxygen saturation of 10%; change from
      ambulant to non-ambulant status of 3+ days; new change in mental status as documented in the
      electronic health record

      The investigators will use the Cox proportional-hazards model to calculate hazard ratios for
      the development of severe Covid-19 between the BCG and placebo arms.

      If BCG vaccine is shown to be effective in this age group, it will be of major benefit to
      both study participants and other elderly individuals at risk for infection and disease from
      Covid-19. With no other vaccine alternative currently available, an efficacy of even 50%
      could reduce the death rate among infected patients accordingly. BCG has been reported to
      have a variety of other possible benefits including reduction in the risk of TB disease,
      Alzheimer's Disease and reduction in other respiratory infection. Because these benefits have
      not been proven in clinical trials, they will not be presented to potential participants.
    
  