
    
      Management of voiding dysfunction has been revolutionized by the practice of clean
      intermittent self-catheterization (CISC) described by Lapides. It is nowadays the gold
      standard for the treatment of urinary retention in neurogenic bladders. But increasingly,
      CISC is prescribed to patients with non-neurogenic lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS).
      Several studies have demonstrated an improvement in quality of life in patients under CISC.
      There are several indications for CISC in older adults, either in neurological condition
      (myelopathy following neck osteoarthritis, lumbar spinal stenosis, multiple sclerosis (MS),
      etc…) or not (bladder outlet obstruction, underactive detrusor, etc…).

      The arrival of hydrophilic catheters has revolutionized management, reducing the risk of
      traumatic and infectious complications and facilitating their use. Many catheters are now
      available, and the choice of catheter may depend on different factors: grip disorder, ease of
      use, design and packaging, discomfort or pain when testing a specific material, specific
      anatomical conditions (male Tiemann or olive tip), longer catheter length in case of
      imperfect emptying, explanations given on how to use the catheter... Thus, if the doctor and
      the nurse involved in the patient's therapeutic education in self-catheterization will guide
      the choice of the catheter according to medical criteria and the patient's physical
      capacities, the patient remains an active participant in the choice of the model. Making the
      patient an actor and decision-maker can also improve adherence to treatment.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate which are the most important criteria guiding the choice
      of the catheter for the patient.

      In this study, the investigators develop a questionnaire based on expert meetings and
      literature review of the criteria that guide the choice of the catheter.

      Five areas are explored: catheter design, catheter length, comfort of using the catheter,
      nurse's explanations, easy to transport and dispose of the catheter.

      The importance of each criterion is rated by a 4-level likert scale (strongly disagree,
      somewhat disagree, somewhat agree, strongly agree) and patient have to report the most
      important criterion for the choice of the catheter.

      Number of types of catheter showed and tried are reported, and if they chose the first,
      second, are two types of catheter. The questionnaire is completed at the end of a day
      hospital to learn to perform CISC

      Data collected are:

        -  Age

        -  Sex

        -  Etiology of urinary disorders

        -  Score of the Pencil and Paper Test

        -  Functional Independence Measure score

        -  Nine Hold Peg Test over 18

        -  "Tinetti Mobility Test" score

        -  sensory hand problems assessed by Weber test

      Statistical analyses will be performed with the R software for Windows (Rx64 3.2.3, R
      Foundation for Statistical Computing, Vienna, Austria). Descriptive data will be presented as
      means with standard deviation for continuous data and as medians with range for ordinal data
      and data not normally distributed.

      Differences between the choosing criterion and the patients' characteristics will be assessed
      using analysis of variance or Chi2 tests. A p value of less than 0.05 will be considered
      statistically significant.

      This study was approved by the local ethics review board.
    
  