
    
      Patients will be eligible for this trial both from referrals as an outpatient, where VT has
      been detected on a heart rhythm monitor or ECG (electrical heart tracing), or as an inpatient
      where they have been admitted to hospital with symptoms of VT. Our study investigators will
      discuss the research with the patient and give them the relevant information in an
      understandable format as part of a Patient Information Sheet so that they can make an
      informed decision about whether or not to participate in the research.

      An MRI scan of the heart is a standard investigation for patients presenting with VT, however
      if the patient is included in the study, the MRI scan images will be anonymised and sent
      confidentially to the Institute of Computational Modelling at Johns Hopkins University in USA
      where the images will be reconstructed into a 3D representation of the patients heart, where
      the electrical pathways and source of the VT can be seen. This information will be sent back
      (again confidentially and anonymously) to St George's Hospital in time for their routine VT
      ablation procedure.

      During the VT ablation The MRI scan model will be combined with the invasively-obtained
      information and we will assess the various areas of the heart which are responsible for the
      VT, particularly relating to areas of scar within the heart, which are frequently seen in
      these patients. We will assess the electrical properties of the areas highlighted as the
      cause of the VT from the MRI scan.

      We will assess the accuracy of the computer model compared to the traditional invasive
      measurements that we take. We will first ablate those areas of the heart which the model
      predicted as being important (as long as the invasive characteristics support ablation there)
      and then see what effect this had on the electrical properties of other areas of the heart.
      However, we will not ablate any area of the heart based solely on the MRI model; it will only
      influence the order of ablation and not tell us whether to ablate or not.

      The procedure can take 4-6 hours in total. The extra information gathered as part of the
      research protocol may extend this by a maximum of 10%. No extra pieces of equipment,
      procedures or medications are involved in the research, just the time taken to generate a
      computer model of the heart as well as a extra time to assess the heart in more detail during
      the ablation.

      Following the ablation, the patients will be followed at 3, 6 and 12 months with a heart
      rhythm monitor and a clinical review as an outpatient as per routine standard of care. From
      this, we will collect data on frequency of recurrence of rhythm disturbance, therapy from
      their implantable cardioverter-defibrillators, symptoms and complications following the
      ablation procedure.

      The information gathered during the procedure will be analysed and research papers generated
      from the results.
    
  