
    
      Patients deemed to be in complete remission at month 3 (+/- 1 month) after curative treatment
      will be considered for this trial.

      At each follow up visit the patients will state all the changes and new symptoms they
      experienced and they will receive both physical and fiberoptic endoscopic head and neck
      examination. Locoregional imaging should preferentially be performed within 6 months after
      treatment end and then will be recommended only on the occurrence of new signs or symptoms.
      Late adverse events of the treatment will be evaluated at each visit according to Common
      Toxicity Criteria of Adverse Events (CTCAE version 4.0). Quality of life questionnaire (EORTC
      QLQ HN35) and VSAQ questionnaire will be administered to patients every other visit.
      Laboratory tests including a complete blood count, renal, hepatic and thyroid function will
      be performed once a year. The analysis of blood biomarkers of compliance and efficacy will be
      conducted at baseline, 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after randomization.

      The proposed study foresees two arms of intervention: the experimental arm based on dietary
      intervention in addition to standard recommendations and a control arm which includes only
      standard recommendations.

      The intervention strategy will focus on reducing inflammation and reducing glycaemia and
      insulinaemia while promoting nutrient-rich diet.

      Patients will be taught how to prepare traditional Mediterranean meals (healthy, satiating,
      palatable and easy to prepare).

      Patients in the control arm will not receive specific suggestions concerning diet, but
      standard healthy lifestyle recommendations will be given. The recommendations, including
      nutritional consultation if needed by standard practice of care, will be reinforced at each
      clinical visit and through a leaflet according to primary cancer prevention nutritional
      guidelines. Patients in the control group are encouraged to follow the WCRF/AICR
      recommendations but they will not receive any of the recipes or educational materials given
      to the intervention group.
    
  