
    
      Preclinical studies indicate that soy-containing diets suppress the development of pain
      behaviors and hyperalgesia seen following nerve injury and recent data indicate a similar
      protective effect of a diet high in soy protein in inflammatory and bone cancer pain models.
      These studies further indicate that soy exposure is only protective when administered in the
      period immediately preceding injury. Very few studies have directly studied the effects of
      soy-containing diets on pain sensitivity in humans, but one recent randomized clinical trial
      suggests that dietary soy supplementation may reduce pain due to osteoarthritis. The proposed
      study will examine whether a soy protein supplement reduces the pain commonly experienced
      following thoracotomy for lung surgery. This is a useful clinical model for studying the
      effects of soy protein supplementation on pain because the pain associated with surgery is
      quite severe and is one of the greatest concerns patients have about undergoing surgery. The
      growing recognition that greater acute pain leads to persistent pain following tissue healing
      underscores the importance of identifying viable strategies, including both
      non-pharmacological as well as pharmacological, for reducing the acute pain associated with
      surgery. Using a 2 group (soy protein supplementation vs. matched milk placebo
      supplementation) design, patients undergoing elective major open thoracotomy for
      segmentectomy, lobectomy, or bilobectomy will be randomly assigned to one of these two
      treatment groups. Patients will begin taking the soy/placebo supplement 2-3 days prior to
      thoracotomy and continue daily consumption of the supplement for an additional period
      following surgery. The feasibility/pilot study will examine the effects of soy
      supplementation on outcome measures during three post-operative time periods: 1) the
      immediate post-operative period; 2) during 2-12 weeks following surgery; and 3) during 14-24
      weeks following surgery. Pain is the primary outcome domain of interest in this pilot study
      and measures will include pain severity ratings and pain medication use. Function and quality
      of life are the secondary outcome domains of interest and measures will include pain-related
      interference with daily activities, sleep, and health-related quality of life. Outcome
      measures will be collected bi-weekly throughout the study. The study aims to determine the
      feasibility and acceptability of soy supplementation in the period surrounding thoracotomy,
      determine level of adherence to soy supplementation over the 6-month period of follow-up, and
      estimate the effect size of soy supplementation relative to placebo in reducing significant
      pain following thoracotomy. The proposed study will provide the necessary groundwork to move
      towards such a larger randomized trial to evaluate the pain-reducing effects of soy protein
      supplementation following thoracotomy.
    
  