
    
      A tongue-tie may cause problems for child and mother. There are no previous studies from
      Norway that have assessed the magnitude and severity of tongue-tie in infants. The prevalence
      of tongue-tie in Norway and to what degree it influences mother and child health is unknown.
      It is of great importance to address a problem with possible negative effect on breastfeeding
      and maternal and child health. Current clinical practice varies due to incomplete knowledge
      of the condition. An unknown proportion of infants with tongue-tie may not be diagnosed or
      receive treatment. Current international research recommends treatment of tongue-tie if it
      causes breastfeeding problems. This project will add significant knowledge about tongue-tie
      in Norway.

      The project supports:

        -  Filling knowledge gaps by researching the prevalence and severity of the condition.

        -  Obtaining new knowledge for the health services by establishing assessment of tongue-tie
           prevalence in Norway. This can be used for planning of the healthcare services.

        -  Improving existing practice by describing the condition and implementing best practice
           diagnosis and treatment.

        -  Creating societal benefits by improving infant nutrition and maternal health.

      During the year of the study, the pediatricians at each hospital will assess the prevalence
      of tongue-tie in all newborn infants in their hospital. The examination will be part of the
      standard newborn examination which usually takes place during the 2nd day of life. A simple
      and short registration form will be filled out electronically, noting the type of tongue-tie
      and symptoms for each infant with the diagnosis. In addition, the diagnosis Ankyloglossia
      Q38.1 will be registered in the electronic journal system. The examination of the infant's
      mouth is completely safe and is already performed to asses if there is a cleft palate. The
      pediatrician will examine the area under the tongue in addition to the palate. All newborn
      infants will be examined to obtain a trustworthy prevalence. If a frenotomy is required and
      performed, this will be registered in the registration form and the procedure code for
      frenotomy EJC 20 will be registered in the electronic journal system. The breastfeeding
      self-efficacy tool (BSES-SF) is used for patient reported outcome measures.as well as WHO's
      breastfeeding indicators

      To map the severity determining any possible consequences a tongue-tie may have for
      breastfeeding and infant nutrition the investigators will follow-up a cohort of tongue-tied
      infants to register if the feeding, growth, thriving and speech of the infant/child is
      affected by a tongue-tie.
    
  