
    
      The goal of this research is to conduct a Phase I clinical study to assess the toxicity,
      safety and feasibility of a novel cancer treatment, Continuous Low Irradiance Photodynamic
      Therapy (CLIPT). This research will provide translation of recent promising preclinical work
      to human subjects with recurrent breast cancer.

      BACKGROUND: Patients who develop post-mastectomy chest wall skin recurrence and fail
      conventional radiation therapy have few therapeutic options that can result in durable
      control. High-irradiance photodynamic therapy (PDT) has shown efficacy in patients with
      chest-wall progression of breast cancer that have failed radiation, surgery, and
      chemotherapy. However its clinical application has been severely limited as currently
      employed methods of PDT result in virtually 100% of patients develop skin necrosis, large
      areas of full-thickness ulceration, slow healing and chronic wound pain. In the rat and
      rabbit-brain tumor models, reducing the laser irradiance and increasing the exposure time to
      achieve a similar total fluence (fluence = irradiance x time) to standard PDT, avoids tissue
      necrosis while inducing apoptosis in the tumor but not normal tissue.

      HYPOTHESIS: Low dose-rate (low irradiance) PDT may reduce or eliminate skin toxicity and
      enables treatment of skin/subcutaneous chest wall metastases in skin previously subjected to
      ionizing radiation.

      SPECIFIC AIMS:

      1) determine the fluence of CLIPT resulting in toxicity (maximum tolerated dose), defined as
      ulceration or necrosis of previously irradiated skin (non-tumor bearing skin within the prior
      ionizing radiation field) or normal skin, 2) evaluate the feasibility, ergonomics and safety
      of performing CLIPT via a proprietary electronically targetable fiber-optic "patch" placed
      directly on tumor-bearing, surrounding uninvolved previously irradiated skin and normal
      integument 3) study the tumor-bearing integument for clinical response to therapy by
      measuring complete, partial and no response to CLIPT.

      STUDY DESIGN: We will perform a standard dose (laser fluence) escalation trial (holding drug
      level constant) in human subjects with post-mastectomy skin recurrences that have failed
      ionizing radiation therapy and assess toxicity in previously irradiated and normal
      integument.

      POTENTIAL OUTCOMES & BENEFITS: Therapeutic options for post-mastectomy cutaneous recurrences
      failing conventional radiotherapy are limited. If the pre-clinical results are replicated in
      human subjects, Phase II studies to evaluate CLIPT would be warranted. The long-term goal is
      to develop an unobtrusive, large-area CLIPT system in the form of a fiber-optically woven
      "garment" that can be worn by the patient outside the hospital setting for repeated and
      extended periods without causing skin breakdown or pain.
    
  