
    
      This is a prospective cohort study aiming to describe the incidence and outcome of sepsis in
      critical patients undergoing craniotomy. This study has been approved by the institutional
      review board of Beijing Tiantan hospital, and the need for informed consent was waived.

      All patients over 18 years of age in intensive care will be screened for sepsis at admission
      or during their ICU stay, whereas those who stay in the ICU for <24 hrs for routine
      postoperative surveillance will be excluded. Patients readmitted into ICU and have been
      included at their first admission will not be included for a second time. Each center has one
      or more investigators who are residents of intensive care medicine and responsible for
      screening, patient records, and follow-up. They all have received at least one year of
      clinical training in critical care medicine and had previous research experience.

      Sepsis and septic shock are diagnosed according to the sepsis 3.0 criteria. Acute organ
      dysfunction is defined as a Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score of 2 for the
      organ in question. The causal relationship between sepsis and organ dysfunction is confirmed
      based on medical recording and communication between the investigators and related ICU
      physicians. Infection is defined by the attending physicians as the presence of
      polymorphonuclear cells in a normally sterile body fluid(except blood),positive culture or
      Gram stain of a normally sterile body fluid or tissue, unquestionable clinical signs of
      infection, such as fecal peritonitis, necrotizing fasciitis, wound with purulent discharge,
      et al, or clinical suspected infection with corresponding antibiotic treatment. ICU-acquired
      infection is defined as infection identified 48 hours after ICU admission. Antibiotic
      consociation application is defined as the daily administration of more than one kind of the
      following antibiotics: penicillins, cephalosporins, carbapenem, macrolides, glycopeptides,
      aminoglycosides, quinolones, sulfonamides, and other antibiotics.

      For patients developing sepsis at ICU admission or during their ICU stay, the following data
      will be collected using preprinted case report forms: age, sex, primary diagnosis, chronic
      comorbidities, clinical and laboratory data for admission Acute Physiology and Chronic Health
      Evaluation (APACHE) II and SOFA score, clinical and laboratory data for maximum SOFA score,
      microbiological and clinical infectious information, occurrence of ICU-acquired infection,
      antibiotics administered, hospital length of stay (LOS), ICU LOS, hospital costs, and
      outcome. For patients who have not developed severe sepsis at ICU admission or during the ICU
      stay, only age, sex, primary diagnosis, chronic comorbidities, ICU LOS, and outcome will be
      recorded. If a patient has more than one episode that meet the criteria, only the data from
      the first episode will be included in the study.

      All recorded data will be screened in details by medical personnel for any missing
      information, logical errors, or insufficient details.

      Continuous variables were expressed as mean (SD) and analyzed by unpaired Student's t test.
      Nonparametric variables were expressed as median and 25-75% percentiles and analyzed by the
      Mann-Whitney test. Categorical variables were expressed as absolute (n) and relative (%)
      frequency and were analyzed by chi-square test, as appropriate. p < 0.05 was considered
      statistically significant for all comparisons. SPSS version 19.0 for windows software was
      used for the statistical analysis.
    
  