
    
      Severe acute respiratory syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is a new form of coronaviruses
      that emerged in 2019 and causes Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19). SARS-CoV-2 is highly
      contagious. The World Health Organization (WHO) suggests individual protection measures such
      as establishing necessary hygienic conditions, ensuring social isolation and keeping immune
      system strong against the complications that may develop due to Coronavirus. Both influenza
      and coronaviruses cause respiratory infections, which can lead to morbidity and mortality,
      especially in those who are immunocompromised or not immune to viruses (Zhu). Physical
      exercise has many effects on the human body, including the immune system. Moderate exercise
      appears to have a beneficial effect on immune function, which can protect against upper
      respiratory infections. Human being is a social entity by nature and social isolation can
      negatively affect individuals' psychology. There are many studies examining the effect of
      physical activity on the mental state of people. Different theories which claims the
      psychological improvements resulting from the increased levels of physical activity have also
      been proposed in the literature.Human being is a social entity by nature and social isolation
      can negatively affect individuals' psychology. There are many studies examining the effect of
      physical activity on the mental state of people. Different theories which claims the
      psychological improvements resulting from the increased levels of physical activity have also
      been proposed in the literature.Regular aerobic exercise and walking can not only improve the
      emotional state of the individuals, but may also affect the mental health by avoiding the
      negative thoughts and adapting to stress. The aim of this study is to increase the physical
      activity level, psychological condition and physical well-being with video-based exercises.
    
  