
    
      The Safety-Net project, is intended to disrupt disparities in mental health treatment access
      for children at-risk for childhood trauma (ACEs) and/or serious emotional disturbance (SED).
      "Safety Net" will use mobile clinical and family support teams to improve mental health
      outcomes. This clinical innovation, nested in an integrated system-of-care will be piloted
      for children, ages 3-18 yrs., with SED who receive primary care through Cambridge Health CHA.
      Massachusetts had the highest rate of child abuse and neglect in the US during 2016 (DHHS,
      2017). Approximately, 25% of these children live below the federal poverty level (American
      Community Survey, 2011-2013). The "gateway" cities this study targets in Metro-Boston (Malden
      and Everett) have 2-3 times the rate of foreign-born residents (43% vs. 15%) compared to the
      rest of the MA, and twice the statewide rate of children whose parental language is not
      English (54% vs. 22.3%). Together, SED and ACEs put children at much higher risk for adverse
      health and mental health outcomes in childhood and beyond.

      CHA's Children's Health Initiative (CHI) leadership will combine evidence-based interventions
      from its earlier MHSPY program (family support, care management and shared goals) with new
      strategies, such as interdisciplinary child mental health evaluation teams, all within
      primary care. Clinical expertise will be combined with peer-to-peer parent/guardian support
      for trauma-informed care delivery to both parent and child. All aspects of the care continuum
      will be provided in a culturally and linguistically competent manner, with child and
      family-driven care planning. Overall, the program will be sited in two cities, supported by a
      larger, specialized system of care involving state and local child serving agencies, schools
      and community-resources. The study team anticipates serving 248 children and families in
      total, at approximately 70 children per year. Program goals include: 1) Promote earlier
      recognition of child mental health needs; 2) Family-driven assessment approach to offset
      disparities in treatment engagement and outcomes; 3) Facilitate state, local and care
      planning team coordination and collaboration using SOC principles. Objectives: 1) Assess
      presence of SED (Serious Emotional Disturbance) via Standardized measures of Clinical
      Functioning (CGAS and CAFAS) 2) Screen for adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) by use of
      modified ACE-Q tool, 3) Increase access to child mental health evaluation and treatment using
      Pre-post measures of patterns of service use for study participants and Assessment of
      patterns of care for propensity-score weighted comparison group, 4) Improve family care
      experience, as measured by Baseline and follow-up Family Professional Partnership Scale
      assessments, 5) Improve clinical functioning, as measured by Baseline and follow-up CGAS and
      CAFAS assessments. Safety-Net's goals align with CHA's goals within its Accountable Care
      Organization contract with MassHealth, thus offering a chance to measure and evaluate
      outcomes for a customized system-of-care for some of the state's most
    
  