
    
      The primary purpose of this study is to determine if single fraction GK radiosurgical
      treatment to the resection bed can achieve equivalent local control and survival for patients
      with GBM after GTR, Gliadel® implant and temozolomide therapy compared to patients receiving
      standard postoperative RT with temozolomide, but offer improved quality of life and preserve
      cognitive function.

      In Phase I, it is proposed that 20 patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme
      (GBM) undergo gross total resection (GTR) with Gliadel® (carmustine) wafer implantation to
      the resection cavity at that time will be eligible for study. These patients will then
      receive Gamma Knife® (GK) radiosurgery to the resection cavity margin within 4 weeks
      following surgical resection and within 24 hours of starting temozolomide (Temodar®)
      induction therapy. Temozolomide (Temodar®) maintenance therapy would be administered for 12
      months.

      In Phase II, it is proposed that 60 patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme
      (GBM) undergo gross total resection (GTR) with Gliadel® (carmustine) wafer implantation to
      the resection cavity at the time of initial resection will be eligible for study. These
      patients will then be randomized to either standard fractionated conformal radiation therapy
      (RT) or Gamma Knife® (GK) radiosurgery to the resection cavity margin. Fractionated RT would
      be administered with concurrent temozolomide Gamma knife® radiosurgery to the resection
      cavity margin will be administered within 24 hours of starting temozolomide induction
      therapy. Both the GK and RT will be administered within 4 weeks following surgical resection.
      Temozolomide (Temodar®) maintenance therapy would be administered to all patients in both
      arms of the study for 12 months.

      It is believed that all patients will benefit from enrollment in the study regardless of the
      treatment arm to which they are randomized. All patients will be receiving focally aggressive
      surgical resection with Gliadel® implant in addition to temozolomide for prevention of both
      focal and distant recurrence.

      Patients who are randomized to receive GK radiosurgical treatment to the resection bed margin
      may benefit from increased local control based on a prior non-randomized study. However these
      patients will be treated in a non-standard fashion and may be subjected to a higher incidence
      of focal radiation necrosis or a higher incidence of failure beyond the resection margin
      compared to standard patients.

      The GK treated patients however, will be spared the standard 6 weeks of RT postoperatively.
      It is hypothesized that those receiving GK will therefore have an improved quality of life
      with respect to having less fatigue, lack of hair loss and a decreased incidence of delayed
      cognitive decline associated with standard RT.
    
  