
    
      Multiple randomized clinical trials and pooled analyses have shown improved clinical outcomes
      of primary PCI when compared with fibrinolytic therapy. Primary PCI for STEMI results in
      greater patency of the infarct-related artery (IRA) and lower rates of death, re-infarction,
      and stroke when compared with fibrinolysis. The use of coronary stents has reduced the need
      for repeat revascularization in patients treated with primary PCI. However, in the setting of
      STEMI this reduction in target lesion revascularization (TLR) did not reduce re-infarction
      rates or both short term and long-term mortality rates. This was confirmed by a large
      meta-analysis by De Luca et al, using 13 randomized trials and involving 6922 patients. In
      studies evaluating DES versus BMS in STEMI mortality rates are similar in patients treated
      with BMS or DES. Although TLR rates are reduced with the use of DES, there have been concerns
      about long-term delay of arterial healing produced by both the Cypher DES and Taxus DES and
      the associated risk of late stent thrombosis. Anti-proliferative drugs in DES used to prevent
      neointimal hyperplasia also prevent the formation of an epithelial surface at the inner side
      of stents causing possible stent malapposition and potentionally late stent thrombosis. A new
      approach in treatment of STEMI is now available by the development of a drug eluting balloon.
      These DEB can be used with or without additional stent placement. Potential advantages
      compared to DES are a more homogeneous drug distribution, short lasting exposure and a higher
      local drug dose. Moreover, when no additional stent is needed, it might reduce the need for
      long term aggressive anti-platelet therapy in order to prevent acute, late or very late stent
      thrombosis. In short, DEB provides the potential advantage of delivering a anti-proliferative
      drug, without the disadvantage of leaving a coronary stent, in STEMI patients treated with
      primary PCI. The use of DEB is already tested for treatment of de novo coronary lesions and
      in-stent restenosis and has been shown to be a feasible and safe.In this clinical evaluation
      the use of the CE-marked Paclitaxel-eluting balloon with provisional stenting for STEMI will
      be evaluated on top of current highest standard therapy.
    
  