
    
      Both pre- and postoperative anaemia are common in patients undergoing major orthopaedic
      surgery. The main consequence of perioperative anaemia is an increased risk of red blood cell
      (RBC) transfusions. Allogeneic RBC transfusion and anaemia are associated with higher
      postoperative mortality and morbidity. Since blood transfusions increase Hb levels only
      transiently but come at the price of higher mortality and morbidity (e.g. postoperative
      infections), the three-pillar concept of patient blood management (PBM) has been developed to
      reduce the risk of blood transfusions and improve patient outcomes. Among its three pillars,
      the treatment or prevention of preoperative anaemia is the mainstay of PBM. Also the second
      pillar, minimisation of intraoperative blood loss,15 targets at least indirectly the
      patient's haemoglobin (Hb) levels.

      The third PBM pillar, use of low Hb cut-off levels triggering transfusion, means that a
      certain degree of postoperative anaemia is taken into account. However, it remains unclear
      whether a lowered transfusion threshold allows optimal functional recovery and quality of
      life. Since patients undergoing total knee arthroplasty (TKA) are often elderly and have
      several comorbidities, prolonged exposure to low Hb levels is not a good option for this
      population. Furthermore, TKA patients should be mobilised as soon as possible after surgery
      which increases the metabolic demand.

      Although, depending on the timescale before surgery, oral iron is suggested for
      preoperatively anaemic patients with absolute iron deficiency, oral iron showed no benefit
      over placebo in anaemic patients after lower limb arthroplasty. In patients at risk of
      functional iron deficiency due to chronic inflammation of different aetiologies, intravenous
      (i.v.) iron administration has proven its superiority over oral iron. Even in iron-deficient
      patients without established anaemia, i.v. iron improved physical performance and cardiac
      functional class. Thus, postoperative anaemia treatment with i.v. iron might not only reduce
      RBC requirements but also improve performance, rehabilitation and outcomes.

      The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of postoperative i.v. ferric carboxymaltose
      (FCM) and oral ferrous glycine sulphate (FS) for early improvement of postoperative anaemia
      after total knee arthroplasty and whether iron treatment could facilitate recovery from
      surgery.
    
  