
    
      This research will advance mental healthcare task sharing in effectiveness and implementation
      testing of a stepped care model for LMICs. It uses nurses and mental health peers to treat
      depression and potential co-occurring anxiety among women in primary care. The study
      addresses Grand Challenges in Global Mental Health Goal C to foster integration of mental
      health into primary care and NIMH Strategic Aim 3 by developing new and better interventions
      that incorporate the diverse needs and circumstances of people with mental illness. It
      utilizes Curran's hybrid effectiveness implementation design. To improve implementation, it
      examines the impact of clinic implementation teams in readying the clinic and service
      providers. Additionally, it explores how RDoC neuroscience contributes to implementation
      science through enhancing the evaluation and targeting of stepped care. This study will
      enable new collaborative research activities, in tandem with network building, mentorship and
      training, and dissemination of findings, which will further build the LMIC capacity for
      implementation science research and development of evidence-based medicine by strengthening
      Tajikistan's individual and institutional research capabilities.

      Globally, young women bear a disproportionate burden of common mental disorders, and
      especially including depression and potentially co-occurring anxiety. With current care
      models, this burden cannot be lifted without finding ways to deliver mental health prevention
      and treatment services and illness self-management to women in primary care. Our previous
      research in Tajikistan has demonstrated that women are exposed to serious risks for mental
      illness, and how peers and primary care nurses have played major but largely informal roles
      in helping women with mental health problems. Therefore, the investigators developed and
      tested for feasibility a stepped care model which showed very strong treatment effects. This
      stepped care model involves three steps. Step 1 is a peer and nurse co-led 8-session group
      based upon BRIDGES. Step 2 is peer or nurse led 6-session individual meetings based upon
      Interpersonal Psychotherapy. Step 3 is primary care physician led medication treatment with
      Amitriptyline.

      This project will scale-up the intervention in multiple polyclinics, so as to examine its
      effectiveness (Aim 2) and to compare two implementation strategies (Aim 3). This presents a
      remarkable opportunity to advance both services and science of mental health in Tajikistan.

      Aim 1. To assess the effectiveness of the stepped care model with 420 women who have
      depression and potential co-occurring anxiety, recruited from 12 primary care clinics in
      Tajikistan, compared with standard of care plus provision of healthy lifestyle materials,
      with another 210 women recruited from 6 primary care clinics, including assessing mediators
      and moderators (e.g. executive control efficiency, trauma exposure).

      Aim 2. To assess whether a clinic implementation team moderates women's reduction in
      depression post-intervention, as well as clinic-level (leadership support and degree of
      implementation) and provider-level (motivation and fidelity) moderators.

      Aim 3. To establish a national mental health research network that focuses on improving the
      standard of mental health care and access to services by building mental health
      implementation research capacity.
    
  