
    
      Background and premise:

      Research shows that the continuation of physical activity wanes, and the positive health
      effects diminish, between eight-to-twelve months after the completion of community-based
      physical activity programs. A key finding of the Pro-Act 65 trial was that 24-months after
      the trial ended the beneficial effects of the Falls Management Exercise program diminished in
      the older people who reverted back to their old physical activity behaviours. Sustaining
      physical activity levels after the end of a structured physical activity program is critical
      to maintain any gains in functional status and falling risk. Furthermore, sustaining changes
      in physical activity behaviour is vital to the cost-effectiveness of physical activity
      interventions and to improve public health outcomes. Yet, little is known about what
      intervention components work best to promote the continuation of new physical activity
      behaviours once structured exercise programs have ceased. This suggests there is substantial
      opportunity to maintain the health and wellbeing of older people by implementing
      interventions that encourage the maintenance of physical activity.

      The investigators have developed a complex evidence-based intervention that aims to engage
      older adults in positive physical activity behaviours after the completion of the Falls
      Management Exercise program. The intervention developed is based on the findings of a
      systematic review [PROSPERO registration: CDR42016038137] of physical activity maintenance
      interventions delivered to people aged 65 years and older and a review of national expert
      guidance on behaviour change. The intervention will be delivered to people who are exiting a
      24-week community based Falls Management Exercise program within Leicestershire, Rutland
      Counties and Derby City and will be investigated in a feasibility trial.

      The ProAct65+ trial shows that physical activity can be maintained for 12 months after the
      cessation of a Falls Management Exercise program. Data will be collected directly after the
      completion of the maintenance intervention which is also the six month time-point after the
      completion of the FaME program. Therefore it is possible that both the control and the
      intervention group may maintain their physical activity levels after the Falls Management
      Exercise program has ceased. Although maintenance may be higher in the intervention group,
      the treatment effect of the KAPA intervention will not be assessed due to the given timeframe
      of this study. However the feasibility trial will be used to collect the crucial data needed
      to inform a subsequent randomised control trial.

      Study design:

      The feasibility of the KAPA intervention was investigated in a two-arm, cluster randomised
      (clustering at the level of Postural Stability Instructor), multisite feasibility trial
      comparing the KAPA intervention with usual care controls conducted in 8 Falls Management
      Exercise classes nested within the PHysical activity Implementation Study In
      Community-dwelling AduLts (PHiSICAL) study.

      Research Participants:

      There were two types of study participants:

        1. Community dwelling Falls Management Exercise program service users aged 65 years or
           older (referred to as KAPA participants).

        2. Postural Stability Instructors who delivered Local Authority-commissioned Falls
           Management Exercise program in Derby City, Rutland or Leicestershire Counties (referred
           to as Postural Stability Instructors).

      Intervention procedures:

      KAPA participants who completed the 24-week commissioned Falls Management Exercise program
      received six sessions of PA motivational interviewing over a six-month period. KAPA
      intervention sessions were held in accessible, community venues located within the local
      authorities of Derby City, Leicestershire and Rutland Counties. The KAPA intervention was
      delivered face-to-face by Postural Stability Instructors, in a group setting, using
      motivational interviewing. Sessions lasted between 60 to 90 minutes. Postural Stability
      Instructor's delivered KAPA intervention sessions by telephone if a participant did not, or
      was unable to, attend a face-to-face session.

      Control arm: Service providers usual care package.

      The feasibility of the KAPA intervention was assessed by:

      Objective 1: Feasibility of the research methods were assessed by estimating the recruitment
      and retention rates of the Postural Stability Instructors and the Falls Management Exercise
      program recipients to participate in the feasibility study.

      Objective 2: Feasibility of the KAPA intervention was assessed by attendance rates and
      telephone response rates to the KAPA intervention as recorded in the class registers.

      Objective 3: Assessing acceptability of the KAPA intervention by:

        -  Conducting semi-structure interviews with the participants in receipt of the
           intervention and the Postural Stability Instructors delivering the intervention, to
           assess the acceptability of the intervention features and delivery modes.

        -  To investigate the acceptability of the KAPA training day to the Postural Stability
           Instructors via a training evaluation questionnaire.

      Objective 4: Investigating intervention adherence by:

        -  Analysing the Postural Stability Instructors completion rates of the class registers.

        -  Evaluating whether the participants completed the physical activity diaries and achieved
           their physical activity goals as recorded in the monthly class registers.

        -  The KAPA participants were also asked whether they adhered with the KAPA intervention
           during semi-structured interviews.

      Objective 5: Assessing fidelity through:

        -  Observations of the initial consultations and group sessions.

        -  Postural Stability Instructors were asked whether they made any modifications to the
           KAPA intervention during a semi-structured interview.

      Objective 6: Investigating parameter estimates of moderate to vigorous physical activity, the
      usual care descriptive and a data collection tool to cost the KAPA intervention for a future
      definitive trial by:

        -  Estimating the potential effect size of moderate to vigorous physical activity and
           percentage of the KAPA participants meeting the recommended 150 minutes of moderate to
           vigorous physical activity per week between the KAPA intervention and usual care arms.

        -  Estimating the intraclass correlation coefficient for moderate to vigorous physical
           activity using the Phone-FITT questionnaire.

        -  Usual care was described by its intervention features, delivery modes and the behaviour
           change strategies included.

        -  Identifying tools and testing the feasibility of collecting the data needed to cost the
           KAPA intervention to enable a cost-effective analysis in a definitive trial.

      Objective 7: Recording adverse events and assessing them for causality to determine if they
      are related to the delivery of the KAPA intervention.
    
  