
    
      If participants interested to take part the investigators will ask some questions to check
      participants are eligible to take part. Part of this involves measuring height, weight and
      having an electrocardiogram (ECG) to assess the heart. This is non-invasive and is achieved
      by attaching stickers across participants' chest. If participants are eligible the
      investigators will invite them to join the study, asked to sign a consent form and arrange
      for them to come to 4 study days.

      Study Days The study days take place at the 3T Acheiva MRI scanner at the Sir Peter Mansfield
      Imaging Centre. This is located on the University Park campus.

      The day before each scanning day participants will be asked to eat and drink as normal,
      avoiding beans or pulses and abstain from alcohol. The investigators ask that participants
      avoid strenuous exercise, and if they smoke to continue as normal.

      On the morning of the day 1 of the study participants should come to the MRI scanner around 8
      o'clock in the morning. They should not have anything to eat or drink at all, unless they
      need a sip of water to swallow essential medicines. The investigators will confirm that it is
      still safe for participants to be scanned and participants will then change into surgical
      scrubs (provided) to begin the study.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to take either ondansetron, the anti-sickness tablet,
      for the first 2 visits or a dummy tablet (placebo) three times daily. They will be overcoated
      tablets so that neither participants nor the research team can tell which one it is.

      Participants will then have an MRI scan, during which the investigators will scan the body in
      different ways. A separate information sheet tells participants more about this.

      After these are done the investigators will give participants a meal supplement drink called
      Fortisip. Participants will have around 10 minutes to finish the drink. As soon as
      participants finish the MRI will be repeated. Participants will then have 3 further MRI
      scans, 2, 4 and 6 hours after the meal. After the last scan the investigators will give
      participants another dose of either the ondansetron or the placebo, and 20mls of a laxative
      called lactulose. The investigators will provide participants with tablets and the laxative
      for the following day at home.

      Day 2 of the study participants can have a normal day at home, however the investigators ask
      that participants refrain from strenuous exercise, avoid alcohol, beans and pulses and
      continue a usual smoking habit if applicable. Participants are asked to take the tablet
      (either ondansetron or placebo) three times a day (in the morning, midday and evening) and
      20mls of the laxative in the morning and evening. They are also asked to take 5 MRI marker
      tablets at 8pm, and take a timestamped photo or video so the investigators can ensure these
      are taken at the correct time. The marker tablets will be used to measure the speed of food
      along the gut on the scan on day 3.

      On day 3 participants are asked to return for another day of scanning at the Sir Peter
      Mansfield Imagine Centre. Again, participants should come to the MRI scanner around 8 o'clock
      in the morning. They should not have anything to eat or drink at all, unless a sip of water
      is needed to swallow essential medicines. The investigators will re-confirm that it is still
      safe for participants to be scanned and participants will then change into surgical scrubs
      (provided) to begin the study.

      Participants will receive a further dose of the ondansetron or placebo tablet, then have an
      MRI scan before drinking the same Fortisip meal supplement and the lactulose. Once
      participants have finished the drink they will have 2 further MRI scans, 2 and 4 hours after
      the meal. Participants can then leave for the day.

      The investigators ask that participants come back to repeat the above 3 day procedure once
      more, taking the alternative tablet the second time around. Study periods will normally be
      one week apart. It is very important that participants attend both study periods as the
      investigators will compare the results from one week to the other.
    
  