
    
      Information Collection for Entry into Multicenter Registry:

      If you agree to take part in this study, a study staff member will collect the following
      information by asking you at a clinic visit and checking your medical records. The following
      information will be entered in the registry:

      your demographic information (your sex, year of birth, and race/ethnicity) whether any member
      of your family has a history of ovarian and/or breast cancer whether any member of your
      family has any known genetic markers that may mean a higher risk of developing a cancer a
      brief summary of your history of breast and/or ovarian disease and whether you have any known
      genetic markers that may mean a higher risk of developing breast and/or ovarian cancer a
      brief summary of the results of the clinic visit on the day you agreed to take part in this
      study (Day 1)

      Follow-Up Information Collection:

      Each time you visit the M. D. Anderson high-risk clinic (either the high-risk breast cancer
      clinic or the high-risk ovarian cancer clinic), the study staff will check your medical
      records and enter in the registry any updates to your cancer risk information. You will also
      be asked if any family members have been diagnosed with ovarian and/or breast cancer, and
      this will be entered in the registry.

      If you miss any of your planned clinic visits, the study staff may contact you by phone to
      collect this information, contact you by mail to send you a questionnaire with this
      information, and/or reschedule your appointment. If you receive a questionnaire by mail, you
      will fill it out and mail it back to the research staff in the stamped, self-addressed
      envelope that will be provided to you. It should take about 5-10 minutes to complete.

      Study Data:

      The study staff plans to keep all personal identifying information (such as your name)
      strictly confidential. Your data will be handwritten on paper forms that will be stored in a
      locked file cabinet. The study staff will enter your data into the multicenter database
      (registry) with your participant identification (ID) number but not your name or other
      identifying information. The registry is password-protected. Only designated members of the
      study staff will have access to the participant ID numbers and be able to link the data to
      you. This is to allow medical information related to your data to be updated as needed. The
      linking information will be saved securely (on a password-protected computer) in the research
      office.

      The multicenter registry is called the Lynne Cohen registry. It is maintained at the
      University of Southern California Norris Comprehensive Cancer Center.

      Use of Registry for Planning Future Research:

      Lynne Cohen clinics make up the multicenter group of clinics that are involved in this study.
      If a researcher at any Lynne Cohen clinic is planning to perform a research study involving
      ovarian or breast cancer causes or prevention, he or she can contact the Lynne Cohen
      Foundation. A staff member at the Lynne Cohen Foundation will check to see how many patients
      are included in the registry. This will help the researcher find out how many people the
      researcher may be able to ask to join his or her study. That number of people will also help
      the researcher decide if the planned study is feasible. The number of patients in the
      registry is the only information that will be shared with these researchers.

      Length of Study Participation:

      Your participation in this study will last for as long as you agree to keep having this study
      information collected.

      When your participation in this study ends, the M. D. Anderson study staff will delete or
      destroy any personal identifying information and contact information collected. The rest of
      the study data will continue being stored in the registry.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 1000 patients will be enrolled in this multicenter study. Up to 200 will be enrolled at
      M. D. Anderson.
    
  