
    
      Materials and methods Study design This study was an organizational assessment of an
      integrated system of care (GIR) for patients with SBI and was designed as a prospective,
      randomised trial. An individual record was created for each patient with SBI; this record
      contained the patient's personal data, information prior to admission to intensive care or
      neurosurgery, clinical characteristics, the presence of devices, complications, time of
      hospitalisation in an Intensive Care Unit, and cognitive conditions. Once it had been
      determined that the study entry criteria were met, the patients were entered in the register
      and prospectively in parallel-group randomised to two different management strategies.

      The concealment of allocation was guaranteed by the availability of beds in the ward.
      Patients and health care providers and assessors were blinded to the study designed to
      compare the strategies management. Data analysts were blinded to treatment.

      Sample size The sample size requirements for this study are intended to provide adequate
      power for the analysis of the primary objective ( decrease event-related mortality). The
      simulation were run in statsoft six sigma software according to the following hypotheses: the
      mortality of severe brain injury used as a Null hypothesis was 58%. This percent value is
      expected to decrease at 40% in the study arm. The target type-I error(α) was 0.05. A sample
      size of 119 patients per group would allow a power of 80% to detect an individual risk score
      ratio of 0.70 with a type -I error of 0.05.

      Based on the availability of beds in the ward, two groups were formed:

      (i) the UC patients who, while meeting the criteria for access into the Graded Intensity of
      Rehabilitation Unit for patients with SBI (SBI-GIRU), did not enter the department because no
      beds were free and were, therefore, discharged from the Intensive Care Unit into the
      management models available, such as acute care, Intensive Brain Injury rehabilitation ( cod
      75) brain injury rehabilitation (code 56) ( hospital admission, lasting on average 60 days,
      in which intensive rehabilitation care is delivered prior to transfer to another structure),
      long-term care, home.

      (ii) The GIR patients who met the criteria for access into the SBI-GIRU and for whom a bed
      was available in the Unit, where an individualised programme of intensive rehabilitation care
      was structured.

      The primary outcome for assessing the effectiveness of the two different forms of management
      was mortality; secondary outcomes included the improvement of quality of life evaluated using
      a classification system based on the Health Utilities Index Mark 2 (8) and the number of days
      of hospitalisation.

      Patients Patients with acquired SBI referred to our unit between January 2007 and January
      2010 were considered for this study. The diagnosis of acquired SBI was made on the basis of
      the clinical history, physical examination, clinical symptoms, Glasgow Coma Scale score <8
      and neuro-radiological investigations.

      After having been entered into the register, patients in the UC group began the monitoring
      phase, while the patients in the GIR group were submitted to clinical evaluation, prognostic
      stratification, and clinical and instrumental investigations, after which an individualised
      rehabilitation plan was made, characterized by structured multidisciplinary interventions
      that were periodically reviewed. The alternative management strategies are described in
      greater detail below.

      Usual care In this case patients were managed according to the organization of the management
      model which took on the care of the patient. The organization of these models is
      characterized by one or two professional figures (physiatrists, neurologist), with
      hierarchical relationships, in spaces limited to a specific pathology; access is determined
      by clinical stability; the instruments of governance are guidelines and consensus and the
      rehabilitation programme is focused on functional and cognitive areas; the medical care
      process is governed by hierarchy. The technology in this model is limited to a specific
      specialty.

      Graded intensive rehabilitation This is a result-oriented management model; it is
      multidisciplinary and has the purpose of determining the appropriateness of hospitalization
      and the patients' needs through the use of a ranking; the management is "disease-based", and
      the instruments of governance are the diagnostic-therapeutic rehabilitation pathways (DTRP),
      the quality system and product standards; the medical care process has separate strands with
      result-oriented autonomy; the technology present in this model is identified on the basis of
      health needs and support of vital signs.

      Classifying patients In relation to their clinical conditions and complexity of care needs,
      three profiles of patients with SBI have been identified: the critically patient, the complex
      patient and the frail patient. The critically ill patient is a patient with abnormal vital
      parameters who requires constant monitoring and may need immediate therapeutic interventions.
      The complex patient is an individual with significant comorbidities who requires complicated,
      expensive and often invasive diagnostic investigations and/or numerous therapies sometimes
      conflicting with each other with a strong risk of interactions. The complexity of care
      increases in "frail patients". Frail patients have: (i) a marked susceptibility to develop
      acute illnesses that are manifested by atypical clinical pictures;(ii) rapid fluctuations of
      health, even in the same day, with a strong tendency to develop complications (failure
      cascade); (iii) a high risk of adverse events and iatrogenic events; (iv) slow and, almost
      always, only partial recovery; (v) continued requirements for medical interventions, need for
      ongoing assistance; and (vi) a high risk of mortality.

      Levels of intensity of care On the basis of the above-described evaluation, the patient is
      assigned to the most appropriate of the following settings.

      Level 1 (intensive): the patient is critical and unstable, dependent or potentially dependent
      on technological aids and at high risk of complications. Area of competence - red: monitored
      beds, single rooms, infusion pumps, telemetry, daily medical round, and intensive nursing
      activities 24 hours a day.

      Level 2 (medium): the patient is clinically unstable and requires constant monitoring of
      vital parameters. Highly complex medical activities and intensive nursing care are prevalent.
      Area of competence - yellow: rooms with two beds, infusion pumps, telemetry, daily medical
      round, intensive, structured nursing activities, physiotherapy and speech therapy.

      Level 3 (low): the patient is clinically stable and does not require constant monitoring of
      vital signs or the continuous presence of a doctor. Activities are prevalently physiotherapy
      and nursing care. Area of competence - green.

      Level 4 (minimum): the patient is clinically stable and requires only social and nursing care
      for discharge. Area of competence - white.

      The transition between different levels is determined by clinical criteria that define the
      area of competence required.

      Staff The staff of the SBI-GIRU consists of a neurologist, an internist, a physiatrist, a
      cardiologist, a speech physician, twelve nurses with specific skills, a chief nurse, a
      nutritionist, two speech therapists, three physiotherapists, a psychologist and a social
      worker. The aim of the multidisciplinary approach is to facilitate recovery from disability
      caused by SBI.

      Each member of the team has the duty to control, analyse and redesign the organization that
      supports the activities and processes set out in the individual rehabilitation plan. Three
      types of intervention - medical, nursing and physiotherapeutic - can be identified in the
      rehabilitation plan and are strongly integrated in order to achieve the rehabilitation
      objectives. The healthcare and rehabilitation processes are founded on guidelines and the
      criteria of evidence-based medicine.

      The rehabilitation process The treatment plan is discussed in collaboration with the whole
      multidisciplinary team. An individual rehabilitation plan is drawn up which outlines: (i) the
      appropriateness of access; (ii) the type of access (SBI of traumatic, anoxic one, ischaemic
      or haemorrhagic nature); (iii) the objectives of the rehabilitation process (prognostic
      stratification, therapy optimization, prevention of secondary injury, management of devices,
      management of cognitive impairment, prevention of damage by immobility, recovery of motor
      function); (iv) use of the instruments to implement the plan (multi-disciplinary meeting,
      electroencephalogram, physiotherapy briefings, diagnostic radiology, consultancy, monitoring
      systems, infusion systems); (v) time-course of the plan; (vi) result indicators in the short
      to medium term; (vii) results indicators in the long-term; (viii) the method of discharge;
      and (ix) management counselling.

      Follow-up A monitoring form was used for each patient to record the following information:
      personal data, outcome measures, employment issues, degree of socialisation, commitment of
      caregivers and the results of the Health Utilities Index Mark 2 questionnaire.

      Outcomes Three types of outcomes were considered: management outcomes, functional results and
      a hard end-point (survival).

      Management outcomes. The management outcomes considered were: access time, number of
      structures involved in the management of the patient, the healthcare path, the number of days
      spent in hospital, the type of management to which the patient was subsequently addressed.

      Functional results. These included the number of devices at discharge, the Glasgow Outcome
      Scale (GOS) score, the Barthel Index score and any change in quality of life, assessed using
      the classification system based on the Health Utilities Index Mark 2 Survival. The patient's
      death related to the event index was considered as a hard event. In the survival analysis the
      two management models were considered as predictors of mortality. These predictors were
      adjusted for confounding variables (age, sex, aetiology, GOS score, Level of Cognitive
      Functioning score and indices of organ function). The association between independent
      predictors and outcome was assessed by comparing the follow-up data with a Cox proportional
      hazards regression model. The end-point of the study was event-related mortality. The
      distribution of the time function of the events was analysed with the Kaplan-Meier method

      Cost analysis The cost/utility analysis was performed from the payer's prospective (the
      health authority). Hospital admissions for the implementation of the process and for health
      care - in particular, admissions to intensive care, acute care, rehabilitation and the social
      welfare sector - were considered. Management costs incurred at home were excluded. The prices
      used for calculations were those of the average daily cost of hospitalisation per type of
      management as listed in the Interregional Tariff Agreement [Tariffa Unica Convenzionale, TUC]
      2009 for hospital healthcare services. The QALY was determined by calculating the years of
      life gained in management models adjusted for the quality of life. The difference in QALYs
      between the two models was obtained by considering the average increase of life derived from
      the survival curves (difference between the areas of the survival curves) adjusted for the
      quality of life.

      Sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analysis was performed by calculating the cost/utility
      ratio using the extremes; in particular, changes in QALY and costs were evaluated by
      considering the extremes (confidence limits of the variations of the mean).

      Statistical analysis To compare the clinical and functional parameters between the two groups
      we used the one-way analysis of variance for continuous variables and chi-square tests for
      categorical variables. For the analysis of prognostic indicators, the two management
      strategies were considered as independent predictors of outcome. The analysis was adjusted
      for confounding factors. event-related mortality was considered as an end-point of the study.

      The association between independent predictors and outcome was assessed by comparing the
      follow-up data with a Cox proportional hazards regression model. The assumption of the
      proportionality of risk during the observation time, has been evaluated using the analysis of
      residues of Schoenfeld. Deaths from causes unrelated to the SBI were treated as censored
      observations. The distribution of the time function of the events was analysed using the
      method of Kaplan-Meier. The prognostic information is presented as relative risk with 95%
      confidence limits. Descriptive statistics are expressed as the mean value ± standard
      deviation. Probability values <0.05 are considered statistically significant.
    
  