
    
      The aging of the population and the increase in longevity are associated with societal
      issues, both in terms of costs, and the health resources needed to meet the needs of seniors.
      Moreover, it is recognized that frail elderly people (defined as at risk of developing or
      aggravating functional limitations or disabilities) are the largest users of health care
      services. In Canada, as in other industrialized countries, more than a third of
      hospitalizations annually are among people aged 65 and over, even though they account for
      only 18% of the population .

      However, hospitalizations exacerbate the deterioration of fitness, muscle weakness, loss of
      balance, and physical inactivity that typically occur during aging and are precursors to
      functional decline and frailty. One explanation for this deterioration in the health of
      elderly people during hospital stays is bed rest and general immobility. Thus, the prevention
      of immobilization syndrome in elderly people in hospitals being a priority issue for both
      national and international health networks, a project was carried out between 2014 and 2016
      within the geriatric unit (GU) of a Canadian university-affiliated geriatric hospital (IUGM).
      This project aimed to implement in a pragmatic way (adjusted to the human and material
      resources in place) a physical activity (PA) program for hospitalization according to the
      functional capacities of the hospitalized patients. This project showed that the
      implementation of this program was feasible (at least 1 session of PA / day) and acceptable
      by health professionals, patients and their caregivers.

      At the same time, it is recognized that, following hospitalization, 22 to 50% of older people
      will experience a functional decline that will decrease their ability to perform activities
      of daily living and, consequently, their quality. of life. These tangible losses lead to a
      vicious circle as they contribute to readmission for 33% of those affected and additional use
      of health services in the majority of cases. Prescription of PA is one of the recognized
      solutions to prevent or reduce these deteriorations. PA, whether practiced in the community
      or at home, improves the mobility and functional level of pre-frail and frail seniors to
      moderate effect sizes (mobility).

      The post-hospitalization prescription of an PA program, however, does not appear to be
      integrated into standard care delivery practices, unlike the management of medications or
      assistance with the performance of activities of daily living, and this, despite the
      priorities established in this regard by governments and the World Health Organization (WHO).
      On average, 35% of GU patients at discharge receive a prescription to maintain or improve the
      strength and balance (internal data of the Regroupement des Unités de courte durée
      gériatrique et des services hospitaliers de gériatrie-RUSHGQ), even if these communities have
      rehabilitation services. As part of a project (2016-2018), the research team has created an
      easy-to-implement decisional tree that can be used to prescribe appropriate programs for GU
      at discharge, while inducing beneficial effects for patients.

      However, these two innovative projects, which aim to prevent functional decline through
      hospitalization and which meet the policy of the Ministry of Health and Social Services, are
      the"Adapted Health Care Approach for Older Adults in Quebec Hospital Centres" through
      systematic, specific and specialized interventions, have not been implemented in a combined
      and complementary way. However, the implementation of a proactive and adapted approach to
      prescribing PA per and post-hospitalization, through a simple tool based on the clinical
      measures available in practice settings, represents a real organizational innovation and
      should add value to current practices. Thus, the study of the cost-benefit of implementing
      such a practice is important to validate the scope of such a tool on the use of post-hospital
      health care services compared to an isolated intervention of PA per or post-hospitalization
      or usual care. In this sense, a study showed a savings of 22,000 $ / person in health
      services costs for seniors who improved their mobility via PA in post-hospitalization. Thus,
      the investigators can sense that preventing the loss of muscle function and mobility as well
      as falls, the quality of life of patients and their caregivers. In addition, from a
      collective point of view, this should lead to savings because of the reduction in the costs
      of care related to injuries caused by a fall or fall after hospitalization that may result in
      re-hospitalization or even a death.

      Considering 1) the importance of the negative impacts of sedentarity / immobilization on
      seniors, particularly per and post-hospitalization, as well as its potential economic and
      societal impact; 2) the recognized importance of PA prescription in the prevention of the
      functional decline of seniors per and post-hospitalization and 3) the absence of
      organizational processes favoring the implementation of systematic prescribing of PA per and
      post-hospitalization, The implementation of a systematic process of prescribing adapted,
      validated and integrated physical exercises in the usual per and or post-hospitalization
      practices appears crucial to the preservation of the autonomy and quality of life of the
      elderly.

      In the present study, an interventional pragmatic study design with randomization by cluster
      was selected.

      INTERVENTIONS :

      MATCH : PA program per hospitalization PATH : PA program post hospitalization PATH 2.0 :
      Combination of the PA program Per (MATCH) and Post hospitalization (PATH).

      Control : usual care by clinical teams
    
  