
    
      Heart failure (HF) is a growing public health problem. While HF with deteriorated ejection
      fraction has faced numbers of (non) pharmacological advances, HF with preserved ejection
      fraction, which represents half of admission has today no efficient treatment.

      Fibrosis is found in heart of patients with HF and preserved ejection fraction, is reponsible
      for stiff heart and has link to the transition to compensated/decompaseted HF and death.

      The purpose of this work is to characterise myocardial fibrosis by any means to change the
      prognosis of patients with HF and preserved ejection fraction

      Main purpose:

      Assessment of cardiac fibrosis by echocardiography (Speckle tracking), IRM (late-enhancement
      imaging), biology (markers of collagen turn-over) and proteomics

        -  Patients selection

             1. - Inclusion Criteria: Male or female > 18 and < 85 years of age. Recent HF
                decompensation (framingham criteria, ejection fraction > 50% with 72 hours after
                admission and BNP > 100 ng/L or NT-proBNP > 300 ng/L), signed inform consent.

             2. - exclusion criteria: hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, restrictive cardiomyopathy,
                constrictive pericarditis, significant respiratory disease, pulmonary hypertension,
                core pulmonale, end-stage kidney disease, high cardiac output HF, isolated right
                ventricular dysfunction, pregnancy or child-bearing, biventricular pacing, No
                health insurance.

        -  Control group

             1. - inclusion criteria: Male or female > 18 and < 85 years of age. signed inform
                consent. Health insurance.

             2. - exclusion criteria: significant ischemic heart disease, significant valvular
                heart disease, pericarditis, pulmonary hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy,
                restrictive cardiomyopathy, constrictive pericarditis, significant respiratory
                disease, pulmonary hypertension, core pulmonale, end-stage kidney disease, high
                cardiac output HF, isolated right ventricular dysfunction, pregnancy or
                child-bearing, biventricular pacing, No health insurance.
    
  