
    
      The BETTER trial is designed to determine the safety and efficacy of two calcineurin
      inhibitor free treatment groups 1) a belatacept, everolimus and early corticosteroid
      withdrawal (ESWD) immunosuppressive regimen with rabbit antithymocyte globulin induction
      (rATG) and 2) a belatacept, mycophenolate, chronic steroid regimen with rATG and compare to
      historical controls of tacrolimus-based and belatacept-based regimens in combination with
      rATG induction, mycophenolate, and ESWD in renal transplant recipients.

      Study Hypotheses

        1. A belatacept-based immunosuppressive regimen with rATG induction, everolimus and ESWD in
           renal transplant recipients will lead to less risk of graft loss, patient death, or eGFR
           <45ml/min/1.73m2 at 12 and 24 months as compared to a tacrolimus-based immunosuppressive
           regimen with rATG, mycophenolate, and ESWD in renal transplant recipients (historical
           control from the BEST Trial-Group C).

        2. A belatacept-based immunosuppressive regimen with rATG induction, everolimus and ESWD in
           renal transplant recipients will lead to less risk of graft loss, patient death, or eGFR
           <45ml/min/1.73m2 at 12 and 24 months as compared to a belatacept-based immunosuppressive
           regimen with rATG and mycophenolate, and ESWD in renal transplant recipients (historical
           control from the BEST Trial-Group B).

        3. A belatacept-based immunosuppressive regimen with rATG, mycophenolate and CS in renal
           transplant recipients will lead to less risk of graft loss, patient death, or eGFR
           <45ml/min/1.73m2 at 12 and 24 months as compared to a tacrolimus-based immunosuppressive
           regimen with rATG, mycophenolate, and ESWD in renal transplant recipients (historical
           control from the BEST Trial-Group C).

        4. A belatacept-based immunosuppressive regimen with rATG induction, mycophenolate and CS
           in renal transplant recipients will lead to less risk of graft loss, patient death, or
           eGFR <45ml/min/1.73m2 at 12 and 24 months as compared to a belatacept-based
           immunosuppressive regimen with rATG, mycophenolate, and ESWD in renal transplant
           recipients (historical control from the BEST Trial-Group B).

      A controlled, randomized group study is accepted in renal transplantation to evaluate new
      immunosuppressive regimens versus the current standard of care. Although the ideal study
      would employ a blinded methodology with a simultaneous control group to minimize bias, the
      study will not be blinded and evaluates a historical control groups conducted in similar
      centers.

      To allow comparison between studies, the primary composite endpoint of death, graft loss, or
      eGFR <45ml/min/1.73m2 will be analyzed similarly. The secondary and tertiary endpoints are
      the similar as well.

      The BETTER study proposes to compare two additional treatment groups of
      rATG/belatacept/everolimus/ESWD (Group D) and rATG/belatacept/mycophenolate/CS (Group E) to
      the historical control Groups B and C.

      All immunosuppressive agents are approved by the FDA for the prophylaxis of renal transplant
      rejection, and will be dosed and administered consistent with current clinical practice.
    
  