
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and toxicity profile of intravenous nivolumab in combination with
      ipilimumab after standard chemotherapy and followed by intravenous nivolumab in combination
      with fluoropyrimidine and intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) for the treatment of
      localized gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) and/or gastric cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the efficacy of double checkpoint inhibition (nivolumab + ipilimumab) followed
      by nivolumab plus chemoradiation.

      II. To assess the overall safety and tolerability of adjuvant nivolumab in subjects with
      resected GEJ or gastric cancer.

      III. To evaluate disease free survival (DFS).

      IV. To explore changes in tumor stroma profile before and after immunotherapy and radiation
      therapy.

      V. To bank tumor and blood specimen for future correlative analysis, including, but not
      limited to, biomarker analysis.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive oxaliplatin intravenously (IV) over 2 hours and
      fluorouracil IV over 48 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 4 courses
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes and ipilimumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1.
      Treatment with nivolumab repeats every 2 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning course 4, patients also receive fluorouracil
      IV continuously for 5 days per week and undergo 25 fractions of IMRT for 5 weeks. Patients
      undergo surgical resection 5-7 weeks after completing radiation therapy.

      Within 8-12 weeks post-surgery, patients with residual disease may receive nivolumab IV over
      30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 8 courses (16 weeks) then every 4
      weeks for up to 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 and 84 days, every 12
      weeks for 2 years, then every 6-12 months for up to 3 years.
    
  