
    
      The use of non-invasive ventilation has significantly reduced morbidity and mortality in
      premature newborns by reducing the pulmonary lesions caused by invasive ventilation.
      Currently, variable flow continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) devices, such as the
      infant flow® driver, are considered more efficient than constant flow pressure sources. Nasal
      intermittent positive pressure ventilation, as compared to CPAP, might reduce the extubation
      failure rate, but has no impact on mortality or bronchopulmonary dysplasia. However, data is
      lacking on the interest of synchronization and on the effect of the different available
      interfaces (prongs, masks, cannulas). In addition, the ventilatory characteristics (high
      respiratory rate and low inspiratory effort) of the premature infant increase the risk of
      asynchrony between the patient and the ventilator, which is a major cause of poor tolerance
      for this type of ventilation.

      NAVA (neurally adjusted ventilatory assist) is a recent ventilatory mode that offers
      proportional assistance to respiratory work based on the measured electrical activity of the
      diaphragm via oesophageal electrodes. It thus allows a regulation of inspiratory pressures
      and time by the patient him/herself. The physiological effects of NAVA have been primarily
      described in intubated neonates and studies have shown a significantly improved
      synchronization and significantly decreased inspiratory pressures in patients ventilated with
      NAVA compared to intermittent controlled ventilatory support. However, the currently
      available evidence is limited and no beneficial effect on morbidity or mortality has been
      identified so far .

      There are few studies on noninvasive NAVA (NIV-NAVA) conducted exclusively in neonates, most
      of which included a limited number of patients. Only one study to date compared NIV-NAVA to
      another synchronized NIV mode (NIV pressure support) using the Servo-i ventilator. This
      prospective crossover study found a significant decrease in peak inspiratory pressure (PIP),
      FiO2, frequency and length of desaturations in the NIV-NAVA group.

      Decreased asynchrony has been observed during NIV-NAVA as compared to pressure-support NIV In
      adult patients and in 6 children hospitalized in the Pediatric ICU (median age 18 months).

      In premature neonates, variable flow CPAP is preferentially used. Synchronized intermittent
      positive pressure can be delivered using a variable flow device and a Graseby abdominal
      capsule. Since variable flow CPAP is considered the most efficient pressure generator, it is
      legitimate to compare synchronization performance of the variable flow synchronized nasal
      intermittent positive pressure ventilation (sNIPPV) to NIV-NAVA. This comparison has never
      been performed so far, to our knowledge.

      We hypothesize that synchronization will be markedly improved with NIV-NAVA as compared to
      sNIPPV.
    
  