
    
      Data will be collected at the three sites using the SomnoTouchTM and MOXTM devices,
      commercially available and CE approved. Every month, the data will be sent to the KUL and UM
      to develop the algorithm. Study centers will also send some pre-defined patient
      characteristics extracted from the patient's EMR to better contextualize the data.

      The EWS formula has a free interpretation of the vital parameters weighting and the vital
      parameters to be taken into account in the scoring system. Therefore, many variants of the
      EWS arose the past decade (i.e. MEWS, NEWS). The algorithm developed in this study should
      define an objective approach for the EWS formula, diminishing the discordances regarding the
      weight per parameter. Using a patient-personalized approach, the definite algorithm should be
      based on the patient's vital parameter measured during his/her whole hospitalization,
      generating a patient-personalized weight per parameter and an overall reliable EWS scoring
      system.

      The EWS score is often only measured twice per day per patient, creating a large window for
      disease worsening. The algorithm developed in this study could be deployed along the wearable
      device developed in the WearIT4Health project. The device would continuously feed the
      algorithm with data acquired from its sensors. Thus, the EWS would be computed every 10
      seconds.

      The EWS scoring system has already been proven to be an effective approach in reducing
      clinical deterioration, reducing the admission to intensive care units and thus overall
      reducing mortality. However, as mentioned above the EWS is measured in a rather low
      frequency. Therefore, estimation of the EWS score via continuous monitored parameters should
      further increase patient survival.

      The primary objective of the EAGLE study is to collect continuously monitored vital and
      activity parameter data and use it to develop an algorithm that can early identify clinical
      deterioration to optimize the application of the EWS system.
    
  