
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate a family counseling intervention, entitled "Tuko
      Pamoja" (Translation "We are Together" in Kiswahili), using a single case series design.

      The intervention, delivered by lay counselors and through existing community social
      structures, focuses on improving family relationships and mental health with content derived
      from evidence-based practices; these include solution-focused family therapy and cognitive
      behavioral strategies. It is components based, with modules delivered based on need. The
      content and structure has been adapted in both content and implementation model based on
      formative research in this context. Primary hypotheses include achieving improvements in
      outcomes related to:

        1. Family functioning, including elements such as communication, emotional closeness,
           structure and organization, and satisfaction for the overall family; this also includes
           indicators of functioning at dyadic levels (i.e., parent-child and couples functioning)

        2. Mental health of both children and caregivers, including positive well-being, with a
           particular emphasis on outcomes for children and adolescents.

      The investigators also hypothesize feasibility and acceptability based on a previous
      evaluation of the program and are analyzing community-sourced practices used by lay
      counselors. Investigators hypothesize that they are integrating locally-grounded strategies
      that may influence the delivery or outcomes of the intervention.

      The study will follow a single case series design with a sample size of 8 families, including
      up to 3 caregivers per family (who hold primary responsibility for the child whether
      biological or non-biological) and a target child identified through caregiver-report of the
      child about whom they are most concerned. This design will allow for tracking changes in
      outcome variables over time and for linking clinical changes to session content and delivery
      strategies.
    
  