
    
      Objective:

      To design, implement and evaluate an integrated care strategy for children under five years
      old household contacts of patients with smear positive pulmonary tuberculosis in Medellín and
      the Metropolitan Area.

      Methodology:

      Study design

      Quasi-experimental study with a one-year follow-up, which will include a cohort of children
      household contacts of patients with smear positive pulmonary TB from Medellín and the Valle
      de Aburrá Metropolitan Area, to carry out the contact tracing and treatment for latent TB in
      those who is indicated, and who will receive the intervention of the integrated care
      strategy. Compliance with the treatment achieved with this strategy will be compared with
      compliance achieved with the treatment with isoniazid in the 2015-2018 cohort.

      The integrated care strategy for contact children of patients with smear positive pulmonary
      TB will have the following components:

        -  Diagnostic tests (TST, IGRAS, standardized chest x-ray, gastric aspirate, induced
           sputum, smear microscopy, culture in solid and liquid media, Xpert Ultra MTB/RIF).

        -  Staff: Nursing assistant, General practitioner, Specialist (pediatrician, ID specialist,
           radiologist), Other disciplines (nutritionist, psychology, social worker).

        -  Supply of scheme treatment with daily rifampicin for four months.

        -  Provision of social assistance and/or incentives (transport, food assistance).

        -  Patient-centered care based on primary health care (active monitoring, permanent
           education and contact, among others).

      Operational hypothesis

      The proportion of treatment compliance for latent TB in contact children of patients with
      smear positive pulmonary TB in Medellín and the Metropolitan Area who receive the integrated
      care strategy is greater than the proportion of treatment compliance for children who
      received isoniazid in the 2015-2018 cohort.

      Study population

      Sample: the sample will be children under five years old household contacts of patients with
      smear positive confirmed pulmonary TB from Medellín and the Metropolitan Area notified to the
      surveillance system during 2020, in whom treatment for latent TB is indicated.

      Sample

      Sampling type: it will correspond to an Incidental Sampling, since the children of the study
      will be recruited as new cases (incidents) of smear positive confirmed pulmonary TB
      identified in Medellín and the Metropolitan Area.

      Sample size: all children household contacts of smear positive pulmonary TB patients from
      Medellín and the Metropolitan Area will be follow-up initially for a period of one year,
      according to previous studies it is estimated that around 250 to 300 children will be
      assessed with a proportion of estimated infection of 73.5%.

      The complete intervention of the integrated care strategy (with medication, incentives and
      active follow-up) will be provided to a subgroup of children who require treatment for latent
      tuberculosis, and who will also be selected incidentally, according to their willingness to
      participate. To calculate the sample size of this subgroup, compliance with the treatment
      with isoniazid in the 2015-2018 cohort of 59% was considered, hoping that the proposed
      strategy achieves at least 80% of compliance (expected goal), with a confidence level of 95%
      and a power of 80%, it is estimated that a group of at least 75 children will be required in
      the proposed comprehensive care strategy (sample size calculated with Epidat version 4.2), an
      additional 10% will be estimated due to loss to follow-up, so the total number of children to
      enter the integrated care strategy will be 85.

      Description of interventions

      The intervention will be the integrated care strategy, in which the effects of interventions
      established in the regulations of the TB program at the national level will be observed, such
      as the diagnosis and administration of treatment for latent TB in children household contacts
      of patients with pulmonary TB, with two main modifications, the supply of daily oral
      rifampicin for four months self-administered scheme (instead of daily oral isoniazid for nine
      months self-administered scheme), and provision of incentives such as transport and food
      assistance (monthly food supplies). In addition to this, immune response tests will be
      performed measuring interferon gamma production levels (QuantiFERON®-TB Gold Plus - QFT Plus
      test) and tuberculin skin test (TST).

      Procedures

        -  Standardization of the personnel that will participate in the study will be carried out
           both in data collection and in clinical assessment and information processing.

        -  Children recruitment: children will be recruited through contact with the tuberculosis
           control program of the Health Authorities of Medellín, and other municipalities in the
           Metropolitan Area that agreed to participate, which will immediately supply their
           information on children under five years old household contacts of pulmonary TB patients
           recruited by the program through epidemiological visits to the homes of patients with
           pulmonary tuberculosis recently diagnosed and reported to the program. The staff of the
           health authorities will request authorization from those responsible for the children to
           share the information with the study staff. Additionally, the staff of the health
           authorities will support in socializing the project to promote the participation of
           children.

        -  By telephone contact, it will start the informed consent process to participate in the
           study to the parents or guardians of children under five years old identified as
           household contacts of smear positive confirmed TB patients from the municipalities of
           Medellín and the Metropolitan Area, that meet the inclusion criteria and that do not
           have exclusion criteria.

        -  According to what was previously found, the first two information collection formats
           will be filled in by telephone with the variables corresponding to the index case
           (person with TB of whom the child under five years old is contact) and some variables
           corresponding to the child.

        -  During the same phone call, an appointment will be assigned, during which the doctor
           will carry out the basic clinical assessment with a complete physical examination, tests
           for latent TB will be performed. Trained health personnel will apply tuberculin and take
           the reading at 72 hours, previously taking a blood sample (5 ml sample of blood taken
           through a puncture in the vein) for evaluation of interferon gamma production in
           response to CFP-10, ESAT-6 and PHA antigens (QuantiFERON®-TB Gold Plus-QFT Plus test),
           as well as biomarker determination. This last test will also be performed on a urine
           sample. A radiological chest study will be performed to rule out active disease with a
           standardized reading. The first children with criteria for treatment for latent TB will
           be invited to participate in the integrated care strategy, in which they will receive
           care from the project by Nursing Assistant, General Practitioner, Specialists
           (pediatrician, ID specialist, child radiologist), Other disciplines (nutritionist,
           psychology, social worker), Treatment provision scheme with daily rifampicin for four
           months, Supply of social assistance and / or incentives (transport, food assistance),
           Patient-centered care based on primary health care (active monitoring, education and
           permanent contact, among others).

        -  Children with clinical and / or radiological criteria for active TB during the year of
           follow-up and uptake will receive studies to confirm the diagnosis of active TB, taking
           samples of induced sputum (two samples) and aspirating gastric juice (two samples) with
           smear, Xpert MTB/RIF Ultra test, and culture in solid and liquid media to the collected
           samples. Stool and urine samples will also be taken.

        -  Children who receive treatment for latent TB under the integrated care strategy will
           have a monthly clinical assessment during the period they receive the medication, to
           detect side effects, observe compliance with the treatment, identify the development of
           active disease (in those who present respiratory symptoms will be performed the same
           tests as in children with suspected initial active TB). Liver function tests will be
           performed after two months of treatment to detect liver adverse effects. Biomarkers will
           also be measured in a blood sample, as well as in urine. At the end of the treatment, a
           blood biomarker study will be performed again.

      Research site

      Children will be assessed at CIB medical office for clinical and epidemiological conditions
      and to rule out the diagnosis of tuberculosis and confirm the diagnosis of latent TB; in
      those who enter the integrated care strategy, treatment compliance and side effects will be
      assessed, with a clinical assessment at the time of intake, monthly while receiving
      medication (rifampin four months) and 12 months after the initial assessment; immune response
      (TST and IGRA) at baseline will also be evaluated; as defined in the procedures.

      Chest radiography (including standardized reading) and sampling of induced sputum and gastric
      juice aspirate will be performed at the Pablo Tobón Uribe Hospital, the samples will be
      processed at the Corporation for Biological Research (CIB). Liver function tests will be
      taken at CIB, and processed in Laboratorio Echavarría.

      Data analysis To describe the characteristics of children's exposure to TB, a univariate
      analysis will be carried out, which will include the variables corresponding to the index
      case, the child's exposure, and other epidemiological variables. Frequencies distribution and
      proportions estimation will be carried out for the qualitative variables such as sex,
      socioeconomic stratum, system of affiliation to the social security system in health, history
      of BCG vaccination, bacteriological study and other variables.

      The characteristics of the children in the 2015-2018 and 2020-2022 cohort will be compared
      using the Z test for the difference in proportions for the qualitative variables and using
      the Mann-Whitney U test for the quantitative variables according to the normality of those
      variables estimated with the Shapiro Wilk test. The characteristics of the index cases and
      the characteristics of the children household contacts will be analyzed separately.

      To examine the cellular immune response to M. tuberculosis, a univariate analysis will be
      carried out. The proportion of response to the TST will be calculated according to categories
      in <5 mm, between 5 and 10 mm and ≥10 mm, and the prevalence of positive response with cutoff
      point ≥5 mm. Proportion of interferon gamma production (QuantiFERON®-TB Gold Plus - QFT Plus)
      will be calculated according to the categories of positive and negative results.

      The total agreement between the two immunological tests will be analyzed, as well as the
      different possibilities of discordance. The kappa index will also be calculated. The
      prevalence ratio of TST ≥5 mm and / or positive QFT will be calculated, and a bivariate
      analysis will be made with the characteristics of exposure to TB in children, adjusting for
      the index case cluster using Poisson regression. Subsequently, the multivariate analysis will
      be performed adjusting for the variables that met the Hosmer-Lemeshow criterion in the
      bivariate analysis (p-value <0.25).

      A description of the characteristics of the treatment for latent TB will be made, a
      univariate analysis of the characteristics of the treatment for latent TB will be made, by
      estimating proportions, the qualitative variables related to the characteristics of the
      administration of the treatment, side effects (appearance of symptoms such as
      gastrointestinal or allergic) and treatment compliance (temporary or permanent suspension,
      cause of treatment suspension).

      The difference in treatment compliance proportions between the 2015-2018 and 2020-2022
      cohorts will be calculated, with 95% confidence.
    
  