
    
      Young adults with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) often experience poor postsecondary
      employment outcomes; significantly worse than would be expected based upon their cognitive
      abilities. Social skills deficits are a major contributor to the challenges young adults with
      ASD experience obtaining and maintaining employment. Across studies, research indicates rates
      of unemployment from 40 to 75% for the ASD population, compared to 18.5% for the general
      population of young adults in the same year. Data from a nationally representative survey of
      young adults indicated that only 53.4% of individuals with ASD had ever worked for pay since
      high school, and only 33.6% were currently employed. This reflects a rate of unemployment
      that is four times higher than individuals with intellectual disability, and six to 12 times
      higher than individuals with prior special education services under categories other than
      "Autism," even after adjusting for covariates such as adaptive skills and conversational
      ability.

      Despite this substantial gap in employment attainment for individuals with ASD, there are
      limited services available to support the transition from post-secondary education to the
      workforce. Existing services often focus on vocational training and supports, rather than
      underlying social skill deficits, and are typically designed for individuals with comorbid
      intellectual disabilities. Recently, a randomized control trial was conducted using the
      Project SEARCH intervention, which was modified for high school seniors with ASD. Results
      were promising, including higher rates of job attainment and higher wages after the
      intervention.

      It is clear that additional intervention development and rigorous research is needed to
      address the ASD employment gap, particularly for individuals who have completed high school
      and have age-typical intellectual abilities. The Program for the Education and Enrichment of
      Relational Skills (PEERS©) is one of the only evidence-based social skills interventions for
      adolescents and adults with ASD. PEERS© has been disseminated world-wide with consistent
      positive outcomes that are maintained over time, including improvements in social
      responsiveness, cooperation, and self-control, as well as increased frequency of peer
      get-togethers and a reduction in ASD-related mannerisms and preoccupations.

      While social skills interventions have helped young adults with ASD improve friendship
      skills, there is a paucity of comprehensive evidence-based treatments focused on the social
      skills young adults need to obtain and maintain employment. The success of the PEERS© program
      in improving friendship-related social skills, coupled with the significant employment
      challenges experienced by this population, was the impetus for the development of the
      comprehensive employment transition program PEERS© for Careers.

      The current study proposes to investigate the effectiveness of PEERS© adapted to target
      postsecondary students with ASD as they prepare for careers (PEERS© for Careers). Building
      upon the PEERS© evidence base, PEERS© for Careers will target the development of social
      competence and related skills as they pertain to the work setting in a 20-week didactic
      course and subsequent 10-week internship. In the first phase of the study, participants will
      be randomized to be paired with a career coach to support practicing and generalizing the
      skills learned within the didactics portion of the program or to receive the didactic
      training without a career coach. In the second phase of the study, participants who were
      randomized to receive the didactic training with a coach will continue to receive coaching
      during the following 10-week internship phase. Those who completed the didactic training
      without a coach will be re-randomized to either a career coach or no coach condition and will
      complete a 10-week internship as well.
    
  