
    
      Patients ≥ 1 year with progressive NF1 and PN(s) by serial imaging or causing significant
      morbidity and that can be analyzed by volumetric MRI are eligible for this study. Initially,
      the study will open to adult patients,18 years and older, (Stratum A). The pediatric patients
      (Statum B) will be receive the pediatric maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of binimetinib that is
      currently being established in an ongoing phase 1 study (NCT02285439). For adult subjects,
      binimetinib (established adult RP2D) is taken orally twice a day. Dosing will be continuous,
      with 28 days defined as a course and will continue for a total of 24 courses or until one of
      the Off Treatment or Off Study criteria are met. Subjects will undergo volumetric assays of
      their targeted PN using MRI after every 4 courses for the first year and then every 6
      courses. MRI review of the volumetric assays will occur centrally under the guidance of Dr.
      Dombi at NCI. Subjects may receive additional courses beyond course 8 only if there is at
      least a 15% reduction in volume of the target tumor, as measured from baseline. Treatment
      beyond course 12 will be only be given to those subjects who achieve a response of ≥ 20%
      tumor shrinkage by volumetric analysis and can continue on therapy up to an additional year
      for a maximum of 24 total courses. For those who respond to binimetinib after 12 courses, an
      MRI scan of the target lesion must be performed at 4 and 12 months after stopping drug in
      order to determine whether response is maintained post-therapy. Subjects will be carefully
      monitored for development of binimetinib associated toxicities. Subjects will be removed from
      the study for significant toxicity, treatment delay of ≥ 21 days, or objective progression of
      tumor growth by ≥ 20% by volumetric analysis at any time.

      The investigational nature and objectives of this trial, the procedures and treatment
      involved, the risks, discomforts, and benefits, and potential alternatives therapies will be
      carefully explained to the subject and/or subject's parent(s) or guardian by the site
      Principal Investigator or designated associate investigator. A signed informed consent
      document will be obtained prior to determining eligibility and entry criteria to this trial.
      Subjects entered on this trial will be treated with therapeutic intent and response to
      therapy will be closely monitored. This protocol involves greater than minimal risk but
      presents the potential for direct benefit to individual subjects.

      Schedule of study evaluations are summarized below:

      Pre-Study (Eligibility Screening):

        -  Physical assessment, vital signs and neurological exam

        -  Complete medical history including past and current medical conditions, treatments, and
           surgeries.

        -  Karnofsky/Lansky performance status to assess of your ability to perform everyday tasks

        -  Review of current medications

        -  Blood draw (about two tablespoons) for routine safety tests

        -  Serum or urine pregnancy test for females of childbearing age

        -  Eye exam

        -  Electrocardiogram (ECG) and echocardiogram (ECHO) or multigated acquisition (MUGA) scan
           of your heart

        -  MRI of neurofibroma tumors

        -  Functional evaluation: Depending on the location of your plexiform neurofibroma,
           specific functional assessments will be performed. The functional assessments may
           include a 6-Minute Walk-Test if you have a plexiform neurofibroma affecting your legs or
           airway, evaluation of muscle strength and range of motion if you have plexiform
           neurofibroma affecting your arms or legs, and/or grooved pegboard test if you have
           plexiform neurofibroma affecting your hands. The study team will review all evaluations
           that apply to you in detail

        -  Completion of health-related questionnaires on quality of life, pain assessment, bowel
           and bladder dysfunction, and PN symptom checklist (upon study entry)

        -  Photography of visible PN (optional)

      End of course 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 15, 18, 21, and 24:

        -  Medical history update and hospitalization since last study visit

        -  Physical assessment, vital signs, and neurological exam

        -  Karnofsky/Lansky performance status to assess your ability to perform everyday tasks

        -  Review of your medication diary and any side effects you may be experiencing

        -  Review of current medications

        -  Blood draw (about two tablespoons) for routine safety tests

        -  Serum or urine pregnancy test for females of childbearing age

      End of course 4, 8, 12, 18, and 24:

        -  Eye exam

        -  MRI of neurofibromas

        -  ECHO and ECG

        -  Functional evaluation: (see description above)

        -  Completion of health-related questionnaires on quality of life, pain assessment, bowel
           and bladder dysfunction, and PN symptom checklist

        -  Photography of visible PN (optional): If you agree to take part, photographs of visible
           PN will be taken. Photos will be taken before treatment and then after cycles 4, 8, 12,
           18, and 24.

      End of course 1 and 4:

      • Blood draw (about one tablespoon) for cytokine studies (optional)

      End of Treatment Visit (this is an additional visit if the visit is not within the specified
      times mentioned above):

        -  Physical assessment, vital signs and neurological exam

        -  Medical history update and hospitalization since last study visit

        -  Karnofsky/Lansky performance status to assess of your ability to perform everyday tasks

        -  Review of your medication diary and any side effects you may be experiencing

        -  Review of current medications

        -  Blood draw (about two tablespoons) for routine safety tests

        -  Serum or urine pregnancy test for females of childbearing age

        -  Eye exam

        -  Electrocardiogram (ECG) and ECHO or multigated acquisition (MUGA) scan of your heart

        -  MRI of neurofibroma tumors (for those who respond to binimetinib after 12 courses, an
           MRI at 4 and 12 months after stopping drug)

        -  Functional evaluation: (see description above)

        -  Completion of health-related questionnaires on quality of life, pain assessment, bowel
           and bladder dysfunction, and PN symptom checklist

        -  Photography of visible PN (optional)

      The sample size is 20 subjects for each adult and children cohorts with a minimum target of
      17 evaluable subjects per cohort. Evaluable is defined as: any subjects who received ≥ one
      dose of binimetinib and had a ≥ Grade 3 binimetinib associated toxicity, or in absence of a ≥
      Grade 3 toxicity, any subjects who completed one full course of therapy; subjects who have
      completed at least two courses of therapy and had their first follow-up MRI evaluation except
      for discovery of a target tumor other than a PN; and any subjects who has at least two
      samples drawn for plasma cytokines/growth factors, one at baseline and at least one other
      after starting therapy.

      Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) and a Medical Monitor have been established for this
      study for the purpose of ensuring data compliance and regular monitoring. An early stopping
      rules have been defined within the protocol. The early stopping rule will invoked for both
      Strata separately to potentially prevent accrual subjects onto the study in the event that
      binimetinib is associated with a higher than acceptable rate of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT)
      requiring removal from study (10% or higher) during the first 2 courses. Toxicity will be
      continuously monitored. If at any time >2 of the first 10 subjects or 4 or more of the first
      15 total subjects are removed for toxicity, then accrual will be stopped until the DSMB
      reviews the safety and efficacy data for the study. Based on the review, the DSMB can either
      recommend termination of the study or reopen recruitment. The Medical Monitor is a qualified
      physician who is not associated with this protocol and is a member of the DSMB. The Medical
      Monitor may perform oversight functions duties: may discuss the research protocol with the
      investigators, interview human subjects, and consult with others outside of the study about
      the research; shall have the authority to stop the research protocol in progress, remove
      individual subjects from protocol, and take whatever steps are necessary to protect the
      safety and well being of human subjects until the Institutional Review Board (IRB) can assess
      the monitor's report; and shall have the responsibility to promptly report the observation
      and findings to the IRB or other designated official/organization. The Medical Monitor is
      specifically required to review and provide written report of all unanticipated problems
      involving risk to subjects or others and serious adverse events.

      In addition, as part of the Data Safety Monitoring Plan, the Study Chairs and the NF
      Consortium Clinical Research Nurse Manager will review subject eligibility, study progress,
      safety issues, protocol deviations and adverse events. Monthly reports will be generated by
      the NF Consortium Data Management Center to assess completeness of data. Monthly phone
      conferences will take place between NF Consortium Operations Center and the Protocol Team to
      address data issues.

      The sample size for this trial is based on safety and feasibility factors. The data needed
      for safety is based on risk versus benefit, and for feasibility, we expect at least efficacy
      of 25% response rate. For safety reasons, subjects who do not achieve at least 15% reduction
      in volume of target tumor after 8 courses will be discontinued from the trial, as the
      likelihood of achieving a 20% reduction in tumor volume by 12 months is minimal. Safety
      analysis set will be described and summarized based on information regarding study treatment
      administrations, drug dosing and course compliance, and safety variables (e.g. adverse
      events/serious adverse events). All analyses for outcome results will be based on evaluable
      subjects. Given the difference in the clinical behavior of PN in the adults and pediatric
      subjects, the adult and children stratum will be analyzed independently.
    
  