
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The decline in coronary heart disease mortality in the United States may be due to decreasing
      incidence of clinically apparent coronary heart disease or increasing survival from its first
      clinical appearance or both. Prior to 1987, few data were available to confirm either one
      directly. However, increased risk, decreased medical care, or both may predispose the
      Mexican-American population to increased recurrence of myocardial infarction and decreased
      post myocardial infarction survival, and an overall greater mortality among survivors of
      myocardial infarction, than are observed for Anglos in the same community setting. The
      significance of the potential results lies most importantly in the following aspects of this
      research: estimation of the community-based incidence of hospitalization for suspect,
      definite or possible myocardial infarction; precise determination of recurrence rates and
      survival curves after myocardial infarction in community-wide hospital-based cohorts;
      analysis of the relation of the above to risk status as ascertained at hospitalization and to
      health care and preventive practices assessed periodically post-myocardial infarction; and
      comparison of these observations between Anglos and Mexican-Americans, a group of special
      interest and concern because of expected differences in natural history of coronary heart
      disease and near total lack of the relevant data.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Patients hospitalized for acute coronary heart disease (CHD) in seven acute care hospitals in
      Nueces County, Texas were identified by active concurrent case registration. Baseline data on
      clinical, prognostic and sociodemographic characteristics of these patients at the time of
      the event were collected from the medical record and by interview with the patient. Patients
      with events meeting diagnostic criteria for acute myocardial infarction (MI) were followed
      directly through contacts at three months post-discharge and at the anniversary of discharge
      thereafter to ascertain vital status and to collect information about recurrent myocardial
      infarction, other changes in health status, and health care practices in the interim.
      Endpoints included all-cause mortality and deaths attributed to coronary heart disease, and
      fatal and non-fatal myocardial infarction. Data analysis included examination of survival and
      recurrence of myocardial infarction for the entire cohort of myocardial infarction patients
      and within ethnic groups; evaluation of potential prognostic factors within and between
      ethnic groups; and comparison of survival and myocardial infarction recurrence between ethnic
      groups after adjustment for both baseline and time-dependent covariates.

      The study was renewed in 1992 to continue to identify hospitalized MI and CHD mortality as
      well as angioplasty, and bypass surgery among Mexican-Americans and non-Hispanic Whites. The
      investigators calculated incidence rates for hospitalized MI, for the use of cardiac
      revascularization, and rates for post-MI mortality, and for both all cause and CHD mortality
      in the community. They also described trends in these aspects of CHD over an eight year
      period and determined if ethnic differences existed.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  