
    
      Purpose Compelling biological rationale and indirect evidence from other settings suggest
      that there is potential benefit to administering TXA to patients undergoing liver resection.
      A lack of consensus in the hepatobiliary community and lack of direct evidence in patients
      undergoing liver resection mandate a RCT.

      Hypothesis To determine the impact of perioperative administration of TXA to patients
      undergoing liver resection on the need for blood transfusion and long-term survival.

      Justification If TXA use in liver resection resulted in an important decrease in blood
      transfusions, clinical practice worldwide would be likely to change. Over 2000 patients in
      Canada undergo liver resection annually and could benefit from this simple, low-cost
      intervention. This intervention could easily be implemented in other countries, where many
      more patients undergo liver resection annually. Furthermore, TXA may be beneficial in other
      operative fields where bleeding is a major problem, including thoracic surgery, colorectal
      surgery, and many others.

      Objectives

      The primary outcome of the RCT will be:

      1) Receipt of blood transfusion (% transfused): 7 days

      The secondary outcomes of the RCT are:

        1. Intraoperative blood loss will be assessed by adding the net weight of sponges and fluid
           suction (minus irrigation and intraoperative bile or other fluids in suction/sponge)

        2. Total blood loss (postoperative day (POD)0 - POD7) will be assessed by Gross' formula,
           which uses the maximum postoperative decrease in the level of hemoglobin adjusted for
           the weight and height of the patient

        3. Number of packed red blood cells (PRBC) units transfused (POD0 - POD7)

        4. Postoperative incidence of symptomatic venous thromboembolic event confirmed with either
           computed tomography (CT) angiogram (for pulmonary embolism) or venous Doppler ultrasound
           (for deep venous thrombosis) (within 90 days of surgery)

        5. Postoperative complications (within 90 days of surgery) will be determined using the
           Clavien-Dindo classification

        6. Recurrence free survival (within 5 years of surgery) will be determined by review of
           patient medical record every 6 months until 5 years post-surgery

           a. Recurrence free survival is defined as the time from POD0 to the first event that is
           recurrent (local or distal) cancer or death (from any cause)

        7. Overall survival (within 5 years of surgery) will be determined by review of patient
           medical record every 6 months until 5 years post-surgery

           a. Overall survival is defined as the time from date of POD0 to death from any cause

        8. QOL will be determined by administering European Organization for Research and Treatment
           of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) -C30 and the QLQ- Liver Metastases
           Colorectal (LMC) 21 at baseline, 30 and 90 days following surgery

        9. Perioperative mortality will be recorded between POD0 and POD7

       10. Economic analysis will assess impact of TXA incorporation on health care resources and
           strategies for systematic utilization of TXA

      Research Method This is a Phase III multicentre randomized controlled trial (RCT) to evaluate
      the impact of tranexamic acid (TXA) on perioperative blood transfusion in patients undergoing
      liver resection. The trial will conceal allocation, maximize possible blinding, independently
      assess the appropriateness of transfusion, use strategies to limit loss to follow-up and
      crossovers, and use a conservative stopping rule. Patients will be administered a single dose
      of study drug intravenously immediately after induction of anaesthesia, followed by infusion
      over eight hours.

      Statistical Analysis Primary analysis will include only patients who underwent liver
      resection; patients who are randomized but do not receive liver resection (usually due to
      more advanced disease identified intraoperatively) will be excluded. A sensitivity analysis
      will be conducted whereby all randomized patients are included in the assessment of the
      primary outcome.
    
  