
    
      The sustained inflammatory state in CKD is of complex pathogenesis and is believed to be in
      part attributable to the augmented activation of innate immune system cell subsets. The
      activation of the innate immune system plays an essential role within all the spectrum of
      cardiovascular disease in CKD, including accelerated atherosclerosis, left ventricular
      hypertrophy and heart failure. However, the intricate immunological mechanisms involved in
      the pathogenesis of CKD-associated cardiovascular disease remain to be clarified.The
      hemodialysis procedure itself is associated with an increased inflammatory burden.
      Considering the fact that middle molecules lie at the crossroads of chronic inflammation and
      immune dysregulation, oxidative stress as well as cardiovascular morbidity of CKD, efforts
      have focused on improving the clearance of larger middle molecules in dialysis.
      Hemodiafiltration is considered to further improve the clearance of larger toxins by
      utilizing large-volume ultrafiltration, also known as convection. HDF compared with standard
      hemodialysis, may have beneficial effects with regard to micro-inflammation, as indicated by
      lower levels of inflammatory markers, C-reactive protein (CRP), and Interleukin 6 (IL-6).
      However, evidence from large outcome trials comparing HDF to hemodialysis is controversial
      The introduction of the newest generation of highly selective and permeable MCO, which have
      an increasingly porous membrane but with tightened distribution of pore sizes, is associated
      with increased removal of large middle-molecules up to a molecular weight of 45,000 Dalton
      (Da). On the other hand safety concerns regarding MCO membranes such as albumin loss and back
      filtration of endotoxins have proven to be inconsistent by clinical studies run so far.
      Accordingly the clinical benefits of MCO membranes with regard to patient outcomes,chronic
      inflammation, immune dysregulation, atherosclerosis or structural heart disease, remains to
      be evaluated by future clinical studies. Until now there are no data regarding the effects of
      expanded hemodialysis on immune cell subsets or comparative studies regarding the influence
      of the currently available methods of RRT on immune cell subsets with expanded hemodialysis.
      Whether expanded hemodialysis with MCO membranes is associated with "improved" patterns of
      immune cell subsets with regard to chronic micro-inflammation as compared to the currently
      available methods, including HDF, and whether this translates into improved clinical outcomes
      remains to be elucidated, this being the aim of our study.

      30 patients undergoing conventional hemodialysis and 15 patients undergoing PD will be
      enrolled in the study. The study will be designed in two arms - the cross-sectional arm and
      the prospective arm during which patients will be under follow-up for 12 months.

      The cross-sectional study:

      Immune cell subtypes will be measured at baseline in all patients. In patients undergoing
      hemodialysis, measurements will be performed in the midweek dialysis session and for PD
      patients during a programmed visit at the PD unit.

      Regarding patients undergoing conventional hemodialysis:

        -  15 of those undergoing conventional hemodialysis with high-flux dialyzers will be
           allocated to online-HDF with the same dialyzer and 15 hemodialysis patients undergoing
           hemodialysis with a high-flux dialyzer will be allocated to HDx with MCO dialyzers
           (THERANOVA dialyzer, Baxter International Inc. (NYSE: BAX)), for 12 consecutive weeks.
           Immune cell subtypes will be measured in the midweek dialysis session of the 12th week.

        -  subsequently both groups will be allocated to conventional hemodialysis with the same
           dialyzer as baseline for another 4 weeks as a wash-out phase and thereafter they will be
           crossed over to online-HDF and HDx with the THERANOVA dialyzer for another 12 week
           period. Immune cell subtypes will be measured in the midweek dialysis session of the
           28th week.

      Thereafter, patients will proceed with the hemodialysis modality, which they were allocated
      to during the last 12 weeks of the study and immune cell subtypes will be measured 20 weeks
      later. The overall duration of the study will be 48 weeks. Immune cell subtypes will be
      measured in the midweek dialysis session of the 48th week. Regarding peritoneal dialysis,
      immune cell subtypes will be measured at baseline and at 48 weeks.

      The evaluation of the immune cells subtypes will be done by flow-cytometry of peripheral
      blood. The following cell types will be measured:

        1. CD14++C16-, CD14+CD16+, CD 14+CD16++ subpopulations of monocytes

        2. Natural Killers (NK cells

        3. CD4+ lymphocytes and CD8+ lymphocytes

        4. CD 4+CD25+ Τ regulatory lymphocytes (Tregs) (CD = Cluster of Differentiation)

      Demographic data and anthropometric data, major cardiovascular risk factors, the cause of
      end-stage CKD, co-morbidities and medical treatment shall be recorded for all patients at
      baseline.

      A cardiovascular workout will take place. All hemodialysis patients will undergo at baseline,
      week 12 and week 28:

        -  echocardiographic evaluation with estimation of classical and novel echocardiographic
           parameters of systolic and diastolic left ventricular function,

        -  ABP (Ambulatory Blood Pressure) monitoring

        -  Carotid Doppler for the estimation of intima-media thickness (IMT)

        -  Lung ultrasound for the assessment of lung comets

      PD patients shall undergo the same diagnostic procedures as hemodialysis patients at baseline
      and at week 48.

      Additional routine blood test examinations shall be performed monthly, including complete
      blood count and biochemical blood tests including glucose, blood urea nitrogen (BUN),
      creatinine, potassium, sodium, calcium, phosphate, serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase
      (SGOT), serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase (SGPT), creatine kinase (CPK),
      gamma-glutamyltransferase (γGT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), proteins and albumin,
      immunoglobulins, lipid panel - total cholesterol, triglycerides, low-density lipoproteins
      (LDL), high-density lipoproteins (HDL) - uric acid, iron, total iron binding capacity (TIBC),
      ferritin, parathyroid hormone (PTH), vitamin D, CRP, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR),
      fibrinogen.

      Dialysis adequacy (monthly KT/V, urea reduction rate (URR) in hemodialysis patients and
      quarterly KT/V, residual renal function as well as peritoneal function testing in PD patients
      shall be regularly monitored according to international guidelines.

      Nutritional parameters and hydration status shall be evaluated at baseline, at week 12 and at
      week 28 in hemodialysis patients and quarterly in PD patients.

      During the prospective arm of the study (12 months) data regarding technique failure,
      infections, hospitalizations for any cause and major cardiovascular events (acute coronary
      syndrome, cerebrovascular accident, heart failure, peripheral vascular disease, sudden
      cardiac death) and death from any cause will be recorded.
    
  