
    
      With an estimated 1.6-4 million opiate users (majority with injection drug use (IDU)) and
      more than 940,000 HIV infected individuals (80% linked to IDU), the Russian Federation is
      facing the prospect of an explosive HIV epidemic. Currently in Russia, inpatient
      detoxification followed by oral naltrexone maintenance (NMT) is the only pharmacologic
      treatment for opiate dependence. Evidence-based counseling to reduce HIV transmission and
      relapse following detoxification is not widely available or routinely provided. Several
      considerations, including data from our preliminary studies, suggest that the efficacy of NMT
      may be improved by using extended-release naltrexone (XR/NTX) instead of oral naltrexone
      (O/NTX) and by combining NMT with behavioral drug and HIV risk reduction counseling (BDRC).
      BDRC may also improve medication adherence and promote behavioral change leading to reduced
      relapse risk, IDU, and other drug- and sex-related HIV risk behaviors. However, the efficacy
      and cost-effectiveness for reducing drug- and sex-related HIV risk behaviors and increasing
      duration of opioid abstinence of the various combinations of naltrexone formulation (O/NTX
      vs. XR/NTX) and counseling (MM only or combined with BDRC) have not been systematically
      evaluated. Consequently, we are proposing a 2x2 factorial randomized clinical trial
      evaluating the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of two medication formulations (O/NTX and
      XR/NTX) and two manual-guided counseling conditions (MM only or MM+BDRC) and the potential
      interactions between medications and counseling conditions. Following detoxification, opiate
      dependent subjects (N=320) will be randomly assigned to 6 months of treatment in one of four
      treatment groups: O/NTX+MM, XR/NTX+MM, O/NTX+MM+BDRC, or XR/NTX+MM+BDRC. Primary outcome
      measures include reductions in sex- and drug-related HIV risk behaviors, reductions in
      illicit opiate use, and treatment retention. Other outcome measures include reductions in
      frequency of opiate or other drug use, health status and healthcare utilization, criminal
      behavior and arrests, and improvements in vocational and family functioning and quality of
      life. All study participants will be assessed at baseline and monthly during the 6 month
      treatment phase and for 6 months following the active treatment phase. Data analyses will
      focus on the intention-to treat sample. The study results will allow evaluation of whether
      XR/NTX has superior efficacy or is more cost-effective than O/NTX, whether BDRC plus MM has
      superior efficacy or is more cost-effective than MM only, and whether particular combinations
      of medications and counseling have superior efficacy or are more cost-effective than other
      combinations.
    
  