
    
      There is an urgent need to find safe, effective means of preventing
      mother-to-child-transmission (MTCT) of HIV that can be used in developing countries. One of
      the greatest obstacles to prevention in these areas remains HIV transmission through breast
      milk. The primary purpose of this trial is to determine if nevirapine (NVP) plus
      immunoprophylaxis (by intravenous HIV immune globulin [HIVIGLOB]) or extended NVP dosing of
      the neonate during the perinatal period can safely and effectively reduce the risk of
      peripartum or early breastfeeding-related HIV MTCT.

      This study will last 11-18 weeks for each mother and 18 months for each infant. HIV-infected
      pregnant women will be randomly assigned to one of three arms. Participants in Arm 1 will
      receive a single dose of 200 mg NVP orally at the onset of labor. Infants in Arm 1 will
      receive a single dose of 2 mg/kg NVP orally within the first week after delivery. Arm 2
      participants will receive a single dose of 200 mg NVP orally at the onset of labor. Infants
      in Arm 2 will receive 2 mg/kg NVP orally within the first week after delivery and 5 mg NVP
      taken orally daily from Day 8 through Week 6. Arm 3 participants will receive a 12 gm
      intravenous dose of HIVIGLOB at 36-37 weeks gestation and 200 mg NVP orally at the onset of
      labor. Infants in Arm 3 will receive a single 1.2 gm intravenous dose HIVIGLOB within 18
      hours of birth and 2 mg/kg NVP orally within the first week after delivery.

      There will be five or six study visits for pregnant participants. A targeted medical history,
      physical examination, and blood collection will occur at all visits. After birth, there will
      be 11 study visits for infants in Arms 1 and 2 and 12 study visits for infants in Arm 3.
      Medical history and a targeted physical exam will occur at all visits. Blood collection will
      occur at some visits.
    
  