
    
      Our primary hypothesis is that remote IP reduces myocardial ischemic injury during PCI. We
      will also test the hypotheses that IP diminishes the inflammatory response to PCI, and that
      higher baseline blood endothelial progenitor cell counts are predictive of a favorable
      response to IP.

      Aim 1: To evaluate whether remote ischemic preconditioning reduces the frequency of
      myonecrosis (troponin T≥0.03 ng/ml following PCI).

      Aim 2: To evaluate whether remote ischemic preconditioning reduces the inflammatory response
      to PCI (post PCI hsCRP level).

      Aim 3: To evaluate whether pre-procedure circulating endothelial progenitor cell counts
      correlate with the effect of remote ischemic preconditioning on myonecrosis.

      Background: Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) frequently results in ischemic
      myonecrosis. Ischemic preconditioning (IP) has been shown in animal studies to increase the
      myocardial tolerance to subsequent ischemia. Our primary hypothesis is that remote IP reduces
      myocardial ischemic injury during PCI.

      Aims: The aims of the study are to assess in patients with coronary artery disease requiring
      PCI, whether remote IP reduces: 1) the frequency of myonecrosis; and 2) the inflammatory
      response to PCI; and 3) whether the effect of IP correlates with pre-procedure circulating
      endothelial progenitor cell counts.

      Methods: The study is a prospective, randomized trial to assess the efficacy of remote IP as
      adjunctive non-pharmacological therapy for PCI in patients with stable or unstable angina.
      Remote IP will be performed by 3 cycles of 3-minutes of arm ischemia alternating with 3-
      minutes of reperfusion of the arm immediately before PCI. Myonecrosis and inflammation will
      be detected by measuring serum troponin T and high sensitivity C-reactive protein,
      respectively. Blood EPC counts will also be measured before the procedure.
    
  