
    
      Elderly individuals account for an increasing proportion of patients with acute coronary
      syndrome (ACS) undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) given the aging of the
      population and the lengthening of life expectancy.1, 2 Dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin
      and an oral P2Y12 receptor inhibitor is the cornerstone of antithrombotic therapy in patients
      with ACS undergoing PCI, yet decision-making in older patients remains challenging because of
      a concomitantly increased risk of bleeding and ischemic complications burdening this
      population.3 Elderly status may be considered per se a condition at heightened risk of
      bleeding since, by applying available risk scores, patients aged 75 years or more who undergo
      PCI are classified as moderate-to-high risk of bleeding irrespective of other additional
      features.4 Current guidelines recommend DAPT in the setting of ACS and ticagrelor, an oral,
      reversible, direct-acting P2Y12 receptor inhibitor, should be preferred to clopidogrel and
      prasugrel among elderly patients.5 Nevertheless, observational studies have consistently
      shown that new P2Y12 receptor inhibitors continue to be withheld in more than one third of
      eligible patients with ACS and that aging is the most powerful predictor of undertreatment
      with clopidogrel.6 This occurs for several reasons, including adverse bleeding events or
      nonbleeding events, a perceived too high bleeding risk, and the higher risk profile of
      elderly patients seen in clinical practice compared with that in randomized trials.
      Therefore, alternative antithrombotic strategies should be pursued for elderly patients with
      ACS in order to minimize the harmful effects of more potent antiplatelet inhibition without
      withholding the established ischemic benefit. At this regard, a standard dose of prasugrel
      (10 mg daily) resulted in a negative net benefit among elderly patients with ACS and a lower
      dose of prasugrel (5 mg daily) did not prove safer or more effective than clopidogrel.7 8
      Since the risk-benefit profile of a full dose of ticagrelor (90 mg twice daily) seemed more
      favorable among elderly individuals, a lower dose regimen of ticagrelor (60 mg twice daily)
      has the potential to improve the safety profile of potent P2Y12 receptor inhibition while
      providing an equally effective option.

      A low-dose of ticagrelor has been evaluated in the PEGASUS-TIMI 54 trial, in which 21,162
      patients, who were on aspirin and had a myocardial infarction 1 to 3 years earlier, were
      randomized to ticagrelor at a dose of 90 mg twice daily, ticagrelor at a dose of 60 mg daily,
      or placebo. The primary efficacy endpoint of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, and
      stroke through 3 years was significantly reduced by 15% and 16% among patients randomized to
      standard and low-dose of ticagrelor compared with placebo. Patients randomly allocated to the
      standard and low dose of ticagrelor had a 169% and 132% relative risk increase in major
      bleeding compared with placebo. Of interest, ticagrelor 90 mg vs. placebo had the greatest
      benefit for the primary efficacy endpoint among younger than older patients (20% relative
      risk reduction vs. 2% relative risk increase, respectively), whereas ticagrelor 60 mg vs.
      placebo had the greatest benefit for the primary efficacy endpoint among older than younger
      patients (23% relative risk reduction vs. 14% relative risk reduction, respectively). For the
      safety profile, elderly patients had roughly a 2-fold higher incidence of bleeding compared
      with younger patients, with ticagrelor 90 mg being associated with the highest rate of
      bleeding (4.81%). Conversely, ticagrelor 60 mg was associated with a lower incidence of major
      bleeding (-0.7% absolute difference) compared with ticagrelor 90 mg, even though major
      bleeding events were increased compared with placebo (+2.43% absolute difference).9 Taken
      together, the data from the PEGASUS-TIMI 54 suggest ticagrelor 60 mg twice daily may present
      the best combination of efficacy and safety for elderly patients.

      Although no specific data are available for ticagrelor 60 mg among elderly patients with ACS,
      a substudy of the PEGASUS- TIMI 54 trial showed that ticagrelor 60 mg twice daily achieved a
      platelet inhibition similar to that with 90 mg twice daily (PRU values: 59±63 and 47±43 for
      ticagrelor 60 and 90 mg twice daily, respectively).10 Noteworthy, these data have been
      observed in a relatively younger population (mean age 64 years) with stable coronary artery
      disease after nearly 2 years from the index myocardial infarction.10 Consequently, the
      findings of the PEGASUS-TIMI 54 trial cannot be directly extrapolated to our population with
      since both elderly status and ACS are associated with higher platelet reactivity.

      Primary Objectives: the main aim of the trial is to determine whether the efficacy of
      ticagrelor 60 mg twice daily is not inferior to that of ticagrelor 90 mg twice daily among
      elderly patients with ACS undergoing PCI.

      Secondary Objectives: To evaluate adverse events in patients treated with ticagrelor 60 mg
      and ticagrelor 90 mg. To determine the pharmacokinetic profile of ticagrelor 60 mg twice
      daily versus ticagrelor 90 mg twice daily.

      This will be a prospective, randomized (1:1 ratio), non-inferiority, open-label, crossover
      trial to evaluate the level of platelet inhibition achieved with a low-dose of ticagrelor (60
      mg twice daily) versus a standard dose of ticagrelor (90 mg twice daily) among elderly
      patients with ACS undergoing PCI. The study will have a 2 x 2 crossover design with
      2-sequence, 2-period, and 2-treatments.

      After signing the informed consent form, patients will be randomized to ticagrelor 60 mg
      twice daily vs. ticagrelor 90 mg twice daily in a 1:1 ratio through a web-based randomization
      system.

      Each patient will be allocated to the following treatments in a open-label fashion:

        -  Ticagrelor 90 mg twice daily, followed by ticagrelor 60 mg twice daily;

        -  Ticagrelor 60 mg twice daily, followed by ticagrelor 90 mg twice daily;

      The study duration for each individual patient will amount to 28 days consisting of:

        -  A 2-week first treatment period (from day 1 to day 14): randomly allocated treatment
           will be maintained for 14 days;

        -  A 2-week second treatment period (from day 15 to day 28): the patients will crossover to
           the alternative treatment, which is administered for 14 days.

      Aspirin 100 mg once daily is maintained throughout all the study phases.

      Blood sampling to evaluate adenosine diphosphate (ADP) e non-ADP platelet aggregation will be
      performed at 3 time points:

        -  Time 1 (baseline): before randomization;

        -  Time 2 (crossover): 14 days after randomization, including 2 samples, before and 2 hours
           after the last dose of the initial assigned treatment;

        -  Time 3 (end of study): 28 days after randomization, including 2 samples, before and 2
           hours after the last dose of the second assigned treatment.

      Platelet function will be assessed by using several platelet function tests: (i) VerifyNow
      P2Y12 (VN-P2Y12); (ii) Light transmittance aggregometry (LTA); (iii) Multiplate electrode
      aggregometry (MEA).
    
  