
    
      Treatment: evaluate two interventions for treating severe dental caries in primary molared of
      preschool children.

      SAMPLE: preschool children aged 3 to 5 years with severe dental caries (SDC) in primary
      molars. SDC will be indicated by the Pufa index. The Pufa index records the presence of
      severely decayed teeth with visible pulp involvement (p), ulceration of the oral mucosa owing
      to root fragments (u), fistula (f) and abscess (a). Children with pufa-score > 0 in primary
      molars will be included in the study. All children aged 3 to 5 years, who sought dental
      screening at the Dental School, University of São Paulo (USP) in August to October 2013 can
      be initially eligible.

      CLINICAL GROUPS RANDOMLY ASSIGNED:

        -  Group A: Conservative treatment represented by pulpectomies + teeth restoration with
           composite resin crown.

        -  Group B: Dental extraction

             -  Treatment of carious teeth with pufa score =0 will receive dental fillings (01
                occlusal surface affected: ART; 02 surfaces affected: composite resin; ≥ 03
                surfaces affected: composite resin crown).

             -  One operator (specialists in paediatric dentistry) blinded to the outcomes will
                carry out the treatments.

      FOLLOW-UP: 4, 8 and 12 months.

      OUTCOMES: All outcomes will be assessed by a single person interviewer/examiner blinded to
      the oral treatments groups.

        1. Oral Health-Related Quality of Life:

             -  Brazilian SOHO-5

             -  Brazilian ECOHIS

        2. Anthropometric measures:

             -  Weight-for-age Z-score (WAZ)

             -  Height-for-age Z-score (HAZ)

             -  BMI-for age Z-score (BAZ)

        3. Dental anxiety (Facial Image Scale).

        4. Dental pain (Wong-Baker Scale)

        5. Problems in the developing occlusion: loss of space
    
  