
    
      Research shows that a stable diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) can be made by
      trained professionals at 18-24 months and yet the median age of diagnosis in the US is 4-5
      years of age. Lower income, minority, and rural families receive a diagnosis up to 1.5 years
      later and more likely miss the window of opportunity for early intervention (EI). One of the
      greatest challenges researchers face, in spite of scientific advances and investments, is how
      to bridge the healthcare science-to-service gap and address health disparities in access to
      evidence-based EI for children with ASD. Doing this would be the best solution to improve
      lifelong outcomes, reduce costs to society, and change the landscape of autism.

      The Autism Adaptive Community-based Treatment to Improve Outcomes Using Navigators (ACTION)
      Network-a new interdisciplinary network of 6 institutions-will blend clinical effectiveness
      and implementation research designs to study individual and combined effects of 2
      evidence-based interventions in real world settings: 1) engage families to access resources
      and support when they first learn their child has signs of ASD using an evidence-based
      intervention that integrates motivational interviewing and problem solving education
      (MI+PSE); and 2) coach families to embed evidence-based intervention strategies for toddlers
      with ASD in everyday activities using the Early Social Interaction (ESI) model. Building on
      existing infrastructure, the Network will infuse mobile technology using the Autism
      Navigator® collection of web-based courses and tools.

      Families will be recruited by screening in community-based primary care and EI systems in 3
      diverse regions in 2 states: Florida and Massachusetts. In Phase 1, investigators will
      compare the effectiveness of adaptive interventions that use MI+PSE with and without ESI in a
      2-stage Sequential Multiple Assignment Randomized Trial (SMART) design on family engagement
      in EI, parent use of intervention strategies in everyday activities, and child outcomes of
      social communication, active engagement, autism symptoms, developmental level, and adaptive
      behavior. In Phase 2, investigators will construct an adaptive intervention to optimize the
      effects of MI+PSE with ESI based on the SMART and study the feasibility of implementation in
      two new service systems in California: Kaiser Permanente Healthcare System and the National
      Black Church Initiative.

      The ACTION Network brings a unique interdisciplinary team with expertise spanning early
      detection, maternal mental health, clinical trials, health disparities, implementation
      science, and policy. Using dynamic technology platform the Network has ambitious
      dissemination aims of informing a community of change agents committed to impact at the
      population level. This research network can build the capacity of community-based systems to
      provide earlier and widespread access to cost-efficient, community-viable treatment and be
      ready for immediate and rapid implementation across the US. Findings will advance science by
      providing researchers with a method for rapidly deploying evidence-based practices, enabling
      research at younger ages-accelerating genetic, neuroscience, and intervention research-and
      lead to transformative changes in workforce development and healthcare delivery.
    
  