
    
      Ambulatory HIV voluntary testing and counseling (VCT) has become a mainstay of HIV prevention
      and linkage to care efforts. Despite expansion of these services in sub-Saharan Africa, most
      individuals admitted for acute illnesses arrive in hospital unaware of their HIV serostatus.
      Even then, inpatient risk reduction counseling services are not widely available and
      utilization of HIV testing services in the hospital is rare; most HIV diagnoses are made
      clinically without the benefit of counseling or antibody testing. The effectiveness of VCT
      during hospitalization in high-prevalence, resource poor settings has never been formally
      studied. It has been argued that the circumstances of hospitalization for HIV-associated
      illness do not allow for the provision of VCT services in this setting: Patients may be too
      sick to participate meaningfully in risk reduction counseling and the inpatient medical
      management of acute illness may leave little time for the provision of VCT. There are also
      several potentially significant differences between ambulatory and inpatient VCT that may
      limit efficacy in the latter case. First, inpatient counseling during an acute illness may
      not reduce risk behavior significantly due to competing priorities and messages communicated
      to patients while in the hospital. Second, HIV risk behavior may already be so infrequent
      among individuals with complications of advanced HIV disease that there is little margin for
      further risk reduction. Third, providing VCT during acute hospitalization may not result in
      effective linkage to existing outpatient follow-up medical care or community-based support
      services. It may prove very difficult to bridge the gap between the hospital setting and
      ongoing outpatient care resources. If this is not accomplished, a major goal of the provision
      of inpatient VCT will be unmet.

      This randomized trial compared the impact of free, routine, VCT during hospitalization for
      acute illness at Mulago Hospital with referral for ambulatory VCT immediately following
      hospital discharge (which was the current standard of care). We assessed HIV risk behavior
      and linkage to care outcomes at 3 and 6 months. The following specific aims were addressed:

      Aim 1: To determine the number of HIV infections newly identified by offering free VCT
      routinely to hospitalized patients.

      Aim 2: To determine whether routine VCT in hospitalized patients increases partner disclosure
      and reduces risk behavior at 3 and 6 months.

      Aim 3: To determine whether routine VCT in hospitalized patients increases linkage to
      follow-up HIV care, including available opportunistic infection prophylaxis, antiretroviral
      treatment, hospice services, and other community-based social services.
    
  