
    
      This study is a Phase 1/2, multi-center, assessor blind, open-label, first in human (FIH),
      first in patient (FIP), and Multiple Ascending Doses (MAD) study followed by a long-term
      open-label extension period conducted in adults with ENPP1 Deficiency. This study is designed
      to assess the safety, tolerability, Pharmacokinetics (PK), and Pharmacodynamics (PD) of
      multiple ascending doses of INZ-701. The goal of the study is to identify a dose that
      restores Plasma Inorganic Pyrophosphate (PPi) to normal levels in ectonucleotide
      pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase 1 (ENPP1) Deficiency to be used in further clinical
      development. No placebo/control arm or reference therapies will be used in the study, but all
      measurements will be assessor blinded.

      The study design is a multiple ascending dose 3x3 schedule (3 dose cohorts with 3 subjects
      per cohort). Based on nonclinical pharmacology modeling, the planned doses will be 0.2 mg/kg,
      0.6 mg/kg, and 1.8 mg/kg.

      The Principal Investigator (PI) or an appropriately qualified delegate will administer
      INZ-701 at the prescribed dose and dosing interval for each given cohort.

      After completion of the Final Safety Visit for the Dose Evaluation Period on Day 35, the
      Investigator will assess the safety data for each subject to determine if the subject is
      eligible to enter the Extension Period.

      Eligible subjects who agree to participate in the Extension Period will be administered
      INZ-701 twice weekly at the dose assigned in the Dose Evaluation Period. The subject should
      receive their first dose in the Extension Period within 2 weeks of their Final Safety Visit.
      If the dose is not administered within the 2-week window, the Investigator should consult
      with the Sponsor. The administered dose for a subject may change once the optimal dose has
      been determined upon completion of the Dose Evaluation Period, at which time all subjects in
      the Extension Period will be assigned to the optimal dose.
    
  