
    
      Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are the standard of care for patients with chronic myeloid
      leukaemia (CML) in chronic phase. Imatinib, the first ATP competitive TKI, received approval
      for use based on a dramatic and durable survival benefit. Other TKIs, the second generation
      compounds dasatinib, nilotinib and bosutinib and the third generation drug ponatinib, were
      designed and tested for a greater target-specific potency. With the development of these
      effective TKI treatments, CML disease burden can be reduced to minimal levels, and CML
      patients can have a life expectancy similar to that of the general population. Although TKI
      treatment may result in a deep, stable molecular remission, CML treatment guidelines
      recommend that patients continue TKI treatment indefinitely. However, Chronic TKI therapy can
      cause drug-related adverse reactions and constitute financial difficulties, which can result
      in decreased adherence to therapy. Therefore, the concept of a lifelong therapy with TKIs has
      thus been challenged and treatment-free remission (TFR) strategies will soon integrate
      clinical practice.TFR can be defined as the ability to maintain molecular remission without
      taking any TKI therapy. Studies have demonstrated the feasibility of successful TFR. In the
      STIM and TWISTER trials, imatinib discontinuation was proposed providing that patients had
      achieved deep molecular response for a certain period. The 2-year probability to maintain
      such deep molecular response levels without any TKI therapy was 38% in STIM and 47% in
      TWISTER. Subsequently, several studies were conducted and confirmed that imatinib-free
      remission was possible. Discontinuation of new generation TKIs was also investigated and
      indicated that dasatinib or nilotinib may promote access to TFR strategies as compared to
      imatinib. TFR is on the way to become an important goal in clinical practice, implicating an
      alternation in CML management guidelines in the near future.
    
  