
    
      The purpose of this project is to expand the investigators' prior preliminary work on
      wearable sensors to evaluate objective dual-task turning measures for use as rehabilitative
      outcomes and as tools for objective return-to-duty assessments following mild traumatic brain
      injury (mTBI). The investigators will assess the diagnostic accuracy, predictive capacity,
      and responsiveness to intervention of measures obtained from clinically feasible, dual-task
      turning tasks in an effort to evaluate the utility of turning measures for clinical
      return-to-duty decisions.

      This study is divided into two phases. For phase one, participants will be recruited from the
      general populations surrounding four sites (Oregon Health & Science University, the
      University of Utah, Courage Kenny Research Center, and Fort Sam Houston), including active
      duty service members at Fort Sam Houston. For phase two, participants will be recruited from
      active duty service members referred to military medical treatment facilities (Warrior
      Recovery Center, Madigan Army Medical Center) for vestibular rehabilitation following mTBI.

      Phase One: Fifty civilian individuals with mTBI, 50 healthy control individuals, and 40
      healthy control active duty service members will be recruited for phase one. Participants
      will complete a battery of clinical, neuropsychological, and balance tests, including three
      clinically feasible turning tasks while wearing inertial sensors. The investigators will
      evaluate the capability of objective, dual-task turning measures to discriminate between
      healthy controls and people with chronic mTBI, determine clinically relevant measures of
      dual-task turning based on clinometric properties (e.g., minimum detectable change), and
      determine whether active-duty SMs perform dual-task turning tasks differently than civilians,
      assess the capacity of dual-task turning measures to predict performance in a
      civilian-relevant task, and assess the capacity of dual-task turning measures to predict
      performance in a military-relevant task.

      Phase Two: Forty active-duty service members with mTBI referred to vestibular rehabilitation
      at the Warrior Recovery Center or Madigan Army Medical Center will be recruited for phase
      two. Participants will complete a selected turning task from phase one at the beginning and
      end of the treatment. The investigators will determine the clinically important difference of
      turning outcomes and compare the effect of rehabilitation to the minimum detectable change
      for each outcome.
    
  