
    
      This study will progress through two phases

      The first phase will recruit 30 older adults from ages of 65 and older living in the
      community. A study administrator will contact the participants daily over a 21-day period to
      obtain frequency and type of event experienced e.g. no fall, fall, near fall (hand),
      near-fall (leg) or near-fall (other). No other details of the event will be ascertained
      because this preliminary study will be to determine the incidence of near-falls in a sample
      of community-dwelling seniors.

      The second phase will be to develop a scale which operationalize balance recovery confidence
      in community-dwelling older adults. In the first stage of the study, twelve older adults will
      be recruited to develop a comprehensive list of relevant items for the scale. Purposive
      sampling will be used to invite participants from the earlier study. This approach will
      ensure sample representativeness of the population and to include participants who have had
      demonstrated an understanding of near-falls and balance recovery maneuvres in the previous
      study to develop the scale. An exhaustive list of scale items will be generated from two
      focus group formed by six participants using a nominal group technique. This consensus-based
      technique ensures that all items in the scale are relevant and comprehensible to the
      community-dwelling older adults to discriminate the confidence level in one's ability to
      perform balance recovery maneuvres. The scale will then be sent to a panel of 50 experts
      including healthcare professionals as well as a new group of community-dwelling older adults
      to determine the appropriateness of items ensuring that the scale is relevant, comprehensive
      and comprehensible. Delphi technique will be adopted as the method to obtain a consensus
      among experts to finalize the Balance Recovery Falls-Efficacy Scale (BRFES).
    
  