
    
      Rationale of the Study Currently no specific treatment is available against COVID-19
      infection. Supportive treatment along with concentrated oxygen is the only mean of treatment.
      Researchers have already opened over 180 clinical trials of potential COVID-19 treatments for
      recruitment, and nearly 150 could start soon. However, to date, no clinical intervention
      trial has been completed and reported. Based on anecdotes (small case series), some of the
      promising drugs could be azithromycin - hydroxychloroquine combination, Lopinavir/ Ritonavir,
      Tocilizumab, Ramdisivir, Favirinapir, and others. CP transfusion is another promising option,
      which had been tried before in SARS-CoV, MERS-CoV, and Flu and Ebola viral infection. Its
      effectiveness against COVID-19 yet not explored. A recently published case series consists of
      ten cases that forecast promising results. Therefore, a phase II RCT to explore the
      tolerability, efficacy, and dose-response needs to explore urgently.

      The cases started to escalate in Bangladesh and the number of confirmed cases already crossed
      a thousand marks. Considering the cost and shortage of other above mentioned anti-viral and
      biologics, it is inevitable that many of our patients possibly could not afford or get it.
      However, the CP can be easily collected from the recovered patients and can easily be
      processed to use it against active infection. This could be an effective and cheap treatment
      option for a country like ours to face this catastrophe. Therefore conducting a phase II RCT
      on CP transfusion is the demand of time.

      Research question:

      Does CP transfusion is tolerable and effective in treating severe COVID-19 patients compared
      to standard treatment?

      Objectives:

      General Objective:

      To assess the tolerability, efficacy, and dose-response of CP transfusion in severe COVID-19
      patients

      Specific Objectives:

        1. To identify the appropriate effective dose of CP therapy

        2. To identify the efficacy of the therapy with their endpoint

        3. To examine the clinical improvement after CP transfusion in severe COVID-19 patients

        4. To assess the laboratory improvement after CP transfusion in severe COVID-19 patients

      Study design:

      Phase II RCT

      Place of study:

      Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Medical University (BSMMU), Sheikh Hasina Burn & Plastic Surgery
      Institute, Dhaka Medical College, Mugda Medical College and Centre for Medical Biotechnology

      Study period:

      May 2020 - October 2020 (Six months)

      Study population:

      COVID=19 positive patients who are diagnosed on the basis of RT-PCR at BSMMU fever clinic or
      by any other government-designated laboratory and admitted at DMCH, MuMC, and BSMMU.

      Randomization and blinding method:

      Randomization will be done by someone not associated with the care or assessment of the
      patients by means of a random number table. Allocations will be concealed in sequentially
      numbered, opaque, sealed envelopes. In this pilot study, the CP or standard care will not be
      blinded. However, the primary outcome (oxygen saturations, PaO2/FiO2, and BP) will be
      recorded using an objective automated method; the study staff will not be able to influence
      the recording of these data.

      Sample size:

      No similar study has been performed previously. Therefore no data are available that could be
      used to generate a sample size calculation. This pilot study is required to provide some
      initial data on efficacy and safety that will allow the design of a larger study.

      Research instruments

        1. General questionnaire for assessing socio-demographic data.

        2. A checklist of clinical findings

        3. A checklist of investigation findings.

      Measures of Variables

        1. Socio-Demographic variables

             -  Age

             -  Gender (Male/Female)

             -  Living area (Urban/Rural)

             -  Occupation

        2. Clinical variables:

             -  Symptoms

             -  Systolic blood pressure (in mmHg)

             -  Diastolic blood pressure (in mmHg)

             -  Temperature

             -  Respiratory rate

             -  Heart rate

             -  GCS

        3. Laboratory variables

             -  CXR

             -  CBC

             -  CRP

             -  S. Ferritin

             -  SGPT

             -  SGOT

             -  Antibody titre

      Procedure of collection of Apheretic plasma

        1. Pre-donation screening: First of all, 3 ml blood will be drawn from peripheral venous
           site preferably from dorsum of the hand, and will be kept in EDTA tube for further
           testing. Blood group will be confirmed by using known antisera. Screening test of 5
           diseases (HBs Ag , Anti HCV, HIV, Syphilis, and Malaria) will be tested by the device
           method. An automated analyzer will count complete blood count. If all things remain
           favorable, the next step will be followed.

        2. Safety assessment: Body weight and height of the donor will be measured by a
           conventional method (standard digital weight and height scale). For preventing citrate
           toxicity or hypocalcaemic complications (twitching, numbness, nausea, mild respiratory
           difficulty, etc) 500 mg calcium carbonate will be given to every donor before starting
           the procedure. Blood pressure and pulse will be monitored in every 10-minute interval
           for precaution throughout the procedure. Weight, height, and CBC parameter will be given
           in apheresis machine for setting up. Visible and easily palpable anti cubital vein will
           be selected for venepuncture. Before puncturing the vein, at least 50-60 mm of Hg
           pressure will be given above the venepuncture area for maintaining sustained pressure.
           When everything is ready, the procedure will be started by puncturing a single needle in
           a targeted vein.

      Steps of Convalescent Plasma (CP) transfusion Before giving CP to the patient blood pressure,
      pulse, temperature, the respiratory rate will be recorded. It can be given through the
      central venous catheter or by peripheral channel. If peripheral venous site chosen then at
      least 21g needle should be confirmed. Blood group and cross-matching should be confirmed
      before starting the transfusion. When there is no chance of clerical mistake then CP
      transfusion can be started at the rate of 100 ml/hour.

      Safety Assessment:

      If patient was suffering from fever then a temperature chart should be maintained. When the
      temperature will be raised above 2 degrees Fahrenheit from the baseline then transfusion
      should be stopped and antipyretic should be given according to the body weight. After a pause
      of 10 minutes, transfusion can be started. If patient, feels excessive itching specific area
      or whole over the body then Injection Chlorpheniramine maleate will be given. The steroid
      would be preserved for managing severe respiratory distress or uncontrollable itching. Blood
      pressure, pulse, and respiratory will be monitored every 30 minutes interval regularly.

      The procedure of measuring antibody titre

      SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibody titer will be tested by ELISA according to the following protocol:

        1. At first the serum/plasma samples (10μL) were diluted to 1:40, 1:80, 1:160, 1:320, and
           1:640 by serial dilution.

        2. 100μl of sample diluents will be added into each well (except blank and control well)
           which are pre-coated with SARS-CoV-2 antigens.

        3. Then 10μl of specimen will be added. 100μl controls will be added to the assigned well
           directly. All samples will be run in duplicate.

        4. The plate will be covered with the plate cover and will be incubated for 30 minutes at
           37°C.

        5. At the end of the incubation, each well will be washed 5 times with diluted Wash Buffer.

        6. 100μl of conjugate will be added into each well except the Blank.

        7. Incubation for 20 minutes at 37°C.

        8. At the end of the incubation, each well will be washed 5 times with diluted Wash Buffer.

        9. 50μl of Substrate Solution A and 50μl of Substrate Solution B will be added into each
           well. Incubation for 10 minutes at 37°C avoiding light.

       10. 50μl of Stop Solution will be added into each well.

       11. The plate reader will be calibrated with the Blank well and the absorbance will be read
           at 450nm.

       12. The sample OD value was ≥cutoff OD value will indicate IgG antibody positive.

       13. The IgG antibody titre will be determined by endpoint dilution.

      Due to lack of COVID-19 plasmid in Bangladesh and global shortage, 2 ml seum will be
      preserves from each donor and later shipped to peter Medawar building for pathogen research,
      University of Oxford. Research collaborators in Oxford will conduct the neutralizing antibody
      titre and the investigators will later match them with each donor. The expenses for
      neutralizing antibody titre test will be managed by the Oxford colleagues.

      Statistical analysis:

      Graphpad Prism v 7.0 will be used for analysis. Demographic factors and clinical
      characteristics will be summarized with counts (%) for categorical variables and median
      (interquartile range [IQR]) for continuous variables, as none was expected to be normally
      distributed. The main analysis will be carried out on an intention-to-treat basis. For the
      primary outcome, the investigators will compare the mean between three arms using a one-way
      ANOVA test. The investigators will also do posthoc analysis in Prism assessing (log-rank
      Mantel-Cox test) time to sustained saturations >93% and PaO2/FiO2<200 mm of Hg censored
      during enrolment, 3 days and 7 days after enrolment in a single time point. For
      non-parametric secondary outcomes, all groups will be compared using a Kruskal-Wallis test;
      if significant, the investigators then planned to perform pairwise comparisons with a
      non-parametric Mann-Whitney test. For parametric outcomes, the investigators compared the
      odds ratios across the pairs.

      Facilities and procedure:

      The RT-PCR and other study-related testing will be done at BSMMU. BSMMU fever clinic already
      treated more than 1200 COVID-19 positive cases. Potential donors will be tracked from this
      patient pool. Donors who will agree and give consent will be then sent to the Transfusion
      medicine department of SHBPSI. 5 ml plasma will be collected and sent to the CMBT laboratory
      for ELISA based antibody titre. If the titre fulfills the desired level (1:320 and above),
      then 200 ml or 400 ml apheretic plasma (depending on availability and consent of the donor)
      will be collected on the next day. 5 ml serum will be also be collected for sending into the
      Peter Medawar Building for Pathogen Research, Oxford University for checking the neutralizing
      antibody titre. This will be sent later and matched with the donor. The samples will be
      shipped under the coverage of the materials transfer agreement (MTA). Dr. Fazle Rabbi
      Chowdhury, the Co-PI of this project have the necessary permission for shipping samples
      overseas. In the final stage, the CP will be handover to the clinical team at DMCH and MuMCH
      as per their demand for transfusion. The clinical team will ensure the laboratory sample
      collection before and after CP transfusion and will record the data in the case record form.
      A laboratory medicine team of BSMMU will support the clinical team for lab testing.
    
  