
    
      Background:

      Family involvement during severe mental illness, such as psychotic disorders, is both
      important and challenging. Evidence suggest that family interventions for persons with
      psychotic disorders are associated with positive outcomes for both relatives and patients,
      and economic analyses of such interventions consistently report net saving. There are also
      important moral imperatives to involve those providing unpaid and informal care. Yet research
      has shown that relatives of patients with severe mental illness experience little
      involvement, and that the implementation of family interventions is patchy. The Norwegian
      national guidelines on family involvement in the public health- and care services and the
      national guidelines on psychotic disorders, both give recommendations on family involvement.
      However, there is little knowledge about how to achieve their implementation, and whether a
      high degree of implementation will be associated with improvements in selected outcomes for
      patients and relatives.

      Setting:

      Fifteen outpatient units from community mental health centres in the South-Eastern Norway
      Regional Health Authority.

      Research questions:

        1. What is the current level of implementation of the selected recommendations in the
           national guidelines on family involvement for persons with psychotic disorders in
           participating clinical units?

        2. What are important barriers to and facilitators for implementing the national guidelines
           among the stakeholders at the clinical, organisational, and policy level?

        3. What are important moral dilemmas and conflicting interests related to family
           involvement, and how can these be resolved?

        4. Is implementation of the selected recommendations increased by a comprehensive
           implementation support program, compared with no such support?

        5. Is a higher level of implementation of the selected recommendations associated with
           improvements in selected outcomes for patients and relatives?

        6. Is implementation of family involvement during primary psychotic disorders a
           cost-effective intervention?

      Hypotheses:

        1. The current implementation of the selected recommendations in the national guidelines on
           family involvement for persons with psychotic disorders is low.

        2. There are important barriers to and facilitators for implementing the national
           guidelines among the stakeholders, at the clinical, organisational and policy level.

        3. There are important moral dilemmas and conflicting interests, and these can be dealt
           with through systematic triadic approaches and ethics reflection.

        4. A comprehensive implementation program for the selected recommendations is associated
           with a significantly higher implementation of family involvement for persons with
           psychotic disorders, compared to no such specific program.

        5. Higher implementation of the selected recommendations is associated with improved
           outcomes for patients and relatives.

        6. Outcomes for relatives, patients and the public health- and welfare services justify the
           costs of implementing family involvement for persons with psychotic disorders.
    
  