
    
      HYPOTHESIS Null hypothesis: There is no difference in the efficacy of intralesional
      triamcinolone acetonide alone and its combination with 5-flurouracil in the treatment of
      keloids and hypertrophic scars Alternate hypothesis: Combination of intralesional
      triamcinolone and 5- fluorouracil is more efficacious than intralesional triamcinolone alone
      in treatment of keloids and hypertrophic scars

      METHODS

      Sample size: Sample size:

      This study considers a 95% confidence interval, 80% power to estimate sample size. According
      to the article published in the Clinical and experimental dermatology by Darougegh A et al in
      2009 comparing the efficacy of Intralesional Triamcinolone alone versus combined with 5 FU in
      treatment of keloids, it was found that the patient reported good to excellent (> 50%) 30 | P
      a g e improvement in TAC alone group was 20% whereas that of the combination of TAC and 5-FU
      was 55% (22). Now using the sample size estimation formula for 2 proportions based on above
      study, n = {2p(1-p) (Zβ + Zα/2)2}/ (p1-p2)2 Where n= sample size for each group; p1 = 0.55;
      p2 = 0.2; p= (p1 +p2)/2; Zα/2=1.96 at 95% CI; Zβ = 0.842 at 80% power; using above formula,
      n= 30. Adding 10% in calculated value to consider the drop out, the minimum sample size in
      each group will be 30+3=33; Thus, a total sample size will be 66 The study is double blinded
      ,both participants and investigator( treatment provider/assessor) are blinded. Total of 66
      patients are enrolled into the study , 33 in each groups allocated by block randomization
      through computer generated block randomization list. Patients with a clinical diagnosis of
      keloids or hypertrophic scars attending the outpatient department of dermatology at BPKIHS
      will be enrolled in the study. Written and understood informed consent will be taken prior to
      the enrollment and treatment. Detailed information of all the patients satisfying inclusion
      criteria will be recorded in preset pro forma. This will include personal data, past history,
      medical history, drug history, clinical data like site, size, number, distribution of
      lesions, complaints related to scar like pain, pruritus, erythema, scar score and cutaneous
      examination. Patients will be excluded according to the exclusion criteria. Photographs of
      the lesions will be taken before the first treatment session, in every treatment session and
      at the completion of treatment at 12th week. Only one lesion (preferably on the trunk or
      proximal extremity) will be treated per patient.

      Study Treatments:

      Each patient will be assigned a patient identity number and will be allocated to receive
      either triamcinolone acetonide alone (1ml of 40mg/ml triamcinolone acetonide will be mixed
      with 1ml of normal saline) or triamcinolone acetonide and 5-FU combination (1ml of 40 mg/ml
      triamcinolone acetonide will be mixed with 1ml of 50 mg/ml FU) depending upon the treatment
      specified in the sealed opaque envelope.

      Treatment will be provided as follows:

      Group A: Intralesional Triamcinolone only One ml of 40mg/ml triamcinolone acetonide will be
      mixed with 1ml of normal saline to make a 20mg/ml concentration.

      Group B Intralesional Triamcinolone + 5 fluorouracil One ml of 40 mg/ml triamcinolone
      acetonide will be mixed with 1ml of 50 mg/ml FU with resulting mixture TAC/5-FU concentration
      being 20mg/25mg per ml .

      Treatment duration: 10 weeks (drug given at 0,2, 4, 6,8,10 weeks)

      Post treatment follow up: at 12 weeks.

      Assessment:

      During treatment and during follow-ups, the scar will be assessed for the following:

        1. Length, width and height of the scar: using Vernier calipers and digital photography

        2. POSAS scoring:

        3. Vancouver Scar Scale (VSS)

        4. Subjective improvement: Overall improvement as graded by patient and observer separately
           on a 5 point scale and percentage in improvement is assessed in each follow up visit
           (no/poor: up to 25% , fair: 26-50%, good: 51-75%, excellent : 76-100% improvement) and
           efficacy is determined by good to excellent improvement( improvement >50%) in patient
           and observer reported separately

      Efficacy evaluation:

      The primary efficacy endpoints will be calculated on the basis of the percent reduction from
      baseline to week 12 in the subjective improvement, lesion size and scar scores and taking
      single lesion as the reference lesion in a patient (in case of multiple number of lesions
      under treatment in a single patient). The response rates (percentage of patients achieving
      50% reduction in size of scar, percentage of patient achieving good to excellent subjective
      improvement) will also be compared at 12 weeks in each treatment group.

      Safety evaluation: Safety of treatment is assessed through evaluation of local adverse
      effects like erythema, pain, atrophy, ulceration, telangiectasia, pigmentation and systemic
      effects if any like Cushing's syndrome in each follow up visit week 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12.

      Statistical analysis Data will be entered in Microsoft Excel 2016 (Microsoft Corporation,
      Redmond, Washington, USA) and statistical analysis will be done using Statistical Package for
      the Social Sciences 11.5 version (Chicago, Inc). Statistical analysis will be conducted both
      per-protocol and intention-to treat population (defined as all enrolled patients to whom
      study drug will be given; with the last observation carried forward) basis using two sided
      tests.

      For descriptive statistics, percentage, mean, Standard Deviation, median, interquartile range
      and minimum, maximum will be calculated along with graphical and tabular presentation. For
      inferential statistics, statistical methods proposed are as follow Chi square test , Paired t
      test ,Independent 't' test ,Wilcoxon signed rank test , Mann- Whitney U test ,Analysis of
      covariance , Kaplan-Meier curves The test of significance will be considered when the value
      of p< 0.05
    
  