
    
      Purpose:

      "Situkulwane Lesiphephile-Safe Generations" is an implementation science research study
      designed to evaluate an innovative PMTCT strategy that includes a modified Option B approach,
      where all HIV positive pregnant women initiate lifelong triple antiretroviral (ARV) therapy
      independent of CD4+ count (Option B+) and all HIV positive pregnant and postpartum women and
      their infants are engaged in the same structured appointment and follow-up protocols
      currently available only to women receiving antiretroviral therapy (ART). The study
      hypothesizes that this single, uniform and streamlined treatment and retention approach for
      all HIV positive pregnant women will eliminate delays, prevent losses and will: (1) result in
      a higher proportion of mothers and infants successfully completing the PMTCT cascade and
      fewer new pediatric infections; (2) lead to a higher proportion of ART-eligible women
      initiating triple ART earlier in pregnancy; (3) will be more feasible to implement; 4) have
      greater acceptability among staff and patients; and 5) will be more cost-effective compared
      to Option A.

      Design:

      Stepped wedge design at 10 health facilities with one facility transitioning from Option A to
      the Option B+ approach every month over 12 months. Outcome measures will be compared under
      Option A and Option B+ conditions for all sites as well as before and after the transition at
      each site. Routinely collected data from facility registers and medical records will be
      abstracted to determine study outcomes. In addition, two purposely selected cohorts of (1)120
      PMTCT clients and; (2) approximately 50 health care workers will complete questionnaires at
      repeated time points to assess acceptability of Option A and Option B+ approaches.

      Study Population:

      All HIV positive pregnant women not on ART engaging in PMTCT services at the study sites will
      be part of the PMTCT Options Evaluation. This will include HIV+ women not on ART enrolling in
      PMTCT services and pregnant women newly testing HIV+ in the absolute neutrophil count (ANC).
      A subset of HIV+ pregnant women not on ART engaging in PMTCT services and health care workers
      providing PMTCT services at the study sites will be enrolled in an acceptability evaluation.

      Study Size:

      A total of approximately 2,600 HIV positive pregnant women enrolled in PMTCT services at ten
      Ministry of Health (MOH) facilities.

      Primary Objective:

      To compare the impact of implementing Option A and Option B+ on the composite endpoint of
      infant HIV-positive polymerase chain reaction (PCR) at 6 months postpartum or maternal loss
      to follow-up at 6 months postpartum.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To compare Option A and Option B+ on proportion of pregnant women with CD4+<350
           cells/mm3 initiating ART during pregnancy and on duration of ART received prior to
           delivery for ART-eligible pregnant women

        2. To compare Option A and Option B+ on the proportion of women and children retained in
           HIV care at 12, and 18 months postpartum

        3. To examine patient and provider level acceptability of Option A and Option B+

        4. To compare the cost-effectiveness of Option A and Option B+

      Tertiary Objectives:

        1. To determine pregnancy and infant outcomes (including fetal losses, neonatal death,
           birth weight and gestational age) among HIV+ pregnant women receiving PMTCT and compare
           outcomes by maternal ARV regimens.

        2. To compare Option A and Option B+ on maternal and child adherence as measured by
           prescriptions dispensed for maternal and infant antiretroviral medications.
    
  