
    
      Background:

        -  Combination immunotherapy approaches are being actively explored to further improve
           responses, enhance clinical benefit, and overcome resistance to PD(L)-1 agents in cancer
           patients.

        -  Interleukin-8 (IL-8) is a pro-inflammatory chemokine produced by various cell types.
           Overexpression of IL-8 and/or its receptors CXCR1 and CXCR2, is commonly seen in many
           human cancers including breast, cervical, melanoma and prostate.

        -  SX-682 is an oral, small molecule inhibitor of the CXCR1/2 chemokine receptors that are
           believed involved in MDSC-recruitment to tumor and other pro-tumoral mechanisms.

        -  Bintrafusp alfa (M7824 or MSB0011359C) is a bifunctional protein composed of the
           extracellular domain of the TGF-BetaRII receptor (TGF-Beta 'trap') fused to a human
           IgG1. Preclinical data shows bintrafusp alfa treatment increases T-cell trafficking,
           antigenspecific CD8+ T-cell lysis and NK cell activation.

        -  CV301 is a poxviral-based vaccine comprised of recombinant Modified vaccinia Ankara
           (MVA-BN-CV301, prime) and recombinant fowlpox (FPV-CV301, boost). CV301 contains
           transgenes encoding two (2) tumor-associated antigens (TAA), mucin 1 (MUC1) and
           carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), as well as three costimulatory molecules (B7.1, ICAM-1
           and LFA-3, designated TRICOM). A recent phase 1 clinical trial demonstrated that
           antigen-specific T cells to MUC1 and CEA, as well as to a cascade antigen, brachyury,
           were generated in most patients.

        -  Preclinical studies performed in LTIB with SX-682, M7824 and a CEA-based vaccine showed
           a significant reduction in tumor growth as well as a significant increase in tumor
           infiltration with CD4+ and CD8+ T cells.

      Objectives:

        -  Arm 1 (Sequential Dose Escalation):

             -  To evaluate the safety and tolerability of single agent SX-682.

             -  To determine the MTD of SX-682 followed by M7824 and CV301 vaccines in patients
                with advanced or metastatic solid tumors. If the MTD is not reached the study will
                be focused to describe the safety and tolerability of SX-682 followed by M7824 and
                CV301 vaccines.

        -  Arm 2 (Combination Dose Escalation):

           --To determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of SX-682 with M7824 and CV301
           vaccines in patients with advanced or metastatic solid tumors. If the MTD is not reached
           the study will be focused to describe the safety and tolerability of the drug
           combination.

        -  Arm 3 (Expansion):

             -  To evaluate preliminary efficacy based on Objective Response Rate (ORR), in each
                disease cohort separately.

      Eligibility:

        -  Age > 18 years old

        -  Arms 1 and 2 (Dose-Escalation Cohort): Subjects with cytologically or histologically
           confirmed locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors.

        -  Arm 3 (Expansion Cohorts):

             -  TNBC: Subjects with cytologically or histologically confirmed locally advanced or
                metastatic Triple Negative Breast Cancer that has progressed on at least one prior
                treatment in the advanced or in the metastatic setting.

             -  HPV negative HNSCC: Subjects with cytologically or histologically confirmed locally
                advanced or metastatic, HPV negative head and neck squamous cell cancer (p16
                negative for oropharyngeal) that has progressed on at least one prior treatment
                involving a platinum drug or cetuximab in advanced or in the metastatic setting.

        -  Prior first line systemic therapy is required unless there is no standard treatment
           available, the patient cannot tolerate standard first line treatment, or the patient
           declines standard treatment after appropriate counseling has been provided.

        -  ECOG performance status of 0 to 1

        -  Adequate renal, hepatic, and hematologic function

        -  Subjects in Arms 1 and 2 may have disease that is measurable or non-measurable but
           evaluable disease (e.g. present on bone scan, rising tumor markers, non-measurable by
           RECIST but visible on CT scan). Patients with third space fluid (for example pleural
           effusions) as only site of disease will not be eligible. Subjects in Arm 3 must have
           measurable disease according to RECIST 1.1

      Design:

        -  Arm 1 is a phase I, open-label, 3+3 sequential dose escalation trial with short term,
           2-week SX-682 monotherapy lead-in followed by treatment with M7824 and CV301 vaccine
           series in advanced solid tumors (Q2W dosing schedule) for the duration of treatment.

        -  Arm 2 is a phase I, open-label, 3+3 combination dose escalation trial with short term
           SX- 682 monotherapy lead in followed by SX-682 combination with M7824 and CV301 vaccine
           series in advanced solid tumors (Q2W dosing schedule). Each enrolled patient will
           receive SX-682 as monotherapy for 2 weeks then will receive SX-682, M7824 and CV301 for
           the duration of treatment

        -  Arm 3 has two expansion cohorts. Following identification of the MTD or R2PD for the
           combination of SX-682, M7824 and CV301 vaccine, disease-specific phase 2 expansion
           cohorts will open in 1) advanced/metastatic triple negative breast cancer and 2)

      advanced/metastatic, platinum-refractory HPV negative head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.
    
  