
    
      This study is a prospective, randomized, controlled trial. Patients undergoing ICSI for their
      first cycle are enrolled in this study. Participants are then randomized into two groups ;
      group A patients will receive daily oral low dose Acetylsalicylic acid (75 mg) and group B
      patients will receive daily oral low dose Acetylsalicylic acid (75 mg) and Low dose
      prednisolone (10 mg/day).

      Randomization will be done by withdrawing closed envelopes for each patient .

      Inclusion criteria:

      Women in reproductive age diagnosed with infertility for ICSI, female age (18- <40 years,
      normal serum hormonal profile on day 3 of the cycle [including estradiol (E2), follicle
      stimulating hormone (FSH), Luteinizing hormone (LH), prolactin, thyroid stimulating hormone,
      normal uterine cavity diagnosed at hysteroscopy.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Women with platelet dysfunction, thrombocytopenia, gastrointestinal ulcers, recurrent
           gastritis, Acetylsalicylic acid hypersensitivity, patients on corticosteroids will be
           excluded from the study.

        -  Also women with known cause for recurrent miscarriage: antiphospholipid syndrome,
           abnormal thyroid function tests, parental balanced translocation or uterine anomaly
           (known subseptate uterus or cervical weakness diagnosed at hysteroscopy).

        -  Contraindications to steroid therapy: hypertension, diabetes, mental health problems or
           obesity with Body mass index (BMI) >35

        -  Decline consent to randomization

      Methodology in details:

      All patients will be subjected to the following:

        -  -Informed consent after explaining the aim of the study, procedure and possible hazards.

        -  -History taking includes full obstetric history, medical and surgical history and
           demographic distribution.

        -  Full physical examination. -

        -  -Ultrasound examination (2D): Transvaginal sonography (TVS) is done on day 2 to 5 to
           assess antral follicle count (AFC), uterus and adnexa .

        -  -Each group will start intake of Acetyl-Salicylic Acid (ASA) or ASA with Prednisolone on
           day 19th - 20th of the previous cycle and continue until confirmation of pregnancy by
           detection of fetal heart activity on ultrasound.

        -  -Long protocol steps:

             -  Start from day 19th - 20th by GnRH agonist ;Triptorelin 0.1mg subcutaneous
                (Decapeptyl, Ferring). -1st visit : after 2 weeks of start of GnRH agonist or day 2
                of cycle, we confirm down regulation by a serum level of E2to be <50 pg/ml,
                endometrial thickness <5mm, no ovarian cyst by ultrasound. Then we add
                Gonadotropins as Intramuscular (I.M.) injections of 150-300 I.U. of highly purified
                Human Menopausal Gonadotropins daily (Merional, 75 I.U. /vial, IBSA). The dose is
                adjusted according to the age, BMI, AFC, serum levels of anti-mullerian hormone
                (AMH), follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and ovarian response.

             -  2nd visit : on 6th - 7 th days of Gonadotrophins and then every other day to do
                folliculometry by TVS and E2 level in serum.

             -  We do trigger by Human Chorionic Gonadotrophin (HCG)10000 IU I.M.(Pregnyl, Organon)
                when at least 3 follicles reach 18mm in mean diameter or more and E2 level is less
                than 2500 pg/ml. Ovum pickup is done 34 hours after HCG injection and embryo
                transfer using Wallace catheter on day 2 to 3.

        -  -Luteal support: Natural Progesterone 400 mg 1x2, Folic acid once daily,
           Amoxicillin-Clavulanic Acid 1gm 1x2x7 ,Progesterone 100mg I.M. daily for 10 days,
           Acetylsalicylic Acid once daily

        -  -Quantitative ß- HCG in serum after 14 days of embryo transfer. -TVS to detect clinical
           pregnancy at 6-7 weeks of gestation.

      Primary outcome:

      The primary outcome is clinical pregnancy rate per cycle.

      Secondary outcome:

      Secondary outcome measures are number of oocytes retrieved, fertilization rate, number of
      embryos, embryo quality, chemical pregnancy rate, twins rate and miscarriage rate per cycle.
    
  