
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the overall survival (OS) of patients with advanced limited peritoneal
           dissemination of colon adenocarcinoma treated with systemic therapy with vs without
           cytoreduction surgery and hyperthermic intraperitoneal mitomycin C.

        -  To compare the relative OS at 1 year of patients treated with these regimens.

      Secondary

        -  To compare the progression-free survival (PFS) of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To compare the relative PFS at 1 year of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To compare the toxicity burden of these regimens in these patients.

        -  To compare the OS and PFS according to patients' peritoneal surface tumor genotype for
           the NAD(P)H (quinone oxidoreductase 1 [NQO1] 609C >T polymorphism [wild type vs
           heterozygous/homozygous mutant]) in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To compare circulating tumor cells in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to presentation
      (synchronous vs metachronous carcinomatosis), ECOG performance status (0 vs 1), disease
      volume (measurable vs non-measurable), prior first-line therapy for advanced disease
      (chemo-naïve vs prior first-line therapy), planned chemotherapy (oxaliplatin vs irinotecan vs
      fluorouracil/leucovorin calcium vs capecitabine), and planned biologic therapy (bevacizumab
      vs cetuximab vs none). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive standard systemic therapy, at the discretion of patients'
           oncologist, comprising combinations of fluorouracil, leucovorin calcium, irinotecan
           hydrochloride, oxaliplatin, and/or capecitabine (including FOLFOX4, mFOLFOX6, CapeOx, or
           FOLFIRI) with or without bevacizumab (beginning 4-6 weeks after major surgery) or
           cetuximab*. Treatment repeats in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity. Patients with progressive disease may crossover to arm II.

      NOTE: *For patients with KRAS wild-type tumors.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo cytoreduction surgery and hyperthermic intraperitoneal
           mitomycin C over 45-90 minutes. Beginning 8 weeks after surgery, patients receive
           standard systemic therapy as in arm I. Treatment with systemic therapy repeats for 6
           courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood and tissue samples may be collected from patients for correlative studies.

      Patients complete SF-36 Health Survey; Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Colorectal
      (FACT-C); Feeling Sad, Down, or Depressed (CES-D); and a Brief Pain Inventory quality-of-life
      questionnaires at baseline and then periodically during study.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up periodically for 5 years.
    
  