
    
      Psychotropic drugs are frequently used in children and adolescents in France with a
      prescription rate of 2.5%. Antipsychotics (PA) and antidepressants (AD) each concern 0.3% of
      the pediatric population (Kovess et al., 2015). Despite appropriate pharmacological
      treatment, some patients are drug-resistant and have persisting symptoms and ineffective
      psychotropic treatments. These children and adolescents are generally exposed to many
      psychotropic molecules and often to poly-therapy. Additionally, hospitalizations for child
      psychiatry, sometimes of prolonged duration, are frequent for these patients. In France, to
      date, the psychiatrist practitioner rarely uses pharmacogenetic evaluation as a complementary
      tool for prescribing psychotropic drugs. Nevertheless, an individualized prescription taking
      into consideration the patient's individual metabolism could greatly improve the benefit and
      reduce the risk of psychotropic treatments in the pediatric population.

      Most psychotropic treatments, especially AP and AD, are metabolised at the hepatic level by
      cytochrome P450 and in particular by CYP2D6. Duplication / multiplication of the CYP2D6 gene
      induces too rapid metabolism of the drugs (ultrafast metabolizer). It is linked to a clinical
      inefficiency of treatments, and concerns up to 10% of the general population in southern
      Europe (Scordo et al., 2004).

      In a preliminary study in Nice, an abnormality of CYP2D6 was found in 4 of the 7 patients
      tested with drug-resistant and / or with numerous adverse effects to the AP, of which 3 of
      the 5 pharmacologically resistant patients shows a duplication of the gene.

      Demonstration of a CYP2D6 abnormality has a direct impact on the management of the patient
      and on the clinical decisions of the clinician. Thus, knowledge of individual metabolism will
      decrease the failure of treatment, improve quality of life and therapeutic compliance.
    
  