
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Hyperapo B is a phenotype defined as elevated plasma level of the major apoprotein B of low
      density lipoproteins in the presence of a normal plasma level of low density lipoprotein
      cholesterol. It has been demonstrated that hyperapo B is strongly associated with coronary
      artery disease. In 1984 when the study began, the independence of this association with other
      risk factors for coronary artery disease such as cigarette smoking, hypertension, and low
      plasma levels of high density lipoproteins was not known. The study improved knowledge of the
      pathophysiology of coronary artery disease and of the genetic and biochemical defects of
      hyperapo B and hypoalphalipoproteinemia.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Interviews were conducted and clinical data collected on each index case and spouse, as well
      as on first degree relatives. Risk factor data included blood pressure, blood lipid levels,
      obesity, cigarette smoking, fasting blood sugar and diabetes, hormone use and menopause for
      women, physical activity, personality scores, and family history. Clinical data included the
      indications for coronary arteriography, history of use of lipid-lowering agents and insulin,
      presence of corneal arcus, xanthomata, and xanthelasma, and the electrocardiogram.

      To determine if the apolipoprotein B gene and the apolipoprotein A1-C3-A4 gene cluster were
      independent predictors of premature coronary disease, the relation between DNA polymeric
      sites within the two genes and coronary disease were investigated using cloned DNA fragments
      as molecular probes. To determine if apolipoprotein B and apolipoprotein A levels aggregated
      in families and to determine if hyperapo B and hypoalphalipoproteinemia segregated as
      Mendelian traits, genetic analysis was conducted in the 200 index cases and the 900 first
      degree relatives. Studies were also conducted on the linkages between hyperapo B and
      haplotypes of the apolipoprotein B gene, on hyperapo B and the Ag polymorphisms, and on
      hyperalphalipoproteinemia and haplotypes of the apolipoprotein A1-C3-A4 gene cluster.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  