
    
      Multiple Myeloma (MM) is a mature B-cell lymphoma characterized by monoclonal proliferation
      of tumor plasma cells invading the bone marrow. It is the second malignant hemopathy among
      Non-Hodgkin's Lymphomas. Etiology of the disease is poorly understood. Its higher incidence
      in black subjects suggests the existence of genetic factors. Numerous studies have evoked the
      role of exposure to environmental and occupational factors in the occurrence of MM such as
      exposure to pesticides, solvents, in particular benzene, and other petroleum derivatives, as
      well as work in an agricultural environment, in hairdressing and in the metallurgical and
      textile industries. According to the Collective Inserm expertise "Pesticides and Health", a
      strong presumption (++) has been established between exposure to pesticides and the risk of
      occurrence of MM.

      In the French West Indies (Guadeloupe, Martinique), the incidence of MM is higher than in
      France. These 2 departments are characterized by a major use of pesticides in connection with
      the banana culture developed intensively from the 1950s. These cultures successively used
      organochlorine insecticides, mainly β-hexachlorocyclohexane (β-HCH), technical HCH (mixture
      of α, β, and γ isomers of HCH), and especially chlordecone (CLD). CLD was used from 1972 to
      1993 under the trade names of Kepone® (1972-1978) and then Curlone® (1982-1993) with a CLD
      rate of 5%. The absence of biotic and abiotic degradation of CLD has resulted in persistent
      soil pollution, still present today, contamination of surface and deep waters, many plant and
      animal products, terrestrial and marine, and then the population. CLD is a proven carcinogen
      in rodents, classified as a possible carcinogen by the International Agency for Research on
      Cancer (IARC) and has recognized hormonal properties (endocrine disruptor). CLD has been
      associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer in Guadeloupe. In Martinique, a
      geographic correlation study has shown a high incidence of MM in individuals residing on
      soils polluted by CLD.

      Studies on the impact of pesticides on health come up against numerous limits, in the
      foreground of which is the great diversity of products (more than 900 active ingredients were
      approved one day in France and marketed in more than 9000 different products) and the
      difficulty in reconstructing retrospectively and objectively the exposures of individuals due
      to the multiplicity of sources of exposure (leisure, gardening, domestic use).

      Mode of action of pesticides is still insufficiently documented, but some are classified as
      genotoxic, immunotoxic, tumor promoters or endocrine disruptors. Data available in the
      literature mainly relate to case-control or cohort studies on the occupational exposure of
      agricultural workers in industrialized countries. Measurement of this exposure is mainly made
      from self-administered questionnaires.

      The investigators propose to assess feasibility of a case-control study on role of exposure
      to pesticides, in particular to CLD and persistent pollutants, as well as other occupational
      exposures in the occurrence of MM in the West Indies. This study is part of the
      recommendations of the Inserm-InVs Chlordecone Scientific Council and action 18 of the
      National Interministerial Chlordecone Plan "initiate work on the link between myelomas and
      exposure to chlordecone".
    
  