
    
      Despite advances in breast cancer prevention, diagnosis, and therapy, 5-10% of patients with
      breast cancer have metastatic disease at initial presentation, and approximately 30% of
      patients with breast cancer develop metastatic disease during the course of disease.
      Metastatic cascade is a multistep process that enables the migration of tumor cells from the
      primary site to a distant location, where they can potentially establish a new cancer growth.
      To execute the metastatic cascade, epithelial cancer cells must detach from the primary
      tumor, pass through the peripheral circulation, extravasate at the distant site and create a
      new tumor.

      Experimental and clinical data suggest a close relationship between activation of EMT program
      and generation of CTCs. EMT is associated with a set of molecular changes in epithelial
      cancer cells that results in increased motility and the induction of proteases that are
      involved in degradation of the extracellular matrix facilitating thus invasion and
      intravasation into the bloodstream. EMT has also been linked to the stem cell phenotype and
      resistance to apoptotic signals, facilitating EMT-derived CTCs to survive in foreign
      environments. Cancer stem cell phenotype is closely related to ALDH expression. Several
      studies showed that CTCs with EMT phenotype is associated with inferior outcome in primary as
      well as in metastatic setting.

      In a biomarker study in primary breast cancer, CTC_EMT were detected in 77 (18.0%) of
      patients. Patients without detectable CTC_EMT in the peripheral blood had significantly
      superior DFS compared to patients with detectable CTC_EMT (HR = 0.42, 95%CI 0.22 - 0.78, p =
      0.0003). Prognostic value of CTC_EMT was demonstrated in all subgroups of patients, most
      pronounced in hormone receptor positive, HER2 negative subgroup. In multivariate analysis,
      presence of CTC_EMT, axillary nodal involvement and hormone receptor status were
      independently associated with DFS. Presence of CTC_EMT could lead to better identification of
      patients with increased risk of recurrence, especially in hormone receptor positive, HER-2
      negative primary breast cancer patients.

      Disulfiram (DSF) in combination with copper (Cu) has been reported to override drug
      resistance in cancer cells, and DSF combined with chemotherapy based on the microtubule
      inhibitor vinorelbine appears to prolong survival in non-small cell lung cancer patients.

      Based on aforementioned data, it is suggested that there is strong rationale to inhibit ALDH
      in MBC. Inactivation of ALDH by disulfiram/copper will be lead to increase of objective
      response rate in patients with refractory MBC.
    
  