
    
      Patients assessed for elective open aortic surgery for both aneurysmal and occlusive disease
      either as inpatients or in the outpatient vascular surgery clinic will be screened for
      eligibility at the time of initial consultation. Once the patient has been screened for
      eligibility, the participant will be enrolled on the basis of informed consent with a letter
      of information. This study will be submitted for review by the Health Sciences Research
      Ethics Board at Western University. This will be a feasibility trial, with the primary
      endpoints reflecting safety and feasibility outcomes of executing the trial protocol as
      outlined in this document.

      Intervention in this trial is randomization to POCUS management for goal-directed
      post-operative resuscitation for the first 48 hours of admission, whereas the control group
      will be management by usual care for the first 48 hours of admission. Patients randomized to
      the use of POCUS will have a focused cardiac, thoracic, and Inferior vena cava (IVC) study
      performed post-operatively in the surgery recovery room, as well as regular (BID) assessments
      on the inpatient ward for post-operative day one and two.

      The protocol for the intervention group will receive a 4-view transthoracic echocardiogram
      including the following views: Parasternal long axis, parasternal short axis, apical
      4-chamber, and supplemental subcostal short-axis and subcostal 4-chamber if parasternal views
      are limited. Color Doppler will be used for qualitative valvular assessment if indicated. A
      longitudinal IVC view will be obtained in the usual subcostal transabdominal position, or the
      transhepatic position if the transabdominal view is not technically feasible. A thoracic lung
      ultrasound study will assess the left and right anterior chest wall, anterior axillary
      regions, as well as the costophrenic angle and posterolateral regions. Participants
      randomized to the point of care ultrasound arm will also have access to routine avenues of
      patient assessment which include review of vital signs, biochemistry, and urine output as
      well as bedside physical exam. Images acquired will be overread by sonographic experts with
      expertise in bedside point of care echocardiography through a central image reporting system.

      Point of care studies will synthesize cardiac, thoracic, and IVC views to elucidate whether
      patients who fluid deplete or fluid replete, and if ventricular dysfunction is contributing
      to hypotension or end-organ dysfunction. They will be allocated to either a fluid restrictive
      or fluid liberal management strategy accordingly. The fluid liberal group will receive a
      fluid infusion of 2ml/kg/hr of balanced crystalloid solution. For patients with a body weight
      greater than 100kg, fluid volumes will be calculated based on a maximum body weight of 100kg.
      The fluid restrictive group will receive a fluid infusion of 0.8ml/kg/hr of balanced
      crystalloid solution. IV boluses of crystalloid will be permitted to treat hypotension with
      systolic blood pressure <90 with clinical signs of hypovolemia, but oliguria will not be used
      as a marker to titrate fluid infusion rates. Blood transfusions will be permitted to treat
      post-operative bleeding or anemia as clinically indicated. Those with severely decreased left
      ventricular function who are presumed to be hypotensive secondary to poor cardiac output will
      be transferred to an appropriate level 1 care monitored bed to receive vasopressors or
      inotropes to manage their hypotension. They will be managed to the fluid restrictive arm with
      an infusion rate of 0.8 ml/kg/hr of ringer's lactate solution. Once all patients are able to
      tolerate oral fluid intake, their maintenance IV fluid infusions will be discontinued.

      Participants randomized to control group for usual care will undergo resuscitation guided by
      modalities used currently, which can include both static and dynamic measures. These will
      include review of vital signs, biochemistry, and urine output as well as bedside physical
      exam. In this arm, patients will not undergo POCUS during their admission. IV fluid infusion
      rates as well as targets for IV boluses will be left to the discretion of the attending
      physician and can include hypotension, hypovolemia, as well as oliguria. Blood transfusion
      may be used for post-operative bleeding or anemia as clinically indicated.

      This protocol does not restrict formal radiographic or ultrasound studies such as plain film
      x-rays, CT, MRI, echocardiography, abdominal ultrasonography, and duplex ultrasound of lower
      extremity veins in patients in the intervention or control groups with appropriate clinical
      indications.
    
  