
    
      Physical inactivity in the United States has become a critical public health concern for all
      age groups. With a large segment of the population rapidly aging, there is growing interest
      in ensuring mid to older age adults (50+) stay active and reduce sedentariness, to decrease
      their morbidity and mortality risk. While older adults are advised to engage in at least 150
      minutes/week of moderate to vigorous physical activity (PA), most do not. Specific theory
      based behavioral strategies have been shown to positively affect health and activity
      behaviors. There is also emerging evidence that mindfulness based interventions (MBI) may
      facilitate PA through increased mind-body awareness and self-regulation. However, research
      for MBIs and physical activity is currently limited, both in quantity and methodological
      rigor.

      The broad long-term objective is to optimize physical and sedentary activity levels in
      middle-older age adults through an integrated mindfulness and behavioral approach scalable
      for broad dissemination. The University of Minnesota (UMN) will work with the YMCA Greater
      Twin Cities, a community based organization committed to providing accessible resources to
      "build healthy spirit, mind and body for all" and making healthy aging a priority. To
      decrease time between discovery and translation, a two-phase hybrid
      effectiveness-implementation design will be used.

      Phase I will address the following: 1) project organization, barrier/facilitator assessment,
      protocol development, and training; and 2) evaluation of feasibility of project protocols at
      multiple levels in a randomized pilot study (n=30) of Mindful Movement versus a modified 10
      Keys to Health & Wellbeing educational control using transition milestones.

      Phase II will address: 1) investigation of the relative effectiveness of Mindful Movement
      versus control in a full-scale randomized controlled trial (RCT, n=182) using accelerometer
      based PA at 9 weeks (primary outcome) and at 26 and 52 weeks (secondary outcomes) as well as
      other secondary measures include sedentary activity, quality of life, exercise self-efficacy
      and expectations, mindfulness, wellbeing, bodily pain, and adverse events; and 2) RCT
      interpretation by providing contextual data from participants, staff, and organizational
      leadership. These will include: enrollment, adherence, follow up, and fidelity rates; and
      perceptions of barriers/facilitators, relevance, practicality, affordability and
      acceptability. This information will be used to create a toolkit for implementation at other
      YMCA sites.

      This project is innovative in that it will be among the first to assess MBIs for enhancing
      older adults' physical activity in community based settings using a design intended to
      facilitate and accelerate research translation. Through the UMN and YMCA partnership, there
      is great potential to develop a sustainable and replicable physical activity intervention
      with meaningful impact and nationwide reach.
    
  