
    
      The Ependymoma Program is a comprehensive program to improve the accuracy of the primary
      diagnosis of ependymoma and explore different therapeutic strategies in children, adolescents
      and young adults, accordingly. This program is opened to all patients diagnosed with
      ependymoma below the age of 22 years.

      It will include a centralised review of pre and post-operative imaging to assess the
      completeness of the resection.

      It will also include a central review of pathology to confirm the histological diagnosis. The
      biological markers 1q gain, Tenascin C status, NELL2 and LAMA2, RELA-fusion and molecular
      subgroup by methylation array will be prospectively assessed for prospective evaluation of
      disease subgroups. Further biological evaluations will be coordinated within the linked
      BIOMECA study.

      After surgery and central review of imaging and pathology, patients will be offered the
      opportunity to undergo second look surgery, if possible. Patients will be enrolled in one of
      3 different strata according to the outcome of the initial surgical resection (residual
      disease vs no residual disease), their age or eligibility / suitability to receive
      radiotherapy. These 3 different strata correspond to 3 therapeutic strategies according to
      the patient status.

        1. Stratum 1 is designed as a randomised phase III study for patients who have had a
           complete resection, with no measurable residual disease (as confirmed by centrally
           reviewed MRI) and are > 12 months and < 22 years at diagnosis. Those patients will be
           randomised to receive conformal radiotherapy followed by either 16 weeks of chemotherapy
           with VEC-CDDP, or observation.

        2. Stratum 2 is designed as a randomised phase II study for patients who have inoperable
           measurable residual disease and who are > 12 months and < 22 years at diagnosis. Those
           patients will be randomised to two different treatment schedules of chemotherapy either
           with VEC or VEC+ high dose methotrexate (VEC +HD-MTX). After completion of the frontline
           chemotherapy, patients will be assessed for response (MRI) and will receive second look
           surgery when feasible. For those patients who remain unresectable with residual disease
           despite frontline chemotherapy and for whom second line surgery is not feasible, there
           will be a study of the safety of a radiotherapy boost of 8 Gy that will be administered
           to the residual tumour immediately after the completion of the conformal radiotherapy.
           Patients without evidence of residual disease after the chemotherapy and/or a second
           look surgery are not eligible for radiotherapy boost. All patients who have not shown
           progression under chemotherapy will receive, as maintenance therapy, a 16 week course of
           VEC -CDDP following completion of radiotherapy.

        3. Stratum 3 is designed as a randomised phase II chemotherapy study in children <12 months
           of age or those not eligible to receive radiotherapy. These patients will be randomised
           to receive a dose dense chemotherapy alternating myelosuppressive and relatively
           non-myelosuppressive drugs at 2 weekly intervals, with or without, the addition of the
           histone deacetylase inhibitor, valproate.

      Registry: Patients that do not fulfil the inclusion criteria of one of the interventional
      strata will be enrolled and followed up via an observational study which will be analysed
      descriptively.
    
  