
    
      This was a proof-of-concept, prospective, parallel, multicentre, randomised and open-label
      trial, including a follow-up of all subjects conducted at 11 centres in Spain. Study visits
      included an inclusion visit (Visit 1), a treatment administration visit (Visit 2), and 9
      follow-up visits (Visit 3 to Visit 11) from 3 to 60 months after study treatment
      administration. All of the procedures performed at these visits were in accordance with
      routine clinical practice. Subjects were randomised to any one of the two treatment arms
      (Group 1: brachytherapy only, or Group 2: brachytherapy + triptorelin 22.5 mg). Randomisation
      was stratified according to the brachytherapy dose rate (low or high dose rate).

      Visit 1 included the collection of demographic data, a review of clinical details of prostate
      cancer and its treatment, blood sampling (for Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA), testosterone,
      and haematology and biochemistry parameters, as appropriate), administration of the QoL
      questionnaire and International Prostatic Symptom Score (IPSS), and treatment group
      allocation. Visit 2 included a review of the eligibility criteria, recording of concomitant
      medications and adverse events (AEs) and study drug administration. Visits 3 to 11 included
      recording of AEs and concomitant medications, blood sampling and administration of the QoL
      questionnaire and IPSS.

      Following the selection visit (Visit 1), all subjects were scheduled to brachytherapy. Those
      subjects who were randomised to the concomitant hormone therapy group received a single dose
      of triptorelin 22.5 mg by intramuscular injection at Visit 2, 2 weeks following the selection
      visit (Visit 1), and preferably 2 months before receiving brachytherapy. One week before and
      two weeks after triptorelin administration, subjects were permitted to receive an
      anti-androgen to counteract a transient increase in testosterone levels.

      The study was prematurely stopped due to the slow enrolment of subjects. Of the planned 86
      evaluable subjects, 35 were screened, and 32 were randomised between 3 November 2011 and 26
      May 2014. The slow inclusion of subjects was due to several factors, among which there were
      changes in clinical practice which caused such subjects to be offered alternative treatments
      to brachytherapy. Due to the small number of subjects, none of the planned efficacy analyses
      were performed. Instead, the data were analysed as follows:

        -  Efficacy data and quality of life (QoL) outcomes were displayed only in listings.

        -  Safety information was displayed using listings and summary tables.
    
  