
    
      This is a post market clinical follow up (PMCF) study with the purpose of gather knowledge on
      the use and performance of the Ponto 4 device on existing Ponto 4 users. The study does not
      include any treatment or fitting of new devices, instead the real-life application of the use
      of Ponto 4 on subjects already using Ponto 4(s) are investigated.

      The Investigational Device used in the study is Ponto 4, a CE marked, and FDA cleared bone
      anchored hearing solution, produced by Oticon Medical AB and commercially available since
      June 2019.

      The recruitment for this clinical investigation will be performed among subjects who have
      already received a Ponto 4 device as a minimum 1.5 month prior to the study. 20 patients,
      including minors down to 12 years old, with a conductive, mixed hearing loss or single-sided
      deafness will be included. The rationale for including minors is that they are also users of
      the device, and it is found important to collect data from their experience of using the
      device as well.

      The study is a prospective, multi-center study. It has one visit of 2,5-3 hours for adult
      subjects ≥18 years old. To minimize the burden and risks of tiredness for the minor subjects
      from 12-17 years old, the protocol activities can be divided into two visits. The decision
      will be based on the Investigators discretion.

      The majority of the objectives of the study are prospectively collected whereas the BC
      In-situ (hearing with the Ponto 4 on) and audiometric data from the time of the fitting of
      Ponto 4, are collected retrospectively from the time of the fitting of Ponto 4.

      The overall objectives of the study are to investigate the improvement in hearing with the
      Ponto 4(s) on the implanted ear(s), in terms of the subject's ability to hear sounds and
      understand speech when using the device.

      The primary endpoint is to investigate the improvement in hearing with the Ponto 4(s) on the
      implanted ear for patients within intended use.

      These will be evaluated through a hearing and a speech test, both assessing the hearing with
      the Ponto 4(s) both on and off. Additionally, the subject will complete 2 patient reported
      outcome, report daily usage time of the device and assess satisfaction of connectivity
      devices.

      Minimal risks are expected for subjects participating in the study. Treatment is not provided
      in the study therefore risks are limited to the audiological measurements. The audiological
      measurements in the study are standard non-invasive measurements already familiar to the
      clinics. The measurements will require an extra effort and may be found slightly tiring by
      the subject. To mitigate the risk of tiredness the subject will be given the opportunity to
      have breaks during the visit.
    
  