
    
      In a preliminary study, among the population coming to the outpatient consultation of
      mountain medicine at Avicenne hospital in 2012, 82 subjects (38 females and 44 males) were
      randomly selected and separated in two groups of 41 high and 41 low responders to hypoxia
      according to the median value of the hypoxic ventilatory response to hypoxia at exercise
      (HVRe > or < 0.84 L/min/kg) derived from the hypoxic exercise test (inspired fraction of O2:
      0.115, exercise intensity of 30% of maximal aerobic power), as previously described.

      The hypoxic exercise test consists in 4 successive phases of 3 to 4 minutes each with the
      following sequence: rest in normoxia (RN), rest in hypoxia (RH), exercise in hypoxia (EH) and
      exercise in normoxia (EN). Minute ventilation ( E, L.min-1) is measured through a metabograph
      (Vmax Encore, SensorMedics, Yorba Linda, CA). Pulse O2 saturation (SpO2, %) is measured by
      transcutaneous oximetry (Nellcor N-595, Nellcor, Pleasanton, CA) on a pre-warmed ear lobe.
      End tidal PCO2 (PETCO2) is measured by infrared thermopile (Vmax Encore, SensorMedics, Yorba
      Linda, CA). During the whole test, VE, SpO2 and PETCO2 were recorded breath-by-breath.
      Continuous blood pressure is measured by a Finapres system. Data are transferred to a
      computer for further spectrum analysis. A Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) is then applied to the
      ventilation signal in sequences of 128 points in each phase of the test. This method will
      allow us to detect the presence of peaks in the frequency domain of the ventilation signal.
      Two main parameters are derived from the FFT: the frequency in hertz (or period in seconds)
      of the larger peak and its power estimated as the area under the peak at ± 0.02 Hz around the
      peak (in L2.s-2).

      The main study will be designed in order to unravel the mechanisms and role of these
      oscillations in ventilation. An overall population of 90 healthy subjects and 30 patients
      will be included in the study.

      Step 1. Effect of exercise intensity.

      Step 2. Effect of altitude level.

      Step 3. Effect of the stimulation of central chemoreceptors by acetazolamide.

      Step 4. Effect of inhibiting the peripheral chemoreceptors by hyperoxia.

      Step 5. Effect of inhibiting the peripheral chemoreceptors by hyperoxia and stimulating the
      central chemoreceptors by hypercapnia.

      Step 6. Evaluating the presence of these oscillations in patients with sleep apneas.

      Step 7. Evaluating the presence of these oscillations in patients with cardiac failure.
    
  