
    
      Currently, acute viral hepatitis (AVH) management is based on diet and rest and silymarin
      remains among the most popular herbs being used for treating viral hepatitis both in the U.S.
      and abroad. Although numerous randomized clinical trials have been conducted to assess the
      efficacy of silymarin on chronic hepatitis C, very few studies were done to assess the
      efficacy of silymarin in acute viral hepatitis. Among those, efficacy of silymarin has not
      been established. This could be attributed to the small number of studies conducted, small
      sample sizes, high drop out rates, and low doses of silymarin used. Therefore, it is
      justified to evaluate silymarin safety and efficacy using higher doses than previously
      studied in AVH.

      Primary safety objective:

        -  To assess safety and tolerability of two silymarin doses in patients with AVH as
           determined by the number and percentage of subjects who develop Adverse Events in each
           group elicited by a questionnaire administered at specific visits and by hematology,
           blood chemistry and physical examinations.

      Primary efficacy objective:

        -  To assess the percentage of subjects who normalize their total and direct bilirubin in
           each group.

      Secondary Objective:

      To assess the percentage of subjects in each group who:

        -  Normalize their liver enzymes, i.e. alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate
           aminotransferase (AST) and inflammatory reactants, i.e. erythrocyte sedimentation rate
           (ESR) and C-reactive protein (CRP).

        -  Resolve their clinical symptoms of AVH and return to baseline activity levels and
           quality of life (QOL) assessed by physical examinations and using a previously evaluated
           Arabic-translated SF-36 form adapted for use with patients with liver diseases.

      To assess:

        -  Differences in silymarin response in different AVH etiologies (i.e. HAV, HBV, HCV, HEV)
           using subgroup analyses.

      To compare:

        -  Progression of acute to chronic HCV infection in subjects with HCV-caused acute AVH.
    
  