
    
      Objective: The purpose of this observational study is to fulfill PMR 2127-4 for the
      miltefosine NDA (204684): implement a higher-weight-patient registry for the time period Mar
      2015-Mar 2020.

      Study Design: This study is a prospective observational study in which patients undergoing
      treatment for leishmaniasis with Impavido in the US and who weigh > 75 kg can volunteer to
      provide information about their clinical response to treatment up to 6 months after the start
      of treatment.

      Population: Leishmaniasis patients treated with Impavido who weigh more than 75 kg.

      Drug Product:

      Drug name: Impavido (50 mg capsules). Dosing regimen: as per the Impavido Product Label

      Study Procedures: Patients who weigh more than 75 kg will become aware of the Impavido
      Higher-Weight Patient Registry via the Impavido website. By calling 1-866-588-5405, the
      patient will be connected to the Impavido Higher-Weight Patient Registry Coordinating Center.
      A trained staff member will acquaint the patient with the goals and procedures of the study.
      If the patient tentatively agrees to participate in the study over the telephone, the patient
      will be mailed information forms, the Consent/Assent Forms, and the Consent for the patient's
      physician to release medical information. Receipt of the two signed Consent and/or Assent
      Forms by the Coordinating Center will signify patient consent. The Coordinating Center will
      contact the patient's physician at the end of treatment, and at 1, 3, and 6 months after
      completing treatment, to collect data on efficacy and adverse effects (only during
      treatment).

      Sample Size and Study Duration: Estimated 3-10 patients per year for 5 years.

      Outcome Parameters:

      Efficacy Adverse effects

      Analysis: Baseline data, compliance to prescribed treatment, and outcomes will be reported
      for individual patients and for all patients.
    
  