
    
      Frailty with aging is a serious debilitating condition that can further contribute to a
      downward spiraling of health and physical function. Many long term nursing home patients
      enter into rehabilitative care programs with the intent to increase strength and physical
      independence. However, many patients have lasting functional limitations despite
      rehabilitation programs intended to improve their physical function and sarcopenia and
      frailty is common among nursing home residents. Aging in general, and frailty in particular,
      has been associated with decreases in sex hormones, and testosterone treatment has known
      anabolic effects to muscle of hypogonadal as well has eugonadal males. Effective adjuvant
      treatments that can be safely employed in conjunction with existing therapies such as
      rehabilitative care intended to improve function can have profound benefits to the long-term
      outcome of male and female patients.

      The investigators have demonstrated that administration of testosterone (100 mg/wk) starts
      showing improvements in lean body mass (LBM) as early as 4 weeks and muscle strength by 8
      weeks in healthy older community dwelling males (Sheffield-Moore et al., 2011). In this
      study, both continuous weekly treatment as well as intermittent treatment (4 weeks on
      testosterone, 4 weeks off testosterone, etc) resulted in similar benefits after 20 weeks. In
      addition, the investigators recently completed a 10-week study where the investigators showed
      both the safety and efficacy of cycled testosterone treatment (100 mg/wk for 2 weeks,
      alternated by 2 weeks of no treatment) in combination with regular exercise in healthy
      eugonadal adult men confined to continuous bed rest (see preliminary data). In that study,
      testosterone robustly increased LBM in as little as 2 weeks of bed rest and improvements in
      LBM were associated with better protection of physical function upon reambulation.

      It is proposed that a cycled testosterone paradigm may be a safe and effective adjuvant
      therapy for frail older nursing home patients undergoing physical rehabilitation. The
      investigators hypothesize that testosterone treatment in addition to standard-of-care (SOC)
      physical therapy or rehabilitation will result in improved muscle mass and physical function
      when compared to patients receiving SOC only. The long term goal is to develop effective
      treatments against the functional declines in muscle mass and strength that contribute to the
      development and progression of frailty. Therefore, the investigators will test the specific
      aims outlined below in older male and female residents engaging in rehabilitation care at
      health care centers in Texas City and Galveston. Men and women (age 60-up) will be recruited
      as they enroll into rehabilitative care programs, screened upon informed consent, and if
      eligible, block-randomized (double-blinded) to receive either testosterone enanthate (100
      mg/wk for males and 25 mg/wk for females) or placebo (saline) treatment for 10 weeks. The
      treatment will follow a 2-week cycle (2 weeks on-treatment, 2 weeks off, etc). Primary
      outcomes will be assessed using non-invasive methods at baseline and at completion of the
      study after 10 weeks. These outcomes will include body composition as determined with
      bioelectric impedance analysis (BIA), muscle strength and fatigue by handgrip dynamometry,
      physical function by a short physical performance battery (SPPB), and quality of life (QOL)
      by a short battery of questionnaires. Blood samples will be collected at screening for safety
      and will be repeated at completion of the study for secondary outcome measures (hormones,
      lipid profiles and blood chemistries).

      Specific Aim 1. Determine the effects of cycled testosterone treatment on body composition in
      male and female nursing home residents undergoing rehabilitative care.

      Specific Aim 2. Determine the effects of cycled testosterone treatment on physical function
      in male and female nursing home residents undergoing rehabilitative care.

      Data from this pilot/feasibility project will become the foundation for the development of a
      larger long-term project solicitation to the NIH aimed at elucidating the efficacy of
      testosterone treatment on physical function and independence in frail older adults.
    
  