
    
      The prevalence of Heart Failure depends on the definition applied, but is approximately 1-2%
      of the adult population in developed countries, rising to ≥10% among people >70 years of age.
      Among people >65 years of age presenting to primary care with breathlessness on exertion, one
      in six will have unrecognized HF. The lifetime risk of HF at age 55 years is 33% for men and
      28% for women. The most recent European data (ESC-HF pilot study) demonstrate that 12-month
      all-cause mortality rates for hospitalized and stable/ambulatory HF patients were 17% and 7%,
      respectively, and the 12-month hospitalization rates were 44% and 32%, respectively.
      Modifying risk factors and dynamic change of the medical treatment may improve symptoms,
      quality of life and reduce hospitalization due to HF exacerbation. For this cause, the Heat
      Failure unit was established. The goal of the Heart Failure unit is to provide medical and
      nursing follow-up for severe HF patients with New York Heart Association Function III-IV in
      purpose to improve their quality of life and reduce hospitalizations. At each visit the
      patients will be evaluated by a nurse and a cardiologist, blood tests will be performed and
      IV treatment will be given as needed, including Furosemide, Iron, Dobutamine and Packed
      Cells.

      The investigator is trying to improving our knowledge in the treatment of HF patients, for
      the purpose of improving their quality of life and reducing hospitalizations. For achieving
      this the investigator would like to build a registry which will include all the HF patients
      going an evaluation in the Heart Failure unit or clinic in our facility. Prospective registry
      which will include all the HF patients evaluated in the Heart Failure unit or clinic. The
      patients will sign an informed consent form. After filling the informed consent the patients
      will be evaluated for clinical history and physical examination by the nurse and a
      cardiologist. Then, the patients may perform the following test: ECG, Chest X-RAY, Blood test
      including: complete blood count, renal and liver function, electrolytes, thyroid function,
      cholesterol, glucose, Troponin and Brain Natriuretic Peptide. It is impotent to mentions that
      all of the test mentioned above are being performed as part as the Heart Failure unit
      treatment and none are being done for the purpose of the study. After completing the
      evaluation the patients will be treated as needed by IV medications such as Furosemide, Iron,
      Dobutamine and Packed Cells. The data collected will include demographic: gender, age,
      hospitalization, diagnosis, symptoms, clinical as well as laboratory, echocardiographic and
      echocardiogram findings.

      Identified details will be separated in a way that will not enable to review them. All data
      handling and the separation of the identified data will be done by the Principal
      Investigator, or sub-investigator in this study, who is in charge of the hearing screening
      program in our institution.
    
  