
    
      Despite the body's natural healing during the first year after a head injury, many veterans
      who have suffered even mild brain injuries find themselves easily upset or fearful as they go
      about their daily lives. While these reactions to the world around them were easily managed
      before the head injury, they now occur with little or no interruption and are exceedingly
      difficult to manage. Such reactions include a sense of always being upset or fearful that
      often makes it difficult to get along with family members, friends, coworkers, and employers.
      This may lead to broken marriages, unemployment, and even homelessness.

      Some people with head injuries try to manage their unmanageable moods by drinking alcohol
      because it can create a sense of calm. However, alcohol's actions are short in duration. Most
      find that they have to drink more and more for a similar calming effect, and they soon become
      dependent on alcohol. This makes working and being part of their families even more
      difficult.

      To treat the unmanageable mood, we tried a medicine called valproate, one that eases mood
      problems in people without head injury. We gave valproate to head injured persons with mood
      problems in a "non-blinded" study where both the doctor and the patient knew that the
      medicine was valproate and both were optimistic that it would work. In a small sample of
      eighteen people, 85% found mood relief and most of those either stopped drinking alcohol or
      drank much less than before. However, this might have been because both the doctor and
      patient were hopeful that the medication would make the patient feel better or because the
      medicine actually worked.

      The only way to know for sure if the medicine works is to perform a study in which people
      receive either valproate or a sugar pill while neither they nor their doctor know which one
      they are taking. This is called a double blind study, as proposed here, and will involve
      nearly three times as many head injured persons as the first study.

      If it is successful, the new study will show that valproate treatment helps head injured
      people manage their moods and allows them to return to families, friends, and work. It will
      also show that they drink alcohol less or not at all, improving their health even further.
      Then doctors will know that they can use this medicine for large numbers of people who suffer
      from head injury and help them to lead normal lives. If the outcome of the study shows that
      the medicine works well, doctors can then use this medicine to treat people with head injury
      immediately after the study results are published.
    
  