
    
      Justification:

      Acute coronary syndrome (ACS) is the clinical manifestation of acute myocardial ischemia
      induced by coronary artery disease (CAD). Although most patients presenting with chest pain
      to the Emergency Department (ED) can be stratified into "high risk" or "low risk" chest pain
      algorithms, patients at "intermediate risk" are more difficult to manage. This translates
      into lengthy waits in the ED and repetitive investigations while 5.3% of cases of ACS are
      still missed and too many patients are admitted to the CCU (false positive rate of 14%). CCTA
      is a novel, non-invasive method for evaluating coronary artery stenosis and occlusion.

      The ability to accurately diagnose or exclude ACS in patients in a rapid, non-invasive
      fashion has been previously lacking. If CCTA is shown to be clinically useful in risk
      stratification of this patient population, there is great potential for increasing patient
      safety, reducing ED admission times and decreasing the number and duration of CCU admission.

      Objectives:

      ED admission and discharge times, CCU consult and decision times and duration of CCU
      admission, cardiac risk factors, vital signs, laboratory results, ED disposition plan, CCTA
      results, coronary calcium score, index hospitalization diagnosis, investigations,
      revascularization rates as well as 30-day diagnosis, death, adverse event rate and subsequent
      investigations.

      Research Method:

      The study population will consist of ED chest pain patients at intermediate risk of ACS.
      Informed consent will be obtained for both CCTA and the 30-day follow up. Patients will be
      randomized into one of two diagnostic arms: standard care plus CCTA versus standard care
      alone. If the patient receives CCTA, the test will be interpreted by a blinded radiologist
      and the results provided to the ED physician and entered into the patient chart. A research
      nurse will collect workflow and clinical data for all enrolled patients.

      Two reviewers, an ED physician and a cardiologist, blinded to the CCTA results, will
      independently review the index and 30 day clinical data. One of the following will be
      assigned: acute myocardial infarction, definite unstable angina, possible unstable angina, or
      no acute coronary syndrome. Alternate non-ACS diagnoses will be ascertained when applicable.

      Statistical Analysis This proposal represents a pilot study to demonstrate the feasibility of
      identifying and recruiting patients to the trial, demonstrate the feasibility of collecting
      follow-up data, and provide preliminary estimates of outcome measures to help determine the
      sample size required for a definitive study. All analyses will be descriptive. Recruitment,
      crossover, follow-up, and completion rates will be determined. Estimates of diagnostic
      accuracy and length of stay in the ED will be determined and will be used to inform the
      design of the definitive study.
    
  