
    
      Flu-like symptoms (FLS) such as fever, muscle aches, chills, and fatigue are common side
      effects of interferon beta (IFN-ß) treatment and may affect the willingness of patients with
      multiple sclerosis (MS) to initiate therapy. The initiation phase of MS treatment is a
      critical period that can affect patients' views on the long-term acceptability and the
      adherence to the therapy, underscoring the need for strategies to reduce treatment-related
      adverse events such as FLS following IFN-ß injections.

      Once-weekly intramuscular IFNß-1a, which has been available since 1996, is indicated for the
      treatment of patients with relapsing forms of MS to slow the accumulation of physical
      disability progression and the frequency of clinical exacerbations. Although intramuscular
      IFNß-1a is generally well tolerated, FLS have been reported in up to 76% of patients
      receiving this treatment. Consequently, interventions that can reduce FLS after IFNß-1a
      injection are warranted. One approach to reduce FLS has been dose titration. Titration is the
      practice of initiating therapy with a lower starting dose and gradually increasing the dose
      at defined intervals until the full dose is reached. Moreover, a combination of dose
      titration and pre-treatment with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or
      acetaminophen in healthy subjects, has been sown to reduce FLS severity by 37-76%. However,
      not all patients benefit from dose titration and also the effects in MS still have to be
      determined. Consequently, other types of FLS management after IFNß-1a injection have to be
      determined.

      Interestingly, case reports from both Finland and Denmark suggest that aerobic exercise is
      able to markedly reduce FLS symptoms in MS patients, but so far no studies have evaluated
      this. However, from healthy subjects it is known that aerobic exercise is capable of
      positively influencing the immune system and evidence suggests that the prophylactic effect
      of exercise may, to some extent, be the induction of an anti-inflammatory environment with
      each bout of exercise (e.g. via increases in circulating anti-inflammatory cytokines
      including interleukin (IL)-1 receptor antagonist and IL-10).

      The existing evidence is particularly suggestive of an acute effect of aerobic exercise on
      the circulating cytokine levels, which could be an important mechanism in explaining a
      potential positive effect of aerobic exercise on FLS.

      Consequently, the purpose of the present study is to test the hypothesis that aerobic
      training can reduce FLS following interferon beta 1a injections in patients with Multiple
      Sclerosis.

      A secondary purpose is to evaluate whether or not changes in circulating cytokines provide a
      mechanism that can explain a potential positive effect.
    
  