
    
      LSS is a narrowing of the spinal canal and/or the intervertebral foramina by bony spurs or
      soft tissues that decrease space for the neural elements resulting in compression of the
      nerve roots or spinal cord in the lumbar region of the spine. LSS can cause low back pain,
      weakness, numbness, and pain and loss of sensation in the buttocks and legs. In most cases
      the symptoms improve when the patient is sitting or leaning forward, due to the flexed
      position of the vertebra which leads to reduced impingement of the neural tissue. In
      addition, many patients with LSS complain of pain when standing and walking referred to as
      neurogenic intermittent claudication (NIC). Nonsurgical management is well-established as the
      first-line treatment approach for LSS patients with mild to moderate symptoms. It typically
      involves the prescription of modified physical activity, physiotherapy, anti-inflammatory
      drugs, epidural steroid injections, use of a lumbar corset or some combination thereof.

      Surgical treatment is reserved for patients who do not obtain adequate relief of symptoms by
      conservative management. The goal of surgical treatment for LSS is to relieve the compression
      of the spinal nerves in the spinal canal or neural foramina. Such decompressive surgery
      generally involves laminectomy, laminotomy, foraminotomy, partial facetectomy or some
      combination thereof. Decompressive surgery in subjects with LSS and spondylolisthesis
      commonly requires fusion to stabilize the spondylolisthesis. The most commonly performed
      lumbar fusion for patient's with the combination of LSS and spondylolisthesis is a
      Transforaminal Lumbar Interbody Fusion (TLIF) which involves stabilizing the motion segment
      by placing pedicle screws, rods and an interbody fusion cage. Autograft or allograft bone are
      commonly used to bring about fusion or a bridging of bone across the intervertebral joint.

      The Altum® Pedicle Osteotomy System contains the implants and instruments required to perform
      the pedicle lengthening osteotomy procedure for the treatment of LSS. The Altum® implant is
      an expandable bone screw that is available in a variety of sizes (7.5 mm, 8.5 mm and 9.5 mm).
      Altum® instruments are manufactured from IXEF PARA GS-1022 GY/51, medical grade titanium
      alloy (Ti 6AL-4V ELI ASTM F-136), and medical grade stainless steel (17-4 ASTM F899).
    
  