
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the efficacy of palonosetron hydrochloride and dexamethasone followed by
           prochlorperazine with vs without dexamethasone in preventing delayed nausea in women
           with chemotherapy-naive breast cancer. (Arms I and IV)

        -  Determine if palonosetron hydrochloride is more effective than granisetron hydrochloride
           in controlling treatment-related delayed nausea in these patients. (Arms I and II)

        -  Determine if the currently recommended antiemetic guideline of aprepitant combined with
           palonosetron hydrochloride and dexamethasone is the most effective antiemetic regimen
           for controlling treatment-related delayed nausea in these patients. (Arms III and IV)

      Secondary

        -  Determine if the addition of dexamethasone to prochlorperazine is more effective than
           the same regimen without dexamethasone for reducing interference with functioning caused
           by chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting in these patients. (Arms I and IV)

        -  Determine if palonosetron hydrochloride is more effective than granisetron hydrochloride
           for reducing interference with functioning caused by chemotherapy-induced nausea and
           vomiting in these patients. (Arms I and II)

        -  Determine if the currently recommended antiemetic guideline of aprepitant combined with
           palonosetron hydrochloride and dexamethasone is the most effective antiemetic regimen
           for reducing interference with functioning due to chemotherapy-induced nausea and
           vomiting in these patients. (Arms III and IV)

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to CCOP center and gender. Patients are randomized to 1 of 4
      treatment arms. Patients receive study treatment approximately 30 minutes before their
      scheduled first chemotherapy treatment.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive palonosetron hydrochloride IV, dexamethasone IV, and oral
           placebo once on day 1 and oral prochlorperazine 3 times daily and another oral placebo
           once daily on days 2 and 3.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive granisetron hydrochloride IV, dexamethasone IV, and oral
           placebo once on day 1 and oral prochlorperazine 3 times daily and another oral placebo
           once daily on days 2 and 3.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive palonosetron hydrochloride IV and dexamethasone IV once on day
           1, oral aprepitant once daily on days 1-3, and oral dexamethasone once daily and oral
           placebo twice daily on days 2 and 3.

        -  Arm IV: Patients receive palonosetron hydrochloride IV, dexamethasone IV, and oral
           placebo once on day 1 and oral prochlorperazine 3 times daily and oral dexamethasone
           once daily on days 2 and 3.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and on day 4. Nausea and vomiting, fatigue, sleep
      quality, exercise, and the need for rescue medication (metoclopramide) are assessed on days
      1-4.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 890 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  