
    
      After approval of synopsis from College of Physician and Surgeons of Pakistan (CPSP) and
      Ethical review committee (ERC) of Aga Khan University Karachi, patients fulfilling the
      inclusion criteria will be enrolled in the study. Written informed consent will be obtained
      before the surgery. Patients will be randomly allocated by CTU through computer generated
      block randomization into either lidocaine group (LG) or placebo group (PG).

      The clinical trial unit (CTU) will be responsible to prepare the study drug and placebo in
      the same volume, color, consistency and packaging and treatment allocation would be done by
      assigning the study drug and placebo numbers. The staff, patient and the anaesthetists will
      be blind by the drug allocation. Only the CTU will have the list of randomization and their
      treatment allocation.

      All patient will be given general anesthesia as per standard of care. All patients will be
      pre-medicated with oral midazolam 7.5 mg one hour before operating room. Standard American
      Society of Anaesthesiologists (ASA) monitoring (NIBP, ECG, and Pulse Oximetry) will be
      applied. General anesthesia will be induced by Propofol 2 mg/kg, Nalbuphine 0.1mg/kg and
      Cis-Atracurium 0.2 mg/kg. Isoflurane 1% - 1.5% in a mixture of oxygen and air (50:50) will be
      used for maintenance of anesthesia. Before tracheal intubation, patients will receive
      intravenous bolus injection of the study drug in dose of 1.5mg/kg followed by the continuous
      infusion at the rate of 1.5mg/kg/hr. via standard computerized programmable infusion pump.
      The infusion will be continued throughout the surgery and will be stopped after extubation.
      After intubation, patients' minute ventilation will be adjusted to maintain normocapnia (end
      tidal CO2 35 - 40 mm of Hg). All patients will be given 1gm of intravenous Paracetamol after
      induction of anaesthesia. Supplemental analgesia, Nalbuphine 1mg, during surgery will be
      given if the heart rate and systolic blood pressure increases above 20% of respective
      baseline values and causes other than pain had been ruled out, which would be at the
      discretion of the primary anaesthetist. Prophylaxis for nausea and vomiting will be given by
      Dexamethasone 0.1mg/kg at induction of anaesthesia and Ondansetron 0.1mg/kg after the removal
      of gall bladder. At the end of surgery, residual neuromuscular blockade will be reversed by
      0.05mg/kg of neostigmine and 0.5mg of glycopyrolate. The trachea will be extubated once the
      patient regained consciousness and then transferred to the post anesthesia care unit (PACU).

      In the PACU, each patient will be assessed by the primary investigator for pain, nausea and
      vomiting at 15, 30, and 60 minutes. If the patient's pain will be equal to 4 or more on the
      numerical rating scale, he/she will be given Nalbuphine 1mg as a rescue analgesic. Likewise,
      if the patients has complain of nausea or vomiting, equal to or greater than 2 on Bellvile
      nausea score, he/she will be given Metoclopramide 10mg as rescue antiemetic. The analgesic
      and anti-emetic requirement in the ward for the first 6 hr. post-operatively will be recorded
      by the primary investigator.

      The time of arrival at PACU will be recorded as "T1". The discharge time from PACU will also
      be recorded and would be declared as "T2". The time required for the patient to be discharged
      from the hospital will be recorded as "TD". TD will be the time when surgical team decides
      that patient can be discharged from the hospital. The difference between the length of stay
      in the hospital between the two groups will be calculated as total time spent (in HOURS) in
      the hospital "TT". It will be the sum of time interval between T1 to T2, and T2 to TD.

      TT= (T1+T2+TD)
    
  