
    
      The purpose of this study is to examine the effectiveness of mobility training using the Ekso
      robotic exoskeleton with functional electrical stimulation (FES) on neural recovery in
      individuals with acute spinal cord injury with American Spinal Injury Association Impairment
      Scale (AIS) neurologic classification A, B, C or D.

      Specifically, individuals with acute SCI in the inpatient rehabilitation setting improve
      their AIS score after mobility training with the Ekso-FES compared to a control intervention
      period?

      In addition, the investigators will analyze the influence of training performed early or
      later in acute rehabilitation phase on muscle properties, neural recovery and function.

      This is an investigational clinical study trialing the efficacy of the Ekso device with FES
      in the acute SCI population. Participants with a diagnosis of spinal cord injury classified
      as AIS A, B, C or D will be included. Up to ten participants will be recruited to participate
      in this study. This number was arbitrarily chosen as this is an investigational study and
      there is no previous data on the Ekso device to specifically select subject number based on a
      power analysis. Participants will be recruited from inpatient units at The Shirley Ryan
      AbilityLab. Following screening, all subjects will be required to receive medical clearance
      from their attending inpatient physician.

      Subjects will be randomized to which order they receive the Ekso intervention (A) and control
      (B) period (A then B or B then A). The device will be used in the lab and there will be no
      charge associated with use of the Ekso device.

      All participants involved in the investigational study/training will be screened according to
      general inclusion/exclusion criteria after obtaining informed consent and before using the
      Ekso device.

      Screening will include:

        -  Range of Motion (ROM): Range of motion of the joints of the upper and lower extremities
           will be measured using a goniometer

        -  Muscle strength testing: upper and lower extremity manual muscle testing to determine
           qualification for study inclusion.

        -  Modified Ashworth Scale (MAS): The Modified Ashworth Scale is a 6 point ordinal scale
           used to grade the amount of hypertonicity in individuals with neurological diagnoses. A
           score of 0 on the scale indicates no increase in tone while a score of 4 indicates
           rigidity. Tone is scored by passively moving the individual's limb and assessing the
           amount of resistance to movement felt by the examiner.

        -  Upper and lower leg length and hip measurements will be performed to determine safe fit
           in the exoskeleton device.
    
  