
    
      Background :

      The Sleeve gastrectomy (SG) is the most common bariatric procedure worldwide because it is
      the simplest to perform, from a technical standpoint, and the most efficient in terms of
      metabolic control and weight loss. However, this intervention can lead to several
      complications, including the onset or intensification of gastroesophageal reflux (GR) with
      the associated impact on the patients' quality of life and a possible evolution into
      Barrett's esophagus. One of the key factors in the development of this complication is a
      persistent hiatal hernia.

      Aims: The main objective of this study is to provide an objective evaluation of the effect of
      primary hiatal hernia repair on GR concomitant to sleeve gastrectomy. The secondary
      objectives are hiatal hernia recurrence following primary surgery and the occurrence of "de
      novo" GR.

      Methods :

      A total of 100 patients will be recruited for the pilot study, with 50 patients in the SG
      group and 50 in the SG + primary hiatal hernia repair group following randomization. Then,
      based on a sample size study, recruitment will be continued as needed. None of the procedures
      performed are experimental. All obese patients with a BMI between 35-50, aged 18-65 and
      undergoing surgery for a SG in the institution's bariatric surgery department will be
      eligible to participate in this study. Exclusion criteria will be hiatal hernias greater than
      2 cm, a hiatal repair requiring a drain, prior bariatric surgery or any other
      counterindication to SG. All patients will be evaluated preoperatively using: 1) EGD, 2)
      esophageal manometric study, 3) pH assessment and 4) validated GR questionnaires (GERD-HRPL;
      GCSI). Iconographic intraoperative data on hiatal morphology and the type of cure used will
      be collected and records will be kept according to Ethics committee guidelines. After a
      6-month follow-up the participants will undergo the same tests, including questionnaires, for
      a medium-term profile.
    
  