
    
      BCTs have been used to promote many different behaviours including physical activity. Reviews
      show that the most effective techniques for promoting physical activity are self-monitoring,
      intention formation, feedback on performance, and goal setting. These techniques are also the
      core tenets of control theory, which suggests that setting, monitoring, and operating on
      goals are central to self-control.

      To date, most of the intervention studies targeting psychological predictors of behaviour
      have used one-to-one communication by professionals, counselling, incentives etc. However,
      such methods may be difficult and costly to implement on a large scale. The proposed research
      therefore tests whether delivering these techniques via a convenient method (i.e. SMS text
      messages) is effective in promoting use of bike share schemes. We will also test whether the
      strength of participants' intentions to use bike share schemes moderates the effects of the
      intervention.

      Participants will be randomly allocated into one of two groups (one experimental and control
      group). Participants in the control group will receive no messages. Participants in the
      intervention group will receive text messages prompting goal-setting (e.g. "How many times
      can you use a shared bike scheme over the next week? Set yourself a goal and challenge
      yourself!"), goal operating (e.g. "Make plans about when you could use a shared bike scheme,
      such as at a particular time or for a particular journey next week."), and self-monitoring
      (e.g. "Studies show that keeping track of progress can help people to achieve their goals.
      This is what the apps provided by the shared bike schemes can do for you!"). The messages
      will comprise of 160 characters at most and participants in the intervention group will
      receive three messages per week.

      One month after taking the baseline survey, participants will be asked to fill in a follow-up
      survey which will ask them how many times they have used bike share schemes in total during
      the past month. This information is provided in the apps in "My Trips" section and
      participants will be asked to count the number of individual trips that they have taken since
      they completed the baseline survey. It is hypothesized that participants in the intervention
      group will use bike share schemes more frequently than those in the control group and that
      the intervention effect will be moderated by the strength of participants' initial
      intentions.

      Mixed-measures (condition x time) ANOVA will be used to test for differences in shared bike
      use between the groups between baseline and follow-up. A moderation analysis will also be
      conducted to test whether the effect of the text messages on bike scheme use differs by
      intention strength.
    
  