
    
      In patients with intermediate-risk pulmonary embolism, full-dose thrombolytic treatment was
      associated with a reduction in the combined risk of hemodynamic instability or death but was
      also associated with an increased risk of major and intracranial bleeding. Previous studies
      suggest that reduced dose of thrombolytic treatment may be as effective as the full dosage,
      but with a decreased risk of life-threatening bleeding. In this study, we will assess the
      efficacy and safety of a reduced dosage of thrombolytic therapy in patients with
      intermediate-high-risk acute pulmonary embolism.

      The study is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double blind, multicenter, multinational trial
      with long-term follow-up.

      Patients fulfilling the inclusion criteria and without any of the exclusion criteria will be
      randomized within 6 hours after the investigator had confirmed the diagnosis.

      Patients will receive:

        -  Alteplase (if randomized in the experimental group) or placebo (if randomized in the
           reference group) given within 30 minutes of randomization as a 15 min intravenous
           infusion at a dosage of 0.6 mg/kg with a total dose not exceeding 50 mg.

        -  Low molecular weight heparin at therapeutic doses according to local practice

      Primary objective is to assess the efficacy of reduced dose thrombolytic therapy in patients
      with acute intermediate-high-risk pulmonary embolism at day 30.

      Secondary objectives are:

        1. To assess the safety of reduced dose thrombolytic therapy in patients with
           intermediate-high-risk acute pulmonary embolism at day 30

        2. To assess the net clinical benefit of reduced dose thrombolytic therapy in patients with
           intermediate-high-risk acute pulmonary embolism at day 30

        3. To assess the effect of reduced dose thrombolytic therapy on overall mortality of
           patients with intermediate-high-risk acute pulmonary embolism at day 30

        4. To assess the effect of reduced dose thrombolytic therapy on long-term mortality,
           functional impairment, residual right ventricular dysfunction and chronic thromboembolic
           pulmonary hypertension at 6 months and 2 years
    
  