
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine whether an innovative multimedia educational program will help newly diagnosed
           prostate (project 1) and breast (project 2) cancer patients prepare for their journey as
           cancer patients, promote informed treatment decision-making and reduce cancer-specific
           distress, and among breast cancer patients at re-entry, facilitate an informed re-entry
           transition to cancer survivorship and reduce cancer-specific distress (project 3).

        -  Determine whether having Cancer Information Service (CIS) Information Specialists make a
           scheduled telephone callback to callers in project 3 will augment and support use of the
           CIS Research Consortium (CISRC) multimedia educational programs and further enhance the
           study outcomes examined in this program of research.

        -  Determine whether the hypothesized mediational variables account for significant
           intervention effects in each of the three component projects.

        -  Examine potential moderator variables to assess potential differences in intervention
           efficacy by selected subgroups (e.g., age, education) within each component project.

        -  Conduct an in-depth tracking study of utilization patterns for a detailed description of
           different patterns of use, as well as elucidating those components or modules within the
           program that had differential utilization by participants.

        -  Assist the CIS and other similar cancer information systems in disseminating one or more
           of the CISRC interventions should they prove effective in this program of research.

      Secondary

        -  Conduct secondary analyses across projects (i.e., perceived need for and benefit from
           the CISRC interventions and intervention efficacy across three high priority cancer
           patient populations) that will be made possible by the use of a common theoretical
           framework, the same or similar intervention and research design across projects, and a
           common set of endpoints.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients are assessed by demographic questions and a baseline interview conducted by Cancer
      Information Service (CIS) Information Specialists.

      Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 intervention groups:

        -  Group 1: Patients receive a mailing containing standard CIS print materials. In project
           1, patients receive " Treatment Choices for Men with Early-Stage Prostate Cancer" and
           "What You Need to Know About Prostate Cancer". In project 2, patients receive "What You
           Need to Know About Breast Cancer" and "Surgery Choices for Women with Early-Stage Breast
           Cancer". In project 3, patients receive "Facing Forward: Life After Cancer Treatment"
           and "What You Need to Know About Breast Cancer".

        -  Group 2: Patients receive mailings appropriate to their project as in group 1. Patients
           also receive the multimedia program via the Internet or CD-ROM.

        -  Group 3: In project 3 only, patients receive mailings appropriate to their project as in
           group 1 and the multimedia program as in group 2. Patients also receive a CIS callback
           intervention at 10-14 days from trained Information Specialists from the CIS.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed at 2 and 9 months.
    
  