
    
      During the informed consent process subjects will be informed that Marinol (Dronabinol) is
      generally not used for chronic pain and there will be no provision for extended treatment
      with Dronabinol.

      The study comprises two phases, the blinded single-dose phase and the open-label multi-dose
      phase. There are five visits in all; one baseline visit, three treatment visits in the
      single-dose phase, and then a final end-of-study visit after the multi-dose phase is over.

      Subjects will be initially screened by telephone, and if eligible will present for a baseline
      visit. This visit will verify enrollment criteria, and will include a history and physical
      exam, urine pregnancy test if indicated, and baseline assessments. Subjects who meet full
      enrollment criteria will be randomly allocated to one of the treatment sequences of the
      single-dose phase.

      Single-Dose Phase

      The treatment sequence will be a randomized 3-treatment, 3-period crossover trial. Each
      subject will receive each treatment in a sequence randomly allocated by the Investigational
      Drug Services Department at Brigham and Women's Hospital. These visits will be scheduled a
      minimum of 3 days apart, and subjects will be instructed to reschedule if their pain is less
      than 4/10 on the morning of their visit.

      On the days of the treatment visits, subjects will arrive in the Clinical Trials Center at
      7-8am, without having taken their morning opioid dose. They will also be fasting, except for
      clear liquids. They will have a baseline blood sample drawn for level of THC, if any, in
      their blood. Patients will receive study drug at 8-9 am, and will be monitored for 8 hours,
      and subsequently discharged home. At the 4- and 8-hour mark, two more blood samples will be
      drawn. Total amount of blood taken for all three samples together will be less than 10 ml.
      Subjects who require rescue dosing during the 8-hour study period will take their customary
      rescue analgesic, be observed in the study center to ensure that they achieve adequate relief
      of their pain, and then discharged home. A "rescue assessment" will be completed at the time
      of rescue dosing and will be the final assessment for that treatment session. At the end of
      the fourth visit (the final treatment visit), prior to discharge, subjects will be offered
      entry into the one-month open-label extension.

      Multi-Dose Phase

      Subjects who choose to enter the open-label extension will be provided Marinol tablets which
      they will then take according to a prearranged titration table. Subjects may titrate upwards
      for inadequate analgesia or downwards for side effects. Subjects must be on a dose for a
      minimum of two days prior to upward titration, but may titrate downward at any time due to
      side effects. Subjects unable to tolerate any regimens will be dropped from the study.
      Subjects will be required to be on a stable dronabinol regimen during the last week of the
      study. Subjects who choose to terminate early will be encouraged to present for a termination
      visit.

      Subjects will continue baseline analgesics, including background and rescue opioids as they
      had been prior to the trial. Downward titration of opioids will be allowed if clinically
      indicated, per judgment of patient and investigator. Subjects will be contacted weekly at the
      end of weeks 1, 2, and 3. Data collected during the telephone contacts will relate to pain,
      medication consumption (study and non-study analgesics), and side effects. Subjects will
      present for an end-of-study visit at the end of week 4.
    
  