
    
      Chronic whiplash associated disorders (CWAD) are frequently occuring conditions with varying
      degrees of neck pain and disability. They occur usually as a consequence of a motor vehicle
      accident. Acute whiplash injury has an annual incidence of 200-300 per 100.000 and affects
      83% of persons in a traffic collision. Up to 50% of WAD patients do not fully recover, and up
      to 25% continue to have moderate to severe pain-related disabilities. The consequent pain and
      disability give rise to substantial socioeconomic cost. In Europe, the annual cost of WAD was
      estimated to be 12 billion euro.

      Chronic neck pain, as observed in CWAD, is often incompletely responsive to available
      therapies. Due to the current lack of knowledge concerning the underlying factors responsible
      for the maintenance of these chronic pain conditions, there is no consensus on dedicated and
      specific therapy approaches for CWAD, resulting in a treatment gap in this condition. The
      chronicity and severeness of the disorders has led to paradigm shifts in the reasoning about
      chronic pain from seeing it as a symptom towards as a disease. Neuroimaging has provided
      evidence that chronic pain is a multidimensional process affecting sensory and emotional
      processing based on an altered state of the central nervous system in the form of central
      sensitization (CS). This sensitization results from an increased responsiveness to a variety
      of stimuli and expresses itself in the form of hyperalgesia, allodynia, referred pain, and
      ultimately in chronic widespread pain. Changes in both structural and functional brain
      activity and connectivity over time contribute to an augmentation of pain perception, by an
      enhanced pain facilitation and defective inhibition of nociceptive signals. It remains
      however debated whether CS is present as a pathophysiological feature in CWAD.

      In this project we hypothesize that CS is one of the main features of the pathophysiology of
      CWAD, and that relationships occur between QST and EEG on one hand, and self-reported pain,
      disability, quality of life, psychological correlates and central sensitization on the other
      hand.

      Therefore, 70 patients with CWAD and 70 (gender and age) matched healthy controls will be
      invited to fill out questionnaires, perform a QST protocol and EEG measurements.

      The questionnaires will be filled out online during the two weeks before the determined
      testing moment and will consist of the Neck Disability Index, the Short Form Health Survey-36
      items, a 0-10 Numeric Rating Scale for pain, the Central Sensitization Inventory, the Dutch
      version of the Pain Catastrophizing Scale, the Impact of Event Scale revised, the Pain
      anxiety symptoms scale (PASS-20), the patient specific complaints questionnaire (PSK), the
      Dolour neuropathic 4 (DN4) and the Leeds Assessment of Neuropathic Symptoms and Signs pain
      scale (S-LANSS). Dutch versions of all questionnaires will be used.

      During the testing moment, a QST protocol will be combined with EEG assessment. Electrical
      detection and electrical pain thresholds will be determined with a constant current
      electrical stimulator (DS7A Digitimer). Determination of the electrical detection and
      electrical pain threshold with the electrical stimulator will be performed at the sural nerve
      of the dominant leg and at the median nerve of both arms. Endogenous pain facilitation will
      be assessed by a temporal summation paradigm by delivering 20 electrical stimuli at the
      intensity of the electrical pain threshold.

      Endogenous pain inhibition will be assessed by a conditioned pain modulation paradigm with
      electrical stimulation as test stimulus and the cold pressor test (immersion of the hand up
      to the wrist in cold water of 12°C) as conditioning stimulus.

      EEG measurements with be performed with scalp EEG (Eego Sports, Ant neuro) with 32 surface Sn
      electrodes in a headcap in referential montage following the standard 10-20 recording system.
      Participants will be seated in a comfortable chair in a quiet room.

      A 5 minute resting state measurement will be performed with eyes closed, followed by EEG
      measurements during the condition pain modulation paradigm.
    
  