
    
      INTRODUCTION: One population that presents an important vulnerability to stress is that of
      university students, facing several stressors, such as academic demands, time pressure and
      social adjustments. Medical students in particular may face additional challenges such as
      heavy workload, time commitment and the number of tests and assessments as well as the
      pressures of a clinical setting. Some highly successful programs in stress management are
      based on the principle of Mindfulness. On the other hand, Positive Psychology brings a new
      paradigm in terms of mental and emotional health, seeking to promote human development
      through the development of virtues, quality of life and well-being, instead of just treating
      disease. In the modern world not all people are willing to attend classroom training for
      several reasons. In this sense, a program offered in mobile application can be considered an
      interesting alternative for professionals that not only want to reduce stress-related
      symptoms, but also promote well-being.

      MAIN OBJECTIVES: Evaluate the effects of a well-being program compared to a control program,
      both served on mobile applications, in reducing stress, increasing well-being and improving
      emotional regulation in a sample of medical students.

      METHOD: For this purpose, 300 students of the undergraduate medical course of Albert Einstein
      Israelite Faculty. Participants will be randomized into groups of 150 each, half to the
      control group (CG) and the other half to the intervention group (IG). The IG will participate
      in the Flourish App Program, for 8 weeks, while the CG will have access to a control
      application. Then, after the evaluations, the CG will participate in the Flourish App
      Program, while the first group will not participate in any intervention. Before starting the
      program, after 4 and 8 weeks of the program, questions will be applied to assess the stress
      and well-being levels of participants in general and in relation to work. In addition, before
      and after each training period, questions will be applied to assess the stress and well-being
      levels of participants at the moment. Also, the Perceived Stress Scale, the 5-item World
      Health Organization Well-Being Index - WHO-5, the Mindful Attention Awareness Scale, the
      Self-Compassion Scale and the Difficulties in Emotion Regulation Scale will be applied too.
      Finally, at the end of the program, the Mobile Application Rating Scale - MARS will be
      applied.
    
  