
    
      Cervical myelopathy (CM) is the most common cause of spinal cord dysfunction in the elderly.
      Symptoms often develop insidiously and are characterized by neck stiffness, arm pain,
      numbness in the hands, and weakness of the hands and legs. The causes of this myelopathy are
      many, such as spinal canal narrowing, osteophytes, herniated discs and hypertrophy of the
      ligamentum flavum. Although the clinical signs and symptoms of CM are well documented in the
      literature, a precise localization of the maximum level of compression is sometimes difficult
      in the elderly patients where multiple levels of the cervical spine are degenerated. Also the
      lack of understanding of the pathophysiology and pathomechanism of CM has significantly
      hampered the development of a rational approach to the surgical treatment of such condition.

      The diagnosis is made based on clinical signs and symptoms with the help of conventional MRI
      imaging which demonstrates the levels of anatomical stenosis. Surgical decompression of the
      cervical spine is the most common form of treatment. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has
      been used widely in the evaluation of patients with CM. The commonly applied MR techniques
      include spin echo sequence, both conventional spin echo and fast/turbo spin echo for T1 and
      T2 information; gradient echo sequences, which generate T2 images; STIR (short tau inversion
      recovery) images; fat suppressed T1 images; gadolinium enhanced images applied to either
      routine T1WIs or fat suppressed T1WIs; MR spinal angiography; and cerebrospinal fluid flow
      (CSF) studies (either magnitude or phase contrast). However, conventional MRI mainly concerns
      anatomical information about CM, with less pathophysiological information. BOLD-fMRI is able
      to present the activated neuronal volume decreased in CM patients along with an increase in
      neuronal activities. diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) permits the detection of tissue-water
      molecular diffusion at microscopic dimensions. Previous studies have demonstrated the
      feasibility of DTI in evaluating microstructural changes in the myelopathic cervical cord.
      The prognostic values of spinal cord DTI in CM have been addressed in several previous
      studies. In recent years, combination of DTI and fMRI has been proposed to be an accurate
      prognostic tool for surgical management of CM.

      Cervical myelopathy (CM) is caused by degenerative stenosis of the cervical spine with
      progressive compression on the spinal cord resulting in loss of sensory and motor functions
      in the upper and lower limbs. Surgical decompression of the cervical spine is the most common
      form of treatment.

      The objective of this project is to evaluate the value of DTI and fMRI in predicting the
      outcome of surgical treatment.
    
  