
    
      Neurosurgery (NS) is essential for the treatment of various diseases such as malignant
      tumors, vascular conditions, spinal stenosis or trauma. However, one of the major
      complication is the occurrence of infections following NS (I-NS), with reported rate between
      0.5% and 15% depending on the type of NS and the presence/absence of foreign bodies (i.e
      ventricular shunts, brain stimulators, spinal fixation systems).

      I-NS might be related to NS and include meningitis, brain abscesses or spinal infections;
      I-NS might be also related to the hospitalization and include nosocomial pneumonia,
      bloodstream and urinary tract infections, especially in elder and frail patients.

      While risk factors have been investigated in several studies, little is known about the
      epidemiology, the optimal treatment regimens and the outcomes of I-NS.

      The knowledge of the causative agents of I-NS and the local epidemiology might lead to an
      early initiation of an appropriate and definite antimicrobial therapy, with obvious
      consequences in terms of treatment failure and mortality reduction, in line with
      antimicrobial stewardship principles. Moreover, being aware of the outcomes of I-NS might
      allow the comprehension of the risk factors associated with clinical cure, recurrence or
      mortality.

      Based on these premises, the principal aim of this single-center, retrospective,
      observational study is to evaluate the clinical and microbiological characteristics as well
      as the outcomes of I-NS observed at IRCCS Neuromed (Pozzilli, Italy) over the 2016-2018
      period.

      Secondary aims are:

      i) to analyze the clinical and microbiological characteristics based on the different types
      of I-NS (i.e. meningitis, brain abscesses, spinal infections, nosocomial pneumonia,
      bloodstream infections, urinary tract infections); ii) to investigate the presence of
      multi-drug resistance of the causative agents of I-NS; iii) to correlate the antimicrobial
      treatment regimens with the observed outcomes of I-NS (i.e. clinical cure, recurrence of
      infections at 6 months, 30-days mortality).

      Patients hospitalized at IRCCS Neuromed with at least 1 infective episode requiring
      antimicrobial therapy between 2016-2018 will be included in the study. Data will be collected
      from patient records and will be anonymously registered in an electronic database.

      The following data will be collected: type of infection (defined in in accordance with
      international guidelines); general characteristics of patients (age, gender, type and number
      of NS, reason for NS, comorbidities); clinical presentation of I-NS (sepsis/septic shock);
      laboratory and radiological data; microbiological characteristics of I-NS (causative agents;
      antimicrobial susceptibility profile); antimicrobial therapy (type and number of
      antimicrobials, length of therapy, empiric versus definite therapy); outcome (30-days
      mortality, clinical cure, 6-months recurrence of infection)
    
  