
    
      Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) have social interaction and communication
      disorders, restricted interests and repetitive behaviors, which may further restrict daily
      activities and participation. Participation of children with ASD often are more restricted in
      the community than at home and school, due to problems such as environmental barriers and
      resources inadequacy. Research showed that school-age children with ASD participated less in
      social, leisure and sports activities than children with typical development, thus may result
      in loneness or social isolation and impact on long-term physical and psychological health.

      Community participation of children with ASD is affected by child (including body function
      and personal factors), family and environmental factors. This study proposes an innovative
      Participation-based intervention based on the principles of self-determined, family-centered,
      strength-based, and solution-focused approaches. This intervention targets on promoting
      children's community participation, and forms solution strategies from analyzing the strength
      and needs of child, family, and environment. The aim of this study is to investigate the
      efficacy of participation-based intervention on community participation and family
      empowerment for children with ASD 6-10 years of age.

      This study is proposed as a 2-year project that will use a stratified randomized controlled
      trial design to examine the efficacy of participation-based intervention (experimental group)
      in comparison to no additional intervention (control group). The study period includes
      12-week intervention phase and 12-week follow-up phase, and 3 outcome measures: pre-test,
      post-test, and follow-up. The primary outcomes are children's community participation, the
      secondary outcomes are parental empowerment, family quality of life, and satisfaction with
      partnerships. This study will have great impact on promoting collaboration among child,
      family and therapists, and supporting full inclusion in society of children with ASD and
      their families.
    
  