
    
      Optic neuritis (ON) have a broad clinical spectrum ranging from a single episode (clinically
      isolated ON) to demyelinating diseases such as multiple sclerosis (MS), Chronic Relapsing
      Inflammatory Optic Neuritis (CRION), acute demyelination encephalomyelitis (ADEM),
      neuromyelitis optica (NMO) and neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD). Myelin
      oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) is a myelin antigen exclusively expressed on the surface
      of oligodendrocytes and myelin in the central nervous system (CNS). MOG-Ab are associated
      with demyelinating diseases with a good specificity. Using cell-based assays, MOG-Ab were
      rarely found in healthy control and other neurological inflammatory disease. They were mostly
      identified in subgroups of NMO/NMOSD seronegative to auto antibodies against Aquaporin 4
      (anti-AQP4): 8-39%, but also in MS (0-28%) ADEM and idiopathic ON. ON MOG + have a specific
      clinical presentation compare with ON associated with multiple sclerosis (SEP): older
      patient, less female preponderance, more often bilateral, more often optic disc swelling,
      worse initial visual loss, much more often recurrent with severe sequelae. ON MOG+ are more
      similar to ON associated with NMOSD AQP4+ which have some particularities: similar age, clear
      female preponderance, less optic disc swelling, more severe initial visual loss and visual
      sequelae. No prospective study has measured incidence of

      MOG-Ab in population of Inflammatory ON. And no prospective study has ever compared ON MOG+
      with all others inflammatory ON. The purpose of our study is to measure incidence of MOG-Ab
      in population of acute inflammatory ON. All consenting adults with suspicion of ON followed
      in the 8 ophthalmic units who participate will be screened. They will have, as usual,
      clinical follow-up, blood test with MOG-Ab research, encephalic and optic nerves MRI, and
      steroid treatment if necessary. At the end of the acute phase, all patients diagnosed with
      inflammatory ON will be included and rank in 2 groups: 1/ ON with MOG-Ab (ON MOG+) 2/ ON
      without MOG-Ab (ON MOG-). Clinical data will be register at this inclusion visit. There will
      be no additional visit and no intervention. After measuring incidence of MOG-Ab, the
      investigator will compare clinical and radiological data of ON MOG+ and ON MOG-.
    
  