
    
      Children with cerebral palsy (CP) often experience many comorbidities such as
      constipation,which is considered a frequent problem in spastic (cp)children .It occurs due to
      reduced mobility, difficulties in feeding and as a side effect of many muscle relaxing
      medications.It is estimated that 74% of children with cerebral palsy suffer from constipation
      ,which necessitates use of laxatives. Magnesium sulfate has a famous role as being an osmotic
      laxative,which is the first step in the pharmacological treatment of constipation

      • Mechanism of action of mg sulphate: They are poorly absorbed by the intestinal wall, which
      leads to intraluminal accumulation of hyperosmolar particles. This stimulates retention of
      water in the intestinal lumen, softening the stools and increasing peristalsis through
      intestinal distension. It acts by accelerating small intestinal transit both in fasting and
      in fed state and it tends to increase the frequency and weight of stools, compared with
      placebo.In addition ,It increases intraluminal secretion of cholecystokinin and increases
      nitric oxide (NO) release.

      • Side effects of mg sulphate: Reducing the intestinal absorption of fat, protein and
      carbohydrates following solid meal ingestion

      • other drugs used as laxative in cp and there side effects:

        -  Lactulose: it can lead to distention, bloating and excess flatus. In some individuals
           these side-effects may limit the use of this product.

        -  Glycerin: is another small molecule that can exert osmotic activity in the colon. It is
           not absorbed by the colon and is used as a suppository to draw water into the rectum to
           produce a bowel movement. It is well absorbed by the small intestine, and hence cannot
           be taken by oral route.

             -  The aim of this study is to study the therapeutic and adverse effects of oral
                magnesium sulfate therapy on constipation in children with spastic cerebral palsy
                suffering from chronic constipation in neuro pediatric unit at Assiut University
                Hospital.
    
  