
    
      All participants will participate in a supervised exercise training 3 days per week at the
      HCRF consisting of a 5-min warm-up, light stretching, resistance training (3 sets of 10
      repetitions @ 60%-80% 1RM on the bench press, seated row, shoulder press, lat pulldown,
      biceps curl, triceps extension, leg press, leg extension, leg curl, abdominal crunch/curl,
      back extension), and cardiovascular training (walking or cycling for 20 to 30 min training at
      60% to 80% heart rate reserve [HRR]). Additionally, participants will be asked to accumulate
      10,000 steps per day of brisk walking on non-training days (goal > 100 min./wk. of moderate
      to vigorous exercise). Training will be recorded on training logs and by using an iPhone,
      Fitbit or pedometer.

      Participants will be given 1,400, 1,500 kcal/day or 1,600 kcal/day diets based on resting
      energy expenditure determination designed to promote a 400-500 kcal/d energy intake deficit
      following the American Heart Association (AHA) macronutrient distribution recommendations
      (55% CHO, 30% FAT, 15% PRO). A goal energy intake, weekly diet plan, examples, and a food
      substitution list will be provided. A phone app (e.g., MyFoodDiary) will be used to help
      participants monitor and adhere to energy intake goals. In our prior studies, this exercise
      and diet intervention has been shown to promote a 3-5 kg fat loss, 3-5% decrease in percent
      body fat, a maintenance in fat free mass and REE, and improved health outcomes.

      Primary Endpoints: Differences in body weight, body fat mass (kg and %), and waist and hip
      circumference at weeks 6 and 12 compared to baseline.

      Secondary Endpoints: Differences in resting energy expenditure, aerobic capacity, estimated
      1RM, muscular endurance total work, training volume, energy and macronutrient intake, blood
      lipids, and HbA1c, IL6, CRPhs, TNFa, INF, Leptin, HbA1C, Insulin, Glucose, Comprehensive
      Clinical Panel (HDL, LDL, TG, BUN, CREAT, etc.), side effects, SF-36 quality of life at weeks
      6 and 12 compared to baseline.
    
  