
    
      The investigators will investigate the OA blood flow, intraocular pressure (IOP) and
      structural properties of the optic nerve. The investigators will include glaucoma patients as
      they believe that glaucoma may be caused by or influenced by OA blood flow. The investigators
      will include also patients with intraocular hypertension with and without pseudoexfoliation
      in order to study how changes in IOP interact with OA blood flow and the structural
      properties of the optic nerve in a group that does not develop glaucoma. In addition, the
      investigators will investigate patients that develop glaucoma in spite of a normal IOP.
      Therefore, the investigators will study three fundamentally different groups (G1, G2 and G3)
      of patients as well as a control group of healthy subjects (G4):

      G1: Newly diagnosed and untreated Glaucoma (optic and visual field damage exists).

      G2: Ocular hypertension with IOP ≥ 23 mmHg (i.e. only elevated eye pressure).

      G3: Normal Tension Glaucoma.

      G4: Healthy subjects.

      Each group will include 25 patients apart from G2 where 50 patients will be included, half of
      which have pseudoexfoliation syndrome. The study will be performed in accordance with the
      tenets of the Helsinki Declaration and is approved by the regional ethical board.

      Study protocol overview:

      Study protocol consists of two parts of examinations repeated with approximately one week
      between: Each part is divided into two examinations; one at the Department of radiology
      followed by one at the Department of ophthalmology. The measurements are repeated
      approximately one week later for G1 and G2.

      Day 1: First, MRI scans on the brain to measure the blood flow of OA as well as the
      structural and morphological properties of the ON (see method below). Second, just after MRI
      examination, the patient will be examined at the Department of ophthalmology. Measurement of
      intraocular pressure, ocular pulse amplitude, central corneal thickness, bulb length,
      investigation with optical coherence tomography (OCT) and blood pressure will be performed.
      The patients from G3 (Normal Pressure Glaucoma) will participate only in Day 1, since most
      cases already has pressure-lowering treatment. Also subjects in G4 vill only participate in
      Day 1. All other participants will receive pressure lowering drug (Latanoprost) in one eye
      once daily, until the protocol is repeated at Day 2.

      Day 2: The measurements at Day 1 are repeated approximately one week later. The measurements
      will be made in both eyes, which is why an eye can serve as a control. That way the
      investigators will have a good opportunity to assess how much of the change the investigators
      see in the treated eye that may be due to normal variations in OA blood flow and how much
      depends on the given treatment.

      The findings will be compared between the groups and to the normal material in G4. The
      investigators will be able to see whether, and if so, to what extent, eyes with glaucoma
      differ from normal eyes in terms of blood flow through OA as compared to the IOP
      measurements, and different biomechanical parameters of the eye. Thus, determine the pressure
      dynamics and calculate ocular compliance with the three different groups of research
      subjects; newly diagnosed glaucoma, ocular hypertension, normal tension glaucoma.
    
  