
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Although each of the risk factors have recently been associated with increased risk of CHD
      and are known to be genetically influenced, none of them have been investigated in a large
      sample of American families of Japanese ancestry. The project represents a unique and timely
      opportunity to characterize the genetic epidemiology of CHD risk factors among Japanese
      Americans. The findings could lead to the development of effective preventive strategies
      targeted to subgroups of individuals with high risk due to underlying genetic susceptibility.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      In the original study, several hypotheses were tested, including: 1) that a predominance of
      small LDL particles (ALP phenotype B), as determined by gradient gel electrophoresis, was
      inherited as a single gene trait in Japanese-American kindreds and to compare these results
      with previous studies in Caucasian families; 2) that ALP-B was associated with risk factors
      characteristic of the insulin resistance syndrome and NIDDM among individual
      Japanese-American family members. 3) that plasma levels of Lp(a) were inversely associated
      with apo(a) size phenotypes, as determined by high- resolution SDS-agarose-gel
      electrophoresis followed by immunoblotting, in individual Japanese-American subjects, and to
      compare and contrast these associations with those previously reported in Caucasians and
      other ethnic groups; 4) that in addition to apo(a) gene effects, the segregation of plasma
      levels of Lp(a) in families was nherited consistent with the presence of another single major
      gene effect. The study also established a repository of frozen white cells for future genetic
      studies of candidate genes associated with risk of CHD in Japanese Americans. These
      hypotheses were all tested based on blood samples, blood pressure and anthropometric
      measurements, and questionnaire data from 33 Japanese-American kindreds identified through
      participants in the ongoing Japanese-American Community Diabetes Study in Seattle. The
      kindreds consist of 126 nuclear families and 443 individual family members, including
      probands, siblings, spouses, offspring and nieces and nephews of full Japanese descent.

      In 1998, the renewal has three specific aims. The first aim was to identify genetic
      influences on the risk factors that characterize ther metabolic insulin resistance syndrome
      (including fasting insulin, proinsulin, C-peptide and glucose; body weight and waist
      circumference; lipoproteins; blood pressure; fibrinogen; factor VII and plasminogen activator
      inhibitor. Statistical genetic analysis approaches used in the first aim included univariate
      complex segregation analysis, factor analysis, and quantitative multivariate genetic
      analysis. The second specific aim was to test for genetic linkage between specific candidate
      genes involved in lipid metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, blood pressure, obesity, and
      hemostasis with genetically influenced risk factors of the metabolic syndrome in
      Japanese-Americans. The third specific aim was, when the DNA repository had been completed
      (750 samples by the end of year four), to apply to the NHLBI Mammalian Genotyping Service to
      perform a whole genome screen to identify new genes involved in susceptibility to the
      metabolic syndrome.
    
  