
    
      Approximately 40 subjects with Parkinson disease and 20 healthy control subjects will be
      recruited to participate in the 2 Projects in this study. All subjects will undergo written
      informed consent and a screening evaluation including baseline clinical laboratory testing, a
      baseline physical and neurological evaluation and baseline cognitive evaluations.

      Subjects in Project 1 (20 PD and 20 HC subjects) will be asked to undergo a single bolus
      injection of [18F]MPPF followed by serial Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging scans
      and blood sampling for measurement of [18F]MPPF in plasma (both protein bound and free) over
      a period of up to 2 hours. The imaging analyses will be performed by an image-processing
      specialist who will remain masked to the procedures employed with each imaging acquisition.
      The primary imaging outcome measure will be the brain regional distribution volumes expressed
      as a brain tissue to plasma ratio of the radioligand, [18F]MPPF. Time to the peak uptake and
      amplitude of the peak uptake will be evaluated for all brain regions and the results for the
      PD subjects will be compared with the HC subjects.

      Subjects participating in Project 2 (20 PD subjects on dopaminergic replacement therapy) will
      also undergo a second [18F]MPPF and PET imaging session, identical except that PD medications
      will be withheld for approximately 8 hours prior to the imaging session. The second session
      will occur greater than 7 days, but not more than 3 months, from the first imaging session.
      Initial 'on' medication quantitative outcomes for each brain region will be compared to the
      outcomes from the second 'off' medication imaging session to determine the influence of
      dopaminergic treatment on 5HT1A activity.

      The primary imaging outcome measure will be the brain regional distribution volumes expressed
      as a brain tissue to plasma ratio of the radioligand, [18F]MPPF. Time to the peak uptake and
      amplitude of the peak uptake will be evaluated for all brain regions and the results for the
      PD subjects will be compared with the HC subjects.
    
  