
    
      Introduction:

      There is a large intra-and interindividual variability in the effect of propofol. To deal
      with this problem, a real-time monitoring and therefore a more accurate titration of
      anesthetic agents is proposed. Brain function monitors based on a processed analysis of EEG
      (Electroencephalogram) can help to control pharmacodynamic effects of hypnotic agents. PSI
      values provide a measurement of the hypnotic effect of propofol. It will be observed an
      inverse correlation between the propofol infusion rate and the PSI value.

      Objectives:

      To design a computer program to record simultaneously the propofol infusion rate, PSI and
      Electromyogram (EMG).

      To study the correlation between PSI values obtained from the SEDLine® monitor and the
      infusion rate of propofol during general anesthesia.

      To obtain a mathematical model of the system from data recorded with different identification
      techniques.

      Methods:

      A group of patients scheduled for surgery under a standard total intravenous anesthesia
      (TIVA) with propofol and remifentanil will be recruited. The hypnotic effect of propofol will
      be monitored with the PSI from a SEDline monitor continuously. All anesthetic doses and their
      changes fall within conventional dosing.

      The procedure for recording data and obtaining the pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics (PK /
      PD) model will be connecting a SEDLine® monitor to a laptop with an original program
      developed by members of our team. The program automatically stores the infusion rate of
      propofol (mg/kg/h) and the simultaneous values of PSI and frontal EMG. Graphics and data
      collected will be explored with various systems of techniques for pattern recognition in
      order to get the best fit to define a mathematical model of the dose of propofol and PSI
      values. A subsequent computer analysis with MATLAB® will estimate the correlation between the
      infusion of propofol infusion rate and PSI values.
    
  