
    
      Background:

        -  Indenoisoquinolines are non-camptothecin topoisomerase (Top1) inhibitors that form
           stable DNA-Top1 cleavage-complexes, have a preference for unique DNA cleavage sites, and
           are active against camptothecin-resistant cell lines. Unlike camptothecins,
           indenoisoquinolines are chemically stable and active in cells that over-express
           ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters ABCG2 and multidrug resistance (MDR-1). Top1
           inhibitors are potent anticancer agents because stabilizing cleavage complex formation
           induces replication-and transcription-mediated DNA damage and delays DNA repair, leading
           to apoptosis. Preclinical and clinical data indicate that baseline tumor levels of Top1
           correlate strongly with ability to respond to Top1 inhibitor therapy.

        -  A first-in-human Phase I study conducted at the NCI of the indenoisoquinoline LMP400
           (NSC 743400) on a QD x 5 q28 schedule in patients with refractory solid tumors and
           lymphomas (10-C-0056) established that this agent is well tolerated. LMP400 shows linear
           pharmacokinetics with evidence of drug accumulation following 5 days of dosing. We
           hypothesize that weekly dosing (days 1, 8, 15 q28-day cycle) will increase LMP400 peak
           levels and exposures, improving clinical activity and safety.

      Primary Objectives:

        -  To establish the safety and tolerability of weekly (days 1, 8, 15 q28-day cycle) LMP400
           in patients with refractory solid tumors and lymphomas.

        -  To establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of weekly LMP400 in patients with
           refractory solid tumors and lymphomas.

        -  To evaluate the pharmacokinetic profile of weekly LMP400.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  Evaluate the level of Top1 in tumor biopsies pre- and post- administration of LMP400.

        -  Evaluate the effect of LMP400 on markers of DNA damage and apoptosis, such as >=H2AX and
           caspase 3, in tumor biopsies pre- and post- LMP400 administration.

      Eligibility:

      -Patients with histologically confirmed metastatic solid tumors and lymphomas; adequate organ
      function.

      Study Design:

        -  This is an open-label Phase I trial evaluating weekly administration of LMP400, on days
           1, 8, and 15, in 28-day cycles.

        -  Starting dose is based on the MTD determined from the QD x 5, q28 day schedule currently
           being evaluated. The study will follow a 3 plus 3 design.

        -  Once the MTD is established, 10 additional patients will be enrolled at the MTD to
           further define the pharmacokinetics and evaluate effect of study drug on DNA damage and
           apoptosis.
    
  