
    
      The main contribution to hereditary ovarian cancer comes from breast cancer (BRCA) genes
      mutations, which are responsible of 90% of hereditary ovarian cancer. The two susceptibility
      genes associated with epithelial-type OC are BRCA1 and BRCA2.

      The BRCA proteins play an important role in the DNA repair mechanisms and are also involved
      in the control of the cell cycle checkpoints, in protein ubiquitinization and chromatin
      remodelling.

      Mutations in the BRCA genes have been extensively described in families affected by breast
      and/or OC; mutated BRCA1 has been found in up to 75% of families with hereditary OC - Recent
      data suggest that dysfunction of BRCA1andBRCA2, so-called BRCAness, maybe more prevalent than
      originally assumed. Both genetic and epigenetic mechanisms can create the BRCAness phenotype
      in at least a third of all epithelial ovarian cancers. The definition of BRCAness ovarian
      cancer is: high-grade serous cancers, high initial sensitivity to platinum drugs and
      retention of platinum-sensitivity through multiple relapses, longer history of disease,
      longer survival, longer TFIs between relapses.

      Yondelis® (trabectedin) is proposed to block the transcriptional activation of a subset of
      inducible genes without affecting their constitutive expression. Trabectedin binds to the
      minor groove of DNA, bending the helix to the major groove. This binding to DNA triggers a
      cascade of events affecting several transcription factors, DNA binding proteins, and DNA
      repair pathways, resulting in perturbation of the cell cycle.

      Cell cycle studies of the action of trabectedin on tumor cells in vitro reveal that it
      decreases the rate of progression of the cells through S phase towards G2 and causes a
      prolonged blockade in G2/M at biologically relevant concentrations (20-80 nM). These cell
      cycle blocks are p53-independent and lead to a strong apoptopic response. Cells in G1 are
      more sensitive to the cytotoxic effects of trabectedin. These effects appear to be related to
      the unique 3-subunit structure, where two of the subunits or rings are involved in binding to
      the minor groove of DNA in guanine-cytosine rich sequences and alkylation N2 of guanine
      forming adducts that distorted the DNA helix structure and they are recognized by the TC-NER
      mechanism.

      DNA repair proficiency is a major determinant for the cytotoxicity of trabectedin: human cell
      lines deficient for genes essential for TC-NER activity as XPA, XPB, XPD, XPF, XPG, ERCC1,
      CSA and CSB are resistant to trabectedin, and this resistance is reverted by complementation
      of the cells with the corresponding gene. Trabectedin induces double strand breaks and that
      the BRCA1-/- human cell line HCC1937 and BRCA2Δ22/Δ22 mice cells are more sensitive to
      trabectedin and this hypersensitivity is reverted by complementation by the BRCA1 or BRCA2
      gene.

      Based in these observations it was hypothesized that the NER machinery trapped in the DNA
      lesion induced by trabectedin was resolved by the cells producing double strand breaks that
      were repaired by the HRR machinery, and synergistic action of TC-NER and HRR machinery would
      be necessary for maximal trabectedin cytotoxicity.
    
  