
    
      Obesity and obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) are independent risk factors for insulin
      resistance, systemic hypertension and cardiovascular disease. Both obesity and OSA are
      associated with increased sympathetic activity, inflammatory activity, and oxidative stress,
      the presumed mediators of their shared clinical consequences. Due to the conflicting results
      of previous intervention studies treating OSA patients with CPAP, the investigators still do
      not know if treatment of obese OSA patients has a substantial benefit on these risk factors.
      In Aim 1, to determine the effects of obesity on the response to CPAP treatment in OSA
      patients, the investigators will compare responses in daytime sleepiness, insulin resistance,
      and arterial blood pressure following CPAP treatment in obese and lean OSA patients,
      stratified by the amount of abdominal visceral adipose tissue, a fat depot associated with
      increased sympathetic activity, inflammation, and oxidative stress, and a more powerful
      predictor than BMI of adverse cardiovascular and metabolic outcomes. Aim 2 will determine the
      effect of CPAP treatment in these two patients groups on sympathetic activity, and
      inflammatory and oxidative stress biomarkers. The overall hypothesis is that, adjusting for
      OSA severity and obtaining normative data from non-OSA subjects with comparable amounts of
      visceral adiposity (Aim 3), the two OSA groups will have comparable improvements in daytime
      sleepiness, but that the cardiovascular and metabolic improvements following CPAP therapy
      will be decreased in OSA patients with increased visceral adipose tissue. The investigators
      anticipate that, although there will be a greater absolute change in markers of sympathetic
      activity, inflammation and oxidative stress in obese compared to lean OSA patients following
      CPAP treatment, the levels will still be abnormally high in the obese patients resulting in
      the decreased improvements in insulin resistance, arterial blood pressure, and vascular
      health in obese versus lean OSA patients. Relevance: Obese patients are at increased risk of
      developing sleep apnea. Both obesity and sleep apnea are felt to increase the risk of
      diabetes, hypertension, and cardiovascular disease. The proposed research will begin to
      determine if treating obese patients with sleep apnea helps to reduce these risks. If the
      beneficial effects of CPAP treatment are reduced in obese compared to lean patients with
      sleep apnea, then treatment of sleep apnea in obese patients needs to be combined with
      effective management of their obesity.
    
  