
    
      Hip surgery is a common type of orthopedic surgery. The pathologies are complex, including
      chronic conditions such as femoral head necrosis, primary hip dysplasia, hip joint
      osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis, as well as acute diseases such as femoral neck
      fractures and intertrochanteric fractures. The surgical treatment includes closed reduction
      and internal fixation, open reduction and internal fixation, hemiarthroplasty (femoral head
      replacement), and total hip arthroplasty, etc. The population of patients undergoing hip
      surgery has a high proportion of elderly (>65 years old), with multiple preoperative
      comorbidities, and significant postoperative pain. We must achieve the balance between the
      providing sufficient analgesia and minimizing associated adverse reactions perioperatively
      for such group of patients, therefore promoting patients' rehabilitation.

      Sufentanil, a pure μ receptor agonist with active metabolite, is a long-acting strong opioid
      which has high analgesic efficacy. It is commonly used in anesthesia practice, not only for
      intraoperative analgesia, but also postoperative pain relief, i.e. a popular drug of choice
      used for Patient Control Intravenous Analgesia (PCIA). However, sufentanil is associated with
      high incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV), respiratory depression and other
      adverse reactions, which could negatively affect the patient's analgesic satisfaction, and
      compromise the course of postoperative recovery. It is important to establish an effective
      and safe postoperative analgesic regime that can achieve the comparable analgesic efficacy
      with reduced incidence of adverse reactions. Oxycodone is a semi-synthetic opioid which is
      extracted from the thebaine, it activates both μ and κ opioid receptors. It has been reported
      to have good analgesic effect and lower incidence of adverse reactions such as PONV in
      comparison with Morphine, and could be a reasonable option for PCIA. As Oxycodone can agonize
      κ receptors and reduce visceral pain, most of the existing studies on Oxycodone are focused
      on laparoscopic cholecystectomy and other abdominal surgeries, with the average age of study
      patients is between 40 to 55 years old, and also lack of large sample studies.

      Based on the abovementioned literatures, we propose the hypothesis that in hip surgery,
      compared with Sufentanil PCIA, the equipotency dose of Oxycodone PCIA can achieve the same
      postoperative analgesic efficacy and may also reduce the incidence of adverse reactions
      associated with opioids.
    
  