
    
      The primary, scientific long term objective is to study any correlation that brief
      upregulation of endogenous hydrogen sulfide (H2S) via pre-operative protein calorie
      restriction (PCR) in elective major surgery may have biologic effects in humans. In this
      study, the investigators plan to evaluate patient compliance and the physiologic response
      pre-operative PCR has on patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy surgery. This will be
      explored via two primary aims.

      The First Aim looks to create a prospective, fast-track, one-year study of 40 vascular
      surgery patients undergoing elective carotid artery endarterectomy randomized into two
      pre-operative dietary groups: observational group (n=16) and PCR (commercially available
      ScandiShake x 3 days, n=24). This pilot study is based on preliminary data balanced with
      economic and clinical feasibility considerations. The primary endpoints of this study are: 1)
      feasibility of subject compliance with PCR (measured by direct dietary intake data and serum
      markers including plasma free amino acids and insulin-like growth factor; thus the 2:3
      randomization) and 2) measurement of H2S and standard markers of stress before and after
      surgery (including stress hormones, oxidative stress, inflammation and cardiac troponin T
      levels). Individual patient's microbiomes,phenotype of circulating blood cells, adipose
      tissue (peri-vascular, subcutaneous), and the excised carotid plaque will be characterized to
      inform on potential mechanistic links among these and PCR induced H2S upregulation, reduced
      peri-operative stress, atherosclerotic plaque stability, and improved outcome (baseline and
      peri-procedural clinical datasets will be completed) for future clinical trials. Key
      secondary data points include observing endpoints such as carotid restenosis and surgical
      complications (cardiac, neurologic, wound, etc) between the two groups, which the
      investigators hypothesize will help to inform future trials. This pilot study will elucidate
      not only the practicality of pre-operative short term dietary restriction, but also provide
      physiologic data to support the long term primary scientific objective stated previously.

      The Second Specific Aim is to establish a robust human discovery multi-institutional platform
      to capitalize on multiple aspects of this carefully constructed initiative toward long-term
      goals such as better understanding and translation of the biologic mechanisms of H2S and PCR.
      Data collected in the first aim across institutions will be integrated and made public.This
      platform will encourage communication and collaboration among basic scientists, translational
      investigators, and clinical communities. This synergy will allow the investigators to define
      the mechanisms of H2S and PCR effects, and will also give insights into the human response to
      trauma (lipidomics, microbiome, proteins/microRNAs) that regulate the pro-inflammatory
      response to injury, and will allow for mechanistic links among these factors ties to surgical
      outcomes.
    
  