
    
      Patients were followed up 6 weeks by telephone. The sample size was at least 30 people. If
      symptoms suggestive of relapse or other problems occurred, patients were invited to come back
      to the center. Relapse after etanercept withdrawal was defined as an increase Bath
      Spondylitis Disease Activity Index(BASDAI) score goes back to 80 percentages of it at the
      beginning of the trial16. The following data were collected: demographic and disease
      characteristics, therapeutic modification, clinical values (BASFI, Bath Ankylosing
      Spondylitis Global Score (BAS-G)), Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Score (ASDAS) and
      biologic values at baseline of the trial and the time of relapse. Adverse events and other
      safety measures were also collected.

      Demographic and baseline disease characteristics were summarized with descriptive statistics
      and analysed with one-way ANOVA for continuous for continuous variables and χ2 tests for
      categorical variables. The Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate the time-to-relapse rate
      after etanercept withdrawal. Time-to-relapse curves were compared between the group of
      patients received 12-week and 6-week treatment of etanercept through log-rank test. The
      influence of the following variables including age，duration of disease, onset age, BASDAI,
      ASDAS-CRP, C reaction protein(CRP), and erythrocyte sedimentation rate(ESR) was examined
      using the Cox proportional hazards model to evaluate at etanercept withdrawal on
      time-to-relapse. Every continuous variable was divided into 3 categories at approximately the
      33% and 67% at first19. If the relative relapse rates were not significantly different in 2
      contiguous categories, they were gathered together. If no clear difference was observed in 3
      categories, the median was used as a cut-off point. Normal value such as 6 mg/L for CRP level
      were tested. The proportional hazards model was used to study the effect of each factor on
      time-to-relapse and identify the independent prognostic factors. Relapse rates are presented
      as estimate with standard error (SE), follow-up times as median (interquartile range), and
      hazard ratio as estimate with 95% confidence interval.

      All analyses were performed using SPSS software v16.0 (SPSS, Inc, Chicago, IL).
    
  