
    
      Recent studies have suggested that CAP can be successfully treated by short-course antibiotic
      regimen when clinical improvement is rapidly obtained. Even if clinical response is obtained
      in 3 days in the majority of cases, it can widely vary among patients, suggesting that "one
      duration does not fit all". An individualized duration of therapy depending on the patient's
      response could help to ensure bacterial eradication while avoiding unnecessary antibiotic
      exposure and thus reduce antibiotic resistance. At present, this strategy has never been
      tested.

      This is a pragmatic open label non-inferiority randomized multicenter trial with two parallel
      arms comparing antibiotic treatment duration left to the physician's judgement (usually 7 to
      14 days), versus interruption of treatment based on the patient's clinical response defined
      by reaching stability criteria (body temperature ≤ 37.8°C; heart rate ≤ 100/min; systolic
      blood pressure ≥ 90mmHg, oxygen saturation ≥ 90%) for 24h, after a minimum of 2 days
      treatment.

      Recruitment and follow-up: Outpatients consulting in a private multiprofessional health
      center, diagnosed as having CAP and in need for antibiotics will be assessed for eligibility.
      Following information and signing consent, eligible patients will be included in the study.
      They will receive the prescription (antibiotic type and duration determined by the physician,
      preferably chosen according to the French guidelines) and a collection of connected devices
      to monitor their vital signs 2 times a day (morning and evening). Preselected patients will
      be randomized as soon as they meet the two following criteria: i) they have presented the
      stability criteria for 24h (3 consecutive vital signs recordings); ii) they have started the
      antibiotic treatment at least 72 hours before, with a ≥ 80% compliance, and with at least 1
      intake in the last 24 hours. Each patient will then receive a telephone call from the
      coordinating team (or a permanent medical platform at nights, during weekends or public
      holidays) in order to proceed to the randomization and ensure that everything is well
      understood by the patient as well as the security and compliance with the strategy.

      A follow-up visit with the investigator will be performed at day 15 after the start of
      antibiotic treatment.

      The final evaluation will be performed 30 days following the start of antibiotic treatment by
      a telephone call from the coordinating team.

      Number of subjects necessary: 310 patients.
    
  