
    
      The goal of this patient-randomized effectiveness trial is to demonstrate that an inpatient
      technology-supported assisted referral (I-TSAR) and follow-up approach is an effective and
      cost-effective method to help hospitalized patients successfully quit smoking. The proposed
      study represents a unique opportunity to assess the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of
      linking inpatient and outpatient delivery of smoking cessation services in two large and very
      different health care delivery systems. We will enroll 900 participants (600 intervention,
      300 controls) over 15-months and collect follow-up survey and health care utilization data
      over 12 months to estimate: 1) smoking abstinence at 6 and 12 months for I-TSAR intervention
      recipients compared to usual care; 2) the dose effect on smoking abstinence at 6 and 12
      months for I-TSAR recipients compared to usual care; 3) total and mean costs per participant
      for I-TSAR and usual care recipients, and, if effective, estimate the incremental
      cost-effectiveness of the intervention vs. controls at 12 months from health plan/insurer and
      societal perspectives; and 4) differences in health care utilization at 12 months for I-TSAR
      versus controls.

      This innovative study will provide important evidence for the effectiveness and cost
      effectiveness of technologically supporting hospital-based tobacco treatment specialists'
      efforts to provide treatment assistance to smokers interested in quitting and arrange for
      telephone follow-up support. The Tobacco Treatment Specialists will identify and enroll into
      the study smokers and recent quitters (ages 18 and over) admitted to KSMC and OHSU inpatient
      units, and randomize participants into usual care and I-TSAR intervention arms. Patients
      enrolled into the treatment arm will receive information about existing tobacco cessation
      programs and medications, will be enrolled into the cessation program and medication of their
      choice while admitted, and will be enrolled to receive four post-discharge follow-up calls
      over 7 weeks using an automated interactive voice recognition program developed with and
      provided by Eliza Corp. The Tobacco Treatment Specialist will work with hospital staff to
      initiate pharmacy orders for cessation medications, and coordinate cessation treatment with
      the participants' usual source of primary care (provider or clinic). Study staff will also
      work with hospital staff and managers to develop periodic clinic enrollment feedback reports.

      Testing the approach in two different health care systems will provide generalized data for
      other health plans and insurers about the value of using electronic medical records systems
      to help inpatient staff facilitate smoking cessation treatment after discharge.
    
  