
    
      Vascular disease and stroke often affect working memory, which is the ability to hold
      information in mind in order to deal with tasks, such as reading, having a conversation,
      problem-solving and decision-making. Working memory deficits can lead to problems with
      everyday activities, affecting independence and quality of life. Thus, interventions to
      improve working memory are important for optimal health outcomes in individuals after stroke.

      Currently, approaches to provide interventions for working memory deficits are limited to
      intensive face-to-face rehabilitation sessions requiring trained therapists over many weeks.
      Even one-on-one computerized training requires significant health care resources, however,
      including supervision of daily sessions by a trained therapist, set-up of the program on the
      computer, teaching the patient how to use the program, regular encouragement and feedback to
      maintain motivation, monitoring of progress, and trouble-shooting when there are
      difficulties. Thus, access to these interventions is usually restricted to patients currently
      in hospital in urban areas, and limited or not available to those in the community once
      discharged, or when treated in hospital in more rural settings. Thus, new approaches to
      increase accessibility of this intervention approach to patients are needed.

      The investigators developed one method of working memory training which uses a computerized,
      game-like approach, which is ideal for providing intensive, repetitive practice, with
      feedback and monitoring of progress. While the maximally effective dose is not yet
      identified, adaptive training practice normally is provided for 5 days/week for 5-10 weeks.
      With this intensity, computerized working memory training has been shown to improve cognitive
      abilities in a range of groups (e.g., healthy younger and older adults, those with Attention
      deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), stroke, schizophrenia) and these benefits can
      generalize to other cognitive abilities and be maintained, at least in the short term.

      The investigators propose to develop and evaluate an internet-based intervention approach,
      using the computerized working memory method that has been shown to be effective in improving
      working memory in several patient groups, including stroke. The investigators will develop
      and refine a website that the investigators can use to provide an already available
      computerized game-like software program for working memory training, and conduct an initial
      evaluation of this approach for feasibility and effectiveness in a pilot study involving
      clinical sites in Nova Scotia.
    
  