
    
      The present Project is a third phase of the previous PCM-EVW-ES Project (Batlle et al. Thromb
      & Haemost 2015) with the aim of its extension, further analysis with an innovation
      development in the field of von Willebrand disease (VWD) based in the newer recently
      available methodologies. The aim of this project is to help the physician in a more uniform
      characterization and therapy of VWD in clinical practice, at an international level. A
      reduction of the expenses in the diagnosis process by using the new methodologies is pursued.

      The specific objectives and corresponding tasks of the present project are as follows:

      1. Extension of the central phenotypic and next generation sequencing (NGS) genotypic
      characterization of the VWD in Spain, through the prospective recruitment in the Spanish VWD
      cohort of approximately 500 new patients with local historical VWD diagnosis (from
      approximately 38 centres).

      i. Improvement of the registry portal and database. ii. Recruitment criteria, phenotypic and
      genetic analysis of new recruited patients. In silico studies of novel von Willebrand factor
      gene (VWF) mutations iii. Analysis/investigation of the potential interrelationship between
      different clinical, phenotypic and genetic variations of the all recruited patients. iv.
      Validation/confirmation of the PCM-EVW-ES of the new initial diagnostic proposed algorithm
      including VWF NGS analysis. This project involves leading innovation and translational
      research with a direct impact on the quality of clinical care (applicability). To our
      knowledge there is no similar project in this field. Potential patents may derive from this
      project. It involves also development of e-learning and new information technologies (debates
      forum, ads, google search engine). This project may promote international collaboration.

      Development of an algorithmic platform that facilitates diagnosis and therapy orientation of
      VWD in clinical practice using the selected data from the overwhelming amount of information
      that new technologies, such as NGS, are producing.
    
  