
    
      More than 880 000 Quebecers (more than 10% of the population) suffer from diabetes, which is
      the main cause of blindness in diabetic adults under 65 years of age, and around 40% of
      people with diabetes suffer from diabetic retinopathy (DR). The early detection of DR and a
      regular follow-up is thus crucial to prevent the progression of this disease.

      However, the public health care system in Quebec does not actually have the capacity to allow
      all people with diabetes to see an ophthalmologist within a short delay. Artificial
      intelligence might help in screening DR and in refering to eye doctors only patients who
      suffer from this eye disease.

      The investigators of this study hypothesize that artificial intelligence (AI) is a useful
      technology for the screening of diabetic retinopathy (DR) that can detect the absence or the
      presence of DR with an efficiency and an accuracy similar to that of an ophthalmological
      evaluation.

      The goal of this study is to compare the screening results of DR obtained with NeoRetina pure
      artificial intelligence algorithm (automated analysis of color photos of the retina) with the
      results of a routine ophthalmological evaluation done in a clinical context at the Centre
      hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal (CHUM).

      The main objective of this study is to determine if artificial intelligence (AI) could be a
      useful technology for the early detection and the follow-up of diabetic retinopathy (DR).

      The first specific objective is to determine the efficiency and the accuracy of NeoRetina
      (DIAGNOS Inc.) automated algorithm for the screening and the grading of the severity of
      diabetic retinopathy (DR) by the analysis of eye fundus images from diabetic patients
      compared to that of an eye examination done by an ophthalmologist in a clinical context.

      The second specific objective is to evaluate if NeoRetina can determine, with efficiency and
      accuracy, the absence of diabetic retinopathy (DR), the presence of diabetic retinopathy (DR)
      and the severity of the disease.

      Recruited diabetic participants will be screened for DR by AI with NeoRetina. Participants
      will also have a full eye examination (blind assessment) with an ophthalmologist of the CHUM
      in order to determine if they suffer from this eye complication of diabetes.

      The results of the screening done by AI with NeoRetina will be compared to those of the
      ocular evaluation done by an ophthalmologist. Ophthalmologists from the CHUM will also revise
      the retinal images acquired by DIAGNOS (blind assessment) in order to determine if DR is
      present and will manually grade the severity of the disease.
    
  