
    
      Due to COVID-19 restrictions, active recruiting was suspended 31MAR20.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of intermittent theta burst repetitive
      transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) as a treatment for Veterans with an alcohol use
      disorder (AUD) to decrease the exceedingly high rate of relapse associated with this
      condition.

      At least 60% of those with AUD will experience a major relapse period within 6 months of
      treatment, irrespective of the intervention (psychosocial and/or pharmacological) employed.
      Consequently, the high prevalence of AUD and relapse following treatment in Veterans is
      associated with substantial resource allocation and costs for the DVA Health Care System.
      Current pharmacological and psychosocial interventions demonstrate only a moderate level of
      efficacy, which is reflected in the high rate of relapse in AUD.

      rTMS is a neurostimulation method that is at the forefront of innovative, non-invasive, and
      safe treatments for AUD, and the disorders that commonly co-occur with AUD. To reduce the
      high rate of relapse in Veterans with AUD, it is necessary for interventions to more
      effectively address the associated neurobiological dysfunction and salient co-occurring
      conditions. Accordingly, additional rigorously controlled studies are required to determine
      if intermittent theta burst rTMS is an effective treatment for Veterans with AUD.

      Participants will be recruited from VA Palo Alto Health Care System (VAPAHCS) residential
      substance abuse treatment clinics A double-blind randomized clinical trial with two groups:
      Active rTMS Treatment Group (Active rTMS) - will receive five treatments (two treatments per
      day) per week for 2 weeks. Sham Control Treatment group (i.e., identical rTMS experimental
      procedure, but no active stimulation) will receive the same frequency and duration of rTMS
      sessions. The proposed rTMS protocol is consistent with the FDA approved treatment regimen
      employed for major depressive disorders at the VAPAHCS MIRECC. Magnetic resonance imaging
      (MR) will be completed pre and post rTMS treatment and used to localize the left DLPFC in
      each participant to optimize rTMS for this region. Active and Sham rTMS groups will complete
      predictive measures [i.e., MR measures of anterior frontal glutamate level, blood flow, and
      tissue volume, diffusion tensor imaging, functional connectivity, task-based fMRI] and other
      outcome measures (i.e., measures of craving, mood, anxiety, neurocognition) immediately pre-
      and post-completion of the 2 weeks of rTMS sessions. Genetic markers (i.e., brain derived
      neurotrophic factor plasma levels and polymorphisms) will also be collected. Neuroimaging and
      genetic measures are necessary to establish potential biomarkers for prediction of rTMS
      treatment response, which is requisite for therapeutic optimization. For the 6 months
      following completion of active or sham rTMS treatment, participants will be contacted
      monthly, via telephone or in person, to complete a brief standardized measure of alcohol and
      substance use, craving, and psychiatric symptomatology to assess for changes in these
      variables over the previous 30 days.

      This project will deliver completely novel data on the efficacy of intermittent theta burst
      rTMS for Veterans with AUD during the first 6 months following treatment. Monitoring over the
      entire first 6 months following treatment is crucial, given relapse within the first 6 months
      of treatment is robustly related to poor psychosocial functioning over the ensuing 1-3 years.
      The ultimate goal of this proposal is provide treatment that more effectively promotes
      sustained abstinence in the Veteran with AUD, as extended abstinence is robustly associated
      with optimum biomedical, neuropsychological, psychiatric, and psychosocial recovery and
      functioning.
    
  