
    
      Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and its lymphoma variant, small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL)
      were for decades considered diseases caused by the progressive accumulation of abnormal
      lymphocytes. The prevailing view being that CLL and SLL disease processes were driven by an
      underlying defect in apoptosis. While resistance to apoptosis appears to be important in the
      CLL and SLL disease process, recent studies suggest that cellular proliferation is more
      important than previously realized.

      Cells from individuals with CLL who drank deuterated water (heavy water) for 6 weeks showed a
      turnover rate of 0.1 % to 1.1 % per day. In a second study involving CLL subjects who drank
      heavy water, average CLL turnover rates were in a similar range but approximately 2-fold
      lower than average B-cell turnover rates from healthy individuals. These studies have shown
      the safety and scientific value of using heavy water to study the kinetics of cell
      proliferation in patients and normal volunteers.

      We now propose this study to expand on findings by other investigators. This study will
      address the site of proliferation for CLL/SLL cells and will include individuals with
      monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL), a possible precursor of CLL. Furthermore, we will
      include patients with mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), a disease in which tumor proliferation
      plays an important role.

      Study participants will drink heavy water daily for a total of 4 weeks (labeling period) with
      an optional 6 months follow up ( wash out period). Blood samples will be obtained weekly
      during the labeling period. A bone marrow and/or lymph node biopsy will be obtained where
      possible during the labeling period. Additional blood draws may be obtained during the
      optional wash-out phase of the study to determine the rate at which tumor cells disappear.

      The primary objective of this exploratory study is to obtain an estimate of the proliferation
      rate of tumor cells in individuals with MBL, CLL/SLL, and MCL. Secondary objectives include
      the comparison of proliferation rates between different anatomic compartments, specifically
      peripheral blood, lymph node, and bone marrow and the estimation of the attrition or
      disappearance rate of cells during an optional phase of the protocol. Healthy volunteers may
      be included for comparison.

      The primary objective of this exploratory study is to obtain an estimate of the proliferation
      rate of tumor cells in individuals with MBL, CLL/SLL, and MCL.

      Secondary endpoints include: Proliferation rate in tissue compared to blood, disappearance
      rate of labeled cells from the blood and tissue, and the safety profile of heavy water in the
      study population.
    
  