
    
      This is a prospective cohort, single-center, single-arm study screening adult subjects with
      type 1 diabetes from the Joslin Diabetes Center outpatient clinic mainly through physician
      referrals for NAFLD and advanced fibrosis. Subjects will undergo a one-time screening which
      will last for about 30 minutes.

      The following procedures will be conducted during the study visit:

        1. Blood draw for metabolic measurements (HbA1c, lipid panel, ALT, AST, serum albumin,
           complete blood count-CBC)

        2. FibroScan Measurements (LSM and CAP)

        3. Anthropometric measurements (weight, height, BMI calculation, waist, and hip
           circumference)

        4. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure

      Blood Draw:

      Samples of blood taken during the trial for laboratory testing will include the following
      metabolic measurements: AST, ALT, Platelets, percentage A1C, and lipid parameters (TC, LDL,
      HDL, TG).

      Fibroscan: Vibration controlled transient elastography (VCTE) or FibroScan® (EchoSens, Paris,
      France) is a simple aid to diagnose adult patients with chronic liver diseases. FibroScan
      provides a fast and reliable alternative to hepatic needle biopsy. In this 5-7 minute test,
      the investigator induces a mild amplitude shear wave into liver tissue from a small
      mechanical vibrator at the end of the FibroScan probe. VCTE evaluates a representative volume
      of the liver that is 100-fold greater than needle biopsy and the liver stiffness measurement
      (LSM) is expressed in kilopascals (kPa) with values >9.8 kPa being consistent with the
      presence of advanced fibrosis/cirrhosis. Typically, 10 successful VCTE measurements with a
      median interquartile range/median ration of less than 30% are needed to have a reliable LSM.

      FIB-4 Index: This is a noninvasive surrogate biomarker of advanced fibrosis that is
      calculated using the following formula:

      FIB-4 = Age (years)×AST (U/L)/[PLT(109/L)×√ALT(U/L)] (Sterling, Lissen et al. 2006)
      FIB-4>2.67 is consistent with the presence of advanced fibrosis with 80% PPV.

      NAFLD Fibrosis Score (NFS): This is a noninvasive surrogate biomarker of advanced fibrosis
      that is calculated using the following formula:

      NFS= -1.675 + 0.037 - age (years) + 0.094 - BMI (kg/m2) + 1.13 × IFG/diabetes (yes = 1, no =
      0) + 0.99 × AST/ALT ratio - 0.013 × platelet count (×109/l) - 0.66 × albumin (g/dl).

      NFS>0.676 is consistent with the presence of advanced fibrosis

      Anthropometric measurements: These include weight, height, BMI calculation, waist, and hip
      measurements. Measurements will be done using standardized anthropometric techniques.

      Follow up may be required for High-risk patients with advanced fibrosis. If patient consents,
      referring or treating physicians will be notified and provided with fibroscan results for
      possible referral to hepatologists for further evaluation and intervention.
    
  