
    
      Over 3 million global neonatal deaths are reported annually. While significant progress has
      been made over the past decade towards reducing overall under 5 mortality, very little
      progress has been made towards the reduction of neonatal deaths, which represent about 40% of
      all deaths in children under the age of 5. The majority of neonatal deaths occur in rural
      areas of low-income countries and approximately two thirds are due to infection and
      complications relating to low birth weight (LBW) and prematurity.

      In Pakistan, it is estimated that over 200,000 newborns die each year before they reach the
      end of their first month of life, representing nearly 58% of all deaths among children under
      the age of five. The risk of neonatal death in Pakistan is higher in rural areas than in
      urban areas; the neonatal mortality rate (NMR) in rural areas is 55 per 1,000 live births
      compared to 48 per 1,000 live births in urban areas. NMR in Pakistan is also associated with
      poverty; the NMR in highest wealth quintile is 38 compared to 63 per 1000 live births in
      lowest wealth quintile.

      In resource poor settings, newborns are most often delivered at home and receive minimal
      specific medical care, measurement, or monitoring. In these areas, geography, infrastructure,
      and poverty often effectively prevent access to health centers and care. Home outreach with
      trained Community health workers (CHWs) is increasingly recognized as the mainstay for
      provision of maternal and newborn care in these settings. Many proven, cost-effective ways to
      save the lives of newborns exist, however, they are not always available to those who need
      them most nor have they been packaged into a single portable kit that can be easily used in
      the home-setting. Such a portable kit consisting of low cost, evidence-based interventions
      for use in the home has tremendous potential to improve health status and decrease NMR.

      In this study, the investigators hypothesize that the implementation of an integrated
      evidence-based toolkit by CHWs will reduce neonatal deaths by at least 40% through a
      reduction in both infectious causes of death and those associated with prematurity and LBW.
      Furthermore, the investigators propose that there will be an additive effect from the
      mortality benefit of specific kit components. The portable kit will contain a clean birth kit
      to be used at the time of delivery either at home or in a facility, 4% chlorhexidine (CHX)
      lotion, sunflower oil emollient, ThermoSpot, a Mylar infant sleeve, and a reusable,
      non-electric, heating device. CHWs will be equipped with a hand held electric scale to
      identify LBW newborns.
    
  