
    
      Background: The prevention of Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection in cardiac transplant patients
      is currently based exclusively on the performance of the serotypes of the receptor and the
      donor. Despite prophylactic treatment with valganciclovir or preemptive therapy through
      serial monitoring of blood viral copies, the rate of infection or CMV disease remains high
      and has a negative clinical impact. The evaluation of the specific T lymphocytes cellular
      immune response against 2 CMV antigens prior to kidney transplantaction, using the ELISPOT
      IFN-γ assay discriminates in a better way which patients will develop CMV infection.

      Objetives: To compare the cumulative incidence of CMV infection during the first year
      post-heart transplant amongst CMV seropositive recipients in 12 national centers, where the
      prophylactic strategy regarding CMV infection will be guided by the ELISPOT IFN-γ assay or
      not (control). Main variable: number of patients who have CMV infection in the first year
      post-trasplant (HT).

      Hyphotesis: A preventive strategy against CMV infection in CMV seropositive heart transplant
      patients, based on the specific basal response of the T lymphocytes against CMV, ELISPOT
      IFN-γ assay, is effective, safe and not inferior than the control group in terms of infection
      CMV rates. Design: The investigators propose a phase IV clinical trial (with authorized
      treatment), randomized (2:1), controlled, open label and multicentric, with two parallel
      groups (Experimental group: preventive strategy based on the ELISPOT IFN-γ result: If
      patients are stratified as high risk they will receive prophylaxis with valgancyclovir for 3
      months and if they are stratified as low risk they will be treated with preemptive therapy
      guided by CMV polymerase chain reaction analysis; Control group: Standard of care, universal
      prophylaxis with valgancyclovir for 3 months).

      Follow-up: 1 year. Duration of the trial: 3 years. Sample size: 188 patients.
    
  