
    
      Purpose:

      The purpose of this study is to determine if high dose per fraction SABR has an impact on the
      vasculature of both the tumor and of healthy liver tissue.

      Hypothesis:

      High dose / fraction in HCC patients with tumours < 5 cm will result in detectable changes to
      kinetic model parameters derived from dynamic contrast enhanced images.

      Objectives:

      Primary objective:

      To quantify changes in tumor vascular support for patients receiving SABR.

      Secondary objectives:

      To investigate the correlation between PK derived model liver perfusion parameters and QoL
      metrics as measured by EORTC QLQ-C30 and FACT-Hep QoL assessments.

      Research Methods:

      Target population are patients receiving liver SABR for no more than 2 discrete liver tumors
      with a maximum dimension <5cm.

      Perfusion CT Image Data Post Processing and Analysis. Patient motion will be corrected using
      deformable registration, fiducial tracking, and RPM breathing traces. Organ ROIs will be
      added to the perfusion image series by manually translating anatomical planning CT ROIs to
      the motion-corrected perfusion image series, or by algorithmically deforming planning ROIs.
      Portal vein and abdominal aorta ROIs will be demarcated.

      Analysis will proceed via custom software we have built during related projects. Contrast
      enhancement time courses will be generated for key structures (i.e., abdominal aorta, portal
      vein, and gross liver tissues) and used to derive a variety of perfusion map images, such as
      liver perfusion, mean transit time, arterial fraction, and distribution volume. A distributed
      parameter model will be preferred for kinetic modeling. Supplementary non-parametric
      techniques will be used for other parameters of interest (e.g., IAUC, maximum slope).

      Images acquired before and after treatment will be registered so that parameter maps can be
      compared on a per-patient basis. Changes in perfusion parameters will be characterized with
      special emphasis placed on regional structure and clustering effects. Pre and post parameter
      maps will be computed near individual-voxel level. Regions of interest (1) within or near
      tumour and (2) at a low-dose portion of liver will be defined. A distribution of parameters
      within each ROI will be used to generate estimates of the mean parameters and uncertainty.
      Estimates of mean parameters and whole distributions will be compared using standard
      statistical comparisons (t-test and Whitney respectively).

      Quality of Life We will evaluate quality of life (QOL) in HCC patients treated with SBRT
      using EORTC QLQ-C30 and FACT-Hep QOL assessments at baseline, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months.
      Correlation between perfusion parameter changes and patient outcomes or QOL (second-order
      analysis) will be applied if statistically significant first-order parameter changes can be
      detected. Standard correlative measures such as the Pearson product-moment correlation
      measure will be used to assess statistical significance. As there is currently no data
      relating liver perfusion to toxicity or quality of life, this study will examine whether a
      change in liver perfusion is correlated with enhanced or reduced QOL.
    
  