
    
      This proposal is intended to answer the call for accelerating drug development by exploring
      the potential of a glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) agonist, exenatide, as a candidate
      medication for the treatment of Alcohol Use Disorder. There is now substantial preclinical
      evidence that GLP-1 agonists can attenuate behaviors that model both the consumption and
      seeking of several commonly abused substances including alcohol, cocaine, and nicotine. This
      study is intended to accelerate medication development for Alcohol Use Disorder by testing a
      commercially-available and well-tolerated agent at a fraction of the cost of new drug
      discovery. None of the FDA-approved Alcohol Use Disorder medications or off-label Alcohol Use
      Disorder medications target this GLP-1 pathway, making exenatide a promising compound for
      Alcohol Use Disorder drug development.

      The primary aim of this study is to test the effects of exenatide on alcohol
      self-administration and craving among heavy drinkers. In this within-subjects crossover
      design, 36 heavy drinkers will be randomized to exposure order (exenatide or sham injection)
      prior to completing two alcohol self-administration trials. Subjects will receive a priming
      drink of alcohol and will have access to 8 drinks over a 2-hour period. The investigators
      anticipate that subjects will consume less alcohol following the administration of exenatide
      compared to when they receive a sham injection. Significant exenatide-induced reductions in
      drinking will be considered to be an indication that this drug may have value as an Alcohol
      Use Disorder medication. This study may provide a rationale for phase II randomized
      controlled trials testing exenatide with a treatment-seeking Alcohol Use Disorder population.
      These results may also help to spur further clinical investigation of the effects of
      exenatide and other available GLP-1 agonists on the factors implicated in the regulation of
      alcohol consumption.
    
  