
    
      Etiology and pathogenesis in fibromyalgia have not been fully elucidated. Many mechanisms
      contribute to the formation of FMS. Many evidence has been found for dysfunction of the
      central and autonomic nervous system, immune system, cytokines, neurotransmitters and
      hormones, which are thought to play a role in the disease.

      Since increasing systemic inflammation is thought to have a role in the etiopathogenesis of
      FMS, there are increasing numbers of studies focusing on this aspect of fibromyalgia.

      Neutrophil / lymphocyte ratio (NLR) and platelet / lymphocyte ratio (PLR) in peripheral blood
      are simple markers of systemic inflammatory response.

      Another factor thought to have a role in etiopathogenesis is autonomic nervous system
      dysfunction. It has been found that there is autonomic dysfunction in the sympathetic nervous
      system in patients with FMS. Sympathetic skin response measurements are frequently used
      electrophysiological methods to evaluate the functionality of the sympathetic nervous system,
      which is a component of the autonomic nervous system.

      In addition, vitamin D deficiency is common in FMS patients. In a study, inadequate vitamin D
      levels were found in 45% of fibromyalgia patients.

      When a literature review is performed, it is seen that electrophysiological studies are
      performed to evaluate autonomic dysfunction in patients with fibromyalgia. No studies were
      found showing the relationship between vitamin D levels and inflammatory parameters in
      patients with fibromyalgia and electrophysiological findings. In our study, it was aimed to
      compare the autonomic dysfunction of fibromyalgia patients with healthy volunteers by
      electrophysiological evaluation and to investigate the relationship between vitamin D levels
      and inflammatory parameters in fibromyalgia patients and the data obtained from
      electrophysiological studies. In this way, we aimed to contribute to a better understanding
      of the physiopathology of fibromyalgia patients with autonomic dysfunction.
    
  