
    
      Recently, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted approval to eribulin for the
      treatment of adipocytic sarcoma who have received a prior anthracycline-containing regimen
      based on a Phase III study results of improved overall survival (OS) as compared with the
      standard treatment dacarbazine. In the leiomyosarcoma cohort of the study, although eribulin
      did not demonstrate a significant benefit over dacarbazine, still about 5.1% of
      leiomyosarcoma patients treated with eribulin had a partial response, suggesting that
      eribulin may have activity against leiomyosarcoma. However, the overall response rate (ORR)
      and progression-free survival (PFS) remained unsatisfactory in the two most common soft
      tissue sarcoma (STS) subtypes-adipocytic sarcoma and leiomyosarcoma, prompting new
      therapeutic options of STS patients.

      Anti-angiogenic therapies had shown promising results in soft tissue sarcoma (ST). Pazopanib,
      an anti-angiogenic multi-kinase inhibitor, has shown clinical benefit with a longer median
      PFS of 4.6 months versus placebo in STS patients refractory to at least one line of systemic
      chemotherapy. Another anti-angiogenic targeted therapy, regorafenib, showed significant
      improvement in PFS as compared with placebo in various STS. In a phase I study of lenvatinib
      for solid tumors in Japan, 4 out of 6 leiomyosarcoma patients has tumor decreased more than
      10%. Moreover, other tyrosine receptor targets of lenvatinib, such as fibroblast growth
      factor receptor (FGFR) and platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR), may also plays a
      role in treating STS. In high-grade STS patients, about 30% of patients had FGFR1
      amplification or overexpression. FGFR1-overexpression STS cell lines are sensitive to FGFR
      inhibitors such as BGJ398 and AZD45475. Furthermore, a monoclonal antibody of PDGFR alpha,
      olaratumab, was recently approved by the FDA in combination with doxorubicin for advanced STS
      based on a median 10-month OS benefit compared to doxorubicin only in a randomized phase II
      trial.

      It has been demonstrated in various cancer types that an increased quantity of tumor
      infiltrating lymphocyte (TILs) is associated with increased response to chemotherapy or
      improved prognosis. One of the factors that had been shown to impede the migration and
      trafficking of TILs into tumor is vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). In renal cell
      carcinoma, treatment with bevacizumab, an anti-VEGF antibody, or in combination with
      atezolizumab, increased the recognition of tumor antigen, increased expression of major
      histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I receptor on tumor cells, and the amount of TIL
      migration into the tumor stroma9. Many of the STS were detected with scarce TILs in the tumor
      microenvironment, thus it would be interesting to see if anti-angiogenic tyrosine kinase
      inhibitors could adjust the tumor microenvironment toward a more chemotherapy-friendly
      milieu.

      Thus, we would like to propose a clinical trial to understand the anti-tumor activity of the
      combination of lenvatinib and eribulin in advanced STS patients.
    
  