
    
      Participants enrolled in this study will have pertinent clinical information entered into a
      database. Participants will then have spent peritoneal dialysate collected at least every 6
      months and analyzed for markers of fibrosis. Patients undergoing a special type of peritoneal
      dialysis start call urgent start peritoneal dialysis will have spent peritoneal dialysate
      collected more frequently at the start of peritoneal dialysis and then every 6 months. The
      results from the analysis of the peritoneal dialysate will then be correlated with data in
      the patient registry.

      Quality assurance- As this is a single center trial all data will be monitored by the PI.
      Data will be entered in a prospective manner into the database by a research coordinator.
      Every 6 months data will be checked for accuracy by comparing to data collected for routine
      clinical purposes by both the home dialysis unit which tracks all hospitalizations,
      peritonitis, exit site infections, technique failures. As well as the dialysis access
      database maintained by the University of Alabama at Birmingham.

      Source data verification- Data will come from both the history and physical of the primary
      investigator as well as electronic medical records at the University of Alabama at Birmingham
      and Falcon Electronic Health Record from Davita.

      Data Dictionary is as follows. Variable / Field Name study_id Is the patient restarting
      Peritoneal dialysis after stopping If the patient is restarting are they restarting with the
      same catheter or a new catheter Date of 1st Access Length of time catheter placed prior to
      use How was the catheter placed: Surgically vs. Interventional Radiology Open versus
      laparoscopic Lysis of Adhesions Omentopexy Type of PD Catheter Has the patient had a second
      access procedure Medical Record Number Davita Medical Record Number Person Entering Data
      first_name last_name Date of Birth sex race address Is the patient new to dialysis? Has the
      patient previously been on peritoneal dialysis. transfer Why was peritoneal dialysis stopped.
      Type of Start: Urgent start versus traditional start Anuric Urgent Start: Inpatient or
      Outpatient Admit Date for PD Initiation Date of Discharge for pd initiation Did the patient
      require hemodialysis during urgent start period Indication for Hemodialysis Number of
      Hemodialysis sessions Nonsurgical catheter issues Date of PD start Age at PD start Date of PD
      graduation Length of time to PD graduation Reason for Urgent start PD first_dialysis_modality
      Predialysis education type_predialysis_education Glomerular filtration rate at time of PD
      start Has the patient stopped PD Did the patient stop Peritoneal dialysis or did they
      transfer out? Date PD was stopped Length of time on dialysis Age PD stopped Reason PD stopped
      When the patient transferred, did they transfer with an access or a permacath Cause of death
      Cause of End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) Comorbidities Has the patient had a kidney transplant
      Previous abdominal surgeries? Type of previous abdominal surgeries height Indication for
      Peritoneal Equilibration Test (PET Date of PET Type of PET 2 hour D/P Creatinine 4 hour D/P
      Creatinine Transporter type 2 hour D/D0 Glucose 4 hour D/D0 Glucose Initial PET glucose PD
      Glucose 4 hours Glucose Absorption PET Drain Volume Ultrafiltration PD Sodium 0 Hour PD
      Sodium 1 Hour PD Sodium 2 hour PD Sodium 4 Hour Serum Sodium Minimum PD Sodium Level Systolic
      Blood Pressure Diastolic Blood Pressure Mean Arterial Pressure Weight Body Mass Index
      Hemoglobin Albumin Ferritin Iron Transferrin Saturation Hemoglobin A1c Creatinine Potassium
      BUN Sodium Hco3 Total Protein total cholesterol HDL LDL Vitamin D 25 Phosphorus Calcium PTH
      Kt/V Does the patient have a last fill Icodextrin versus dianeal Midday Total Liters per day
      Total Liters Total 6 month glucose exposure Is the patient on icodextrin Date of Icodextrin
      start Length of time on icodextrin Kt/v prior to icodextrin Kt/V after icodextrin Reason
      icodextrin stopped Date Icodextrin stopped Length of time on icodextrin Has the patient had
      peritonitis Date of infection Polymicrobial Pathogen Gram Positive Methicillin Resistant Gram
      Negative Ciprofloxacin Resistant Fungal Did the patient have antibiotics prior to fungal
      peritonitis What antibiotic Did the patient receive fungal prophylaxis Is this relapsing or
      recurrent Has the patient been hospitalized Date of admission Length of time to first
      admission Date of Discharge Length of stay Reason for admit Hospitalization Outcome Cause of
      death

      Standard Operating Procedures: Patient recruitment will be from the University of Alabama at
      Birmingham Home Dialysis unit.

      Sample size: As there are no data on which to base the power calculation for this unique
      study on glucose transporters and their role in peritoneal membrane fibrosis, descriptive
      statistics will be used to gain insight into the proposed research questions. Continuous
      variables will be summarized with mean and standard deviation or median and interquartile
      range depending on the distribution. Categorical variables will be summarized with frequency
      and percentage.
    
  