
    
      This is a prospective, clinical interventional, randomized single blinded single center
      study.

      Hypotheses:

      Primary Hypothesis: Use of Muscle relaxant and reversal with Sugammadex at end of airway
      procedures will reduce the time to extubation after end of procedure

      Secondary Hypotheses:

      Surgeon will report optimal surgical conditions for ease of exposure

      Have less hemodynamic changes in the OR and PACU. ∆ in BP, HR and CO2 from base-line and
      incidence /frequency of 20% change in BP from baseline vitals (baseline= pre-induction
      vitals)

      Decrease the amount of inhaled anesthetics

      Decreased narcotics needed intra-operatively and post operatively

      Decrease the total OR time

      Subjects will meet ALDRETE PACU discharge criteria quicker in the PACU

      Subject will have less adverse events and severe adverse events such as - hypotension,
      arrhythmia, hypoxia, stridor and re-intubation.

      We note that the nurses in PACU will be blinded to whether the subjects were in Group 1 or 2.

      Group 1: Inhaled anesthetics: sevoflurane at 1 MAC, remifentanil and intubation with
      rocuronium at 0.6-1.2 mg/kg (vitals maintained within 20% of baseline). Group 1 will receive
      reversal with neostigmine (0.04 mg/kg and glycopyrrolate (0.01 mg/kg)

      Group 2: Inhaled anesthetics: sevoflurane at 1 MAC, remifentanil and intubation with
      rocuronium at 0.6 -1.2 mg/kg (vitals maintained within 20% of baseline). Group 2 will receive
      reversal with sugammadex 4mg/kg

      Both groups will receive standard anti-nausea prophylaxis - Ondansetran and Decadran
      intraoperative.

      After induction, the amount of inhaled anesthetic and remifentanil used will be titrated
      based on hemodynamic parameters (maintained within 20% from baseline) and a BIS monitor.

      All subjects will have TOF testing done every 5 minutes throughout the procedure and
      tabulated in the Electronic Medical Record (EMR).

      At the end of the procedure patient will be extubated when the subject meets the following
      criteria:

      Tidal volume : > 5 cc /Kg Respiratory rate: >8 /min O2sat > 95% ON 100% inspired oxygen

      With vitals at 20% of baseline. Extubation will begin when the surgeon states, "We are done".
      This usually coincides with the withdrawal of the scope. The start and end times for
      extubation will be recorded in the Electronic Medical Record.

      The PACU nurses will evaluate ALDRETE discharge criteria and make a note in the electronic
      medical records for the subject discharge time from PACU. The nurses in PACU will be the only
      evaluators of the subject who will be blinded to the two groups
    
  