
    
      Obesity is defined as an increase in body weight beyond requirements as a result of excessive
      fat accumulation in the body and is common Obesity leads to an increase in health problems
      and morbidity and mortality, as well as individual and social problems and a decrease in the
      workforce. Despite sports, diet, lifestyle changes and medical treatments, the rate of
      obesity continues to increase in the population. The most effective and durable treatment
      option for morbid obesity is bariatric surgery. Video laparoscopic bariatric surgery (VLBS)
      is recognized as the best surgical technique for morbidly obese individuals with health
      complications associated with excess body fat. Despite the proven benefits of VLBS, it can
      model a systemic inflammatory response. VLBS also poses an inherent risk of pneumoperitoneum
      for the kidneys due to high intra-abdominal pressure, which reduces cortical capillary blood
      flow by increasing renal vascular resistance. As a result, the glomerular filtration rate
      (GFR) decreases and transient oliguria occurs. Acute renal failure manifested as a large
      increase in creatinine levels with oliguria.

      It is a preventable complication with intraoperative anesthesia management.Glomerular
      filtration rate (GFR) and increased renal plasma flow cause hyperfiltration syndrome in
      obesity. Adinopectin, proinflammatory cytokines, oxidative stress and pharmacological
      nephrotoxicity are the mechanisms affecting acute kidney injury in obesity. Chronic renal
      failure occurs as a result of a decrease in albiminuria and GFR. They are the causes of
      postoperative renal failure in patients with diabetes, a history of kidney disease, using
      antihypertensive drugs containing diuretics, and obese patients with a BMI greater than 50 kg
      / m2, prolonged operation time, and intraoperative hypotension.

      The frequency of acute tubular necrosis (ATN) and renal failure due to postoperative
      rhabdomyolysis is also increased in obese patients. Fluid management is important to prevent
      this. The fluid requirement should be higher than planned. In order to prevent the
      development of postoperative ATN and renal failure, 4-5 liters of crystalloid fluid should be
      given in 2-3 hours or urine output above 1.5 ml / kg / h should be provided.

      According to TVA, there are studies performing crystalloid fluid replacement in a wide range
      of 15-40 ml / kg.

      In obese patients, changes in distribution volume such as decreased hepatic blood flow,
      increase in renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate and increase in the amount of
      free-flowing drug are the most important factors affecting the pharmacokinetics of drugs.
      Drug doses used in these patients are recommended to be calculated according to total body
      weight (TVA), ideal body weight (IVA), and lean body weight (HVA = IVA + 20%), taking into
      account the lipophilic nature of the drug. For example in induction; when using high
      lipophilic drugs according to YVA or IVA; moderately lipophilic For drugs, the dosage can be
      increased by 20-40% and used according to the YVA.Propofol's high lipophilic properties cause
      its effect to start very quickly and to be short-lived. It has been shown in many studies
      that there is no usable accumulation or prolongation of propofol compared to TVA in obese
      patients.

      Short-acting remifentanil, one of the lipophilic synthetic opioids, can be administered
      according to IVA .

      There are no well-known guidelines for intraoperative fluid management in bariatric surgery.
      Different intraoperative fluid management protocols are used. The key to improving outcomes
      from treatment in the post-operative period is "patient directed fluid management" or
      "targeted fluid management". The use of Perioperative Goal-Directed Fluid Therapy
      Technologies helps the anesthesiologist to closely monitor the patient and establish the
      delicate balance between benefit and risk. Plethysmographic variability index monitoring
      (PVI-Pleth Variability Index) is a non-invasive, automatic and continuous monitor that
      displays the fluid response of patients, and is one of the easy-to-apply and easily
      interpreted monitoring methods. It has been shown that intraoperative hypotension and fluid
      need can be predicted with PVI monitoring.

      The aim of this study is to determine the effect of Pleth Variability Index (PVI) monitoring
      on intraoperative volume replacement amount and postoperative complications in obese patients
      who underwent bariatric surgery.

      Patients and Methods

      Patients A total of 60 obese patients who scheduled for elective bariatric surgery were
      included in this single-blind prospective randomized study. Patients were required to have an
      ASA physical status class 2 or 3. Exclusion criteria were as follows: severe cardiac
      arrhythmia, peripheral artery disease, an ejection fraction <30%, any pulmonary pathology
      preventing a respiratory volume >6 ml/kg/min on mechanical ventilation, and hepatic or renal
      impairment. The study protocol was approved by the local ethics committee of Marmara
      University Medical Faculty (03.01.2020- 09.2020.158). All patients provided informed consent
      prior to study entry and the study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of
      Helsinki.

      Study groups Patients were randomly assigned to the PVI group or control group using sealed
      envelope method. Fluid management was based on PVI values in the PVI group, where a PVI value
      <13% was targeted throughout the operation. Standard fluid management regimen was used for
      the controls. All patients fasted for eight hours before the operation. In the operating
      room, all patients were monitored for PVI; however, anesthesia team was able to see only the
      PVI values of the PVI groups that would aid fluid management; whereas team was blinded to the
      PVI values of the controls in whom the fluid management was done using standard approach. On
      the other hand, PVI values of the controls were also recorded by another anesthesiologist
      every 15 minutes.

      Anesthesia management For anesthesia induction, 2 mg/kg propofol and 1μgr/kg remifentanil
      were used in all patients and 0.6 mg/kg rocuronium (Esmeron vial, Schering -Plough, Istanbul,
      Turkey) was used for muscle relaxation. Following endotracheal intubation, total intravenous
      anesthesia with propofol and remifentanil was used. In addition to PVI, both groups were
      monitored for other parameters such as heart rate (HR), noninvasive mean blood pressure
      (MAB), and perfusion index (PI), and bispectral index scale (BIS). Propofol dose was adjusted
      to keep BIS between 40 and 45 throughout the operation.

      Fluid management Controls Following anesthesia induction, controls received crystalloid
      solution at an infusion rate of 4-8 ml/kg/h for fluid maintenance. Infusion rate was adjusted
      by the same anesthesiologist based on routine approach based on intraoperative assessments
      such as heart rate, mean arterial pressure and urine output. In case of hypotension, which
      was defined as mean arterial blood pressure <65 mmHg, crystalloid infusion was increased and
      colloid infusion (Gelofusine® Melsungen, Germany) was started. In case hypotension persists,
      5 mg of ephedrine was administered intravenously, and it was repeated every 5 minutes until
      mean arterial blood pressure is above 65 mmHg.

      PVI group Crystalloid replacement was adjusted according the PVI values, which were targeted
      to be kept below 13% above 5%. Fluid maintenance was started with 2ml/kg/hour crystalloid
      dose. If PVI is >13% for more than 5 minutes, a 250 ml bolus Gelofusine® was administered. If
      PVI was still >13% following this, it was repeated every 5 minutes until PVI<13%. Meanwhile,
      5 mg bolus ephedrine was administered to keep mean blood pressure over 65 mmHg, when
      necessary. In case mean blood pressure is <65 mmHg, intravenous 5 mg ephedrine was repeated
      every 5 minutes until mean blood pressure is over 65 mmHg.

      Assessments Following parameters were recorded intraoperatively at 15 minutes intervals: PVI
      value, heart rate, mean arterial pressure, perfusion index value. In addition, preoperative
      bun, creatinine, and lactate values, perioperative use of crystalloids, colloids, blood/blood
      products, and bleeding amounts, intra- and postoperative urine outputs, as well as
      postoperative bun, creatinine, lactate values were recorded.
    
  