
    
      Patients:

      Sixty patients aged 18 years or older with para- or retropharyngeal abscess and 12 patients
      with neck abscess without relation to the pharynx or salivary glands (controls) will be
      included at five Danish centers. Estimated time of inclusion: Four years.

      Data:

      Symptoms, findings, and other relevant information will be obtained at admission. Data
      regarding treatment and complications will be obtained after discharge.

      Samples:

        1. Tonsillar surface swabs (bilaterally)

        2. Pus aspirate from para- or retropharyngeal abscess

        3. Pus aspirate from peritonsillar abscess, if present

        4. Biopsy or the entire tonsil (bilaterally)

        5. Blood samples (acute and convalescent)

      Investigations:

        1. Bacterial cultures from tonsillar surface swabs, pus aspirates, and tonsillar tissues.

        2. Antibody development against F. necrophorum, F. nucleatum and S. pyogenes from the two
           sera.

        3. Gene-sequencing of F. Necrophorum strains.

        4. Measurement of amylase concentrations in pus aspirates.

      Power calculations:

      Patients needed to show significant increase in anti-F. necrophorum antibody development.

      Assumptions:

        1. The found anti-F. necrophorum antibody levels will be compared to previous findings in
           electively tonsillectomized patients (9 of 47 patients had two-fold or higher increase
           in anti-F. necrophorum antibody levels).

        2. Level of statistical significance: P = 0.05

        3. Power: 90%.

        4. Part of F. necrophorum-positive para- or retropharyngeal patients WHO develop two-fold
           or higher anti-F. necrophorum antibody levels: 73%.

        5. Part of para- or retropharyngeal patients with F. necrophorum: 20%. Number of para- or
           retropharyngeal patients needed: 60.

      Concerning comparison of amylase concentrations between patients with para- or
      retropharyngeal abscess and patients with neck abscesses without relation to the pharynx or
      salivary glands:

      Assumptions:

        1. Amylase concentration > 20 U/L in 0% of controls.

        2. Amylase-concentration > 20 U/L in 50% af patients with para- or retropharyngeal abscess
           .

        3. Inclusion of controls 1:3 compared to patients with para- or retropharyngeal abscess .

        4. Level of statistical significance: P = 0.05

        5. Power: 90%. Number of para- or retropharyngeal patients needed: 36. Number of controls
           needed: 12.
    
  