
    
      Sickle Cell Disease (SCD) is a disease affecting red blood cells, where severe pain can
      develop due to blockage of red blood cells. This the most common genetic blood disease in
      North America, affecting mostly people of African descent. This type of pain can affect many
      aspects of one's life, and one's quality of life. Young people with SCD experience pain as
      they grow from childhood to adulthood, and experience daily chronic pain. There are many
      negative consequences of SCD, such as anxiety, depression, poor sleep, high stress, and
      limited social and physical activity. Peer support is a form of support that can provide
      someone with emotional, informational and social support. Peer support is a promising way of
      delivering emotional support, while helping someone learn how to cope and manage their
      disease. This is especially important for chronic diseases such as SCD, because young people
      will have to learn how to cope and manage their condition while growing up, and for the rest
      of their lives. A new way to provide face-to-face peer support is through the use of a
      virtual program using Skype via the Internet (to maintain face-to-face contact between
      mentors and mentees).

      In this program, a young adult (a mentor) with a chronic disease is matched with a younger
      person living with the same disease (a mentee) online, through Skype. The mentors are
      nominated by their healthcare teams, and have successfully transitioned to adult care. They
      are trained to talk to young people about their disease and can give them some advice on how
      to manage, and grow up with the condition. This program has been tested with other groups
      with Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis and Chronic Pain. A mentor and a mentee are matched for 15
      weeks and are encouraged to have up to ten Skype calls together. The investigators do not
      know how well this program will work with young people with SCD. Therefore, the investigators
      would like to test out this program to see if it is feasible to conduct the iPeer2Peer SCD
      program in the future as a larger study with the SCD population.

      Feasibility will be measured through the following: (1) recruitment and withdrawal rates; (2)
      rate of completion of weekly calls; (3) rate of completion of baseline measures; (4)
      estimates of intervention effects on health outcomes to inform the calculation of an
      appropriate sample size for the future definitive multi-centred randomized controlled trial
      (RCT) and (5) participants' perception regarding the acceptability of the SCD iP2P program
      and their level of engagement with the program (via a semi-structured interview). Descriptive
      statistics will be used to describe the sample characteristics at baseline. Rates of accrual,
      drop out, compliance, and missing data with 95% confidence intervals will be calculated.To
      inform sample size calculations and data analysis feasibility for a larger trial, data will
      be analyzed as in a larger study, and estimates of variance will be calculated. Secondary
      analysis will be conducted using an intent-to-treat approach. If assumptions for parametric
      statistics are met, linear regression models will be used to test intervention effects on
      pain impact, social support, self-efficacy, adherence and HRQL outcomes using an analysis of
      covariance approach with post-intervention measures compared between groups using baseline
      scores as covariates. The semi-structured individual (mentees) and focus group (mentors)
      interviews will determine (i) mentees' acceptability of and level of engagement in the iP2P
      program and (ii) mentors' likes and dislikes of program, improvement. This data, and
      subsequent analyses, will be used to refine the iP2P program prior to a full trial. A larger
      study will help to understand if peer support delivered by a mentor over Skype will help
      teenagers with SCD better manage their SCD, improve their health outcomes, and ultimately
      improve their quality of life living with SCD.
    
  