
    
      The eligible patients will be enrolled into one of the three Litx™ treatment Cohorts (A, B or
      C)

      All patients will undergo the procedure of Litx™ BPH Device placement into the prostate
      urethra.

      Following the placement of the Litx™ BPH Device into the urethra, patients in Cohort A will
      be administered an intravenous dose of LS11 (talaporfin sodium) at 1 mg/kg by slow push over
      3 - 5 minutes. Fifteen minutes after injection, each patient will be administered a 50 J
      total light dose, delivered at 20 mW/cm over a 42 minute time period.

      Following the placement of the Litx™ BPH Device into the urethra, patients in Cohort B will
      receive LS11 intravenously at 1 mg/kg by slow push over 3 to 5 minutes. The light activation
      procedure is the same as that for Cohort A except that a light dose of 70 J will be delivered
      to each patient over a 58 minute time period.

      Following the placement of the Litx™ BPH Device into the urethra, patients in Cohort C will
      receive LS11 intravenously at 1 mg/kg by slow push over 3 to 5 minutes. The light activation
      procedure is the same as that for Cohort A except that a light dose of 100 J will be
      delivered to each patient over a 83 minute time period.

      Following the placement of the Litx™ BPH Device into the urethra, patients in Cohort D will
      receive LS11 intravenously at 1 mg/kg by slow push over 3 to 5 minutes. The light activation
      procedure is the same as that for Cohort C except that the active light emitting length is 20
      mm instead of 10mm.

      After 30 days, patients who have not experienced an improvement in symptoms, as determined by
      the investigator, may undergo an additional interventional therapy with continued follow-up
      per the protocol.

      Four weeks following treatment of the last patient in the current cohort, the number of
      patients requiring surgical intervention for relief of primary symptoms will be assessed for
      futility of the protocol prior to commencing with treatment of the first patient in the next
      consecutive cohort.

      Upon acceptable safety assessment four weeks after completing the last patient treatment in
      each cohort, the first patient in the next consecutive cohort may be treated.
    
  