
    
      Experimental session 1 Resting Blood Pressure and Body Mass Index will be assessed.
      Participants who have an HIV negative status will complete the OraQuick Advance Rapid HIV 1/2
      Swab test. Study staff will administer the Structured Interview for Sleep Disorders and
      administer the Rapid Estimation of Adult Literacy Measure-Short Form (REALM-SF) to determine
      health literacy. The night of Experimental Session 1 participant will be using a Resmed
      ApneaLink Air device (Resmed, San Diego, CA), to identify apnea and hypopnea and calculate an
      apnea hypopnea index.

      Between Experimental Session 1 and Experimental Session 2 Sleep assessment: Sleep data will
      be collected by participants in their own homes using objective and subjective measures of
      their sleep. Participant instructions for how to collect and record their own sleep data will
      be provided at the end of study session 1. Participant will be provided with a watch-like
      device to wear on wrist for 7 consecutive days and nights. This watch measures physical
      activity and sleep.

      Experimental Session 2 Resting Blood Pressure and temperature will be assessed. A sample of
      urine will be taken to test for illicit substances that might affect the study's results.
      Experimental session 2 will take place in the Center for Clinical and Translational Science
      (CCTS) Clinical Research Unit (CRU). A clinical Research Unit (CRU) nurse will place an
      intravenous (IV) cannula (small plastic tube) in the arm using a needle to draw blood at the
      beginning of the session and then an additional four times across the study for a total of
      five blood draws. Participants will complete multiple questionnaires to measure health, and
      experience with insomnia, pain, mood and emotions, experiences with stigma and
      discrimination, and how participant thinks and feels about things. All participants will
      undergo quantitative sensory testing for assessment of endogenous pain modulation using
      painful heat, mechanical, and cold stimuli in a laboratory session lasting approximately 3-4
      hours. Blood will be processed and stored and then used to measure inflammation.

      Weekly Follow-up Sessions Participants will then complete a battery of ecologically valid
      movement tasks that include: 1) Performance Battery (SPPB) which includes sitting in a chair,
      transitioning to a standing position, balancing tests and gait speed, and the Timed Up and Go
      test (TUG). A clinical Research Unit (CRU) nurse will draw a quick sample of approximately 20
      milliliters from the participants arm using a butterfly needle so that CRU nurse can collect
      blood during the beginning of each visit.
    
  