
    
      -  In the last part of the previous century the increasing knowledge about the
           cardiovascular abnormalities that occur in advanced cirrhosis led researchers to design
           prospective randomized clinical trials assessing the effect of exogenous human albumin
           (HA) based on its well-established capacity to act as plasma-expander.

        -  Due to the positive results reported by those studies, international guidelines have
           included the administration of HA among the recommendations for the prevention of
           post-paracentesis circulatory dysfunction (PPCD) or renal failure induced by spontaneous
           bacterial peritonitis (SBP), and for the diagnosis and treatment of hepatorenal syndrome
           (HRS) .

        -  Indeed, all these complications are characterized by a substantial reduction of
           effective volemia. However, even in these settings, questions regarding HA dosage and
           whether or not all patients should be treated remain unanswered .

        -  It has now become evident that circulatory dysfunction and organ damage in patients with
           decompensated cirrhosis are related to a chronic state of systemic inflammation and
           oxidative stress, which can abruptly exacerbate in patients developing acute-on-chronic
           liver failure (ACLF), a syndrome characterized by extra-hepatic organ failure and poor
           short-term survival.

        -  Besides colloid-osmotic power, HA is provided with many biological properties unrelated
           to the regulation of fluid compartmentalization. Among these, some would assume
           particular importance in relation to the inflammatory state of decompensated cirrhosis,
           such as antioxidant and scavenging activities, binding and transport of many endogenous
           and exogenous substances, and regulation of endothelial function and
           inflammatory/immunological response .

        -  Therefore, due to both its oncotic and non-oncotic properties, HA may exert beneficial
           effects at different steps of the cascade of the pathogenetic events that link
           circulatory dysfunction to systemic inflammation, providing a novel pathophysiological
           perspective for the use of HA. In this regard, two nationwide surveys on the use of HA
           in patients with cirrhosis conducted in the United States and France aiming to assess
           the adherence to the current AASLD and EASL guidelines respectively, have shown that HA
           is also prescribed besides the evidence-based indications. Indeed, HA is not rarely
           employed in non-SBP bacterial infections, severe hyponatremia, and hypoalbuminemia.
    
  