
    
      After approval by the local ethics committee we will perform a phase I open-label trial to
      evaluate safety and preliminary efficacy of unilateral deep brain stimulation of the
      mesencephalic locomotor region in patients with incomplete spinal cord injury. Male or female
      subjects (18-75 year-old) with completed in-patient rehabilitation will be enrolled for
      screening evaluations at minimum 5 months post-injury. DBS operation will be performed at
      minimum 6 months post-injury. Primary endpoint will be improvement of locomotion as
      determined by the 6-Minute walking test.

      Secondary endpoints will be electrophysiological/clinical and image based characterization of
      the mesencephalic locomotor region, questionnaire based/ professional assessments of quality
      of life, pain, micturition, sleep behavior, cognitive function and psychiatric evaluations
      (mood, anxiety, impulse control, delusional and affective disorders). The study population
      will consist of 5 subjects and the study period for each patient is 6 months postoperatively.
      Briefly, candidate subjects, able to stand with a walker or 2 crutches and with stable
      neurological condition will have to meet all of the inclusion and none of the exclusion
      criteria. Subjects will have preoperative examinations (e.g. MRI scans of the head and spine,
      neuropsychological, psychiatric and sleep status etc.) according to our standard protocols of
      DBS for movement disorders, especially Parkinson's disease, based on certification criteria
      of Highly-Specialized-Medicine DBS centers in Switzerland. Neurological assessments for
      spinal cord injury impairment as defined by study protocol will be performed at the
      University Hospital Balgrist.

      The operation will be performed in the Division of Neurosurgeon by the neurosurgical PI of
      this study: awake subjects will have their heads fixed in a stereotactic ring with local
      anesthesia and high resolution head scans will be performed to define the stereotactic space
      for targeting through anatomical landmarks defined on individual MRI as described in the
      literature. In contrast to bilateral implantations in Parkinsonian patients, here, a single
      burr hole will be opened under local anesthesia on the contralateral side of the worse lower
      extremity of the subject. Microelectrode recordings of single-cells as well as local field
      potentials will be mapped starting 1 cm prior the MLR target. Four states will be analysed:
      resting state, imagination of walking, passive and active lower limb movement. These
      recordings will help to further determine the places of stimulation as the next step of
      surgery. Here, slow increases of the stimulation amplitude with a constant frequency of e.g.
      50Hz will be applied to determine activation of lower limb muscle activity with
      electroneuromyographic recordings and detection of possible amelioration of intended active
      movements. Since the subject is awake, possible side effects will be professionally monitored
      at each site of stimulation and amplitude. Next, the electrode for recording and stimulation
      will be exchanged with the standard quadripolar DBS electrode for Parkinson's disease
      patients (1.27 mm in diameter, 1.5mm length of each contact and 0.5 mm spacing in between)
      using fluoroscopy. All subjects will receive an intraoperative head scan to verify correct
      placement and accuracy. If refinement is not necessary, the first operative procedure will be
      regarded as finished and the subject will be transferred to the intermediate care unit
      overnight to recover from surgery. The surgeon will decide, if the impulse generator will be
      implanted in the same surgery or delayed. Subjects will undergo regular assessments until
      discharge and further on in an outpatient setup around day 30 post-surgery, as well as 3 and
      6 months afterwards. Rehabilitative postoperative treatment will be assisted by using the
      recently CE certificated and award winning FLOAT system ("Free Levitation for Overground
      Active Training") which allows robotic multidirectional relief of body weight and exact
      gait/posture analysis.
    
  