
    
      Patients who are scheduled to undergo sentinel node biopsy as part of recommended clinical
      care will be offered participation in this study.

      Patients enrolled in this study will receive standard lymphoscintigraphy in nuclear medicine;
      however, these images will not be reviewed by the investigator until the preoperative mobile
      gamma camera(MGC)images have been obtained. Upon completion of the preoperative MGC imaging,
      the investigator will define the location of SLNs and the plan for the surgical approach. The
      investigator will then review the FGC images and assess the agreement of these two imaging
      methodologies. The hand-held gamma probe will be used to further evaluate the patient at this
      time and a final determination of true hot spots will be made based on the information and
      the clinical judgment of the operating surgeon. The final surgical plan will be decided. The
      primary data to be obtained from this cohort will be confirmation of the use of MGC imaging
      as a screening device to identify all nodal basins containing SLNs.

      An additional goal of this study will be to identify techniques that may improve the use of
      the MGC and opportunities for optimizing the MGC device and imaging system. To the extent
      possible, improvements to the system will be made incrementally. A goal is to have a more
      optimized system before the next trial.

      In addition to the preoperative imaging data discussed above, the participants will be
      reevaluated intraoperatively with a MGC and the hand-held probe at the following time points:

        1. after removal of each sentinel node

        2. after completion of the sentinel node biopsy procedure In each of these assessments, the
           following will be recorded: the number and location of sentinel nodes, the
           correspondence with preoperative hot spots determined by the clinical gamma detection
           devices (fixed camera, MGC and hand-held probe), the time required for imaging, and
           technical features of use, advantages, and limitations of the MGC imaging system. The
           individual sentinel nodes will be imaged ex vivo and counted with the hand-held probe.
    
  