
    
      This is a pilot study evaluating the addition of bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell
      (BMSC) infusions to corticosteroids for the early treatment of acute graft versus host
      disease (GVHD). Acute GVHD is a major complication following allogeneic stem cell transplant.
      GVHD occurs when T-lymphocytes in the donor graft respond to signals from recipient cells and
      cause tissue damage. This process can lead to organ injury, increased risk of infection, and
      graft failure. Corticosteroids have been used as the primary therapy for acute GVHD for
      decades, and guidelines currently recommend their use as front line treatment. Recent
      prospective data from the Blood and Marrow Transplant Clinical Trials Network shows that GVHD
      will be cured in about half of patients with steroids alone. Patients who do not respond to
      steroids are considered steroid-resistant, and this is associated with much worse survival.
      It is possible to predict which patients will go on to have steroid-resistant GVHD by
      measuring the plasma concentration of the molecule called suppression of tumorigenicity 2
      (ST2). BMSC infusions have been used to treat steroid-resistant acute GVHD successfully, but
      despite a track record of safety, little is known about the use of BMSC in the early
      treatment setting. The main objective of this study is to explore the feasibility of
      administering BMSC within 5 days of diagnosis of acute GVHD. Our study will for the first
      time use the ST2 biomarker to more accurately assign acute GVHD to steroid refractory or
      sensitive, and explore changes in ST2 and other biological markers of BMSC function and their
      correlation with clinical response. In the process of this study, we will assess the safety
      and feasibility of early treatment according to our regimen, obtain estimates of efficacy at
      important GVHD therapy time points, and determine if treatment with BMSC can prevent the
      progression of GVHD in patients with high risk of GVHD progression as measured by biomarkers.

      The Cell Processing Section of the Department of Transfusion Medicine at the Clinical Center
      NIH has developed a BMSC repository at NIH. The NIH BMSC are a third party, early passage
      product based on the EU manufacturing approach. The NIH BMSC cellular product was
      administered safely to transplant recipients with steroid-resistant acute GVHD in a phase I
      study (protocol 12-H-0010, IND #14596) conducted from March 2012 to October 2012 at NIH. This
      pilot study is a continuation of the previous study and open to allogeneic stem cell
      transplantation recipients at NIH (age greater than or equal to 4 yrs) with de novo acute
      GVHD requiring systemic therapy either directly after allogeneic transplantation or following
      treatment with donor lymphocyte infusion. Subjects will receive BMSC infusions (target dose
      of 2 times 10(6) BMSC/kg for up to 12 doses) in addition to standard upfront therapy with
      corticosteroids. The primary endpoint will be the proportion of patients without a
      treatment-related severe adverse event (TRSAE) at day +56. Responses will be assessed at day
      +28 and +56 from the initial diagnosis. Responses will be correlated to changes in GVHD
      biomarkers including ST2, Reg3a, TNFR1, and IL-6. Subjects will be enrolled at first
      diagnosis of acute GVHD, and the first BMSC infusion will be given within 120 hours of the
      first dose of corticosteroids. BMSC infusions will be given twice weekly for the first 4
      weeks. Subjects with a complete response at the end of week 4 will not receive further
      infusions. All other subjects will receive BMSC infusions weekly for four additional weeks.
      Safety will be monitored continuously with a stopping rule for toxicity based on the
      treatment-related serious adverse event rate. Research samples will be drawn at regular
      intervals to explore biological correlates of response and to investigate the mechanism of
      action of BMSC.
    
  