
    
      Gastric varices is not uncommon is patients with chronic liver diseases including liver
      cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Occurrence of gastric varices (GV) rupture is less
      often than esophageal varices (EV) but it is characteristic of higher rebleeding rate and
      mortality and represents an even tougher problem than EV hemorrhage. Endoscopic treatment is
      an alternative in the management of GV bleeding. Injection sclerotherapy has been applied to
      arrest GV hemorrhage but it is associated with a high rebleeding rate (50~90%) and thus is
      regarded as only a temporary hemostatic measure. The advantage of endoscopic variceal
      ligation is not suggested due to its high rebleeding rate more than 50%. Endoscopic injection
      of N-butyl-2-cyanoacrylate, a so-called "tissue glue",is more effective to treat GV bleeding
      because of more than 90% successful rate to arrest acute bleeding. The theoretical advantages
      of tissue glue derives from its unique ability to plug the varix lumen immediately after
      injection into varices. However, its rebleeding rate is still high around 30~40% and has
      potential treatment-related morbidity such as embolic and septic complications. Regardless of
      these disadvantage, the guideline form major international society and Bavenoconsensus
      recommend GVO as the first treatment of choice for GV bleeding. Therefore how to prevent the
      potential complications and reduce rebleedingremains an important and practical issue.

      With regarding to potential septic infections and rebleeding, the effects of impaired
      leukocyte function in cirrhotic patients and reduced immunity and increased gut permeability
      of severe hemorrhagic patients were contributory. In these immunocompromised hosts, when
      invasive procedure such as GVO is deployed for these patients, the septic complication become
      un-neglectable, We found (Gastrointest Endosc 2001) more than 1/3 patients undergoing GVO may
      complicated with bacteremia. Although most of these bacteremia were self-limited, 2% died of
      sepsis. Moreover, lots of cases were reported due to persistent and recurrent bacterial
      infections caused by GVO. Antibiotic prophylaxis has been suggested as an integral part for
      the management of cirrhotic patients with acute varicealbleeding by major international
      society and Baveno consensus. However, there is no evidence to suggest antibiotic prophylaxis
      for the patients treated by elective GVO. Therefore we design a randomized trial to clarify
      the necessity of antibiotic prophylaxis for the patients chronic liver disease with gastric
      varices treated by elective GVO.
    
  