
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare the response in patients with advanced hormone-refractory adenocarcinoma of the
      prostate treated with low- vs intermediate- vs high-dose suramin.

      II. Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients. III. Compare the overall
      and failure-free survival of patients treated with these regimens.

      IV. Compare the duration of complete and partial responses in patients treated with these
      regimens.

      V. Determine the population pharmacokinetics of these regimens and correlate these parameters
      with the toxicity of these regimens and response rate in these patients.

      VI. Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens. VII. Determine the
      relationship of absolute and relative decrease in PSA and rate of PSA decrease with the
      likelihood and duration of response in patients treated with these regimens.

      VIII. Determine whether a change in fibroblast growth factor levels in patients treated with
      suramin can be associated with the pharmacokinetics of suramin or the likelihood of clinical
      response in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      disease site (bone only vs soft tissue), CALGB/Zubrod performance status (0 or 1 vs 2),
      number of prior hormonal therapies (1 or 2 vs 3), and participating center. Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      Arm I: Patients receive low-dose suramin IV over 1 hour on days 1, 2, 8, 9, 29, 30, 36, 37,
      57, 58, 64, and 65 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Arm II: Patients receive intermediate-dose suramin as in arm I.

      Arm III: Patients receive high-dose suramin as in arm I. Patients with new progression after
      partial or complete response may receive additional courses, at the discretion of the study
      chairperson, beginning at least 12 weeks after completion of the first course and continuing
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed.

      Patients are followed every 4 weeks until disease progression and then periodically for new
      primary cancer(s) and survival.
    
  