
    
      Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic, relapsing, remitting, systemic disease, which may result
      in transmural inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract. The precise aetiology is unknown:
      it is a lifelong disease arising from an interaction between genetic and environmental
      factors, but predominantly observed in developed countries of the world. CD can affect the
      entire digestive tract from the mouth to the anus, but the most commonly affected sites are
      the ileum and the ascending colon . The clinical course of CD is characterized by
      exacerbations and remissions. Therefore, recurrent inflammation can cause bowel strictures,
      fistulae (often perianal) or abscesses. Moreover, Crohn's disease (CD) often requires
      intestinal resection, despite treatment with immunosuppressive and biologic therapies.

      Surgery in CD is not curative, and post-operative recurrence (POR) is a frequent event.
      Historically, up to 70% of patients who undergo CD-related resection develop postoperative
      endoscopic recurrence at or proximal to the surgical anastomosis within 1 year and
      approximately one-third of patients with CD, who have a first resection, require a second
      within 10 years.

      Endoscopic lesions usually precede and correlate with future clinical recurrence (about
      20-25% per year), and predict the development of Crohn's disease-related complications and
      the need for re-intervention.

      Therefore, endoscopic follow-up 6-12 months after surgery is recommended. Given the
      association between enteric bacteria and postoperative CD recurrence, antibacterial agents
      directed against anaerobic bacteria (ornidazole and metronidazole) were shown to be effective
      in reducing the severity of endoscopic recurrence, but prolonged administration (more than 3
      months) of these antibiotics causes significant toxicity, mainly neuropathy and
      gastrointestinal intolerance. The efficacy of "systemic antibiotics" and the experimental
      evidence of the central role of luminal flora as an essential factor in the development of
      post chirurgic CD recurrence provide the rationale for evaluating a locally acting antibiotic
      like Rifaximin in this condition.
    
  