
    
      COVID-19 has a variable spectrum of illness with the majority of infection resulting in
      asymptomatic or mild disease. However certain healthy adults and immunosuppressed populations
      can develop severe or critical symptoms that require hospitalization or intensive care stay.
      Emerging evidence suggest that certain immunosuppressive medications used to treat patients
      with IBD such as anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) do not appear to confer an increased risk
      for severe COVID-19, but the risk appears to be higher for other agents such as
      corticosteroids. The efficacy of a candidate COVID-19 may be lower in immunosuppressed
      patients with IBD, since these patient populations may have lower responses to vaccines.
      Multiple studies have shown that patients with IBD have variability in their vaccine
      responses compared to healthy individuals. While many patients have a normal vaccine
      response, those treated with TNF agents or combination therapy (TNF inhibitors and
      immunomodulators) are more likely to mount a poor immune response. Furthermore, preliminary
      data suggest some novel regimens (such as vedolizumab) may not impact the immune response but
      there is insufficient data to know their impact on vaccine response. Thus, there is a
      critical need to determine whether patients with IBD will mount normal immune responses to a
      COVID-19 vaccine.

      This is a single center cross sectional clinical study of 210 patients with IBD who are
      receiving the COVID-19 vaccine as standard of care. After obtaining informed consent,
      individuals who meet the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria will be
      invited to participate in the study.

      Aim 1. Determine the immunogenicity and safety of a COVID-19 vaccine in patients with IBD. To
      achieve this aim, the investigators will perform a prospective study evaluating the
      immunogenicity of a COVID-19 vaccine in 210 patients with IBD.

        -  Hypothesis: Systemic immunosuppressive regimens such as Anti-TNF in combination with an
           immunomodulator, associated with the lowest vaccine response, or other systemic
           immunosuppressive regimens will blunt the immunogenicity of a COVID-19 vaccine while
           other agents such as vedolizumab or aminosalicylates will not affect the vaccine
           response.

      Aim 2. Determine the impact of systemic immunosuppression on sustained antibody COVID-19
      concentrations in patients with IBD who received the COVID-19 vaccine. To achieve this aim,
      the investigators will evaluate sustained antibody concentrations using a quantitative assay
      from LabCorp that is currently being used by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
      (CDC) to evaluate seroprevalence and study immunity at 1, 6, 12, and 18 months after
      completion of vaccination. Labcorp activities are provided as a fee for service.

        -  Hypothesis: Vaccine-induced antibody concentrations will wane over the 18 month interval
           faster than the published rate in healthcare workers.

      At the completion of the proposed research, the safety and immunogenicity of a COVID-19
      vaccine in immunosuppressed patients with IBD will be determined.
    
  