
    
      Recent crises in the Middle East have resulted in an unprecedented increase in the worldwide
      number of refugees and asylum seekers. Switzerland (CH) is strongly affected by this crisis
      too.There are currently about 19'000 Syrian refugees and asylum seekers in Switzerland. A
      similar number of other Arabic-speaking individuals have applied for asylum in Switzerland
      since 2011. Due to the ongoing war in the MENA region, it is unlikely that this kind of
      migration and flight will resolve within the next years.

      Refugees have typically been exposed to multiple stressors related to war and displacement
      including loss of family members, destruction of homes and livelihoods and human rights
      violations such as sexual violence or torture. They have often undertaken a risky and
      stressful flight leaving their homes for an unknown future. Accordingly, various studies have
      shown that refugees are at considerable risk of developing common mental disorders, including
      depression, anxiety, posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and related somatic health
      symptoms.

      According to the UNHCR, 85% of all displaced persons are hosted in third-world countries
      where appropriate mental health care is often not available. However, Western health systems
      are also often unable to appropriately cover the needs of this particularly vulnerable
      population regarding prevention and treatment of mental health problems. As a response to
      this situation, the WHO developed the low-intensity Problem Management Plus (PM+) programs, a
      new generation of short, resource-sparing, trans-diagnostic (i.e., not specifically aimed at
      treating a certain mental disorder) programs to reduce common mental health symptoms and
      improve psychosocial functioning. PM+ is based on the WHO treatment guidelines for conditions
      related to stress. PM+ is a 5-sessions intervention aimed at reducing symptoms of depression,
      anxiety, PTSD, and related conditions, is delivered by trained non-specialized workers or lay
      people, and is available in individual and group delivery formats for both children and
      adults. It comprises evidence-based techniques of (a) problem solving, (b) stress management,
      (c) behavioral activation, and (d) accessing social support. PM+ has been successfully tested
      for effectiveness in Kenya and Pakistan.

      The STRENGTHS (Syrian REfuGees MeNTal HealTH Care Systems) study aims at evaluating the
      effectiveness and implementation of PM+ with Syrian refugees in different settings in low-
      and high-resource countries. The study consortium includes international experts in the
      domains of trauma and public mental health as well as representatives of WHO and UNHCR. The
      Zürich study site has been consigned to examine PM+ with adult refugees in an individual
      treatment setting in Switzerland. At the same time, similar studies in other countries will
      be undertaken. Despite the objective of these studies to implement and evaluate the
      effectiveness of PM+ in refugees, each research institution acts independently. Moreover, the
      other studies will be completed in different treatment settings - i.e., in children and
      adolescents (Lebanon), in groups (Turkey and Netherlands), and internet-delivered PM+
      (Germany and Egypt).

      To date, the effectiveness and implementation of PM+ has not been investigated in a highly
      industrialized country, such as Switzerland.

      In the present study, the investigators will evaluate the effectiveness and implementation of
      PM+ in Arabic speaking refugees in Switzerland.
    
  