
    
      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will first have your
      scheduled VIA and colposcopy. The study doctor will tell you more about this procedure.

      You will then have proflavine hemisulfate solution (contrast dye) applied to your cervix.
      Images will be collected with the probe from the HRME device. The HRME probe is a long thin
      tube with a camera at the tip. This should add about 10 minutes to the total procedure time.

      The HRME images will be stored in an electronic database and used for research. The images
      will be deidentified and only the MD Anderson staff will have access. This data will be
      stored in the database indefinitely (forever).

      Any abnormal areas found during the VIA and/or colposcopy will be biopsied as part of your
      standard of care using very small forceps (a medical tool that is like tongs). If the exam
      shows no abnormalities, a normal area will be biopsied.

      The study doctor will talk to you about the results of the HRME imaging, colposcopy, and
      biopsy/ies.

      There will be no change to the planned standard-of-care colposcopy and biopsy.

      Researchers will also collect information from your medical record about the colposcopy,
      surgery, the status of the disease, and demographics (such as your age).

      Follow-Up:

      About 1 month after the study procedure, the study staff will contact you by phone to ask how
      you are doing. The call should last about 5 minutes.

      Length of Study:

      Your active participation in this study will be over after the biopsy.

      This is an investigational study. Proflavine hemisulfate is not FDA approved or commercially
      available. The HRME device is not FDA approved or commercially available. Both are currently
      being used for research purposes only.

      Up to 800 participants will be enrolled in this study. Up to 400 will take part at MD
      Anderson and up to 400 will take part at the Harris Health System.
    
  