
    
      Investigators at our institution (Hwang & Richardson)* documented a racial disparity in the
      use of CT scans to diagnose subarachnoid hemorrhage, (SAH) a life-threatening form of stroke.
      Subsequent analyses found a similar finding in NHAMCS, a national ED Visit database*. The
      investigators will compare the effectiveness of 1) an audit-feedback intervention that
      provides data on race-specific CT rates and 2) a clinical decision support (CDS) message in
      the electronic "headache" charting template in eliminating the previously observed
      Black-White disparity in CT rates to rule out SAH.

      Study Setting: The adult section of the Mount Sinai Emergency Department, an urban academic
      department with an annual volume of over 70,000 adult visits and a patient population
      representing a diverse cross-section of race and socioeconomic groups. The adult patients are
      cared for by a staff that includes: attending physicians, physician assistants, emergency
      medicine resident physicians, and rotating resident physicians from other specialties. The
      department has a dedicated CT scanner that is readily available around the clock. Epic
      Production is used for all physician and nurse documentation and for all order entry
      (including CT scans).

      Over a 24-month period the investigators will compare the intervention and control groups'
      rates of testing for SAH across races, controlling for patient acuity, age and
      co-morbidities. Because the close working relationships among the attending and resident
      physicians in our department may lead to knowledge diffusion, the intervention may change the
      behavior of the control group as well as the intervention group, thus leading to an
      underestimation of the intervention effect as measured by the between- groups difference. The
      investigators will use a time series design to allow us to evaluate this effect. 10 months
      after the implementation of the first intervention, the clinical decision support message
      will be implemented. The impact of each intervention will be evaluated using a repeated
      measures design using a mixed linear model.
    
  