
    
      RECONCILE is a single centre, prospective, longitudinal observational cohort study. 60
      consenting men with intermediate risk, gleason 3+4, prostate cancer under active surveillance
      will be recruited to the study. They will undergo blinded, concurrent molecular and
      radiological analysis of their cancer at baseline and at one year. Tests at baseline and one
      year will include mpMRI, targeted prostate biopsy and further tissue sampling (semen, urine
      and blood). There will be PSA monitoring at 3 monthly intervals throughout the study as per
      standard of care active surveillance. Tissue will be analysed for biological and molecular
      markers significantly associated with radiological progression events.

      After consenting to taking part in the study a patient will come in for an MRI scan as
      standard of care. This scan will be used at a subsequent visit to inform a guided
      trans-perineal biopsy. At this biopsy visit patients will provide research blood samples, a
      urine sample and have a confirmatory biopsy. After the standard of care diagnostic tissue
      samples are taken, three research tissue samples will be taken.

      If the patient has been identified through the ReIMAGINE study and consents to take part in
      RECONCILE then these baseline visits are not needed, the data from ReIMAGINE will be used as
      the baseline visit data.

      The patient will come in as scheduled for their regular PSA visits in line with their active
      surveillance protocol. If a PSA test shows signs of potential progression the patient will
      have a standard of care diagnostic MRI, if this confirms progression then the imaging and
      biopsy visits scheduled for one year will be triggered early.

      In the absence of any identified progression the patient will return after 12 months and have
      both the imaging and biopsy visits repeated (again providing blood and urine). After this
      visit the patient will be considered as having finished the study.

      Patients who consent to take part in the study who have previously taken part in the PLiS
      semen donation study will be asked to provide a semen sample before the one year biopsy visit
      for comparison with the baseline sample that was provided for the PLiS study.
    
  