
    
      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) -one of the most important chronic health
      problems of respiratory system- is irreversible, progresses slowly and is characterized with
      chronic inflammation and airflow obstruction (1,2,3,4). According to the report of World
      Health Organization (WHO) "Non-communicable Diseases Progress Monitor 2017"; mortality rate
      in Turkiye due to non-communicable (chronic) diseases was 88% (78.271.000 population) (5),
      over the world, 65 million people lived with moderate to severe COPD and it is estimated that
      nearly 3 million people died of COPD in 2015 (5% of all deaths) (6). Besides; COPD -one of
      the respiratory system diseases- is ranked 4th among the causes of death over the world (7)
      and it is estimated that in 2020 it will be ranked 3rd (8).

      Drug administration, an important nursing role, is a process that includes many disciplines.
      This process starts with patients' medical examination and physicians' prescription and
      includes phases of registration, observation of correct reactions and realization of the
      medical treatment by nurses, physicians, patient himself or his/her significant others (9).
      Training patients and families about treatment regime, observing patient's response to
      treatment and success of treatment are too among nurses' responsibilities (10).

      According to the studies done in literature; the study of Choi and ChoChung (2001) explored a
      positive rise in adequacy of MDI among 101 asthma patients after the MDI training session
      given, the study of Press et al. (2012) was done with 80 COPD patients about adequacy of MDI
      and 82% of the participants performed steps of MDI use wrongly before the training while 25%
      of the participants performed the same steps wrongly after the training, the study of Işık et
      al. (2014) determined mistakes in using inhaler drugs and reported that patients were unable
      to receive effective and sufficient dose of drugs and the study Özkan and Kaşıkçı (2015)
      identified mistakes in using MDI and emphasized the usefulness of the training about MDI.

      The study was planned to explore the steps where patients made mistakes while using MDI, to
      find out to what extent they used MDI correctly and to assess the effect of
      video-training-session upon adequacy of metered dose inhaler (MDI) among individuals with
      COPD.
    
  