
    
      The purpose of this study is to validate a revised food frequency questionnaire that is
      designed to capture vitamin D, calcium and protein intake in a population of elderly men and
      women with fragility fractures. Protein, calcium and protein intake will be correlated with
      biochemical measures and bone mineral density measured by DXA.

      Eligibility Criteria) Forty-five eligible participants will be recruited from the endocrine
      referrals for osteoporosis/fracture. They will be men and women, age >65 years with a
      fragility fracture (defined as a fracture sustained after a fall from a standing height or
      less). They will be English speaking. They will need to have the mental capacity to recall
      events, (MMSE score ³24).11 They will need to have a telephone and the ability to answer
      questions over a phone. They will not have secondary causes of fragility fracture such as
      malabsorption (celiac disease, bariatric surgery), liver disease, organ transplant,
      hyperparathyroidism, multiple myeloma, current cancer diagnosis, or alcoholism. They will not
      have renal disease requiring dialysis (as the dietary requirement of these patients is quite
      different from the general elderly population). They will not be on tubefeeds of any kind
      (although supplemental food such as Ensure is allowed). Interventions and Evaluations) The
      evaluations will include a history and physical exam, and a mini mental status exam. Two
      telephone interviews will be conducted ~ 4 weeks apart during which the Block 2014
      questionnaire will be given and the revised screener will be given. The order that the
      questionnaires are given will be randomized. As part of the standard of care workup for
      osteoporosis, a biochemical workup including 25-hydroxyvitamin D, comprehensive metabolic
      profile, bone specific alkaline phosphatase (a bone remodeling marker), phosphorus and
      transglutaminase IgA (to rule out celiac disease), and DXA scan for bone mineral density
      (BMD) measurement will be done. The BMD by DXA and 25-hydroxyvitamin D will be correlated to
      protein, calcium and vitamin D intake obtained by the Block 2014.
    
  