
    
      EXECUTIVE SUMMARY:

      Purpose: To evaluate the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of a novel intervention
      incorporating self-management education, an action plan, and case-management to decrease the
      risk of hospitalizations due to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) among veterans
      with severe COPD.

      Hypotheses:

      Primary Hypothesis:

      Veterans with COPD who receive a self-management program incorporating education sessions,
      development of an action plan, and case-management will have a decreased risk of COPD
      hospitalization compared to standardized COPD care.

      Primary Objective:

      In an intent-to-treat analysis, determine the efficacy of a comprehensive self-management
      program for reducing the risk of COPD hospitalization in veterans with severe COPD in
      comparison to patients receiving standardized COPD care.

      Secondary Hypotheses:

      Compared with standardized COPD care, veterans with COPD who receive a comprehensive
      self-management intervention will have: A) decreased health-related costs resulting from
      decreased hospitalizations and outpatient utilization, B) decreased hospitalization rates and
      average length of stay due to both COPD and all-cause admissions, and C) improvement in a set
      of outcomes including mortality, health-related quality of life, medication adherence,
      patient satisfaction, disease knowledge, skill acquisition and self-efficacy.

      Secondary Objectives:

      To evaluate the healthcare costs, hospitalization days, mortality, adherence, and health
      outcomes of a comprehensive self-management program compared to standardized COPD care among
      patients with severe COPD measured by:

      A)Healthcare-related costs B)Health services use due to COPD and to all causes C)Clinical
      outcome measures

        1. Mortality

        2. Health-related quality of life measured by generic and COPD-specific measures

        3. Patient satisfaction

        4. Medication adherence

        5. Disease knowledge, skill acquisition and self-efficacy

      In the proposed study, 960 veterans with severe COPD hospitalized in the previous year will
      be randomly assigned to either a comprehensive case management program or standardized COPD
      care. The comprehensive group will receive an initial, intense education program with
      development of an action plan, and regular telephone contacts by a case manager in addition
      to standardized COPD care. Patients allocated to the control arm will receive standardized
      care that incorporates guideline-based recommendations including influenza vaccination, a
      short-acting bronchodilator, and either a long-acting bronchodilator or inhaled
      corticosteroid inhaler.

      The study will be conducted in 2 phases, a 12-month feasibility study conducted at 6 VA sites
      followed by the full study in which an additional 8 sites will enroll patients over the next
      24 months. As a result, 180 patients will be initially enrolled in the feasibility study over
      the first year and the remaining 780 patients will be enrolled in the second and third years
      of the study when the full study is implemented. Subjects will be followed until the
      completion of the study, for at least one, and up to four years. The primary outcome is time
      to first COPD hospitalization.

      Exacerbations among patients with COPD result in costly emergency room visits and
      hospitalizations. The overall direct and indirect medical costs of COPD for the United States
      in 2000 were estimated to be in excess of $30 billion. In the VA health care system, there
      were 16,073 discharges for COPD in fiscal year 2003 at an average cost of $9,400 (2005
      dollars). Disease management programs for COPD may improve patient self-care, improving
      symptoms and resulting in decreased exacerbations. However, implementing the types of
      published programs that use self-management education and case-management require additional
      resources for the VA. The COPD disease management program described in this proposal was
      developed by extensive modification of existing programs using the strongest theory-based and
      evidence-based elements, and takes advantage of existing VA systems. By targeting patients at
      high risk for exacerbations, this study focuses on the population in which the needs and
      potential impact are the greatest.

      The intervention is designed to enable patients with COPD to manage their disease more
      effectively, by monitoring their symptoms and initiating appropriate action when their
      symptoms worsen. The elements of the program are developed using self-efficacy theory, a
      recognized and powerful predictor of health-related behavior change. The goal of the
      intervention is an informed and activated patient working with an informed, skilled case
      manager to improve self-management of COPD and ultimately clinical outcomes. Case-management
      programs are used to improve outcomes and to reduce health care utilization among patients
      with other chronic diseases such as diabetes, congestive heart failure and asthma, suggesting
      that this approach may be successful in COPD.

      A study conducted in Canada by Dr. Bourbeau, a co-investigator for this proposal, suggests
      that an intensive home-based self-management education program and case-management reduce the
      risk of COPD hospitalizations by 35% over 1-year, and reduced average hospital days by 42%.
      Cost-savings resulting from decreased hospitalizations offset the cost of the intervention,
      and the intervention was potentially cost-saving. Relying on home visits, the intervention is
      not practical or affordable in the VA, and therefore this study evaluates whether a novel
      case-management intervention for COPD developed specifically for the VA will reduce
      hospitalizations without increasing overall health-care costs.

      Because the majority of health care costs for patients with COPD are due to hospitalizations
      for exacerbations, COPD admissions are the primary outcome and the principal self-management
      goal. Assessing the cost-effectiveness of this intervention is a critical component of the
      proposed study, and will provide data for evidence-based decisions by VA physicians and
      managers regarding the management of COPD.
    
  