
    
      Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC) is a lethal, autosomal recessive, lysosomal storage
      disorder characterized by neurodegeneration in early childhood and death in adolescence. NPC
      results from mutation of either the NPC1 (approximately 95% of cases) or NPC2 genes.
      Biochemically, NPC is characterized by the endolysosomal storage of unesterified cholesterol
      and lipids in both the central nervous system and peripheral tissues such as the liver.
      Individuals with NPC demonstrate progressive cerebellar ataxia and dementia. Acute
      cholestatic liver disease is frequently observed in the neonatal/infantile period but
      subsequently resolves. However, chronic, sub-clinical liver disease persists. Intrathecal
      2-hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin (HPbetaCD, VTS-270) has proven effective in reducing signs
      and prolonging life in NPC1 animal models, and Phase 1/2a data support efficacy in NPC1
      patients. Parenteral administration of VTS-270 has also been shown to be effective in
      treating liver disease in the NPC1 cat.

      In this Phase 1/2a, open-label, randomized, parallel dose, single-center study, we will
      examine whether VTS-270 can be used to treat chronic subacute liver disease in NPC1 patients.
      Our primary objective is to determine the safety and tolerability of intravenous VTS-270 in
      NPC1 disease. Secondary objectives will be to evaluate the efficacy of VTS-270 to reduce
      plasma cholestane-3beta,5alpha,6beta-triol, an NPC1-specific pharmacodynamic biomarker, and
      to normalize the degree of liver injury. Exploratory testing will include lipid and protein
      biomarkers. This study will evaluate three dose levels (500, 1000 and 1500 mg/kg)
      administered monthly for twelve months. Safety will be assessed by adverse event recording,
      clinical laboratory testing and physical examination. Clinical efficacy will be evaluated by
      assessment of liver chemistries, determination of liver size; and changes in liver STIFFNESS.
      Biochemical efficacy will be assessed by measurement of plasma
      cholestane-3beta,5alpha,6beta-triol and other biomarkers.
    
  