
    
      Drug Eluting Stents (DES) reduce the rate of in-stent restenosis (ISR) to 3.6-10%. Based on
      the large population of patients, ISR is still an important problem in the field of
      cardiovascular disease. How to reduce the incidence of ISR and the treatment of ISR has
      become the focus and hot spot. The 2018 ESC Guidelines for Cardiovascular Intervention
      recommends treatment of ISR under the guidance of intravascular ultrasound (IVUS), or optical
      coherent tomography (OCT). The European Expert Consensus on Intravascular Imaging, published
      in 2018, recommends finding the underlying mechanisms of ISR through intravascular imaging
      guidance (IVUS or OCT), and determining therapeutic strategies based on the mechanisms.
      Circulation published a new Waksman ISR classification based on mechanisms and components of
      the restenosis tissue, which provides guidance of treatment strategy. The use of
      intravascular imaging to identify and classify the types and mechanisms is very important for
      ISR treatment strategy. Because of its good resolution, OCT makes it more accurate to
      distinguish the components of vascular tissue, thus providing a decision-making basis for
      interventional therapy. OCT examination can obtain the characteristics of ISR more precisely.
      Neoatherosclerosis (NA), is one of the ISR types and accounts for more stent failure and
      target lesion failure than other types. Identification of NA is important for decision-making
      of interventional therapy. However, the acquisition and analysis of OCT images not only need
      the digital angiography machine (DSA) equipped with the majority of hospitals, but also need
      professional OCT imaging equipment and technicians. Patients with severely CKD cannot bear
      OCT examination because of the large amount of contrast agent. OCT catheter is more than ten
      times the price of the CAG catheter. Therefore, identification of NA by the use of artificial
      intelligence (AI) is of significance to set therapeutic strategy for ISR patients, especially
      in patients with CKD. Our study retrospectively analyzed CAG images and OCT images of ISR
      patients obtained from Jan 1st,2015 to Jan 31st,2020. Offline OCT analysis was performed
      using dedicated software (Light Lab Imaging Inc, Westford, MA). All images were analyzed at
      every frame in the stents by 2 independent investigators, who were blinded to the
      angiographic and clinical findings. Identify NA by analyzing OCT images, build up U-net and
      V-net to analyze the CAG and OCT images, and finally build up an identification system of NA
      based on CAG images by AI. This study has been approved by Ethics Committee of Chinese PLA
      General Hospital (S2018-033-01)
    
  