
    
      After brain injury, the brain produces certain chemicals that are harmful to the injured
      tissues. Moderate hypothermia-also called body cooling-may slow or prevent the production of
      these chemicals. Hypothermia also decreases the amount of oxygen needed by the brain, which
      may provide some protection during this critical period. Earlier studies have shown that
      maintenance of moderate hypothermia may have a helpful effect in head injury patients ages 16
      to 45 who arrive at the hospital with a low body temperature suggesting that very early
      cooling may be beneficial.

      In this study scientists will initiate hypothermia or body cooling to 35˚C within two hours
      of severe brain injury to determine if body cooling improves functional outcome.

      Patients may enter the study in one of two ways. They may be evaluated and surface cooling
      begun at the scene by emergency medical services (EMS) personnel affiliated with the study;
      or patients who arrive in the emergency department (ED) of the study hospital within 2 hours
      of injury-and who have not already been evaluated by EMS personnel affiliated with the
      study-will be evaluated and cooling begun, if applicable, by NABISH study personnel.

      NABISH-trained EMS personnel who reach a patient with a suspected severe head injury within 2
      hours of injury will induce hypothermia to 35˚C at the scene, in transit, or in the ED.

      NABISH study personnel will induce hypothermia to 35˚C in the ED in patients with suspected
      severe head injury who reach the ED within 2 hours of injury if cooling has not already
      begun. Patients who meet entry criteria (based upon past studies) for moderate hypothermia
      for 48 hours will then be cooled to 33˚C and then gradually rewarmed after 48 hours at 33˚C.
      Patients initially cooled to 35˚C within 2 hours of injury who prove during trauma evaluation
      to have exclusion criteria for 48 hours of moderate hypothermia will be warmed from 35˚C to
      37˚C.

      This pilot trial ended in July 2005. Please see clinicaltrials.gov record number NCT00178711
      for the Phase III version of the trial (see link below).
    
  