
    
      Mafosfamide is given directly into the cerebrospinal fluid twice a week for six successive
      weeks. If after six weeks the disease has not shown any evidence of progression (tumor
      growth) patients will continue to receive intrathecal (I.T.) mafosfamide once a week for one
      month, followed by twice monthly (every other week) for four months, followed by once a
      month. Patients may continue to receive mafosfamide as long as unacceptable side effects do
      not occur and there is no growth of the tumor.

      Patients will have a weekly physical exam and blood tests. The cerebrospinal fluid will be
      tested each time they receive drug for the presence of cancer cells. If the patient has an
      Ommaya reservoir (a surgically implanted catheter that is used to sample cerebrospinal fluid
      from the fluid chambers in the head and to install medication into the cerebrospinal fluid)
      then the doctor may recommend that they receive one dose of mafosfamide through the Ommaya
      reservoir and the next dose via lumbar puncture (spinal tap) or lumbar reservoir. A lumbar
      reservoir is a catheter that is surgically implanted into the lower back. This catheter is
      used to sample cerebrospinal fluid and to install medication into the cerebrospinal fluid.

      All patients must be observed for a minimum of eight hours after the first dose of
      intrathecal mafosfamide. If the first dose is well tolerated (there are no major side
      effects), further doses of mafosfamide will be administered with close observation for at
      least two hours after administration during the first six weeks of drug administration.
      Administration of the mafosfamide and sampling of the cerebrospinal fluid from the Ommaya
      reservoir, lumbar reservoir, or spinal tap takes about 30 minutes. In addition, after
      mafosfamide has been given by lumbar puncture, patients must remain lying down on their
      stomach for one hour.

      In patients who have Ommaya reservoirs or lumbar catheters, samples of spinal fluid will be
      taken from the reservoirs following the first two doses of mafosfamide. For each series of
      tests, a total of eight spinal fluid samples will be taken with a needle from the Ommaya
      reservoir over a period of 24 hours after the dose. A spinal tap will be also be performed
      two hours after the dose on these two days. If you have a lumbar reservoir, eight spinal
      fluid samples will be taken with a needle from the Ommaya reservoir, over a period of 24
      hours after the dose. These samples of cerebrospinal fluid will be used to measure the amount
      of mafosfamide found in the cerebrospinal fluid at the time they are drawn. This will help us
      understand how the body handles mafosfamide.

      For patients with leukemia, a bone marrow aspiration (taking some bone marrow out of the
      pelvis bone) is necessary before receiving intrathecal mafosfamide. This is to make sure that
      there is no cancer in the bone marrow.
    
  