
    
      The investigator will look at results of breathing tests, non-invasive sound wave
      (ultrasound) test of the heart and blood vessel (Echocardiography), and a sample of blood to
      see if it is possible for early detection of breathing control and lung blood vessel
      dysfunction (pulmonary vascular disease) in infants that are at risk for exposure to long
      term low oxygen levels. A subset of infants will have a magnetic resonance Imaging study
      (MRI) between 37- 40 weeks gestational age (GA) or at the time of discharge, whichever comes
      first.

      Respiratory tests include:

        -  Bedside Physiology Study completed at 28, 32, 36, 40, and 52 weeks GA in conjunction
           with the respiratory tests. A 90-minute recording will be made using standard recording
           equipment that includes a conventional pulse oximeter, an EEG, an airflow sampling
           catheter near the nose, and respiratory inductance plethysmography (RIP) bands. Standard
           bedside monitoring will continue during the physiologic studies

        -  Carotid Body Function Test completed at 32, 36, 40 and 52 weeks GA. This test is to
           unmask respiratory instability in response to hyperoxia.

        -  Challenge Test completed at 36 weeks GA.

             1. Infants receiving nasal cannula flow with or without supplemental oxygen will
                undergo a Room Air Challenge Test.

             2. Infants on RA alone will undergo a Hypoxia Challenge test.

        -  Effects of Nasal Cannula Flow completed at 28, 32, 36, 40 and 52 week's GA. The flow
           will be increased through a nasal cannula. This test is to see how flow effects the
           breathing pattern.

      A subset of infants will have an MRI between 37-40 weeks GA or before discharge, whichever
      comes first. The MRI will allow the doctors to look and see if there is any injury present in
      the brain that can be linked to an abnormal breathing pattern called periodic breathing.

      A subset of infants will have an Echocardiogram (Echo) at 32, 36 and 52 weeks GA. The Echo is
      performed to assess cardiac structure and function. Echocardiography is performed routinely
      in premature newborns in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU). The echocardiogram will be
      performed at the infant bedside and will be coordinated with bedside nurse. The infant will
      remain on a cardio-respiratory monitor during the echocardiogram for approximately 15
      minutes.

      Infants that have an Echo will have a blood sample collected near the time of the Echo,
      3-blood samples total. The purpose of collecting the blood sample is to detect if the
      Fibroblast Growth Factor (FGF2) level is elevated and possibly be a biomarker of early
      pulmonary hypertension in pre term infants validated with the echo.
    
  