
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the types of complications experienced by women who undergo pelvic
      exenteration at University of Texas (UT) MD Anderson Cancer Center.

      II. To determine whether the number of complications experienced by women who undergo pelvic
      exenteration at UT MD Anderson Cancer Center differ by vaginal and bladder reconstruction
      types.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate pathologic predictors of recurrence including histology, size of tumor, and
      distance of closest margin.

      II. To longitudinally assess quality of life, sexual functioning, and symptoms in women who
      have undergone pelvic exenteration for gynecologic malignancies.

      III. To assess the impact of certain preoperative factors (albumin, electrolyte levels, body
      mass index) on the occurrence of post-operative complications.

      IV. To determine if preoperative positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT)
      correlates with pathologic findings at the time of surgery.

      V. To calculate time to recurrence, overall survival, and disease-free survival of patients
      who undergo pelvic exenteration and correlate to key demographic, clinical, and pathologic
      factors.

      OUTLINE:

      RETROSPECTIVE PORTION: Patients who have undergone pelvic exenteration complete one set of
      quality of life (QOL) questionnaires.

      PROSPECTIVE PORTION: Patients undergoing pelvic exenteration complete questionnaires over
      20-40 minutes within 2 weeks before surgery, and at 4-12 weeks, 6 months, and 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
      and 10 years after surgery regarding feelings, abilities, depression, coping, social support,
      sexual function and body image. Patients with cervical cancer may complete 1 additional
      questionnaire during each of these visits.

      Patients who undergo surgery are followed up every 3 months for the first 2 years, and then
      every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  