
    
      After IRB approval, experiments will take place in the Human Circulation Research Laboratory
      in the Department of Health and Exercise on the OU Norman campus. All subjects will complete
      a total of 3 visits. The first is a screening visit to provide informed consent and to ensure
      the potential participant meets all inclusion criteria and no exclusion criteria. Once
      enrolled, participants will complete two experimental trials (Placebo (PL, Sham Acupuncture)
      or Real Acupuncture (RA), randomized) in a single-blinded crossover design. PL or RA
      treatment will precede testing by ~25min before to maximize acute responses. Test begins with
      5 min of quiet rest where baseline measurements are taken, followed by 5 min of exercise.
      After exercise, subjects will be given 5 min of quiet rest.

      Visit 1 (Screening day): ~1.5 hours. The screening visit will include informed consent,
      health history, physical activity questionnaires and blood sample. If qualified, the subject
      will be enrolled in the study and they will complete a maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max) cycle
      ergometer test to determine fitness.

      Visit 2 & 3 (Study day): ~1.5 hours. Instrumentation: Subjects will be equipped with ECG for
      heart rate (HR), photoplethysmography for blood pressure, pulse oximeter, mouthpiece for
      end-tidal CO2 (PETCO2) and oxygen uptake (VO2), near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) for active
      muscle oxygenation and Transcranial Doppler (TCD) for CBF. Real Acupuncture (RA): Subjects
      will receive ~20 minutes of RA treatment prior to exercise. Placebo (PL): Specially designed
      Sham Acupuncture needles will be used in the same acupoints, for the same duration as RA.

      All subjects will complete a total of 3 visits separated by a minimum of 48 hours. Each study
      visit will take ~1.5 hours. The investigators anticipate ~ 6 hours or less of total
      involvement of the participants' time.

      This study is a single-blind crossover design. Participants will be blinded in two trials.
      Practitioners and operators will not be allowed to communicate with the participants
      concerning the type of acupuncture devices. Outcome assessors and statisticians may not be
      blinded to treatment allocation.

      The key dependent variable of interest is change (delta) in cerebrovascular conductance index
      (CVCi = CBF/blood pressure) from rest to exercise (delta CVCi = CVCiExercise - CVCiRest).
      Delta CVCi is the most common assessment of vasodilation in humans as it normalizes
      differences in blood flow to differences in blood pressure. CVCi calculates how much blood
      flow is observed for a given pressure. A change in CVCi (delta CVCi) has a predictable
      relationship where + delta CVCi indicates vasodilation (more flow for a given pressure) and -
      delta CVCi indicates vasoconstriction (less flow for a given pressure). Data will be analyzed
      using a general linear model approach (similar to ANOVA). Based on pilot data, a total sample
      size of 40 (20 CON and 20 HTN) will provide a power of 0.9. A minimum of 60 participants will
      be to recruited to ensure statistical power is achieved.
    
  