
    
      This study is a non-blinded randomized controlled trial. Consenting participants will be
      randomized to routine post-operative ambulation vs. treadmill-augmented post-operative care
      (placement of non-motorized treadmill in their room) following in-patient gynecologic
      surgery.

      We will approach all women undergoing gynecologic procedures that are expected to ambulate
      within 12 hours of their operation and are anticipated to remain hospitalized at least 18
      hours. Following confirmation of eligibility, we will enroll subjects either in the clinic
      when they are being consented for their gynecologic procedure or upon presentation to the
      hospital the day of their procedure. Randomization will occur at the completion of the
      gynecologic procedure when it has been confirmed by the primary surgeon that the patient is
      able to ambulate independently within 12 hours after completion of the procedure. At that
      time, participants will be randomized using opaque envelopes prepared by the study
      statistician in a 1:1 ratio to receive usual post-operative care or treadmill-augmented care.

      All patients will have a pedometer placed on their person in the post-anesthesia recovery
      unit (PACU) which will be removed the day of their discharge. The primary outcome assessed
      will be number of steps taken in the 24 hour period prior to discharge as assessed by the
      electronic pedometer readings.

      Pedometer will be placed on patients using a lanyard and pedometer clip in the recovery room.
      No participant will start ambulation without physician's clinical order. When the patient is
      ready for the first ambulation she will be accompanied by a nurse to sit up in a chair. Once
      the patient is able to ambulate herself she may ambulate in her room or in the hallway or if
      randomized to treadmill group she will be able to ambulate on the treadmill. She will be
      wearing her pedometer at all times until discharge from Loyola.
    
  