
    
      Between 5 and 15 percent of Veterans return from deployment in Iraq and Afghanistan with PTSD
      and the symptoms adversely affect many aspects of their lives, including intimate
      relationships. Although research findings consistently suggest that the degree of intimate
      relationship dysfunction correlates with the severity of Veteran's PTSD symptoms, few couples
      interventions have been developed and systematically evaluated. Cognitive Behavioral Conjoint
      Therapy for PTSD (CBCT for PTSD) is an intervention developed to treat both PTSD and
      relationship dysfunction that has shown promising preliminary results. However, the
      literature suggests that OEF-OIF Veterans prefer shorter time-limited treatments and CBCT for
      PTSD requires as many as 15 sessions. CBCT for PTSD lacks specific interventions that train
      meta-awareness, such as those taught in mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR).
      Mindfulness practices have an emerging evidence base for improving both PTSD and relationship
      functioning in several important ways. First, practicing mindfulness promotes the relaxation
      response which counters hyperarousal and results in a calmer approach to difficulties and
      challenges. Second, avoidance and numbing are countered by mindfully allowing one's
      experience to be as it is while suspending judgment, which is associated with increased
      compassion and empathy. Lastly, mindfulness supports a way of being with all life experiences
      rather than providing techniques just for coping with specific difficulties, which enables
      individuals to access inner strengths that are already available to them. Just as many
      physical conditions require more than one rehabilitation approach, there may be a synergy
      between CBCT for PTSD and mindfulness interventions. Mindfulness skills may assist
      individuals in tolerating painful emotional reactions to their experiences which may in turn
      enhance their awareness of associated feelings and thoughts. With enhanced meta-awareness the
      beliefs that may maintain PTSD symptoms and relationship dysfunction become more amenable to
      cognitive restructuring. Therefore, the goal of this study is to examine the effects of a
      Mindfulness-Based adaptation of CBCT for PTSD. The study involves two phases over the course
      of four years. In Phase 1, mindfulness interventions will be integrated within the Cognitive
      Behavioral Conjoint Therapy for PTSD treatment manual and the content of the first 7 sessions
      of CBCT will be adapted to be delivered during a weekend retreat. The integrated
      intervention, MB-CBCT for PTSD, will be delivered to 10 OIF-OEF Veterans and each of their
      intimate partners in order to develop and test procedures to train and monitor therapists.
      During Phase 2, 40 OEF-OIF Veterans and each of their intimate partners will be consented and
      a randomized controlled trial with be conducted comparing the MB-CBCT for PTSD with a control
      condition that teaches communication skills drawn from the first 7 sessions of the CBCT
      manual. We hypothesize that MB-CBCT for PTSD will lead to greater improvement in: 1)
      Veterans' PTSD symptoms as measured by the Clinician Administered PTSD Scale (primary
      outcome) and PTSD Checklist (secondary outcome); 2) Veterans' and partners' relationship
      functioning (secondary outcome); and 3) anxiety and depression symptoms (secondary outcomes).
      PTSD constitutes a substantial proportion of the burden of illness among Veterans. The longer
      term goals of this project are to conduct a fully-powered randomized controlled clinical
      trial of MB-CBCT to determine its effectiveness and to finalize the treatment manual.
    
  