
    
      Pilot Study Design The investigators will select 20 ischemic or non-ischemic cardiomyopathy
      patients with scar related Ventricular tachycardia with indication of VT ablation. After
      informed consent, these patients will be randomized to endocardial only (Control Group) or
      combined endocardial and epicardial ablation (Treatment Group).

      Inclusion Criteria Patients with ischemic and non-ischemic cardiomyopathy and recurrent
      sustained monomorphic VT requiring cardioversion or antiarrhythmic drug administration with
      ≥4 episodes in the previous 6 months despite an ICD or antiarrhythmic drug therapy. Patients
      without ICD were eligible after 2 episodes of sustained VT.

      Exclusion Criteria Creatinine level >2.5mg/dL; LV ejection fraction <10%; NYHA Class IV;
      mobile thrombus on LV; absence of vascular access to the LV; life-expectancy of less than 12
      months; previous open-chest cardiac surgical procedure; unstable angina; myocardial
      infarction in the last 2 months; severe aortic stenosis; severe mitral regurgitation
      secondary to leaflet or chordae rupture; pregnancy and age of less than 18 years old.

      Ablation Technique In the patients randomized for combined epicardial and endocardial
      ablation, subxyphoid puncture will be performed according to previously described technique.
      Following successful epicardial access on the combined epi and endocardial ablation and
      following the venous puncture on the endocardial only group, a puncture of femoral artery
      will be performed. If the patient has peripheral artery disease, the catheter will be
      positioned on the left ventricle through transeptal puncture.

      Electroanatomic voltage map will be constructed of the endocardial and epicardial surface.
      After map construction, programmed ventricular stimulation of the apex of the RV with S4
      extrastimuli will be performed aiming for VT inducibility. If the induced VT is well
      tolerated, activation mapping of the VT will be constructed in addition to entrainment
      mapping. If the VT is not hemodynamically tolerated, it will be reverted either by Burst or
      electrical cardioversion, than substrate modification in the scar combined with pace-mapping
      and local abnormal electrograms (late potentials) ablation will be performed. In the patients
      in the endocardial only group, only the endocardial surface of the right or left ventricle
      will be ablated.

      In the combined epicardial and endocardial group, the choice of the surface to be ablated
      will be guided by the tachycardia mapping (mesodiastolic and pre-systolic potentials),
      extension of the scar, pace-mapping in both surfaces. ECG criteria suggesting epicardial
      surface will also be considered to define the epi or endo surface to be ablated.

      Following ablation, a repeated programmed ventricular stimulation with S4 will be performed
      to evaluated reinducibility of the VT. Additional RF applications can be performed according
      to clinical criteria, and the procedure will be considered terminate when no VT is inducible
      or by clinical criteria. In the endo only group that endocardial scar could not be observed
      or following extensive endocardial ablation the clinical VT still remain inducible, and the
      ECG criteria suggests epicardial VT will underwent epicardial mapping and ablation and this
      will be considered as a Cross-over.

      Outcomes

      Primary Outcome:

      Safety: The investigators will evaluate the rate of complications related to irrigated tip
      catheter use on epicardial surface. It is expected that the combined epicardial and
      endocardial ablation group do not present an increase in the rate of catheter-related
      complications.

      Efficacy: The investigators will evaluate if the procedure was succeeded. The investigators
      consider success as follows: (1) Complete Success: prevention of induction of any VT
      following ablation; (2) Partial Success: prevention of induction of the clinical VT,
      remaining the induction of at least one non-clinical faster VT; (3) Failure: Remaining the
      induction of the clinical or initially induced VT.

      Secondary Outcome:

      Safety: The investigators will evaluate the rate of complications related to the epicardial
      access. It is expected a rate of hemopericardium of no more than 20%, with less than 5% rate
      of major complications as procedure related death, cardiac surgery due to cardiac perforation
      or blood cell transfusion.
    
  