
    
      Much research and effort have been directed towards improving end-of-life (EOL) care in the
      US. However, there is consensus that large gaps in knowledge remain regarding quality EOL
      care, most notably because previous research has focused on narrowly defined populations.
      There is little known about individuals who are from different ethnic, cultural, and
      socioeconomic backgrounds. There is some evidence that these individuals may desire and
      experience EOL care differently and may encounter barriers to obtaining this care. What is
      not known is what interventions are effective in these populations. This study addresses EOL
      care for homeless people, the most extreme examples of these overlooked populations. They
      have the greatest risk of death in the US, have unique perspectives of good EOL care,
      encounter significant barriers to care, and lack the resources and relationships assumed
      necessary for good EOL care. Despite this, there are no interventional studies determining
      whether EOL care can be improved in this population. Encouraging individuals to document
      preferences for EOL care through Advance Directives (ADs), has been central to efforts to
      improve EOL care. ADs, however, have been subject to conceptual and empirical criticism,
      particularly that they may not ultimately affect EOL care received. However, these
      shortcomings have been mainly demonstrated in specific and similar populations, and has not
      been addressed in underserved populations. There are reasons to believe that ADs and advance
      care planning have different utility and efficacy for homeless persons and are much desired
      in this population. This proposal builds upon four years of research, including an
      NIH/NINR-funded investigation, regarding EOL care, dying, and death. This research is some of
      the first work defining the concerns of homeless persons regarding EOL care and confirmed the
      relevance and potential of ADs in this population to impact EOL care positively. We seek to
      test an intervention to improve EOL care for homeless persons: 300 participants will be
      randomized into two arms, guided intervention (GI) and minimal intervention (MI). The GI
      condition will expose participants to education, guidance and counseling, and an AD tool,
      designated HELP (Appendix A), specifically designed for underserved and estranged populations
      to enhance autonomy and elicit preferences of EOL care. The MI condition will expose
      participants to the provision of HELP and instructions, mimicking community standards and the
      requirements of the federal PSDA.

      Primary Aim 1: To determine whether homeless individuals will complete an AD and whether
      guidance enhances rates of completion. Hypothesis 1: We hypothesize that the MI will result
      in greater completion rate in this population than most others studied, and that the GI will
      result in a significantly greater rate than the MI - we anticipate a 20% completion rate in
      the MI condition and a 50% rate in the GI condition. Primary Aim 2: To determine whether
      completion of ADs by homeless individuals lead to their use during county hospital care
      encounters over 18 months after the intervention. Hypothesis 2: We hypothesize that when
      completed ADs exist, they will be used or documented as part of clinical care at least 70% of
      the time during county health care encounters.

      It is important to test appropriate, reproducible interventions in underserved populations,
      and insights from this project will be significant in several ways: they will help address
      the EOL concerns of homeless persons, and provide the basis to address the needs of others
      who are disenfranchised from loved ones and/or receive fragmented, episodic care, such as the
      rural and urban poor, homebound persons, or undocumented persons.
    
  