
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the pathologic complete response rate of sunitinib malate in patients with
           muscle-invasive locally advanced transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of the bladder.

        -  To evaluate the safety and tolerability of sunitinib malate administered prior to
           radical cystectomy, including surgical outcome and surgical complications.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the clinical effects of sunitinib malate administered prior to radical
           cystectomy and bilateral lymph node dissection, including overall response rate using
           RECIST defined criteria, cytology, and histologic appearance of surgical specimen as
           well as time to progression.

      Tertiary

        -  To assess pre-treatment tissue baseline angiogenic markers and to evaluate the magnitude
           of the difference among these variables with post-treatment tumor tissue after
           neoadjuvant sunitinib malate.

        -  To evaluate the effects of sunitinib malate on immunosuppressive regulatory T cells.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive oral sunitinib malate once daily in weeks 1-4 (1 course). Patients
      undergo restaging within 1 week prior to surgery and then undergo radical cystectomy and
      bilateral lymph node dissection on day 42. Patients achieving a complete pathologic response
      at the time of surgery may receive 6 more courses of adjuvant sunitinib malate beginning 28
      days after surgery at the discretion of the treating physician. Patients found to have
      high-risk features (i.e. pT3 or greater tumor and evidence of disease in any of the lymph
      nodes resected) are offered standard adjuvant systemic chemotherapy at the discretion of the
      treating physician.

      Tumor tissue from pretreatment biopsy and radical cystectomy will be tested for VEGFR-1,
      VEGFR-2 and PDGF-R expression by IHC. Samples are also analyzed for quantification of cell
      proliferation and apoptosis and immunosuppressive regulatory T cells (T-reg) and T-reg
      functions.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 28 days after surgery.
    
  