
    
      An extensive meta-analysis has confirmed that dyspeptic symptoms are common in individuals
      using non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) (1). Both esomeprazole 20 mg daily and
      esomeprazole 40 mg daily have been shown to be more effective than placebo for the control of
      upper gastrointestinal symptoms in patients receiving NSAIDs (2).

      The mechanisms by which H, K-ATPase inhibitors protect against NSAID gastropathy remain
      unclear, although it is known that their use is more clinically effective than the use of the
      H2-receptor antagonist, ranitidine (3).

      The biochemical basis for NSAID gastropathy is not fully understood (6). One potential
      mechanism for the development of gastric damage in individuals receiving NSAIDs is oxidative
      stress related to depletion of gastric antioxidants. A recent endoscopic study in patients
      supports the hypothesis that NSAID use associated with gastric bleeding decreases gastric
      mucosal glutathione levels (7), a major cellular micronutrient antioxidant produced by
      mammalian cells. The principal investigator has been working on the possibility that
      activation of afferent nerve fibers by oxidative stress can induce abdominal discomfort
      during the use of NSAIDs. This notion is supported by animal studies that have shown that
      oxidants evoke neurotransmitter release from enteric neurons (8). This experimental result
      suggests that abnormal tissue levels of oxygen-derived free radicals (oxidative stress) could
      directly activate afferent enteric nerves or could alter gastric motility via a neuronal
      mechanism.

      The hypothesis of this present proposal is that participants receiving NSAID drugs with
      dyspeptic symptoms have increased production of gastric levels of free radicals. The primary
      aims of this study are to examine gastric free radical production and total antioxidant
      capacity in participants who are taking NSAID drugs and have dyspeptic symptoms. Gastric free
      radical production and total antioxidant capacity will be measured before and after receiving
      either 15 days of daily esomeprazole magnesium or ranitidine.
    
  