
    
      Accessible, usable, and effective vaginal microbicides could significantly decrease the
      spread of HIV. Vaginal microbicides could be used with condoms to prevent HIV infection; they
      could also be used in situations in which an individual is unable to negotiate condom use.
      Vaginal microbicides are potentially bidirectional, preventing both male-to-female and
      female-to-male HIV transmission. This study will evaluate the safety and effectiveness of two
      vaginal microbicides, BufferGel and PRO 2000/5, in preventing the transmission of HIV. The
      study will also evaluate the effectiveness of these gels in preventing other common sexually
      transmitted infections (STIs).

      BufferGel is a buffering agent designed to maintain normal vaginal acidity in the presence of
      ejaculate. Studies have shown that HIV is inactivated below a pH of 4 to 5.8. Carbopol 974,
      the major nonaqueous component of BufferGel, is commonly used as a gelling or tableting agent
      and has a well-documented safety record. BufferGel has proven safe and well tolerated in
      Phase I studies. PRO 2000/5 inhibits viral entry into susceptible cells. PRO 2000/5 has also
      been evaluated in Phase I studies and was found to be safe and well tolerated.

      Participants in this study will be randomly assigned to receive one of four interventions:
      BufferGel, PRO 2000/5, placebo gel, or no gel. All participants will receive HIV risk
      reduction counseling, condoms, and diagnosis and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases.
      Participants in the three gel arms will be given single-use, prefilled applicators of gel and
      will be instructed to apply one dose of the product (BufferGel, PRO 2000/5, or placebo gel)
      intravaginally up to 60 minutes before each vaginal intercourse while in the study.

      Participants will be enrolled for approximately 12 to 30 months, depending on when they enter
      the study. Participants will have two screening study visits and then monthly visits. Monthly
      study visits may take place at a clinic, the participant's home, or other community site.
      Monthly visits will include a medical interview; urine testing, including pregnancy testing;
      HIV and sexually transmitted infection risk reduction counseling; and distribution of study
      supplies (condoms and gel-filled applicators). Blood collection will occur at selected
      monthly visits. Four times a year, participants will be seen in the clinic for a more
      structured medical interview, pelvic exam, and HIV testing. At one of these visits,
      participants at particular sites who are willing will be asked to complete a behavioral risk
      assessment. At some visits vaginal fluid swabs will occur. Participants at non-US study sites
      will be asked for permission for these swabs to be stored for further testing. Assessment
      interviews will be both face to face and self-reporting.
    
  