
    
      Among the most common disorders of hypo-pigmentation in children are pityriasis alba,
      vitiligo, nevus depigmentosus, postinflammatory hypopigmentation and tinea versicolor ; while
      idiopathic guttate hypomelanosis and hypopigmented mycosis fungoides comes late.

      Pityriasis alba : is a low-grade type of eczema/dermatitis mostly occurring in children and
      young adults , usually seen as dry, fine-scaled, pale patches on the face .

      Vitiligo : is an acquired, autoimmune, idiopathic disorder characterized by circumscribed
      depigmented macules and patches with or without leukotrichia .

      Nevus depigmentosus : is a localized hypopigmentation which most of the time is congenital.
      It is considered as a form of cutaneous mosaicism.

      Postinflammatory hypopigmentation : is an acquired partial or total loss of skin pigmentation
      occurring after cutaneous inflammation. Many cutaneous inflammatory conditions lead to
      postinflammatory hypopigmentation in children as :Atopic dermatitis , Insect bite reactions,
      Psoriasis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome ….; Infections as Chickenpox, Impetigo …..; Cutaneous
      injuries from burns, irritants .All tend to induce postinflammatory hypopigmentation rather
      than hyperpigmentation .

      Pityriasis versicolor or tinea versicolor : is a fungal infection of the superficial layer of
      skin caused by Malassezia yeasts. It is clinically characterized by hyperpigmented or
      hypopigmented, round to oval lesions covered with scales commonly found on the trunk, upper
      arms and face. Although it's common in adults but it can be seen in older group of children .

      Idiopathic guttate hypomelanosis : is an acquired leukoderma found in all races; Its
      pathogenesis is unknown but may depend on various factors such as patient age and
      sun-exposure. Clinically, the lesions are porcelain-white macules, usually 2-6 mm in size,
      but sometimes they are larger. The borders are sharply defined, often angular and irregular
      with normal skin markings.

      Mycosis fungoides, the most common primary cutaneous T-cell lymphoma: is a neoplastic disease
      characterized by classical non-infiltrated lesions (patches), plaques, tumors, and
      erythrodermic stages .It is considered a serious condition that has been seen before in
      children. Hypopigmented mycosis fungoides is one of its variants that is presented by
      hypopigmented-to-achromic lesions, sometimes with a vitiligo-like aspect.

      In addition to clinical picture, Woods light examination and potassium hydroxide scrapping
      for scaly hypopigmented macules and histopathological evaluation are used to be the gold
      standard tests for diagnosis of those hypopigmented lesions in children.

      Dermoscopy is a noninvasive diagnostic tool that permits the visualization of morphological
      features that are not visible to the naked eye thus representing a link between macroscopic
      clinical dermatology and microscopic dermatopathology . Recently, awareness and knowledge of
      dermoscopy have increased tremendously in many countries in diagnosis of many skin conditions
      .

      Dermoscopy may be a helpful as a non-invasive tool in assisting the differential diagnosis of
      several hypopigmented macular lesions and has the potential to improve the diagnostic
      accuracy. New studies have documented dermoscopic features in vitiligo , While very few
      reports have documented the dermoscopic features of the other hypopigmented lesions.
    
  