
    
      Study Visits: Patients will be seen on Day #0, which will be a Monday, and the study will be
      explained. If they agree to participate, consent will be signed and they will be interviewed
      to determine any relevant occupational or personal exposures to potential allergens. They
      will be examined to determine if they have sufficient normal skin to undergo patch testing.
      Patients will be allowed to use antihistamines to treat pruritus as antihistamines do not
      abrogate T-cell-mediated immune reactions.

      Scanpor (paper) tape strips of 10 allergens each contained within 10-mm Finn (aluminum)
      chambers will be applied to the patient's back. All patients will be tested to the Tufts
      Medical Center standard series, fragrance, cosmetics/preservative, and textile series. Based
      on patient history, other appropriate allergen series will be added.

      After two days (on Day #2, a Wednesday), patches will be removed and the areas will be
      inspected for type IV hypersensitivity reactions including papules, edema or vesicles. The
      testing areas will be marked using a surgical marker and the patients will return the
      following day (on Day #3, a Thursday) for a delayed reading.

      Interpretation: Patch test reactions will be interpreted by using NACDG criteria: negative
      reaction (macular erythema); 1+ (weak reaction; non-vesicular erythema, infiltration, and
      possibly papules); 2+ (strong reaction; edematous or vesicular); 3+ (extreme reaction;
      spreading, bullous, or ulcerative lesions), or irritant reaction. If contact allergens are
      found, patients will be educated about allergen avoidance and given listings from the Contact
      Allergen Replacement Database delineating products they may use which do not contain their
      allergens.

      Follow-up Interview: One to three months after patch testing, the patients will be contacted
      to determine whether allergen avoidance has resulted in any improvement in their chronic
      urticaria. They will be asked how well they have adhered to allergen avoidance (completely
      avoided, mostly avoided, somewhat avoided, or not at all avoided) and how their urticaria has
      been since changing their habits (a response score: completely resolved, mostly improved,
      somewhat improved, no change, or worse).

      Costs: there will be no costs to the patients to participate in this study. Patients will be
      seen as regular patients at Tufts Medical Center, and their insurance providers will be
      billed for the visits. A stipend will be provided to patients to cover the costs of their
      transportation.
    
  