
    
      Veterans of recent conflicts have experienced serious cognitive and emotional problems
      resulting from exposure to blasts. Recent work suggests that a critical factor in the
      sequelae of blast exposure is distance from the blast, rather than the presence or absence of
      concussion symptoms. Exposure to blasts from a distance of <10 m has been associated with
      significantly greater cognitive and neural disturbances than exposure to blasts from >10 m.
      The neural correlates of blast-related brain injury are poorly understood, as to date this
      type of brain injury has received little research focus. The investigators propose to use
      oscillations in the gamma band (30-100 Hz) of the electroencephalogram (EEG) to detect and
      remediate neural circuit dysfunction related to blast injury in Veterans. Gamma band
      oscillations have been shown to be involved in several brain functions, including visual
      perception, selective attention, working memory, long term memory, and motor control. Recent
      studies in animal models have linked the effects of traumatic brain injury to
      parvalbumin-expressing (PV+) inhibitory interneurons, which are a critical element of the
      cortical circuitry that generates gamma oscillations. PV+ interneuron dysfunction is
      associated with deficits in evoked gamma oscillations and increased power of broadband gamma
      "noise", as well as cognitive deficits. It has also recently been shown that stimulation of
      PV+ interneurons by patterned stimuli in the gamma band can improve the function of these
      interneurons, as well as cognitive function, in animal models of neuropsychiatric disorders.
      Hence, the investigators believe that gamma oscillations and stimulation provide promising
      targets for investigation in Veterans who suffer from blast-related brain injury. The
      investigators will investigate gamma band activity and stimulation in 50 Veterans who will be
      recruited from the participant pool of the VA Translational Research Center for TBI and
      Stress Disorders (TRACTS) at the VA Boston Healthcare System.

        -  Aim 1: To assess whether evoked gamma deficits and increased gamma noise are present in
           individuals exposed to Close (<10 m) vs. Far (>10 m) blasts. The investigators predict
           that evoked gamma will be reduced in power and phase synchrony, while gamma noise will
           be increased in power, in Close compared to Far blast groups.

        -  Aim 2: To determine whether gamma oscillation abnormalities associated with close blast
           exposure can be remediated by non-invasive patterned sensory stimulation in the gamma
           band. The investigators will administer 6 min of auditory steady-state stimulation at 40
           Hz. The investigators predict that gamma conditioning will increase evoked gamma
           oscillations elicited by tones at the conditioned vs. unconditioned frequency, while
           gamma noise will be decreased. These effects will be greater in the Close compared to
           the Far blast groups.

      This project also has 2 exploratory aims:

        -  1) To investigate whether resting state delta-band (1-4 Hz) EEG power is increased in
           Close relative to Far blast exposure groups, as delta power is increased in individuals
           who have experienced mild traumatic brain injury compared to healthy controls.

        -  2) As blast exposure is associated with white matter deficits, and PV+ interneuron axons
           are myelinated, the investigators will examine whether gamma abnormalities are
           correlated with white matter deficits as assessed by diffusion tensor imaging (DTI)
           measures in the auditory cortex, available from the TRACTS database.

      In sum, this project seeks to advance the understanding of the effects of blasts on brain
      function in Veterans by probing the effects of blast exposure on the neural circuits that
      generate gamma oscillations, and by testing whether a new type of non-invasive brain
      stimulation can improve brain function in Veterans exposed to blasts. If successful, this
      project could lead to new approaches to detect and remediate the effects of blast exposure on
      Veterans and aid in their functional recovery.
    
  