
    
      Participants will take part in a prospective, single center, randomized, double-blind,
      clinical study of 2.0 g/day of SRT2104 or placebo (test material) administered orally as 0.25
      g capsules. The study will evaluate the effect of 28 days of consecutive SRT2104 dosing upon
      muscle strength, metabolism and structure of the ankle muscle group following a 14 day leg
      immobilization period. The study will also evaluate pharmacokinetic parameters as well as the
      safety and tolerability of 2.0 g/day of SRT2104. Thirty-four (34) healthy male and female
      subjects aged 18-40, who fulfill the inclusion/exclusion criteria, will be enrolled in this
      study. Subjects will be randomized 1:1 to receive either 2.0 g/day of SRT2104 or placebo in a
      fed state for 28 consecutive days. Subjects will remain on a fixed dose of test material for
      all dosing days in the study.

      Subjects will provide written informed consent and undergo screening assessments. If eligible
      and willing to participate, subjects will undergo baseline strength testing, muscle biopsy,
      MRI, and MRS evaluations on Day -1 to assess muscle strength, and metabolism. Participants
      will then commence a 28 day dosing period with test material. On the first day of dosing (Day
      1), pharmacokinetic and safety assessments will be performed. On Day 15, after subjects have
      completed 14 days of dosing with test material, participants will repeat the muscle biopsy,
      strength testing, MRI evaluations, pharmacokinetic and safety assessments. Following the
      study assessments on Day 15, subjects will commence a 14 day immobilization period. The leg
      of the dominant leg will be immobilized with a temporary removable brace, and subjects will
      be instructed to ambulate using crutches for the duration of the immobilization period.
      Designated site staff will contact subjects via telephone on Day 18 and Day 24 to check on
      the subjects' wellbeing and ability to function while immobilized. Subjects will report to
      the study site on Day 21 during the 14 day immobilization period for assessment of the
      immobilized leg, including safety evaluations. On Day 28, following completion of the 14 day
      immobilization period, a muscle biopsy, skeletal muscle evaluations, pharmacokinetic and
      safety assessments will be performed. Subjects will return to the clinic for an End of Study
      visit 7 days (+/- 2 days) after the last dose of test material for follow up safety
      assessments. A follow-up safety call will be made to each subject approximately 30 days
      following their final dose of SRT2104 or placebo.
    
  