
    
      Background Osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee is a debilitating condition that affects an
      estimated 21 million Americans. This number is expected to rise steadily as the population
      ages. The medical expenditures associated with arthritis and other rheumatic conditions in
      the United States have increased from $50 billion in 1997 to $86 billion in 2003. In 2003,
      almost 420,000 total knee replacements were performed, primarily for arthritis. Injections of
      hyaluronic acid (HA) have been shown to provide symptom relief for many OA patients who have
      failed to respond to conservative interventions. Many other patients, however, experience
      only slight or no improvement. The results from this study will allow physicians to identify
      whether a patient is likely or not likely to respond well to HA therapy leading to improved
      treatment success rates.

      Goals This study has two related goals: 1) to identify patient and treatment factors that
      predict response to intra-articular injections of hyaluronic acid for knee osteoarthritis
      using multivariable analysis and 2) develop mathematical and statistical models that will
      predict individual patient response to HA for knee OA.

      It is anticipated that the investigators will develop computer software in this study that
      can support clinical decision making related to viscosupplementation in the treatment of knee
      OA. If this project yields successful patient predictive models, physicians who are
      considering a trial of HA for a patient will have some empirical basis for treatment
      selection. Eventually a physician would be able to assess a relatively small number of
      variables for a patient and then be provided with predictions regarding treatment response.

      **Please note that the study site at the Naval Medical Center in Portsmouth, Virginia can
      only enroll patients who are eligible to be treated at a military facility.
    
  