
    
      Recruitment and Enrollment of Participants:

      Consented participants who met the criteria for either CHF or COPD, as identified via the
      daily hospital census report and using codes from the International Classification of
      Diseases, 9th Revision were randomized to either the treatment or control group. Participants
      who had mental or physical impairments that would prevent them from using the interactive
      voice response (IVR) system or communicating with the health coach were excluded. A study
      health coach visited the participant in their hospital room and, after explaining the study
      protocol, asked if they would like to participate and then consented them into the study if
      appropriate. After the participant signed the written consent, the health coach provided all
      participants with the 13-question set from the PAM and recorded the data. Lastly, the health
      coach assigned the study participant into either the treatment or control group using a
      pre-determined randomization system.

      Description of the Intervention:

      Control Group Activities:

      Study staff did not interact with control group participants beyond the consenting and
      collection of PAM data, with the health coaches only interacting at baseline. Usual care
      occurred in the form of typical discharge planning by hospital staff, which consisted of
      providing brief traditional patient education before the participant was discharged.

      Treatment Group Activities:

      The intervention for the treatment group consisted of three components - Interactive Voice
      response (IVR), MI-based health coaching, and notification to the PCP.

      First, participants used an interactive, voice telephony and web-based database system to
      monitor and improve their self-care behaviors and clinical status in the 30 days post
      discharge. Program participants were given the call-in number and followed through their
      first interaction with the system while they were still in the hospital, thereby ensuring
      their proficiency in the IVR functionality after discharge. Daily thereafter, participants
      were instructed to call in to the Tel-Assurance system using their cell phone, land-line, or
      via the internet. Participants entered into the Tel-Assurance system using a touch-tone phone
      or web browser and answered a set of daily survey questions that are customized to assess
      worsening of symptoms of their chronic disease. Information from the IVR system was
      automatically downloaded to a secure Internet site for review by the health coaches. The data
      was checked frequently and was displayed in such a way that participants' with "variances"
      were displayed at the top of the screen, flagging the coach's attention. Participants who
      triggered an alert for symptoms or out-of-range biometric values (such as increased body
      weight for congestive heart failure [CHF], or low forced expiratory volume for chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease [COPD]), received a "same-day" follow-up call from the program
      health coach (who is also a registered nurse). If participants missed a daily call, they
      received an automated reminder call from the IVR service to encourage adherence. The health
      coaches also monitored adherence to the system and would call a participant if s/he had
      missed more than one day. Participants in the study were instructed that the IVR system was
      not to be used for urgent/emergent matters. They were also encouraged to call their health
      coach to discuss their symptoms or condition.

      Second, participants received motivational interviewing (MI)-based health coaching,
      commencing while they are still in the hospital prior to discharge and for 90-days
      post-discharge. Motivational interviewing is a collaborative goal-oriented style of
      communication with particular attention to the language of change. It is designed to
      strengthen personal motivation of and commitment to a specific goal by eliciting and
      exploring the person's own reason for change within an atmosphere of acceptance and
      compassion. MI is an evidence-based patient-centered approach with four main principles:
      partnership, acceptance, compassion and evocation. There is a health coaching framework that
      provides structure for a provider to assist in being time-efficient in the coaching session:
      engaging, focusing, evoking, planning. In a review of literature of health coaching
      approaches, MI was found to be the only health coaching technique to be fully described and
      consistently demonstrated as causally and independently associated with positive behavioral
      outcomes. Health coaches received rigorous training in the MI approach and regular
      monitoring. Another optimal feature of MI is that there are validated standardized tools that
      have been developed to assess the fidelity of the provider/patient session to the approach.
      The Motivational Interviewing Treatment Integrity (MITI) tool was used during the training
      and active phases of the study to ensure that the coaches had achieved/maintained the level
      of proficiency that has been linked to clinical outcomes. Starting the health coaching
      process while the participant was still in the hospital was an attempt to ease the transition
      to the home by helping the participant understand the treatment plan and empower him/her to
      communicate in case there was a shift in health status that could result in a readmission.
      Continued health coaching sessions with the participant throughout the 90-day study period
      were provided to address the participant's activation level and, thus, the ability to
      self-manage his/her condition better. This approach was individually tailored to each
      participant based on their initial PAM score. In addition, the health coach discussed typical
      challenges with participants that they may face when recuperating from the hospital stay,
      such as understanding and following their treatment plan. Lastly, participants were empowered
      to take an active role in managing their condition and health, including appropriate and
      timely interaction with their PCP when a problem arose that could lead to a deterioration of
      their health status. If the participant was readmitted to the hospital during the study
      period, the health coach provided follow up with the participant and the PCP to determine the
      best course of action. In addition, study staff determined the cause of the readmission and
      recorded it for analysis, which was performed and discussed by study staff on an on-going
      basis throughout the study period.

      Third, the investigators attempted to engage the participant's primary care provider (PCP) in
      the care plan by directly providing them with the discharge summary upon the participant's
      release from the hospital. Informing the PCP of the participant's hospitalization should have
      increased the likelihood the PCP's office would be proactive in reaching out to the
      participant to schedule a follow-up office visit. The provider was encouraged to: (a)
      schedule an office visit with the participant; and (b) to communicate directly with the
      health coach to suggest areas of focus for the care plan. The investigators were not
      successful in getting any of the PCP's to contact the health coaches to discuss their
      patient's progress or health plans.

      Outcome Measures:

      All outcomes were analyzed separately for each of the two conditions, congestive heart
      failure (CHF) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The investigators' primary
      outcomes for this study were readmissions, hospital days, and emergency department visits
      occurring within 90 days of discharge from the index admission. The investigators' secondary
      outcomes were 90 day mortality and patient activation measure scores at 30 and 90 days. The
      investigators further review statistics relating to the IVR technology used to track
      treatment patients' disease specific symptoms. All analyses were conducted using the
      intention to treat approach.
    
  