
    
      The Healthy Aging in Neighborhoods of Diversity across the Life Span (HANDLS) study is an
      interdisciplinary, community-based, prospective longitudinal epidemiologic study examining
      the influences of race and socioeconomic status (SES) on the development of age-related
      health disparities among socioeconomically diverse African Americans and whites in Baltimore.
      This study investigates whether health disparities develop or persist due to differences in
      SES, differences in race, or their interaction. Planned as a 20-year longitudinal study,
      HANDLS is unique because it assesses physical parameters as well as evaluating genetic,
      biologic, demographic, and psychosocial parameters of African American and white participants
      over a wide range of socioeconomic statuses. HANDLS also employs novel research tools, mobile
      medical research vehicles, in hopes of improving participation rates and retention among non-
      traditional research participants. The domains of the HANDLS study include: nutrition,
      cognition, biologic biomarkers, body composition and bone quality, physical function and
      performance, psychology, genomics, neighborhood environment and cardiovascular disease.

      Utilizing data from these study domains will facilitate an understanding of selected
      underlying factors of persistent black-white health disparities in overall longevity,
      cardiovascular disease, and cognitive decline.

      HANDLS recruited a fixed cohort as an area probability sample of Baltimore City from August
      2004 through November 2009 as Wave 1 (Figure 1). HANDLS Wave 2 entitled The Association of
      Personality and Socioeconomic status with Health Status An Interim Follow-up Study began in
      June 2006 under a separate protocol. It was designed as a follow-up telephone interview
      approximately 18 months after the initial examination (Wave 1) was complete. Wave 2 provided
      interim contact with study participants, and important interim information regarding their
      health. Now completed, waves 3 and 4 were the first and second follow-up examinations and
      participants second and third visit to our mobile Medical Research Vehicles (MRVs). The
      current protocol outlines Wave 5, the third follow-up examination and participants fourth
      visit to our mobile Medical Research Vehicles (MRVs). Planned as a follow-up after 3-4 years,
      Wave 5 consists of health examinations, questionnaires, sensory assessments (visual and
      olfactory), health literacy assessment, renal function assessments, environmental
      assessments, and for a sub-set of participants; structural MRIs and a personality inventory.
    
  