
    
      Project Summary: SymTrend is seeking funding to bring low-cost, technology-afforded power and
      efficiency to the special education (SPED) of a lower functioning child with autism (LFCA).
      Each LFCA has a federally mandated, individualized education plan (IEP). An effective IEP
      requires intensive school and home-based behavioral monitoring: iterations of behavioral data
      recording, progress charting, and team communication. SymTrend will extend the functionality
      of its current Internet and mobile system for behavioral monitoring to include the use of
      digital pen technology for recording on specially printed forms. The project will then test
      the two types of electronic monitoring (iPod Touch and digital pens) against current pencil
      and paper monitoring. It is hypothesized that an electronic system with four components -
      i.e., forms creation, data collection, progress charting, and team communication - will
      reduce the time burden of behavioral monitoring and enable schools to meet the IEP needs of
      its students within the constraints of very restrictive educational budgets.

      Objectives: The three objectives of this project are 1) to design and implement a
      four-component behavioral monitor for IEPs that is easy-to-use, cost-sensitive, and has the
      power and efficiency to optimize and sustain behavioral improvement in LFCA; 2) to
      incorporate functionality for an extensive range of a) learning contexts, b) types of
      behavioral measurement, and c) progress charting formats that meet IEP reporting
      requirements; and 3) to contrast electronic behavioral monitoring with standard paper methods
      in terms of: a) efficiency, b) power, and c) acceptance.

      Design and Methods: The test of the system will include a sample 15 children participating in
      one of two public school systems. LFCA will be monitored by parents and more than one type of
      professional both at school and at home. Monitoring will occur in the context of skill
      learning and disruptive behavior elimination. Professionals will keep track of their time and
      effort doing behavioral recording, charting, and communicating with other members of the IEP
      team. The research design includes within-subject comparisons of baseline paper monitoring
      versus electronic monitoring in terms of efficiency, power, and acceptance.

      Significance: The electronic behavioral monitoring system created to support IEP use with
      LFCA can also be used with higher functioning children with autism (HFCA), other
      developmental disabilities (e.

      g., ADHD), other clinical uses (e.g., depression and anxiety), academic use (e.g., university
      level behavioral science) and commercial use (e.g., human factors studies).
    
  