
    
      During the Phase I portion of this clinical trial, the doses of Revlimid® and Doxil® will be
      increased until the best and safest amount (or dose) is identified in combination with
      Velcade® and Dexamethasone. "Investigational" means that the drug combination is still being
      studied and that research doctors are trying to find out more about it such as the safest
      dose to use, the side effects it may cause and how effective the Velcade®, Doxil®,
      Dexamethasone and Revlimid® investigational combination is for treating newly diagnosed
      multiple myeloma. In this clinical trial we are looking for the highest dose of the
      combination that can be given safely and see how well it works as a combination in newly
      diagnosed patients.

      Each of these drugs, Velcade®, Doxil®, Dexamethasone and Revlimid® are approved by the FDA
      (U.S. Food and Drug Administration). They have not been approved in this combination for use
      for your type of cancer or any other type of cancer. Velcade® is currently approved by the
      United States Food and Drug Administration (US FDA) for the treatment of multiple myeloma
      patients who have received at least one prior therapy. Doxil® has recently been approved by
      the US FDA for multiple myeloma in combination with Velcade® in patients who have not
      previously received Velcade® and have received at least one prior therapy. Dexamethasone is
      commonly used, either alone, or in combination with other drugs, to treat multiple myeloma.
      Revlimid® is currently approved by the US FDA in combination with dexamethasone for the
      treatment of patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least 1 prior therapy.

      After the Phase I clinical trial defines the safest doses of Velcade®, Doxil®, Dexamethasone
      and Revlimid® that can be taken together, the research study will move on to its second
      portion, a Phase II clinical trial. The Phase II portion of the clinical trial will test the
      clinical effectiveness of the best dose combination of the four drugs.
    
  