
    
      Note this is an add-on study to NCT 01949129, THE ALL SCTped FORUM study. Please refer to the
      main study for further details.

      Busulfan (Bu) is a key compound in conditioning myeloablative regimens for patients
      undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). Bu has been long used for the
      treatment of patients with leukemia and some congenital disorders; advantages and
      disadvantages of such treatment are well described. However, although Bu treatment has been
      shown to be effective, its use may be limited by related adverse events such as
      veno-occlusive disease (VOD), interstitial pneumonitis, acute Graft vs Host Disease (GVHD),
      and seizures. Thus, novel therapies are being investigated as well as the pharmacogenetics of
      these drugs. One of alternative drugs that may replace Bu due to its lower toxicity profile
      is Treosulfan (Treo). Fludarabine (Flu) is usually used in combination with Bu or Treo as an
      alternative to cyclophosphamide (Cy) also due to its lower toxicity. Thus, the Bu/Flu regimen
      is now being used more often than the previously more common Bu/Cy regimen. However,
      improvement to the regimen is still needed for reducing adverse drug effects.
      Pharmacogenomics (PG) offers the opportunity to individualize treatment according to patient
      genetic variations which influence activity of enzyme metabolizing or acting in the pathway
      of prescribed chemotherapy drugs.

      This add-on research aims to prospectively investigate variations in several candidate genes
      (e.g GST, DCK and DNA repair pathway genes) related to all types of chemotherapeutic drugs
      (Bu/Flu/Thio; Treo/Flu/Thio and TBI/VP16) used in this protocol for their potential role as
      predictive biomarkers of pharmacokinetics (PK) variability and outcome of myeloablative
      therapy for pediatric patients receiving an allogeneic HSCT in acute lymphoblastic leukemia

      For the busulfan arm countries: a cross-validation of busulfan quantification is performed.
      All Bu Therapeutic Drug Monitoring participating at the main ALL SCTped FORUM study will be
      assessed for the accuracy (%) and trueness (%) of 8 blinded Bu Quality Control samples.
      Criteria of acceptance are set according to FDA and ICH guidelines.

      Blood samples will be collected prior to initiation of therapy for DNA banking and DNA
      analysis (for all patients), for DNA analysis (TBI/VP16, Bu/Flu/Thiotepa and
      Treo/Flu/Thiotepa groups) and PK analysis (only for the Bu group). PK and pharmacogenomic
      data will then be correlated with the studied outcomes (e.g.Veno-occlusive disease, Graft vs
      host disease, Treatment Related Mortality, Events Free Survival, Overall Survival).

      Recruitment:

      Patients (children) age 0-18 will be recruited in each arm. No oral Bu is allowed in this
      study.

      Shipment (when there is a minimum of 10 patients) Send all the materials listed to: Dr Marc
      Ansari, Plateforme d'Hématologie et Oncologie Pédiatrique (CANSEARCH research laboratory),
      Faculté de Médecine, Bâtiment Tulipe, 5th floor, Av De La Roseraie 64, GENEVE 1205
      Switzerland.

      Contact Dr. Ansari's laboratory prior to shipment: Phone (+41 79 55 36 100) and e-mail
      (research@cansearch.ch). All shipments must be sent frozen by a carrier guaranteeing
      overnight delivery with the indication "Pharmacogenomic study" on the face of the parcel.
    
  