
    
      Postoperative urinary retention (POUR) complicates up to 30% of general abdominal operations.
      It results in patient discomfort, embarrassment, interference with therapies, and significant
      nursing burden. More importantly, urinary retention necessitates use of intermittent
      catheterization or placement of an indwelling urinary catheter, which exposes the patient to
      an increased risk of urinary tract infection (UTI), urethral injury, and potentially
      increased hospital length of stay and cost. For these reasons, a safe and effective
      intervention for preventing POUR would be highly valuable. Despite such a need, no
      contemporary studies exist evaluating medications that can be used to prevent POUR in broad
      general surgery populations. To address this gap, the investigators have designed a
      prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to test the hypothesis that
      preoperative loading with tamsulosin will prevent POUR in patients undergoing elective,
      inpatient complex intra-abdominal surgery and thereby lead to improved short-term outcomes.

      Tamsulosin is a safe and widely-used selective alpha-1-A adrenergic blocker commonly used for
      the treatment of lower urinary tract symptoms in men with benign prostatic hypertrophy. It
      has also been shown to have some benefit in reducing POUR and need for catheterization in men
      undergoing inguinal hernia repair and other outpatient urologic procedures. This study is a
      randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in which patients scheduled for inpatient
      complex intra-abdominal surgery will be randomized to receive either tamsulosin or placebo
      for 7 days pre-operatively, and up to several days post-operatively, and then rates of POUR
      will be compared between the two groups (Aim 1). A retrospective analysis of the data will be
      used to identify risk factors for POUR and subgroups of patients that would derive the
      greatest benefit from preoperative tamsulosin (Aim 2). Furthermore, short-term outcomes,
      including rate of urinary tract infection (UTI) and hospital length of stay, will be compared
      between the tamsulosin and placebo groups (Aim 3).

      Enrolled subjects will be randomized using a blocked, stratified randomization process to
      either tamsulosin or placebo. Stratification variables include gender, pelvic vs non-pelvic
      surgery, and International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) survey results (which is a measure
      of baseline lower urinary tract symptoms). After a 7-day treatment period, subjects will
      undergo surgery as scheduled, and then the assigned treatment will be continued for up to a
      total of 14 days until the subject either has return of normal voiding function, has required
      replacement of an indwelling urinary catheter, or is discharged from the hospital.
    
  