
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the number one killer of American men and women, and its
      economic burden is substantial and on the rise. Adults with depression are at elevated risk
      of CVD events and poor CVD prognosis. Unfortunately, past trials of depression treatments
      have not observed the anticipated cardiovascular benefits. A novel explanation for these null
      results is that the interventions in these trials, which all involved patients with
      preexisting CVD, were delivered too late in the natural history of CVD. To begin to evaluate
      our hypothesis that treating depression before clinical CVD onset could reduce CVD risk, the
      investigators are conducting a phase II randomized controlled trial of 216 primary care
      patients aged ≥ 50 years with a depressive disorder and CVD risk factors but no clinical CVD.
      Patients will be randomized to one year of eIMPACT, our modernized IMPACT intervention, or
      usual primary care for depression. eIMPACT is a collaborative stepped care intervention
      involving a multidisciplinary team delivering evidenced-based depression treatments
      consistent with patient preference. The investigator shave modernized our intervention by
      incorporating computerized cognitive-behavioral therapy and delivering other treatment
      components via telephone. Our central hypothesis is that eIMPACT will improve endothelial
      dysfunction, which is considered a barometer of CVD risk, in depressed adults by decreasing
      depressive symptoms, autonomic dysfunction, systemic inflammation, and platelet activation.
      The investigators will test our central hypothesis by carrying out these specific aims: (1)
      to determine whether eIMPACT reduces the excess CVD risk of depressed patients (primary
      outcome: endothelial dysfunction; exploratory outcome: incident CVD events) and (2) to
      examine candidate mechanisms underlying the effect of eIMPACT on CVD risk (secondary
      outcomes: depressive symptoms, autonomic dysfunction, systemic inflammation, and platelet
      activation). A positive trial would generate the mechanistic rationale, efficacy evidence,
      and effect size estimates needed to justify and design a multisite, event-driven, phase III
      trial to confirm eIMPACT's efficacy in reducing CVD risk. Demonstrating that depression
      treatment reduces CVD risk, the primary expected outcome of this line of research, would have
      a substantial positive impact. It would identify a novel target (depression) for CVD
      prevention efforts, and it would equip providers with a new disseminable and scalable tool
      (eIMPACT) to simultaneously treat depression and manage the CVD risk of a large cohort of
      high-risk patients. Collectively, these changes to clinical practice should translate into
      reduced CVD morbidity, mortality, and costs.
    
  