
    
      Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic recurrent systemic inflammatory disease, mainly affecting
      the gastrointestinal tract, accompanied by extra-intestinal complications and immune
      dysfunction. The relationship between other dietary components and disease activity or
      recurrence has not been fully studied and there is still no recognized daily diet model for
      CD. At present, the change of intestinal microbiome is considered to be one of the causes of
      Irritable Bowel Disease (IBD), and this change provides a theoretical basis for diet to
      reduce the inflammatory response those with CD through the regulation of microbiome. In
      inflammatory diseases, the potential inflammation of food may affect the activity of the
      disease. Empirical Dietary Inflammatory Pattern (EDIP) is a dietary inflammation index based
      on food group. 18 food groups were selected to evaluate the levels of inflammatory factors in
      human body which have already been verified by two independent female and male cohorts. The
      construction and validation of the scoring model revealed a strong correlation between EDIP
      and three plasma inflammatory markers: IL-6, CRP and TNFaR2, as well as other markers, such
      as adiponectin and the overall inflammatory marker score. Therefore, EDIP can be derived in a
      standardized way in different populations and be used to examine association with diseases
      whose pathogenesis is mainly attributed to chronic inflammation. Dietary inflammation index
      (DII) is a previously developed inflammation index based on nutrients. Compared to DII,
      dietary patterns based on food groups, such as EDIP, are more valuable for the establishment
      of dietary guidelines for health promotion and disease prevention. In addition, the brain-gut
      axis is the kink between the central nervous system and intestinal function but has not been
      extensively studied. In view of the fact that autoimmune diseases, and brain-gut axis
      interaction may play an important role in CD, we speculate that cerebrovascular function may
      also change during the occurrence and development of CD, especially during the EDIP
      score-based diet. The investigators plan to carry out a randomized controlled trial to
      systematically study the effects of EDIP score-based dietary suggestions on disease activity
      and cerebrovascular function of CD patients, as well as the changes of intestinal flora and
      its metabolites. The primary aim of this study is to systematically study the effects of EDIP
      based dietary recommendations on disease activity and cerebrovascular function of CD patients
      and establish a diet model suitable for CD patients. The secondary aims are to explore the
      possible changes of intestinal flora and its metabolites, and evaluate the changes of
      cerebrovascular function and the possible mechanism of their actions on CD.
    
  