
    
      Background: A negative body image negatively affects the total health of students and the
      quality of life in University students. Body image and the experience of body appearance
      pressure have not been investigated previously among the Norwegian student population. It is
      well known that students studying sport science are exposed to an enhanced focus on lifestyle
      and the body beyond what focus that already exist in the society. It is reasonable to suggest
      that sport science students experience an increased pressure to have an athletic body to be
      able to identify as a sport science student and for future job opportunities. Such pressure
      would negatively influence students' attitudes and practice as future communicators of
      lifestyle knowledge after completing their studies. Objective: The study objective is to
      assess body image and body appearance pressure among Norwegian University students, and to
      investigate differences between different academic disciplines and gender. Methods:

      The study uses a cross-sectional design with a web-based questionnaire to measure outcomes in
      1764 male and female students in Norway. In addition to descriptive data on the sample, a
      Pearson's correlation, independent t-test og chi-square will be used to investigate
      associations and differences between groups. Statistical significance is defined at a p-value
      of <.05. Implications: Results from the study provides a description of the sample and will
      provide a foundation for targeted actions, interventions for optimization in terms of study
      environment to reduce negative body image and potential reported pressure to have a specific
      body, and promotion of positive body image and prevention of negative body experiences. This
      could contribute to a healthier student environment and enhances the chance to develop
      students who adapts and take knowledge with them into their future work life, and apply this
      knowledge in a safe and health promotive way.
    
  