
    
      Primary liver cancer (hereinafter abbreviated as PLC) is one of the most common types of
      malignant tumors in clinical practices. Its global prevalence is rising year-on-year and
      surpasses 626,000 per year. Ranking at No. 5 among all malignant tumors, its mortality rate
      approaches 600,000 per year and becomes No.3 of tumor-related death. As one of the prevalent
      regions of PLC in the world, China has a morbidity population of around 55%. Among the
      tumor-related death, it stands at No. 2 second only to lung cancer. So PLC has been a major
      hazard to health and life for Chinese citizens. Surgical resection has remained the first
      therapeutic choice of PLC. However, the disease course of PLC is insidious. In clinical
      practices, less than 30% of PLC patients may be treated surgically by hepatectomy. And their
      postoperative occurrences of recurrence and metastasis stay at a high level. As demonstrated
      by large-sample clinical trials in China, the 5-year postoperative recurrent rate of PLC was
      as high as 61.5%. The relevant studies have indicated that the surgical therapy of PLC has
      encountered a bottle-neck over the last decade and the control rates of postoperative
      recurrence or metastasis remain basically the same. Therefore the recurrence and metastasis
      of PLC are important limiting factors for its clinical therapeutic gains. Effectively
      lowering the post-therapeutic recurrence and metastasis of PLC has become a breakthrough
      point for improved clinical efficacies. At present, there is still no standard therapeutic
      protocol for the prevention of recurrence and metastasis of PLC.

      Independently developed recently by China, licartin has been the first radioimmunological
      targeted therapeutic agent approved for PLC in the world. Since its marketing in 2007, it has
      achieved excellent clinical efficacies and social recognition. As demonstrated by the results
      of relevant basic and clinical researches, licartin had definite efficacies for primary
      hepatocellular carcinoma and it could boost the efficacies of integrated PLC therapy, prolong
      the patient survivals and enhance the benefits of clinical therapeutics. Early studies have
      also proved that it could prolong the survivals of PLC, improve the quality of life and
      prevent the postoperative recurrence and metastasis. The present clinical trial is intended
      to examine the efficacy and safety of radioimmunotherapy via intravenous infusion of licartin
      plus sequential immunotherapy of CIK cell in the controls of disease progression, effective
      prolonging of recurrent time and prevention of recurrence or metastasis of primary
      hepatocellular carcinoma.

      This clinical trial is designed to provide one kind of modalities for preventing the
      recurrence and metastasis of PLC. If the expected therapeutic efficacy is achieved, it shall
      contribute actively to boosting the therapeutic level of PLC, prolonging its recurrent time
      and enhancing its overall survival. And it may also raise the clinical recognition of this
      technology, promote its clinical applications and generate excellent social reputations and
      economic returns.
    
  