
    
      Convalescent plasma is an antibody-rich product made from blood donated by people who have
      recovered from the disease caused by the virus. Prior experience with respiratory viruses and
      limited data that have emerged from China suggest that convalescent plasma has the potential
      to lessen the severity or shorten the length of illness caused by COVID-19. It is important
      that we evaluate this potential therapy in the context of clinical trials.

      As such, this study will assess the feasibility of administering multiple doses of
      convalescent plasma (from people who have recovered form SARS-CoV-2) to Covid-19 positive
      patients in the Intensive Care Unit receiving mechanical ventilation. Donor plasma will not
      be obtained under this protocol, but all plasma used will follow FDA guidelines for
      Investigational COVID-19 Convalescent Plasma use.

      This study will be opened across three separate site: Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Johns
      Hopkins University, and University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. 30 patients will be
      recruited at each site. Each site has received its own FDA IND and IRB approval. As such, the
      following people are serving as sponsor-investigators at their respective institutions.

      David Hager, MD PhD, Johns Hopkins University

      Noah Merin, MD PhD, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center

      Patients may receive single or double plasma units infused on days 0, 3, and 6. This decision
      may be based on availability of blood plasma. The primary objective of this study is
      feasibility. Feasibility will be assessed based on the proportion of subjects who consent and
      receive at least one dose of convalescent plasma. The study will be declared 'feasible' if at
      least 80% of subjects who consent receive at least one dose.

      The secondary study endpoint is overall survival at day 60 after first dose of convalescent
      plasma. Respiratory status and overall clinical status will be reviewed during follow up on
      days 14, 28, and 60.
    
  