
    
      Vestibular neuronitis is the second most common cause of peripheral vestibulopathy (the first
      being benign paroxysmal positional vertigo) with incidence of about 3.5/100000. Currently
      vestibular neuronitis is explained by a viral pathogenesis.

      Vestibular neuronitis is considered to have a benign course. The static rotatory vertigo and
      disequilibrium, present even when the patient is completely at rest, subside in most cases
      within a few days, and a gradual return to daily activities is the rule. However, it has been
      shown that there is generally incomplete restoration of peripheral function, and clinical
      recovery is achieved by proprioceptive and visual substitution for the unilateral vestibular
      deficit, combined with central vestibular compensation of the imbalance in vestibular tone.
      Although vestibular neuronitis is usually restricted to one attack, several studies have
      reported continuous or episodic vertigo or unsteadiness in 43% -53% of patients. The main
      residua include impaired vision and disequilibrium during walking and especially during head
      movement toward the affected ear. The rate of positive finding on vestibular evaluation may
      reach 60%. However, vestibular impairment as reflected by positive bedside testing and
      vestibular laboratory evaluation is not necessarily accompanied by subjective complaints and
      does not always reflect the level of incapacity.

      The assumed HSV-1 etiology of vestibular neuronitis and the reported benefit of the
      combination of steroids and acyclovir in Bell's palsy suggest similar advantage in the
      treatment of vestibular neuronitis. Also, glucocorticoid receptors activation was reported to
      enhance vestibular compensation after acute peripheral vestibular insults in various animal
      models. A recent study investigated the effect of prednisolone versus valacyclovir and
      placebo on canal paresis in vestibular neuronitis patients. It was found that steroid
      treatment significantly improved peripheral vestibular function to the extent reflected by
      the caloric testing. However, bedside findings, patients' complaints and daily handicap were
      not evaluated. The relevance of the EOG caloric test results to clinical improvement could be
      argued in light of a previous report showing no correlation between EOG findings and residual
      symptoms in a long-term follow-up of vestibular neuronitis patients, and the finding that
      corticosteroid therapy had no effect on symptoms despite significant recovery of the
      caloric-test results.

      The purpose of the study:

      Prospective controlled longitudinal 12-month evaluation of the value of steroids in the
      treatment of vestibular neuronitis. The potential benefits of steroid therapy would be
      analyzed by the clinical response, self-perceived handicap and EOG laboratory parameters.
    
  