
    
      Microbial keratitis (MK) is an ophthalmological emergency that can lead to sight threatening
      complications such as corneal scarring, perforation, endophthalmitis and ultimately
      blindness. The patient requires aggressive topical antimicrobial therapy and close treatment
      response monitoring, often including hospitalisation followed by frequent outpatient visits.

      Improving outcomes depends on rapidly identifying the causative microorganism. Currently the
      likely causative microorganism is only isolated in around 30 to 40% of cases using
      traditional scraping methods and standard conventional diagnostic culture (CDC), with results
      typically taking up to 4 days to become available to the clinician [1]. More sensitive
      methods such as microorganism targeted polymerase chain reaction (MTPCR) and metagenomic
      analysis increase the potential to detect microorganisms but may increase the likelihood of
      picking up commensal microorganisms, making it difficult for the treating clinician to
      interpret which of the isolated organisms is likely to be causative in MK.

      One of the barriers to identifying the organisms has been the difficulty in collecting
      samples from the cornea. In 2015, a group led by Professor Kaye at the University of
      Liverpool developed a non- invasive corneal sampling methodology using a corneal impression
      membrane (CIM) made from polytetrafluoroethylene [2]. This was shown to have a significantly
      higher overall isolation rate compared to conventional scraping methods. As it is minimally
      invasive, the CIM sampling method offers a unique opportunity to sample both the affected
      cornea and unaffected cornea of patients presenting with MK as well as the eyes of patients
      unaffected by MK. This will enable us to obtain a much better understanding of the clinical
      significance of isolated organisms in MK.

      Metagenomic next-generation sequencing (NGS) techniques enable the genomic analysis of all
      the microbes in a sample, giving a wealth of information regarding the presence and
      interaction of microorganisms as well as the presence or absence of antimicrobial resistance
      (AMR) genes. Previous studies attempting to characterise the ocular surface microbiome in
      health using metagenomics have demonstrated a diverse resident homeostatic microbiome,
      however, have been limited to swabs taken from the lid, conjunctiva and tears rather than the
      cornea [3-5]. Variations in the microbiome have been associated with conditions such as dry
      eye syndrome, contact lens wear and infectious pathologies, including a pathological
      microbiome dominated by pseudomonas spp. in a small number of patients with bacterial
      keratitis [4-6]. Despite the cornea being the surface affected by MK, there is no data
      regarding the healthy corneal microbiome because traditional sampling methods have been
      invasive.

      Despite NGS generating personalised results in a matter of hours, its sensitivity to detect
      all organisms present without an understanding of their clinical significance is a barrier to
      its introduction into clinical practice. In this project, we aim to use the CIM sampling
      method and NGS processing to improve understanding of the causative organisms in MK.
      Furthermore, through sampling both the affected and unaffected eyes of MK patients and from
      those without MK, we will be able to develop a diagnostic rule in order to identify and
      discount commensal organisms. The inclusion of different control groups will also provide
      information on the influence of contact lenses and eye drops on the microbiome, which have a
      role both on the development and treatment of MK. This will greatly facilitate current
      interpretation of corneal sample results and facilitate potential future use of NGS in
      routine ophthalmic clinical practice.

      Aims and objectives

      The overall aim of the project is to better define the pathogenic microorganisms in patients
      with MK through a better understanding of the corneal microbiome in health and disease.

      This will be achieved through the following objectives.

        1. Using NGS, analyse the corneal microbiome of the affected and unaffected eye of patients
           with and without MK and compare with simultaneous results from CDC and MTPCR.

        2. Determine the microbiological spectrum of the cornea, ocular surface and contiguous
           structures, in patients with MK, healthy controls, contact lens wearers and eye drop
           users.

      Study Design:

      Design: Prospective observational diagnostic study and methods-comparison.

      Study Duration: Three years.

      Number and type of subjects:

      We will recruit 151 patients with MK for derivation of the diagnostic NGS strategy with ulcer
      characteristics. This is based on the sample size calculation below.

      Sample size calculations: Current standard diagnostic reference method (CDM) has a diagnostic
      accuracy of 40%. For clinical implementation of NGS, diagnostic accuracy will be required to
      increase to at least 80%. NGS can only increase the proportion of detected micro-organisms.
      To estimate a diagnostic rate of 80% with a 95% confidence interval (of width 15%) 137
      participants are required. This calculation assumes that the smallest diagnostic group has a
      prevalence of 20%. To adjust for a 10% rate of possible loss of follow-up, we will recruit
      151 patients.

      We will also recruit 90 participants to four control groups:

        1. 20 patients with no history of MK who use no eye drop medication

        2. 20 patients with no history of MK who are contact-lens wearers

        3. 20 patients who have no history of MK but are on eye drop treatment for glaucoma. This
           group has been included to assess for changes in the corneal microbiome that could be
           secondary to drop treatment.

        4. 30 patients with keratoconus who are undergoing cross-linking will be recruited. These
           participants as part of the routine cross-linking procedure will have their corneal
           epithelium removed. This removed epithelium from an otherwise healthy corneal surface
           will allow for a direct comparison between the corneal microbiome characterised from the
           CIM and that characterised directly from the epithelium.

      Clinical data collection

      At presentation, patient demographics, risk factors (ocular surface disease, contact lens
      wear, previous MK), and treatment received in the past or using at presentation will be
      obtained from interview, together with ulcer characteristics (major and minor axes of the
      corneal ulcer measured using a continuous scale). A standardised data collection form will be
      utilised.

      Best corrected visual acuity (BCVA), size, location and depth of the ulcer will be recorded
      using a slit lamp biomicroscope. Ulcer size (minor and major axes) and location (minimum
      distance from the limbus) will be measured. Ulcer depth will be measured on a nominal scale
      of 1-4 based on percentage of remaining corneal thickness underneath the ulcer.

      Specimen Collection

      For each participant, the following samples will be collected:

        -  Three CIMs from the affected and unaffected eyes of participants with MK, or from one
           eye of control participants.

        -  Swabs from conjunctiva of the participant's affected and unaffected eyes, upper eyelids
           and nose.

      Three CIMs will be applied (PTFE Millipore culture insert, pore size 0.40micrometres) to the
      surface of the cornea for 5 seconds and one CIM to the participants inferior fornix
      conjunctiva for 5 seconds using sterile gloves. A topical anaesthetic (one drop of 0.5%
      proxymethacaine) will be instilled into the lower conjunctival fornix prior to application of
      the CIMs. The first CIM sample obtained from the participants cornea will be placed and
      transported in a bottle containing 0.5mL of BHI broth for culture. The CIMs obtained from the
      participants cornea and the inferior conjunctiva will be kept dry in a sterile tube. In
      addition to the collection of samples described, the corneal epithelium removed from patients
      undergoing corneal cross-linking will be placed in a sterile eppendorf and stored at -80 C.
      Swabs will be taken from the participant's conjunctiva, upper eyelids and anterior nares in
      order to characterize the surrounding microbiome and endogenous sources.

      MK participant follow up

      Participants presenting with clinically suspected MK will be followed up at 3 days, 7 days
      and 1 month following presentation, as per normal procedure for follow-up of MK. At each
      follow up appointment BCVA, size and depth of the ulcer will be recorded. All samples will be
      repeated at each follow up appointment from the participants affected eye only. These will
      include three corneal CIMS, conjunctival, upper eyelid and nasal swabs.

      Processing of samples and identification of microorganisms:

        1. CDC (established diagnostic standard): Blood, chocolate, and Sabouraud's dextrose agar
           plates and a 24-hour subculture of the BHI broth inoculated with the bacterial swabs and
           membranes will be examined for evidence of bacterial growth after 24 and 48 h
           incubation.

        2. MTPCR:DNA will be extracted and quantified from the CIM and virology conjunctival swab.
           A multiplex microorganism targeted PCR (MTPCR) master mix, including primers for HSV-1,
           HSV2, acanthamoeba, 16S and 18S ribosomal DNA will be prepared and PCR performed using a
           real-time PCR instrument

        3. NGS: Metagenomic testing will be performed using high-throughput platforms, such as the
           Illumina HiSeq 4000. Sequencing depth will be determined empirically. Genome alignments,
           filtering and pathogen calling will be performed using established pipelines. An
           analysis approach based on read classification will be applied for taxonomic
           classification. A subtractive analysis method based on removal of host DNA and healthy
           control eye metagenome will be applied.

      Statistical analysis:

      A comparison of isolation rates and identified bacteria obtained from CDC, MTPCR and NGS
      processing of MK corneal samples will be made. This will be visualised using a Venn Diagram.

      For NGS data, we will work with the Centre of Genomic Research (CGR) to assign taxonomy
      labels and calculate relative abundances in each sample. For detection of AMR, software will
      be used to directly map reads to those in a comprehensive AMR database and report the AMR
      genes present.

      Microorganisms identified in the eyes with MK will then be compared to the control fellow eye
      and other control groups and subtractive bioinformatics methodology applied to identify the
      most likely pathogenic organisms compared to those seen in the healthy corneal microbiome.

      Comparisons of the relative abundance of microorganisms obtained from MK corneal samples over
      the participant follow up visits will be used to evaluate longitudinal changes in the corneal
      microbiome during treatment and resolution of MK.

      A direct comparison between the relative abundance of microorganisms isolated from
      participants cornea, conjunctiva, eyelids and nose will be made to identify any possible
      endogenous sources of infection for MK. Overlaps of microorganisms between the sample sites
      will be visualised using a Venn diagram and non-parametric tests used to assess for
      differences between the sample sites.

      References:

        1. Tan SZ et al. Twelve-year analysis of microbial keratitis trends at a UK tertiary
           hospital. 2017. Eye 31, 1229-1236

        2. Kaye S et al. Impression Membrane for the diagnosis of microbial keratitis. Br J
           Ophthalmol 2016;;100:5 607-610

        3. Ozkan J et al. Temporal Stability and Composition of the Ocular Surface Microbiome.
           Nature Scientific Reports. Article number: 9880 (2017)

        4. Shin H et al. Changes in the Eye Microbiota Associated with Contact Lens Wearing. mBio.
           American Society for Microbiology. 7(2). 2016

        5. Graham JE et al. Ocular Pathogen or Commensal: A PCR-Based Study of Surface Bacterial
           Flora in Normal and Dry Eyes. Immunology and Microbiology. 2007, Vol 48, 516-5623.

        6. Tuzhikov A et al. Keratitis-induced changes to the homeostatic microbiome at the human
           cornea. IOVS. ARVO Annual Meeting Abstract. June 2013
    
  