
    
      Integrin αvβ3 is an important member of integrin receptor family and expressed preferentially
      on regenerative vascular endothelial cells and some tumor cells, but not or very low
      expressed on the quiescent vessel cells and other normal cells. The αvβ3 integrin is a key
      mediator of angiogenesis and thus may be an important diagnostic and therapeutic target
      associated with myocardial repair processes after ischaemic injury.

      The tri-peptide sequence of arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (RGD) can specifically bind to the
      integrin αvβ3 receptor. Accordingly, a variety of radiolabeled RGD-based peptides have been
      developed for non-invasive imaging of integrin αvβ3 expression via positron emission
      tomography (PET) or single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Among all the RGD
      radiotracers studied in Myocardial Infarction (MI), 18F-Galacto-RGD and 99mTc-RGD has been
      investigated clinically in acute MI patients, showing focal tracer retention localized in the
      infarcted area. Recently, series of RGD dimeric peptides with PEG linkers have been
      developed. The new types of RGD peptides showed much higher in vitro integrin αvβ3-binding
      affinity than the single RGD tri-peptide sequence. As a representative, 68Ga-BNOTA-PRGD2
      could be easily prepared and exhibited excellent in vivo behaviors in animal models. No
      adverse reactions are observed in both animal and human studies to date.

      For the further interests in clinical translation of 68Ga-BNOTA-PRGD2, a open-label PET/CT
      study was designed to investigate the diagnostic performance of 68Ga-BNOTA-PRGD2 in
      myocardial infarction patients. A single dose of nearly 111 MBq 68Ga-BNOTA-PRGD2 ( ≤ 40 µg
      BNOTA-PRGD2) will be intravenously injected into the myocardial infarction patients. Visual
      and semiquantitative method will be used to assess the PET/CT images. 99mTc-MIBI myocardial
      perfusion SPECT images and 18F-FDG metabolism images will be used for co-registrated
      comparison.
    
  