
    
      INTERVENTION DESCRIPTION:

      Project STAMINA utilizes two study arms: (1) a treatment arm consisting of immediate
      telemedicine linkage (2) a control arm consisting of standard referral to treatment. Half of
      the study participants will be randomly enrolled in each arm. All enrollment and telemedicine
      care will occur at one of three Chicago-based and university-affiliated syringe service
      program (SSP) sites, where the primary purpose is providing free access to syringes for
      people who inject drugs.

      Intervention Arm (1): Participants enrolled into the telemedicine linkage intervention will
      be immediately linked to telemedicine care provided by a university-affiliated federally
      qualified health center (FQHC) that can prescribe buprenorphine and naltrexone and has a
      relationship with a methadone treatment provider they can refer patients to as appropriate.
      Study participants prescribed buprenorphine or naltrexone will be able to receive MOUD
      treatment at any of the 6 FQHC locations across the city, three of which are in relatively
      close proximity to the SSP sites, and a no-cost induction buprenorphine prescription can be
      dispensed from their main office. The FQHC can also refer to a methadone provider with
      various locations throughout the city. At the SSP, the participant will have their vitals
      checked by a research team member and be connected with the FQHC provider via an iPad. The
      research assistant will share the participant's vitals with the provider, and the provider
      will complete a virtual treatment appointment. The research assistant will offer the
      participant transportation assistance to pick up the first buprenorphine or naltrexone
      prescriptions or to attend the first methadone referral appointment. Transportation to pick
      up the prescription will be provided via a HIPAA compliant ride-share company, and a bus pass
      will be provided to the participant for the return trip. Further, to support the
      intervention, the research assistant will also provide a visual guide at enrollment (i.e.
      picture directions) that describes how to navigate the FQHC pharmacy, as well as a scheduling
      card that allows them to record any MOUD appointment dates. All follow-up OUD care and
      prescribing will be conducted based on the provider's standards and may include in-person or
      telemedicine appointments. Should the provider deem an in-person intake appointment
      clinically necessary for any participant assigned to the treatment arm, the research
      assistant will provide a full-day bus pass to assist with transportation.

      Standard Care Arm (2): Participants enrolled in the control arm will receive a standard
      referral to an in-person appointment, also with a provider from the same FQHC sites. This
      appointment will involve an in-person meeting with the provider, which will occur within
      24-72 hours of the enrollment time. After study enrollment, the research assistant will
      utilize the FQHC electronic scheduling system to schedule this in-person appointment. The
      research assistant will also provide the participant with an appointment reminder card for
      this appointment and a full-day bus pass to cover the transportation to and from the
      appointment, which aligns with standard care at the SSP. All follow-up OUD care and
      prescribing will be conducted based on the provider's standards and may include in-person or
      telemedicine appointments.

      RESEARCH DESIGN:

      STAMINA recruitment will occur only at a SSP service site. Participants will be identified
      one of two ways (1) individuals will see the STAMINA poster within the SSP sites and be able
      to ask SSP staff where to get more information, or (2) individuals will inform SSP staff that
      they are interested in treatment for an opioid use disorder, and SSP staff will inform them
      of the study opportunity. Any interested SSP client will be informed by SSP staff that a
      study possibility exists for individuals interested in medication for opioid use disorder and
      if they would like to learn more information about the study, the staff can introduce the
      client to the research personnel. They will utilize the SSP recruitment script to explain the
      study. With their permission, they will be introduced.

      Research personnel will be responsible for assessing SSP clients for eligibility. Using the
      recruitment script, after providing an introduction to STAMINA and a reason for the
      eligibility questions, the research assistant will begin to read the full script, which
      includes an assessment of eligibility criteria. Any client who is eligible and interested in
      participating will move forward with the statement of informed consent. Willing participants
      will be asked to sign the consent form.

      Once the participant has been officially enrolled, the research assistant will privately open
      the arm assignment card, which will contain the pre-established random arm assignment and be
      stored in closed envelope within the enrollment packet. Each arm assignment card will include
      two stratified randomization blocks: (1) one arm assignment will be for participants who are
      interested in receiving buprenorphine or naltrexone, or open to considering these types,
      [Open MOUD Stratified Arm Assignment] (2) one arm assignment will be for participants who are
      only interested in receiving methadone [Methadone Only Stratified Arm Assignment]. Based on
      the participant's interest in MOUD, which will have been clarified during the eligibility
      assessment, the research assistant will read the appropriate random arm assignment. If the
      participant is assigned to the telemedicine intervention arm, the research assistant will
      need to notify the FQHC of an upcoming virtual appointment [the FQHC needs a one-hour notice
      of appointment]. At this time, they will not yet inform the participant of their arm
      assignment so that baseline data collection can be completed prior to notification.

      The first step in data collection will be to complete a questionnaire. The research assistant
      will first notify another off-site research assistant that the participant is ready to
      complete data collection. The off-site research assistant will connect with the participant
      via video to collect the questionnaire data; this allows for blinded data collection, as the
      off-site research assistant will not know the arm assignment. The questionnaire will take
      approximately 45-60 minutes and be administered by research staff using the Research
      Electronic Data Capture (REDCap) data collection system, which is a secure, HIPAA-compliant,
      web-based survey instrument. The questionnaire will be administered in a standard manner,
      meaning: (1) all questions will be asked, (2) all questions will be read as written, (3)
      research assistants will not reword questions in any way, and (4) participants have the right
      to refuse to answer any question.

      This questionnaire will cover the following topics:

        -  Full name, Date of Birth, SSN, and UI Health Medical Record Number (MRN)

        -  Demographic information

        -  Social support

        -  Child welfare involvement

        -  Housing and homelessness

        -  Alcohol use

        -  Drug use

        -  Heroin cravings

        -  Opioid withdrawal symptoms

        -  Overdose experiences

        -  Physical and mental health

        -  Trauma exposure

        -  Criminal justice involvement

        -  Treatment motivation

        -  Quality of life

      The questionnaire will also request participant contact information. This information will
      not be used as research data, but rather, will aid the scheduling of research follow-up
      visits. The form will ask participants for (1) their contact information, (2) the contact
      information for others who might be able to help in reaching the participant, (3) the contact
      information for providers whose services they utilize and might be able to help reach the
      participant. The participants are reminded at the beginning of the form that they have the
      right to refuse any question and only share what they want to share. Because of the transient
      nature of the participant population, additional contacts are helpful in reaching the
      participant should personal contact information change.

      Participants will be asked to complete the REDCap questionnaire at baseline, 3 months after
      baseline, and 6 months after baseline. Each questionnaire will take 45-60 minutes to
      complete. All three questionnaires (baseline, 3-months, and 6-months) will be completed at
      the SSP by a research team member off site. Though the first questionnaire will be completed
      over video, the follow-up questionnaire will be completed over telephone. Participants will
      be asked to return to the SSP, despite doing the interview with via telephone because they
      will be asked to also complete a drug screen at follow-up (described below).

      Immediately following the questionnaire, all participants will be asked to complete a
      14-panel saliva drug screen. At baseline, drug screens will be completed on-site, immediately
      following the REDCap questionnaire. The process can take up to 10 minutes. Participants will
      be asked to complete the saliva drug screen at the 3- and 6- month data collection time
      points, as well, which will occur prior to completing the questionnaire via telephone.

      Once participants have completed all baseline data collection, they will be notified of their
      random study arm assignment. At this time, participants randomized to the telemedicine
      intervention arm would be connected via telemedicine to the FQHC provider and take part in
      the intervention described above. Participants randomized to the control arm would receive a
      scheduled in-person appointment at a FQHC location.

      At the end of the visit with the research staff, all participants will receive materials that
      aid follow-up data collection and prepare them for the data collection timeline. All
      participants will be given a scheduling form that visually displays the data collection items
      in the order of their occurrence. Participants will be offered a paper copy or invited to
      take a picture of the schedule to store on their phone, if applicable. Participants will also
      be provided with the STAMINA contact telephone number and asked to store it in their phone,
      if applicable. They will be shown the STAMINA website and QR code.

      SECONDARY DATA COLLECTION:

      As a part of the consent and health information release process, we request to access
      participant protected health information (PHI) from the four sources listed below.

      (1) FQHC and (2) methadone provider We will request that the FQHC and methadone provider pull
      treatment data, including dates of service, medications prescribed, and treatment details to
      understand compliance.

      (3) State Prescription Monitoring Program (PMP) records We will request the state
      prescription monitoring program (PMP) data for the purpose of verifying the information
      provided by the participant during the REDCap questionnaire. While we ask the participant to
      self-report whether they have engaged in medication for opioid use disorder treatment, the
      PMP data will allow us to verify whether they have been prescribed/dispensed any of the
      prescriptions or prescriptions not mentioned during the interview.

      (4) State Vital Records Similarly, we request state vital records data for the purpose of
      verifying whether a participant passed away. We are obtaining this data to verify if a
      participant disengaged from the study because of death and to understand whether that death
      was caused by drug use.
    
  