
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Compare clinical efficacy of Arm A (MV-NIS therapy) and Arm B (standard cytotoxic
      chemotherapy), as measured by overall survival (OS).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival at 12 months (OS12),
      progression-free survival at six months (PFS6), and objective response rate (ORR) between
      MV-NIS therapy and standard chemotherapy.

      II. Assess safety and tolerability of MV-NIS, and compare with standard chemotherapy.

      III. Compare quality of life as assessed by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Ovarian
      (FACT-O) between MV-NIS and standard chemotherapy.

      TRANSLATIONAL OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the time course of viral gene expression and virus elimination and biodistribution
      of virally infected cells at various time points after infection with MV-NIS using
      single-photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT)/computed tomography (CT) imaging
      within the MV-NIS treatment arm.

      II. Assess viremia, viral replication, and viral shedding/persistence following
      intraperitoneal administration within the NV-NIS treatment arm.

      III. Measure humoral and cellular immune responses to MV-NIS within the NV-NIS treatment arm.

      IV. Measure changes in anti-ovarian cancer (OC) immune responses in both treatment arms.

      V. Perform transcriptomic analysis on tumor biopsy specimens to determine a gene expression
      profile predictive of therapeutic response to MV-NIS.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive oncolytic measles virus encoding thyroidal sodium iodide symporter
      intraperitoneally (IP) over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over
      1 hour on day 1, or gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15, or
      topotecan hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15, or paclitaxel IV over 1 hour
      on days 1, 8, and 15. Patients may also receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1
      and 15 with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride, topotecan hydrochloride, or
      paclitaxel. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months until disease
      progression and then every 6 months for 5 years.
    
  