
    
      Most children with Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC) suffer from neurodevelopmental
      disabilities, including intellectual disability (ID) and autism spectrum disorder (ASD).
      There is a tremendous need for early intervention for all infants with TSC, with a focus on
      improving non-verbal cognition and social communication skills. However, no studies have
      investigated whether early intervention can improve social communication skills in infants
      with TSC. As a result, families of infants with TSC struggle to receive adequate
      interventions targeting these areas of development.

      The investigators propose to enroll 32 infants and toddlers with TSC to study an
      evidence-based behavioral intervention in infants with TSC, combining the efforts of
      investigators with expertise in autism intervention, infant development, and TSC. The
      proposed intervention study adapts a parent-mediated treatment called JASPER (Joint
      attention, symbolic play, engagement, regulation) that has successfully improved social
      communication outcomes in toddlers and young children with ASD.

      JASPER intervention will last 3 months, and is split into two phases. Phase 1 occurs for the
      first 2 weeks of intervention, and consists of daily 1 hour intervention sessions (Monday
      through Friday) for 2 weeks. After Phase 1, Phase two begins, and consists of 60 minute
      sessions once a week for 10 weeks. Participants will receive behavioral assessments and EEG
      across 4 assessment time points during this study: At the start of participation in the
      study, two weeks into participation of the study, 3 months into participation of the study,
      and 6 months into participation in the study. The behavioral assessments administered
      throughout these time points will measure social communication skills, overall cognitive
      functioning, and non-verbal communication. EEG is sensitive to subtle changes in the brain
      and may be able to capture responses to treatment prior to clinical or behavioral change, and
      can inform researchers of the brain basis for the behavioral changes found with intervention.
      The EEG at each time point will be 30-45 minutes in length, and will require the participant
      to be awake, as they will watch several short videos on a tv screen while recording EEG data.

      There are 2 randomized participation groups in this study, Treatment Group 1, and Treatment
      Group 2. Treatment group 1 will begin JASPER intervention immediately, and thus will complete
      the first 3 assessment time points while in intervention, and the 4th assessment time point 3
      months after intervention ends. Treatment Group 2 will complete the 4 assessment time points
      while receiving services as usual in the community, and will begin intervention after the 4th
      assessment time point. Treatment group 1 will participate in this study for a total of 6
      months, and treatment group 2 will participate in the study for a total of 9 months, since
      they will receive services in the community as usual for 6 months before beginning the 3
      month intervention. Group assignment is randomized, and each participant has an equal chance
      of being assigned to either treatment group.
    
  