
    
      Laparoscopic approach is largely used for cholecystectomy surgery. Here, at UIC, however the
      investigators perform many surgeries of the gallbladder through robotic approach.

      However, the investigators do also perform this surgery using the laparoscopic approach at
      UIC. Laparoscopic and robotic surgery represent both minimally invasive approach and are
      associated with less pain, faster recovery and better cosmetic outcomes when compared to
      traditional open surgery. The majority of cholecystectomies in USA are still being done with
      laparoscopic approach though. However, the number of centers switching to the more
      technologically advanced robotic approach is growing exponentially.

      A recent paper has been published indicating that the robotic approach may decrease the rate
      of open conversion (traditional, open abdomen surgery) in cholecystectomy operations in
      comparison to laparoscopic approach1. Open conversion implies removal of the minimally
      invasive instruments (straight for laparoscopy and robotic with Endowrist® feature) from the
      patient's abdominal cavity and the creation of a large incision that starts in the midline,
      2-5 cm below the xiphoid bone, extending in parallel with the costal margin for about 20 cm
      and going toward the right flank.

      There is sparse literature comparing outcomes of cholecystectomy between the laparoscopic and
      robotic approaches and no other major studies that focus on just this procedure.

      The investigators have already investigated the outcomes of robotic gallbladder surgery vs.
      laparoscopic surgery and published these data in a retrospective study, however the
      investigators are unsure if a prospective study would yield similar results.

      Specific Aim:

      The investigators would like to start a prospective randomized study to achieve definitive
      scientific evidence that will help determine which minimally invasive surgical approach is
      associated with the best outcomes when performing the removal of the gallbladder
      (cholecystectomy): laparoscopic or robotic?
    
  