
    
      STUDY RATIONALE: The demonstrated ability of MCT to accurately assess tumor xenografts may
      establish it as a reliable technique for patient tumor stratification based on predicted
      response to therapy, which could enable a treatment selection based on the personal needs of
      an individual patient. This study is designed to assess MCT as an assay for predicting
      chemosensitivity to treatment with chemotherapy agents routinely used in the neoadjuvant and
      adjuvant treatment of bladder cancer. If positive, the results of this study will provide the
      basis for expanded clinical trials and use of MCT in therapy selection.

      BACKGROUND: Live cell imaging has become the standard for high-content analysis and drug
      discovery applications. The most common assays on live cells include viability, proliferation
      and cytotoxicity assays as cellular physiology and function are measured responding to
      applied perturbations of xenobiotics. Cellular and tissue viability assays are typically
      measured using exogenous vital dyes as biomarkers of membrane integrity or cellular metabolic
      activity. However, dyes are invasive, potentially toxic, and often require fixing of the
      tissue or permeabilization of the membranes. Furthermore, the common format of high content
      analysis and flow cytometry requires isolated cells, or cells distributed on flat hard
      surfaces. Isolated cells lack many of the biologically-relevant intercellular connections and
      communications that are hallmarks of healthy tissue, and flattened cells on plates have
      pathological shapes and anisotropic cellular adhesions.

      Discovery of technology that can predict response to cancer therapy is an urgent priority.
      While many technologies exist to evaluate early response to drugs ex vivo, the need to
      perform viability, cytotoxicity and proliferation assays in three-dimensional tissue or
      culture has become increasingly urgent, as drug response in 2D is often not the same as drug
      response in biologically-relevant three dimensional culture. This is in part because genomic
      profiles are not preserved in monolayer cultures. There have been several studies that have
      tracked the expression of genes associated with cell survival, proliferation, differentiation
      and resistance to therapy that are expressed differently in 2D cultures relative to
      three-dimensional culture. For example, cell lines of epithelial ovarian cancer,
      hepatocellular carcinoma, or colon cancer display expression profiles more like those from
      tumor tissues when measured in three-dimensional culture, but not when grown in 2D. In
      addition, the three-dimensional environment of 3D culture presents different pharmacokinetics
      than 2D monolayer culture and produce differences in cancer drug sensitivities. Finally, most
      current technologies rely on destructive end-point assessment, preventing meaningful
      longitudinal observation of therapy response over time.

      One of the main challenges to migrating drug-response assays to the third and fourth
      dimensions has been to find a means to extract vital information from deep (up to a
      millimeter) inside living tissue. Tissue is translucent and light can propagate diffusively
      many centimeters. Furthermore, the dynamic motions of living cells cause dynamic light
      scattering that produces phase fluctuations on the scattered light fields that can be
      measured as dynamic speckle in diffusely reflected light from tissue. This is the basis of
      diffusing wave spectroscopy (DWS) and diffusion correlation spectroscopy (DCS), but these
      techniques lack depth resolution. A powerful tool in the characterization of light
      propagation in tissues is the use of interferometry. Interferometric detection is the
      underlying process in optical coherence tomography (OCT), which is a point-scanning technique
      that suppresses speckle, although speckle decorrelation in OCT data can provide similar
      information as provided by DCS. This has been used to measure intracellular rheology and to
      find dynamic signatures of apoptosis. Transport also can be detected at cellular resolution
      using phase contrast microscopy, but this approach cannot be used in thick tissues.

      Dr. Nolte and colleagues have developed volumetrically-resolved tissue dynamic imaging that
      uses the advantages of depth selectivity from low-coherence interferometry, combined with
      high speckle contrast in broad-illumination digital holography. The technique is called
      Motility Contrast Tomography (MCT) and uses low-coherence digital holography to penetrate up
      to 1 millimeter into living tissue to measure speckle dynamics from light scattering from
      dynamic motion in living cells. It was previously applied as a cytotoxicity assay to study
      the efficacy of anti-mitotic drugs. In essence, the technology works by profiling the
      'movement' of cellular organelles. Specific changes in organelle motion are detectable very
      early in cells undergoing response to chemotherapy treatment, and may be usable as an early
      predictor of chemotherapy response.

      MCT is based on optical coherence imaging (OCI). OCI is a full-field short-coherence
      holography that collects backscattered speckle. With the help of coherence gating, OCI can
      optically section tissue up to 1 mm deep. MCT specifically uses intracellular motion as the
      endogenous contrast to characterize submicron subcellular motion inside three-dimensional
      living tissue.

      EX VIVO CANCER CHEMOSENSITIVITY ANALYSIS MCT was previously applied to study the efficacy of
      anti-mitotic drugs using multicellular tumor spheroids. When applying MCT to tumor
      xenografts, it is also capable of showing a significantly different response between two cell
      lines under cisplatin. After applying the drug, the normalized standard deviation (NSD) value
      of the platinum-sensitive cell line (A2780) drops from 0.7 to 0.1 in 8 hours. In contrast,
      the NSD value of the platinum-resistant cell line (A2780-CP70) remains nearly constant (0.81
      to 0.80) 9 hours after applying drug. The NSD value of normal mouse tissue attached to the
      tumor xenograft decreases only a little (0.6 to 0.52) compared with A2780.

      In a further study in a veterinary clinical setting, MCT has been used to predict patient
      outcome for canine non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Canine non-Hodgkin's lymphomas are initially
      characterized by tumoral infiltration of peripheral lymph nodes. Canine non-Hodgkin's
      lymphomas are diverse in their clinical aggressiveness and response to chemotherapy. The only
      current biomarker for chemoresponsiveness is tumor cell immunophenotype (i.e. T-cell vs.
      B-cell origin), but chemoresponsiveness varies tremendously within immunophenotype, which
      reduces the clinical utility of this biomarker. In our study, we used MCT to measure the
      heterogeneous response of canine lymphoma biopsies to the standard-of-care doxorubicin. The
      biodynamic signatures of doxorubicin responsivity ex vivo were correlated with canine patient
      outcome. These studies have demonstrated, for the first time, the utility of label-free
      intracellular biodynamic markers to predict therapeutic efficacy for cancer treatment in
      dogs.

      SPECIFIC AIMS The primary study objective is to examine the feasibility of using MCT as a
      chemosensitivity assay among bladder cancer patients receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy by
      comparing MCT patterns consistent with chemotherapy response or resistance ex-vivo to
      confirmed response or resistance to chemotherapy as measured by Response Evaluation Criteria
      in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 criteria.

      PRIMARY ENDPOINT: Objective pathological response measured at the time of surgery.
    
  