
    
      Ultrasound is considered a routine procedure in the ED. In MMC all ultrasound done by ED
      staff is documented, however patients are not billed for it. All the ultrasound images for
      this study will have to be approved by Dr. Marshall prior to inclusion into the study.

      For the purposes of this study, trans-abdominal ultrasonographic measurements of the Inferior
      Vena Cava (IVC) will be taken in patients suspected of being Dehydrated. The Triage Nurse
      will be the person who would identify acutely dehydrated patient. Once a potential candidate
      is identified The Attending physician in the pediatric ED will be notified. If a sonographer
      is available in the ED at the time and he/she is free/willing to perform the sonogram only
      then will the attending physician will notify and consent the patient.

      The first phase of the study will concentrate on establishing the correlation between
      collapsed IVC and level of dehydration. During the first part of the study, ultrasonography
      will be performed once prior to hydration.

      During this phase we will also perform sonograms on a control group. The Control Group will
      consist of children aged 1 month to 3 years age who we do not suspect of being dehydrated
      based on initial evaluation and presenting complaints.

      During the second phase of the study we will measure the change in IVC diameter with fluid
      resuscitation. During this time, additional ultrasonography will be performed after adequate
      fluid resuscitation.

      Return Visit: For the patient that qualify for a return visit for a weight check, upon
      arrival to the ED, will bypass registration and report to the triage nurse and identify
      themselves, where they will be weighed and then promptly sent home.

      Who needs a return visit? Any patient who is not admitted or does not have a recent weight
      available (at the PMD's office) prior to the onset of the current condition will qualify for
      a return visit. The patients who has a recent weight taken at the PMD's office will be
      requested to sign the hospitals standard consent for transfer of the data via fax from the
      PMD's office.
    
  