
    
      The current pilot research project explores the addition of a known Bioactive Agent: Platelet
      Derived Growth Factor (PDGF) into the completed "socket graft" to test its impact on healing
      responses. Histomorphometric and qualitative assessments will be utilized on microscopic
      slide material derived from cores trephined as the initial step in the osteotomy preparation
      for placement of endosseous dental implants.

      Design: Split mouth RCT (Randomized controlled trial) Graft Procedure: At time of extraction
      the site will be asked to rinse with 0.12% Chlorhexidine, and anesthetized with 2% lidocaine
      and 1/100,000 epinephrine. Extraction will be done as usual standard of care to preserve
      socket walls. Sites requiring socket wall repair at time of extraction will be excluded from
      study. Sockets will be measured at all 4 line angles for depth with the same periodontal
      probe, Buccal-Lingual dimension will be measured prior to graft placement. Graft material
      (mineralized cortical/cancellous Bone Powder 250-1000µ) will be used for both sites. Volume
      of graft used will be recorded. Both sites will be filled slightly below marginal bone level
      (1mm). Test site will be injected with Bioactive Agent. At 3 levels apical 1/3rd, middle
      1/3rd and coronal 1/3rd. Control site will be injected with saline (or vehicle) at same
      levels. Occlusal orifice will be closed with Collagen plug adjusted for depth to meet free
      gingival margins and then sutured with 4-0 Polyglactin (Vicryl)

      Post op care: Sites will be checked and photographed at 1 week, 2 weeks (sutures removed) and
      clinical photos taken to monitor clinical signs of inflammation and healing. A 3-month post
      op radiograph appointment will be made at the 2-week visit. Ct scan may be taken if
      prescribed by treatment plan/ prior to implant placement.

      Implant/core acquisition at time of Implant placement: Clinical photographs will be taken.
      (Post graft radiograph already done at 3 months) Site will be opened with standard full
      thickness flap entry. After soft tissue reflection photo will be taken and implant site
      marked with a standardized round bur to ½ depth of bur (~ 0.5-1.0 mm). Sites requiring a 4,
      5, or 6mm implant will have trephined core as first step in osteotomy (3.3mm OD-2-8mmID)
      Trephine will be centered over site mark and osteotomy and prepared to prescribed depth. The
      trephine core will be photographed with periodontal probe included for reference of length,
      apical end marked with India ink and then placed in 10% neutral buffered formalin (NBF) and
      labeled with patient name, date, record # and length of core. Details of implant placement
      will be recorded with size of implant and insertion torque in record.

      Post-implant care: Standard of care post op sequence will be followed, once adequate healing
      period has elapsed healing cap that was screwed onto the implant is removed and replaced with
      appropriately shaped abutment. The entire procedure will be photographed and the usual post
      abutment radiograph will be taken at that time.
    
  