
    
      Obesity is one of the most alarming current health problems in the United States, with 31%
      percent of the population considered obese. Previous studies have shown that there is a
      higher incidence of depression in people who are overweight. It is not known whether
      depression causes obesity or vice versa, but the association may stem from the stigma of
      obesity or from the appetite and weight gain caused by depressive symptoms. With the
      increased risk of cardiovascular and other life-threatening diseases from obesity, promotion
      of healthful habits is important. Providing the motivational skills to adhere to these habits
      is also crucial, especially in people who are both overweight and depressed. This study will
      compare the effectiveness of two weight loss programs, one supplemented with health education
      and the other supplemented with behavioral counseling, in treating women who are depressed
      and overweight.

      Participants in this 2-year study will be divided into one of two treatment groups: one group
      will address weight loss and depression via nutrition, exercise, and health education and the
      other group will address weight loss and depression via nutrition, exercise, and behavioral
      counseling. Participants receiving health education will learn about women's health topics
      and receive tips on staying healthy and preventing disease. Participants receiving behavioral
      counseling will learn about depression and links between activity and mood. They will also be
      asked to keep a diary of moods and activities. Participants in both treatment groups will
      undergo the same schedule of study visits and assessments. A baseline visit will include
      blood tests; measurements of height, weight, waist size, and blood pressure; and completion
      of questionnaires about depression, eating habits, and physical activity. Next, over a 3-week
      period, participants will receive three phone calls asking about food intake from the
      previous day. In the first 6 months of the study, there will be a total of 26 weekly
      treatment visits. These visits will consist of ten 1-hour sessions with a counselor and
      sixteen 90-minute sessions with a dietician. During the next 6 months, participants will
      continue to meet with their dieticians monthly for a total of 6 visits and will receive
      monthly phone calls from their counselor. Quaterly phone calls with their counselor will
      continue in the second year of the study. There will be three check-in appointments similar
      to the baseline assessment, occurring at Month 6 and Years 1 and 2.
    
  