
    
      Statement of the Problem: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a term used to
      characterize those individuals with chronic bronchitis or emphysema who have obstruction to
      airflow on a spirogram. 1) Patients with COPD have a poor exercise capacity that is
      reflective of their underlying disease. 2) The symptoms of lung disease triggered by simple
      low-intensity activities of daily living such as dressing and undressing, bathing and
      shopping are insufferable, consequently these patients become sedentary. An increasingly
      sedentary lifestyle leads to muscle deconditioning making physical activity even more
      intolerable. 3) The cycle continues in a downward spiral. Pulmonary rehabilitation is
      essential to assist persons with COPD to cope with their disease. The two primary objectives
      of pulmonary rehabilitation are to control and alleviate the symptoms of the respiratory
      illness and to assist the patient toward optimal capabilities in carrying out his/her
      activities of daily living. 4) The proposed study will evaluate the efficacy of a unique
      program of ventilation-feedback training combined with leg-cycle and walking exercise to
      improve exertional endurance, perceived dyspnea and quality of life in persons with COPD.

      Hypothesis: Individuals with COPD who complete 12-weeks of ventilation-feedback training
      combined with a moderately-high intensity exercise and upper body strength training program
      will demonstrate significantly longer exercise duration on the treadmill constant work rate
      (CWR) exercise test when compared to subjects who are randomly assigned to a moderately-high
      intensity exercise and upper body strength training or a ventilation-feedback training only
      program.

      Specific Objectives:

      Short-term Objectives- The primary objective of the proposed study is to determine whether
      individuals with COPD who complete 12-weeks of ventilation-feedback training combined with a
      moderately-high intensity exercise and upper body strength training program will demonstrate
      significantly longer exercise duration on the treadmill CWR exercise test when compared to
      subjects who are randomly assigned to a moderately-high intensity exercise and upper body
      strength training program without ventilation-feedback or a ventilation-feedback program
      only. The secondary objectives of the proposed research are to determine whether individuals
      with COPD who complete ventilation-feedback training combined with a moderately-high
      intensity exercise and upper body strength training or ventilation-feedback only program
      will, when compared to subjects who are randomly assigned to a moderately-high intensity
      exercise and upper body strength training program only, demonstrate significantly: (a)
      greater work tolerance and aerobic power on maximal leg-cycle and treadmill exercise tests;
      (b) lower perception of breathlessness during progressive and CWR leg-cycle and treadmill
      exercise tests; (c) significantly higher tidal volume (VT) and lower breathing frequency
      during CWR and at any given workload on the progressive leg-cycle and treadmill exercise
      tests; (d) lower score on the Chronic Respiratory Disease Questionnaire (CRDQ)5 indicating
      better quality of life; and (e) higher transition focal score on the Transition Dyspnea Index
      (TDI).6 In addition, six weeks after completing the training program all subjects will repeat
      the treadmill CWR test. This will be done to assess whether the positive effects of the
      ventilation-feedback training persist beyond the 12-week training period.

      Long-term Objectives: If our hypothesis is correct, we will use the ventilation-feedback
      technique to teach a more efficient breathing pattern during activities of daily living. In
      time, the system will be miniaturized and portable thereby making this new technique readily
      usable during pulmonary rehabilitation.
    
  