
    
      The most recent data indicate that the prevalence of overweight and risk of becoming
      overweight among Chinese Americans aged 6 to 11 years is 31%. Several physical and
      psychosocial health consequences are associated with childhood overweight and poor physical
      fitness, including cardiovascular diseases (CVDs), sleep disorders, type 2 diabetes mellitus,
      low self-esteem, and social withdrawal. Chinese Americans are at a higher risk of developing
      CVDs and T2DM than are non-Hispanic whites possibly due to genetic differences in body
      composition and metabolic responses. Therefore, developing programs that focus on preventing
      overweight and promoting healthy lifestyles in early childhood is imperative in preventing
      long-term adverse effects of overweight, especially in Chinese-Americans. A randomized study
      is proposed to examine feasibility and efficacy of a child-centered and family-focused
      behavioral intervention on improving health behavior, psychosocial function, anthropometrics,
      and biochemical indices in Chinese-American children.

      The primary aim is to test the effect of a multimedia behavioral intervention on the health
      behaviors, psychosocial function, and anthropometrics of Chinese-American children, ages 8
      and 10.

      Aim 1a. Children in the intervention group will report a healthier dietary intake (more
      vegetable and fiber and lower fat) than will children in the control group at 2 months, 4
      months and 6-months post baseline assessment.

      Aim 1b. Children in the intervention group will report being more active than will children
      in the control group at 2 months, 4 months and 6-months post baseline assessment.

      Aim 1c. Children in the intervention group will report a significantly higher self-efficacy
      in relation to nutrition and physical activity than will children in the control group at 2
      months, 4 months and 6-months post baseline assessment.

      Aim 1d. Children in the intervention group will report significantly better coping than will
      children in the control group at 2 months, 4 months and 6-months post baseline assessment.

      Aim 1e. Children in the intervention group will report a greater decrease in BMI than will
      children in the control group at 6-months post baseline assessment.

      Aim 1f. Children in the intervention group will experience a greater decrease in fat mass
      than will children in the control group at 6-months post baseline assessment.

      The secondary aim is to examine the effect of the multimedia behavioral intervention on
      biochemical indices of health in Chinese-American children, ages 8 and 10.

      Aim 2a. Children in the intervention group will experience an increase in insulin sensitivity
      vs. children in the control group at 6-months post baseline assessment.

      Aim 2b. Children in the intervention group will experience an improvement in cholesterol,
      high-density lipoproteins (HDLs), low-density lipoproteins (LDLs), and triglycerides (TGs)
      vs. children in the control group at 6- months post baseline assessment.
    
  