
    
      RATIONALE:

        1. Morbid obesity and its health consequences is increasing in the United States

        2. Roux-en-Y GBP is an effective treatment for morbid obesity but can be associated with
           substantial morbidities

        3. LAP-BAND system can be an effective treatment for morbidly obese patients with
           potentially reduced morbidity compared to laparoscopic GBP

      HYPOTHESIS:

        1. LAP-BAND can be performed safely and are associated with reduced postoperative pain,
           decrease in morbidity, decrease ICU and hospital stay, reduced costs, comparable
           improvement in quality-of-life, and acceptable long-term weight loss compared with
           laparoscopic GBP

        2. LAP-BAND is associated with a decrease in fluid requirement in the perioperative period,
           improved postoperative pulmonary function, and lower intraabdominal pressure compared to
           laparoscopic GBP

        3. LAP-BAND does not alter esophageal motility and is effective in improvement of
           gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) symptoms.

      OBJECTIVES AND SPECIFIC AIMS:

        1. To determine the short-term outcome, quality-of-life, costs, and long-term weight loss
           after laparoscopic GBP compared with LAP-BAND.

        2. To compare physiologic changes such as perioperative fluid requirement, postoperative
           pulmonary function, and intraabdominal pressure after laparoscopic GBP and LAP-BAND.

        3. To evaluate the effect of LAP-BAND on esophageal motility and its effectiveness in
           controlling gastroesophageal reflux symptoms (GERD) for morbidly obese patients with
           GERD.

      Please note: All physician, hospital, laboratory costs, the barium study tests, and the
      performance of the operation will be billed to the subject or their insurer as customary
      since these procedures are standard of care regardless of participation in the study. The
      research procedures such as the pulmonary function tests, intra-abdominal pressure, body fat
      composition tests, resting energy expenditure, exercise testing, strength testing,
      nutritional assessments, and esophageal function tests are considered research-related and
      will be paid for by the investigator.
    
  