
    
      -  Research objective: The aim of this study is to asses biological and esthetical success
           of ceramic onlay restorations while preparing the teeth using shoulder finish line
           preparation versus butt joint with bevel preparation.

        -  Research Procedure:

             -  Visit 1: Preoperative records, face-to-face adherence reminder session, clinical,
                radiographic examination, intraoral photographs and primary impression (alginate
                impression*) for diagnostic cast construction.

             -  Visit 2: Tooth preparation according to its group either shoulder, or butt joint
                with bevel preparation, secondary impression using addition silicone rubber base
                material two step two viscosities technique and temporary restoration.

             -  Visit 3: evaluation of e-max press onlay ceramic restoration on the cast then
                evaluation intra-oral on the prepared tooth and permanent cementation of the final
                restoration using adhesive resin cement.

             -  Visit 4: Every 2 months post operatively follow-up visit for one year.

             -  PICOTS P: Population: Patients requiring posterior onlays. I: Intervention: butt
                joint finish line with bevel preparation for ceramic onlay.

      C: comparator: shoulder finish line preparation for ceramic onlay.

      O: Outcome:

      Primary: Postoperative sensitivity Secondary: Marginal discoloration Tertiary: Secondary
      Caries T: Time: 1 year. S: Study design: Randomized controlled clinical trial.

        -  Research question For patients requiring posterior onlays, does the use of conservative
           preparation offer better biological response and esthetics when compared to conventional
           onlay preparation?

        -  Participant timeline:

        -  The patient will be treated in visits designated as follows:

             -  Visit 1: Preoperative records, face-to-face adherence reminder session, clinical,
                radiographic examination, intraoral photographs and primary impression (alginate
                impression) for diagnostic cast construction.

             -  Visit 2: Tooth preparation according to its group either shoulder, or butt joint
                with bevel preparation, secondary impression using addition silicone rubber base
                material two step two viscosities technique and temporary restoration.

             -  Visit 3: evaluation of e-max press onlay ceramic restoration on the cast then
                evaluation intra-oral on the prepared tooth and permanent cementation of the final
                restoration using adhesive resin cement.

             -  Visit 4: Every 2 months post operatively follow-up visit for one year.

        -  Allocation

      Randomization:

      - Simple randomization will be done using computerized random number generator

      Allocation:

        -  Sequence generation

        -  A dental colleague will allocate the participant patients into two groups with 1:1
           allocation ratio by using computerized Sequence generation

        -  Blinding

        -  Double blinding (trial participants and outcome assessor)

        -  Two dental colleague assessors who are blinded about the aim of the study and
           participant's allocation will be responsible for assessing the outcomes of this study.

      Data collection methods:

        -  Primary 1ry: Postoperative sensitivity will be assessed by asking patients according to
           modified USPHS criteria and given a score (Alpha, Bravo)

        -  Secondary 2ry outcome: Marginal discoloration will be assessed according to modified
           USPHS criteria and given a score (Alpha, Bravo B1, Bravo B2, Charlie).

        -  Tertiary 3ry outcome: Secondary Caries will be assessed by visual and given a score
           (Alpha, Bravo).

      Plans to promote participant retention & complete follow-up:

        -  The main investigator will record telephone numbers and address of the patients included
           in the study. All patients will be given a phone call before the next appointment. Many
           efforts will be done to promote participant retention such as, sending SMS greetings in
           the feasts, any celebration and in his/ her birthday.

        -  Data management

        -  The main investigator will enter patient data electronically. Patient files are to be
           stored in Numerical order in a secured place.

        -  Statistical methods

        -  Qualitative data will be presented as frequencies and percentages. Chi-square test or
           Fisher's Exact test when applicable will be used for comparisons related to qualitative
           variables. Friedman's test will be used to study the changes by time within each group.
           Dunn's test will be used for pair-wise comparisons when Friedman's test is significant.

        -  The significance level will be set at P ≤ 0.05. Statistical analysis will be performed
           with IBM® SPSS® Statistics Version 20 for Windows (SPSS, Inc., an IBM Company).

      D) Data monitoring

        -  Monitoring

        -  The main supervisor is responsible of data monitoring if harms arise, interim analysis
           will be done.

        -  Harms

        -  The main investigator will record, document and treat any adverse effect like pain or
           even failure.

        -  Expected risk to the human subjects:

             1. Possibility of restoration dislodgment (the patient should keep the restoration and
                contact the researcher as soon as possible as the restoration will be assessed for
                cementation or replacement).

             2. Possibility of restoration fracture (the patient should keep the fractured part and
                contact the researcher as soon as possible as a new restoration will be placed).

             3. In case failure of the onlay restoration the tooth will be assessed for the new
                required restorative modality.

        -  Consent

        -  Researcher will discuss the trial with all patients. Patients will then be able to have
           an informed discussion with the researcher. Researcher will obtain written consent from
           patients willing to participate in the trial.
    
  