
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      Aim 1. Identify the rural Latino community's social, ethical, behavioral needs and resources
      for students to return to school and maintain onsite learning using qualitative assessments
      with school stakeholders, parents, and students.

      Aim 2. Evaluate the effectiveness of a testing program (novel coronavirus testing and risk
      communication) on student attendance using a cluster randomized controlled trial (RCT) with
      two intervention arms: current learning model (comparison) and testing program (novel
      coronavirus testing + risk communication). Prior to launching Aim 2, a pilot study will be
      conducted in April - June 2021 with one school to understand the implementation steps and
      workflow.

      Aim 3. Assess implementation outcomes of the testing program with school stakeholders,
      parents, and children guided by the REAIM (Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation,
      and Maintenance) framework. Aim 3 will occur after Aim 1 and 2 were completed.

      OVERVIEW:

      This study incorporates three aims that are meant to help students and school employees to
      return to school safely by providing free coronavirus testing and health education to
      families and school staff. The research team aims to understand how to successfully implement
      the testing program and health education in schools and learn if the testing program and
      health education can help improve children's attendance, along with families' and school
      employees' physical and mental well-being. Aim 1 will involve conducting qualitative
      assessments with school stakeholders, parents and students. Aim 2 will involve a clustered
      randomized control trial RCT where that evaluates the role of risk communication and novel
      coronavirus testing in children attending and staff working in public schools in the region.
      Schools will be randomized to receive the intervention (novel coronavirustesting and risk
      communication) or serve as a comparison or control group (continue the current practice). To
      prepare for this large trial, the study will institute a pilot study conducting weekly novel
      coronavirus surveillance testing in one school during April - June 2021 to understand the
      implementation steps and the workflow of working with schools. The larger RCT trial will be
      implemented in 15-20 K-8 schools in Fall 2021 - Spring 2022 school year.

      For the pilot study, one school will be recruited into the study starting in late April 2021
      for an initial period of at least 2 months. Student participants will be recruited through
      the school and once enrolled, contacted once per week by SMS text message and/or email with a
      reminder to collect a swab and to report the presence or absence of symptoms, as well as
      report any exposures or close contacts with someone confirmed to have SARS-CoV-2. The symptom
      report will prompt the participant or their parent to collect a nasal swab and return the kit
      to a designated drop-off location within a specific time frame, or to have the self-collected
      swab kit picked up from their home and delivered to the laboratory if they are home sick.
      Parents who choose to have their child swabbed by trained research staff at school will
      receive a notification once their child has been swabbed, with the information they will need
      to access their child's test results in the online portal. If participants report symptoms
      during the weekly check-in, this information will be collected in a brief questionnaire to
      record those symptoms. If a positive case is identified among the participants, close
      classroom contacts (children and/or other staff) and households with potential exposure to
      the positive case will have the opportunity to enroll in the study as a secondary
      participant. After consent, these secondary participants will be contacted twice (over two
      weeks) by SMS text message and/or email with a reminder to report the presence or absence of
      symptoms. This report will prompt the secondary participant to collect a nasal swab and
      return it within a specific time frame. Participants between 13 and 15 years of age may
      collect their own swab with supervision from an adult. For participants 7-13 years old, a
      parent or legal guardian will assist in completion of the questionnaire, nasal swab
      collection and drop-off.

      Teachers and school administrators will also be invited to participate in the weekly testing
      program.

      Participants will additionally receive risk mitigation communications as part of this
      intervention. This involves books, (comic books for children) that are provided to educate
      them about COVID and health and safety measures

      STUDY POPULATION: Students and staff members at participating schools in an agricultural
      region of Washington state.

      STUDY TIME PERIOD: A pilot study will be conducted between April-June 2021, with the larger
      study continuing in August 2021-June 2022. Aim 3 will occur after June 2022.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSES: The primary analysis will be based on the average number of onsite
      learning hours per week over the study period for each student. The data will be analyzed
      using a linear mixed effects model with district and randomization arm as fixed effects, and
      school and classroom within school as random effects. Analyses will test for any difference
      between the randomization arms using α = 0.05 and report the comparisons between arms.

      STUDY OUTCOMES:

      The primary outcome for children will be absenteeism (hours per week missing onsite
      learning).

      The secondary outcome will be assessed in child-parent dyads. Children will be assessed for
      physical activity and emotional regulation; parents will be assessed for perceived stress,
      COVID-related stress, and depressive symptomatology for parents. The secondary outcome will
      also be assessed among teachers for perceived stress, COVID-19 related stress and depressive
      symptomatology.
    
  