
    
      Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is the most common cancer in the Caucasian population, with an
      incidence rising worldwide. there is an increasing trend in the incidence rates of BCC in
      asian and greater percentage of pigmented BCCs is found to be the most characteristic
      clinical feature of BCC in Asian compared to BCC in Caucasians. Topical photodynamic therapy
      with methyl-aminolaevulinate (MAL-PDT) has been introduced as an alternatively attractive
      procedure for BCC. PDT facilitates the light activation of a photosensitizer in the presence
      of oxygen. The oxygen generates reactive oxygen species leading to selective and highly
      localized destruction of abnormal cells. MAL is an efficient photosensitizer as a result of
      improved lesion penetration attributed to enhanced lipophilicity, decreased charge and also
      has a greater specificity for neoplastic cells, compared with 5-aminolevulinic acid. Because
      histologic features of nBCC include down-growth of epithelial buds into the dermis,
      palisading basal cell and separation of epidermis from the underlying dermis, it is generally
      treated twice within an interval of 1 week.But, MAL-PDT shows the lower efficacy for the
      treatment of pigmented BCC because melanin disturbs the absorption of the MAL. Also, a
      significantly higher proportions of BCC in the Asian population were pigmented BCC compared
      with pigmented BCC of Caucasian. Consequently, additional techniques are needed to enhance
      the penetration and accumulation of MAL in order to improve PDT efficacy and decrease
      treatment duration in darker-skinned patients.

      Er:YAG ablative fractional laser therapy (AFL) can ablate the epidermis and dermis without
      significant thermal injury. This approach creates microscopic ablation zones (MAZ) in
      laser-applied portion of the skin. The tissue with MAZ is surrounded by thin layers of
      coagulated tissue. Since the Er:YAG AFL resurfaces 5-20% of the skin at one time and does not
      injure the entire thickness of the epidermis, healing times are minimized. Recent studies
      have demonstrated that Er:YAG AFL facilitates delivery and uptake of topical MAL deep into
      the skin, enhancing porphyrin synthesis and photodynamic activation. We have compared the
      efficacy, recurrence rate, cosmetic outcomes and safety of Er:YAG AFL-PDT with standard
      MAL-PDT in the treatment of nBCC among Korean populations.
    
  