
    
      Enrolled subjects who qualify will be assigned to one of four groups depending on the time of
      their screening appointment and scheduled abdominoplasty. Test spot exposures will take place
      prior to abdominoplasty resections at the following possible time points (by group):

        -  Group A (up to n=5): Genius exposure 1-3 hours before tissue resection

        -  Group B (up to n=5): Genius exposure 30+7 days, 14+3 days, and 7+3 days before tissue
           resection. All test spot exposure visits will have a follow-up visit at 7+3 days after
           the test spot exposure visit.

        -  Group C (up to n=5): Genius exposure 90+14 days, 60+10 days, and 30+7 days before tissue
           resection. All test spot exposure visits will have a follow-up visit at 7+3 days after
           the test spot exposure visit.

        -  Group D (up to n=10): Genius, LaseMD, LaseMD FLEX, eCO2 and/or PicoPlus exposure 14+3
           days, 7+3 days, and 1-3 hours before tissue resection. All test spot exposure visits
           will have a follow-up visit at 7+3 days after the test spot exposure visit.

      Subjects receive test spot exposures at sites on the abdomen that will be resected during
      abdominoplasty. The area of the test spots will be approximately 2 x 2 cm2 but may be
      appropriately adjusted for fit within the resected tissue area. Subject pain during exposure
      will be monitored and recorded using a 0-10 Numeric Rating Scale.

      Activities related to the abdominoplasty procedure are considered outside the scope of this
      study and will not be recorded or reported on during this study. The subject will be exited
      from the study prior to abdominoplasty procedures after all study related procedures with the
      exception of tissue preparation of excised tissue are complete. Tissue preparation of excised
      tissue will be completed after the subject has been exited from the study.
    
  