
    
      Holofiber is a patented process for adding micron sized optically active quartz, aluminum
      oxide and titanium oxide particles to polymer yarns. It is believed that the Holofiber
      particles increase skin illumination such that pigments and other enzymes are activated,
      leading to increased blood flow and oxygenation of the skin and neighboring soft tissues.
      Previous clinical trials have demonstrated approximately a 7% increase in skin oxygen levels
      with the use of Holofiber gloves and socks, compared to gloves and socks fabricated from
      identical polymer fiber lacking the optical particles. Numerous anecdotal reports from
      patients with chronic foot and arm pain indicate wearing Holofiber garments for even a few
      days leads to dramatic improvement in many different painful conditions. Similarly, many
      subjects with chronic sleep disturbances have reported improved quality of sleep using
      Holofiber bedding. The current study is designed to 1) substantiate the ability of Holofiber
      socks to alleviate chronic pain resulting from diabetic neuropathy and other chronic foot
      disorders, 2) determine if Holofiber bedding improves quality of sleep and 3) determine if
      Holofiber socks increase blood oxygenation levels in the feet after wear.

      Subjects who give informed consent and meet the study inclusion and exclusion criterial will
      undergo a brief medical history and physical examination, including monofilament testing for
      sensory neuropathy and measurement of blood pressure in all four extremities using Doppler
      ultrasound, and will answer a panel of questionnaires that assess pain and sleep quality.
      Spouses or partners of eligible subjects will similarly be consented to fill out the
      questionnaires related to sleep if they share the same bed with the participating subject.
      Subjects and spouses/partners will be asked to return one week later to complete the same
      questionnaires, at which time subjects will be randomized (double-blind) to receive either
      Holofiber or placebo socks and bedding materials. Subjects will be instructed to use the
      socks and bedding material exclusively for two weeks. Subjects and spouses/partners will
      return at three and four weeks for follow-up with repeat questionnaires at each visit. At
      Visit 4, subjects will have their feet photographed using a Hyperspectral camera to identify
      blood oxygenation before and after wearing the Holofiber and placebo socks. Once the final
      set of photographs has been taken, the visit is ended and the patients participation is
      concluded.
    
  