
    
      Televex videofluoroscopy utilizes real-time, x-ray imaging to visualize the velopharyngeal
      port from multiple views or planes. The views generally utilized include the lateral, base
      and frontal. This technique requires the subject to provide specific speech patterns, as
      presented by a speech pathologist, while a radiologist obtains adequate views of the
      velopharyngeal (VP) port. Each procedure will take about 3 to 5 minutes. Fluoroscopic imaging
      is provided only during speech tasks and swallowing limiting radiation exposure.

      1) The radiologist begins by taking a lateral view while speaking, which allows viewing of
      the velum and posterior pharyngeal wall during speech production, as well as evaluation of
      cranial base angle, size and location of adenoid tissue, velar length, velar thickness and
      velar stretch. 2) The speech pathologist gives the subject barium sulfate contrast,
      approximately 2 to 4 oz, to swallow, which allows for better structure delineation, as well
      as the confirmation of the presence of palatal fistulae if barium passes through the palate
      during swallowing. 3) The speech pathologist places the subject in a supine position and
      barium sulfate is then instilled into the nasal passages bilaterally via syringe,
      approximately 5 ml. approximately 2. 5 ml in each nostril. This allows for nasopharyngeal
      coating of structures. 4) The speech pathologist then places the subject in the prone on the
      table and positioned into a sphinx position with head and neck extended and forearms and
      palms flat on the fluoroscopic table. The head, shoulders and neck are positioned to find the
      base view of the velopharyngeal port. This view affords the ability to obtain velopharyngeal
      closure patterns and size of velopharyngeal defect similar to that of nasopharyngoscopy. 5)
      The next view obtained by the radiologist is the frontal or anterior-posterior. This is
      obtained with the head/neck extended to allow for evaluation of the degree of lateral
      pharyngeal wall motion. 6) The final view obtained by the radiologist is a repeat of the
      initial lateral view this time with the nasopharyngeal coating in place. This can be
      beneficial in confirming VPI in the presence of a small VP gap. During the coated lateral
      view blowing of barium through the VP port can be observed. Additionally if barium is not
      dissipated during velopharyngeal closure this can be indicative of anatomic VPI. This is all
      done in the radiology department and takes approximately 3 minutes to 5 minutes.
    
  