
    
      Current guidelines recommend surgical treatment of secondary tricuspid regurgitation (TR) in
      patients with mild or moderate TR undergoing mitral valve (MV) surgery if significant
      dilatation of the tricuspid annulus is documented. Indeed, several observational series and
      small randomized studies have shown that in the presence of tricuspid annulus dilatation, not
      treating less than severe secondary TR may lead to progression of the tricuspid disease
      despite correction of the associated left-sided lesion.

      However, the level of evidence C (expert opinion) confirms the absence of clear scientific
      evidence to support this recommendation.

      It is therefore very important to carry out randomized trials designed to really prove the
      supposed efficacy of prophylactic tricuspid annuloplasty, especially in patients with
      degenerative etiology where the data are particularly controversial.

      The aim of the study will be to establish the effectiveness of the tricuspid annuloplasty in
      the early stage. The investigators enrolled patient with TR≤2+ and annular dilation
      undergoing mitral valve repair.

      This will be a multicenter single-blind parallel group randomized controlled trial. Patients
      will be randomly assigned to two parallel arms with an allocation ratio 1:1, to receive one
      of two surgical procedures. Patients that will match the inclusion criteria at the
      preoperative evaluation will be recruited.

      Patient will be randomized according to a computer-generated list of casual numbers.
      Information about patient allocation will be kept in closed opaque envelopes and nobody will
      know patient allocation before randomization. Patients will be blind to allocation.

      The day of surgery patients will be subsequently randomized into two arms with an allocation
      ratio 1:1 stratified by center, to receive:

        1. M & T Repair Group

        2. Mitral-Only Group Each group will consist of 71 patients. All patients will receive the
           mitral valve repair and in patients enrolled in the M & T Repair Group an Edwards MC3
           Tricuspid ring will be implanted.

      Primary end-point will be the freedom from recurrence of TR≥3+ and from progression of 2
      degrees of TR compared to pre-operative, at discharge and 12 months after surgery, assessment
      by transthoracic echocardiography. Secondary endpoints are to demonstrate the superiority of
      combined treatment (M & T Repair Group) compared to single treatment (Mitral-Only Group) at 5
      and 10 years after surgery.

      For statistical analysis the data will be expressed as "average ± standard deviation" or as
      percentage. A "probability value" less than 0.05 will be considered as "statistically
      significant." Outcomes will be compared using the "X2" analysis for categorical variables and
      the "t-test" for the continuous onces. The data will be analyzed using SPSS version 11.5
      (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA) for Windows (Microsoft Corp, Redmond, WA). Survival and freedom
      from reoperation, freedom from TR≥3+ or from a progression of TR of at least 2 grades (as
      compared to baseline), will be analyzed by the method of Kaplan-Meier. The analysis
      "univariate" and possibly "multivariate" of risk factors will be performed with "Cox
      proportional hazards regression".

      The Fine and Gray model will be used in a "competing risk analysis" for "time to TR ≥ 3+/4+"
      and "time to TR progression of at least 2 grades compared to baseline" considering the death
      event as competitive risk.

      In addition, estimates of the respective cumulative incidence (CIF) of these events in the 2
      groups will be compared to determine the impact on such endpoints of the execution or
      non-execution of tricuspid anuloplasty.

      The aim of the study is to demonstrate the superiority of combined mitral and tricuspid
      treatment (M & T Repair) compared to isolated mitral repair (Mitral-Only Group) in the
      enrolled patients.

      The primary end-point is to demonstrate that, at 1 year of follow-up, the recurrence of TR≥3+
      or the progression of TR of at least 2 degrees (compared to baseline) occurs in less than 1%
      of the patients undergoing both mitral e tricuspid repair (M & T Repair Group). The expected
      rate for the Mitral-Only group is 15%. (Power = 80%, alpha = 0.05, Number of Patients per
      group = 71).

      Secondary endpoints are to demonstrate the superiority of the combined treatment (M & T
      Repair Group) compared to the single treatment (Mitral-Only Group) at 5 and 10 years after
      surgery.
    
  