
    
      Fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS) is a multisystemic disease, characterized by generalized chronic
      musculoskeletal pain. In addition, it is usually accompanied by fatigue, sleep disorders,
      morning stiffness, cognitive disorders, depression, anxiety and stress. Other common symptoms
      are back pain, headaches, irritable bowel, balance problems and deterioration of physical
      function.

      It constitutes the second most common rheumatic 36 disorder after osteoarthritis, with a
      prevalence of 2.9% in Europe and a fivefold times greater incidence among women than men.

      Patients with FMS have pain at specific pressure points known as "tender points", with
      increased sensitivity to painful stimuli (hyperalgesia) and a decreased pain threshold
      (allodynia), in the absence of abnormalities in the biological or imaging tests. These tender
      points constitute the basis of the most sensitive and specific criteria for the diagnosis of
      the disease, this is, the criteria of the American College of Rheumatology. Accordingly,
      women presenting at least 11 of 18 tender points are diagnosed with FMS.

      The etiology of FMS remains unclear. However, the generalized hyperalgesia, widespread pain
      and spontaneous pain in FMS have been related to central changes, and many studies support a
      major role for central sensitization in the generation of the symptoms of FMS.

      Since it is a chronic disease, the care of this type of patients represents a significant
      economic burden. They have great health care resource requirements in both direct medical
      care and indirect costs of staff absenteeism. For these reasons, it is considered a major
      problem with a great impact on the health system, and therefore more and more studies are
      being developed with the aim of better understanding the pathophysiology of this disease.

      In general, the goal of the treatment should be to improve function. In this regard, some
      studies have demonstrated the efficacy of low-cost therapeutic measures, such as physical
      exercise programs, to improve FMS symptoms. Physical exercise has a direct effect on pain,
      joint and muscle stiffness, generalized sensitivity fatigue, cognitive function. Since there
      is no standard program, it is difficult to determine which exercise modality is most
      effective on FMS. Most studies focus on low-impact aerobic exercise performed between 60-70%
      of maximal heart rate two to three times a week.

      On the other hand, it has been proposed that motor control problems, due mainly to an
      alteration of the central and peripheral system, are associated with muscle strength loss,
      motor or sensory deficits and suboptimal muscle coordination. The lack of balance may also be
      due to a disturbance in the perception or interpretation of auditory- vestibular signals.
      Therefore, postural stability training is recommended to stimulate the neuromuscular system
      and develop proprioceptive capacity aimed at improving motor control and postural balance
      among these patients. In this regard, it is important to note that FMS is associated with
      postural control and balance impairments, the latter being one of the 10 most debilitating
      symptoms, with a prevalence of 45%.

      In the current study, the investigators aimed to study:

        -  The proprioception status of patients with FMS.

        -  The effectiveness of a postural exercise program in women with fibromyalgia for 8 weeks
           (2 sessions per week), compared to a low impact aerobic exercise program on different
           parameters, such as proprioception, balance, muscle strength, flexibility and joint
           range.
    
  