
    
      The investigators propose to evaluate the effect of reductions in chronic physical pain on
      cognitive function and productivity among poor individuals via a simple intervention using
      over-the-counter (OTC) pain medication. To do this, the investigators will enroll 450
      low-wage female workers in Chennai, India into a two-day randomized controlled trial in which
      150 randomly selected participants will receive OTC Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs
      (NSAIDs; namely, Ibuprofen) at FDA-approved levels of one dose of 600 mg each on a single
      day, 150 participants will receive a placebo pill, and 150 participants will serve as a
      no-treatment control group.

      Participants will complete a detailed survey, a battery of cognitive tests, pain
      measurements, a task to objectively scale each participant's pain assessments, and a task
      designed to measure economic productivity as detailed below.

      Study location:

      The study will be based at the Behavioral and Development Economics Lab in Chennai, India,
      founded by PIs Schofield and Schilbach in conjunction with a local institution, the Institute
      for Financial Management and Research (IFMR).

      Sample:

      Participants will consist of female flower stringers in Chennai, India. Flower stringers are
      self-employed individuals typically working on the streets. These women purchase flowers in
      the morning, string them together, and sell the strands to customers passing by. Their
      average daily income is Rs. 250-500 (approximately $4-9). Preliminary survey evidence
      suggests a higher prevalence of physical pain among older individuals; hence, this study will
      limit enrollment to individuals aged 25 to 65 years. The investigators focus on this
      population for several additional reasons. First, the nature of their work (stringing flowers
      while sitting on the floor for most of the day) causes high levels of pain. Second, due to
      the societal norms in the area, women do not regularly consume significant amounts of
      alcohol, substantially lowering the risks associated with taking pain medication. Third, the
      nature of their work makes flower stringers' productivity easily measurable (length and
      weight of flowers strung). Finally, although this population is specific, participants are
      similar in many ways (e.g. age, education, labor habits) to many workers in the informal
      sector, improving the study's external validity.

      Recruitment and screening:

      Surveyors approach potential participants at their place of work (typically a stand on the
      side of the street). The surveyor shares information about the study, while also conducting a
      broad first screen for eligibility. If participants are interested in participating and pass
      the initial screening, they schedule a time to come in to the lab for Day 1 (see below for
      further detail on the timing of the study). On Day 1, all potential participants are further
      screened to ensure: 1) their primary profession is flower-stringing, 2) they do not have any
      health conditions which are contraindicated for taking ibuprofen, 3) they regularly
      experience pain from their work, and 4) they are between the ages of 25 and 65.

      Timing:

      Day 1: Following field recruitment, potential participants are screened for eligibility and
      complete an informed consent process. If eligible, participants complete the survey measuring
      demographics, work habits, and data on the type and amount of pain typically experienced.
      Participants also complete the battery of cognitive assessments.

      The investigators will randomize using Stata and then reveal the experimental condition
      assignment to individuals privately. Any non-compliance will be carefully tracked.

      Day 2: Participants complete the battery of cognitive tasks and 30 minutes of flower
      stringing in the morning (pre-treatment). Participants report their pain levels periodically
      and complete a "pain calibration" by reporting their pain levels while holding their hand in
      cold water. They are then randomly assigned to one of the three experimental arms at lunch.
      After lunch, all participants complete another 3 hours of flower-stringing and repeat the
      battery of cognitive tasks. Participants also complete a "pain tolerance test" after lunch.
      In this task, participants are paid for the time they leave their hand in cold water.
    
  