
    
      BACKGROUND Insulin resistance (IR) plays a major role for the increased risk of
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) in obesity and type 2 diabetes (T2D). Targeted treatment of IR
      in affected tissues is, however, almost non-existing, except for weight-loss and physical
      activity. The central hypothesis of this proposal is that abnormalities in glucose and lipid
      metabolism as well as defects in molecular processes regulated by insulin and exercise can
      explain the link between IR, mitochondrial dysfunction and lipid accumulation observed in
      skeletal muscle in obesity and T2D. Focusing on these metabolic and molecular abnormalities,
      the major goal of our project is to discover novel targets for the treatment of IR and
      mimicking exercise, which can be used in the prevention and treatment of T2D and CVD.

      T2D, obesity and other high risk conditions are characterized by IR in skeletal muscle, the
      major site of insulin-mediated glucose disposal (1-3). In T2D, failure of the pancreatic
      β-cells to compensate for this abnormality causes hyperglycemia, which further aggravates the
      risk of CVD. Despite extensive research, the exact metabolic and molecular mechanisms
      underlying IR are not fully understood. At the metabolic level, the investigators and others
      have demonstrated that IR in obesity and T2D is characterized by impaired insulin-stimulated
      glucose uptake and glucose storage, but also reduced insulin-mediated increase in glucose
      oxidation and attenuated suppression of lipid oxidation and circulating levels of free fatty
      acids (lipolysis) in response to insulin (2,3). At the molecular level these metabolic
      abnormalities are associated with reduced insulin signaling to glucose transport through
      IRS-1, PI3K, Akt, AS160 and RAC1 and to glycogen synthesis through impaired insulin action on
      glycogen synthase in skeletal muscle (1-10). Moreover, IR is consistently associated with
      accumulation of lipid content and different measures of mitochondrial dysfunction in skeletal
      muscle of patient with T2D, obesity and high-risk individuals (1-3,11,12).

      In addition, there is accumulating evidence of increased glycolysis (13-15) and resistance to
      the beneficial effect of exercise in T2D and obesity (16-18). The changes in substrate
      metabolism in IR conditions seem to be associated with a specific metabolomic signature that
      includes increased circulating levels of branched-chain amino acids and α-hydroxybutyrate,
      and reduced levels of glycine (19-23). Finally, impaired adipose tissue expandability in T2D,
      obesity and other high risk conditions may play a role in the pathogenesis of IR and T2D by
      leading to increased secretion of inflammatory factors and overflow of free fatty acids to
      cause ectopic lipid deposition in liver and muscle (24). Genetic variants found to be
      associated with T2D, obesity and body composition in large GWAS-studies suggest a role for
      several transcriptional factors and signaling pathways in adipose tissue expansion and
      inflammation (25,26).

      Effects of exercise: Physical activity plays a fundamental role in the prevention and
      treatment of T2D (27-29). Thus, meta-analysis of several long-term (> 8 weeks) exercise
      training studies have shown that exercise can improve body composition, insulin sensitivity
      and reduce Hb1Ac by approximately 0.67 % in patients with T2D (30). The beneficial effects of
      a single bout of moderate-intensity one-legged exercise include an immediate increase in
      muscle glucose uptake (31). This is followed by a more prolonged (<48 h) increase in insulin
      sensitivity to stimulate glucose uptake in both lean healthy and insulin-resistant obese and
      type 2 diabetic individuals (32-33). In addition, the cumulative effect of repeated exercise
      bouts (exercise training) increases insulin sensitivity and VO2max, and is further known to
      increase skeletal muscle mitochondrial content and function in both nondiabetic and diabetic
      subjects (34-37). Furthermore, there is evidence that exercise training improves pancreatic
      beta-cell function in individuals with T2D (38).

      Exercise mode: The most appropriate exercise mode for IR individuals has not yet been
      established. A major problem in this respect is to find an effective mode of exercise (type,
      intensity and duration) which will ensure continued engagement (patient adherence) as well as
      continued beneficial effects on health (29). Thus, for IR individuals it is important to
      identify a mode of exercise that can safely and effectively maximize energy expenditure. This
      could be non-weight-bearing exercise modes such as cycling and rowing. Most studies so far
      have reported effects of acute exercise or endurance exercise training on stationery bikes.
      However, it has been shown that energy expenditure and fat oxidation during rowing is higher
      than during cycling (39,40). The strong association between IR, lipid accumulation and
      mitochondrial dysfunction in muscle makes fat-burning exercise of special interest (29,40).
      The contribution of fat oxidation to energy expenditure is highest during low- and moderate
      intensity exercise (45-65 % of VO2max) (41-43). Thus, the combination of cycling and rowing
      at moderate intensities could be an attractive exercise mode due to its non-weight-bearing
      nature and by the involvement of both lower and upper body muscle groups (29). In our
      studies, we will for the first time evaluate the effect and tolerability of a combination of
      cycling and rowing exercise interventions (acute exercise and exercise training) on
      pancreatic beta-cell function and metabolic and molecular regulators of glucose uptake and
      energy metabolism in obesity and T2D versus weight-matched controls.

      Exercise resistance: Exercise training is an essential aspect in T2D prevention (27,28).
      Acute exercise and endurance training improves insulin sensitivity, also in obesity and T2D
      (34). Exercise activates various signaling pathways, which results in the upregulation of
      transcriptional networks that regulate mitochondrial biogenesis, glucose and fatty acid
      metabolism, and muscle remodeling (44). This includes increased levels of muscle-specific
      microRNAs (miRNA), activation of nuclear receptors such as the NR4As subfamily, the PPAR
      family and other transcription factors (45-50). This happens together with exercise-induced
      stimulation of PGC-1α, which promotes oxidative phosphorylation and fatty acid oxidation by
      enhancing mitochondrial biogenesis (51). This seems to be mediated by activation of AMPK, p38
      MAPK, CamK-II, CREB and other upstream regulators (51-53). Moreover, exercise increases
      activity and/or levels of proteins involved in both exercise and insulin-mediated signaling
      to glucose transport such as Akt, AMPK, TBC1D4 and RAC1 (8,10,34,35,54,55). Within the past
      decade a number of reports have indicated an impaired response to exercise in different IR
      conditions. Thus, in early-onset T2D and prediabetic conditions such as obesity and
      first-degree relatives of patients with T2D a lack of increase in VO2max and insulin
      sensitivity in response to either acute exercise or exercise training has been reported
      (16-18,56,57). At the molecular level these abnormalities were associated with an impaired
      increase in PGC-1α and other regulators of mitochondrial biogenesis and dynamics
      (16-18,56,57). This suggests the existence of 'exercise resistance' in T2D and other common
      IR conditions. However, the transcriptional and signaling networks underlying these effects
      of acute exercise on insulin sensitivity and VO2 max in human muscle, and the possible
      metabolic and molecular alterations in obesity and T2D remain to be established. Moreover,
      due to inappropriate study designs in most of these studies, it is unclear to what extent
      these findings are related to overweight/obesity per se. A better understanding of the
      transcriptional and signaling networks regulated by acute exercise and exercise training will
      be crucial to design lifestyle interventions in IR individuals to prevent T2D.

      Mitochondrial dynamics and mitophagy: Numerous studies have implicated a link between IR and
      mitochondrial dysfunction in T2D, obesity and other high-risk conditions (1,11,12). This
      appears to involve both impaired mitochondrial biogenesis, as well as reduced content,
      intrinsic impairment and morphological changes of muscle mitochondria (58-66). It is believed
      that mitochondrial dysfunction together with an increased lipid supply in IR conditions
      causes lipid accumulation, which further aggravates IR by causing negative modulation of
      insulin signaling (1,11). It has been debated whether IR is the cause or consequence of
      mitochondrial dysfunction. Recently, the investigators and others have demonstrated that
      inherited IR results in different markers of reduced mitochondrial content (67,68). This is
      supported by data showing that insulin increases mRNA levels and abundance of mitochondrial
      proteins as well as ATP fluxes in human skeletal muscle (69-71). Interestingly, recent data
      indicate that insulin regulates fission (DRP1, FIS1) and fusion (MFN1/2, OPA1) proteins
      governing mitochondrial dynamics as well as enzymes involved in the removal of damaged
      mitochondria (mitophagy) such as LC3B, Mul1, and BNIP3/3L and AMPK and mTOR-mediated
      phosphorylation of ULK1 (72-76). Recent studies have shown that the mitochondrial fission
      factor (MFF) is a direct substrate of AMPK in response to exercise, and demonstrated that
      activation of AMPK promotes mitochondrial fission by stimulation of MMF and DRP1 (77). Thus,
      defects in the insulin- and exercise-mediated regulation of mitochondrial dynamics and
      mitophagy could contribute to mitochondrial dysfunction in IR. To what extent such
      abnormalities are present in skeletal muscle and/or fat in patients with T2D and high-risk
      individuals with obesity remains to be investigated.

      Lipid accumulation: Accumulation of lipids in skeletal muscle is strongly associated with IR
      and the development of T2D (2,78). Fatty acids are stored as triglycerides in organelles
      known as lipid droplets (LD). Triglyceride-biosynthesis involves several isoforms of GPATs,
      AGPATs, lipins and DGATs (79), while intramuscular lipolysis, e.g. in response to exercise,
      seems to involve ATGL, CGI-58 and HSL (80). Multiple proteins are bound to the surface of LD
      to regulate membrane trafficking, lipid turnover, fusion and formation of LD as well as
      interaction with other organelles including mitochondria (78,81,82). This includes the
      SNARE-proteins, STX5, SNAP23, VAMP4 as well as LD coating proteins (perilipins) such as
      PLIN2, PLIN3 and PLIN5 (formerly known as ADRP, TIP47 and OXPAT). There is evidence that
      exercise increase the physical interaction between LD and mitochondria in human skeletal
      muscle (83), and that the interaction with mitochondria involves specific LD-associated
      proteins such as PLIN5, PLIN3 and SNAP23 (84-86). How the multiple proteins involved in
      triglyceride-biosynthesis, exercise-mediated lipolysis, LD formation and interaction with
      mitochondria are regulated by insulin and exercise in human skeletal muscle in patients with
      T2D and high risk individuals with obesity have not previously been investigated in detail.
      Studies of these mechanisms in human skeletal muscle in vivo are warranted to evaluate their
      possible relation to lipid accumulation, mitochondrial dysfunction and impaired insulin
      signaling in IR.

      Phosphorylation and lysine acetylation of enzymes in major metabolic pathways: In addition to
      mitochondrial dysfunction and lipid accumulation, the investigators and others have provided
      evidence of enhanced glycolysis in skeletal muscle in obesity and T2D (13-15). In several
      proteomic studies, the investigators have mapped the proteomes and phosphoproteomes of human
      muscle and isolated mitochondria (97-100), Together with reports from other groups, these
      studies have shown that enzymes involved in glycolysis, fatty acid metabolism, Krebs cycle
      and OxPhos are highly abundant, and to a high degree modified by both phosphorylation and
      lysine acetylation in muscle (89-92). In addition, the investigators have shown that insulin
      regulates phosphorylation of mitochondrial proteins in human skeletal muscle (93). This
      included components of the newly defined mitochondrial inner membrane organizing system
      (MINOS), which is important for cristae morphology and mitochondrial respiration. Moreover,
      lysine acetylation of mitochondrial proteins were recently shown to correlate with insulin
      sensitivity, whereas acetylation of ADP/ATP translocase 1 (ANT1) was reduced in response to
      exercise (94). Of particular interest, a recent study indicated that lysine acetylation in
      50% of the cases interacted with phosphorylation at the same peptides suggesting cross-talk,
      and by this mechanism regulated the activity of kinases such as AMPK, AKT and PKA (92). A
      better understanding of this interaction is crucial to understand the posttranslationel
      regulation of enzymes in major metabolic and signaling pathways. Aberrant lysine acetylation
      may involve the cytosolic and mitochondrial deacetylases, Sirt1 and Sirt3, which are known to
      regulate e.g. AMPK, PGC-1alpha and multiple mitochondrial proteins as well as critical
      enzymes in insulin signaling and other molecular pathways (95). The possible regulation of
      lysine acetylation and phosphorylation and their interaction by insulin and exercise in
      individuals with and without IR has not been investigated before, and may provide substantial
      important information related to IR, enhanced glycolysis, impaired insulin signaling,
      mitochondrial dysfunction and lipid accumulation.

      Adipose tissue expandability: Recent GWAS meta-analyses have identified multiple genetic loci
      associated with measures of body fat distribution (waist, hip and WHR), independent of BMI
      (25,26) Many of these loci are located within and/or near genes implicated in adipocyte
      development or function but also adipogenesis, angiogenesis, transcriptional regulation and
      insulin resistance as processes influencing differences in distribution. Adipose tissue
      distribution appears intrinsic to the individual and is likely to depend on heritable factors
      such as genetic variants. Body composition analysis has determined the relative expansion of
      subcutaneous fat (SAT) versus ectopic fat (visceral, liver and muscle) with overfeeding. Such
      studies have contributed to the adipose tissue expandability hypothesis whereby SAT has a
      finite capacity to expand and once capacity is exceeded ectopic triglyceride deposition
      occurs (24). The potential for SAT expandability confers protection from/predisposes to the
      adverse metabolic responses to overfeeding. The concept of a personal fat threshold suggests
      a large interindividual variation in SAT capacity with ectopic depot expansion/metabolic
      decompensation once one's own threshold is exceeded. The potential molecular and signaling
      pathways involved in impaired adipose tissue expandability in individuals with T2D and
      prediabetes remain to be established. Moreover, it is not known whether exercise may modulate
      adipose tissue expandability through specific molecular mechanisms.

      Metabolomics: During the last decade, a number of metabolites have been proposed as potential
      metabolic biomarkers of insulin resistance and glucose intolerance (19-21). In particular,
      altered circulating levels of metabolites related to pathways affected by insulin, such as
      lipolysis, ketogenesis, proteolysis, and glucose metabolism have been suggested (21).
      Metabolic profiling studies of non-diabetic individuals have reported altered levels of
      phospholipids, triglycerides, hexoses, α-hydroxybutyrate, glycine, glutamine and
      branched-chain and aromatic amino acids as early biomarkers of insulin resistance, glucose
      intolerance and the development of type 2 diabetes (19-23). However, it remains to be
      determined what extent acute exercise and exercise training changes the metabolites towards a
      normal metabolic signature in obesity and T2D.

      OVERALL HYPOTHESIS AND AIMS As outlined above, the investigators hypothesize that IR and its
      association with mitochondrial dysfunction and lipid accumulation in human skeletal muscle
      involves abnormalities in the insulin- and exercise-mediated regulation of

        1. insulin sensitivity and energy metabolism,

        2. insulin signaling,

        3. mitochondrial dynamics and mitophagy,

        4. lipid droplet function and interaction with mitochondria,

        5. acetylation and phosphorylation of enzymes in major metabolic and signaling pathways, as
           well as

        6. transcriptional and signalling networks regulating mitochondrial biogenesis and
           substrate metabolism.

      Moreover, the investigators hypothesize that at least some of these abnormalities are related
      to impaired adipose tissue expandability due to impaired regulation of specific transcription
      factors or signaling pathways. Finally, these abnormalities will result in metabolomic
      signatures, which can be used to detect and prevent the development of T2D and CVD.

      In this proposal, the investigators plan a series of studies, in which we combine
      state-of-the-art metabolic characterization and novel exercise interventions with detailed
      investigations of blood samples, skeletal muscle and fat biopsies with the aim to identify
      defects in the above-mentioned novel regulatory systems and examine their potential relation
      to known abnormalities in insulin signaling, glucose and lipid metabolism and mitochondrial
      function in obesity and T2D. Further mechanistic insight will be obtained by further
      characterization of such defects in cultured myotubes and adipocytes as well as mice models
      in close collaboration with our research partners. The investigators ultimately expect that
      this will help us to identify novel targets for treatment of IR and mimicking exercise, which
      are currently missing in the treatment and prevention of T2D and CVD.

      SPECIFIC HYPOTHESIS

      Compared to matched controls, the investigators hypothesize that individuals with obesity and
      T2D are characterized by abnormalities in the fasting, resting state and/or an impaired
      effect of insulin, acute exercise and/or exercise training on:

        1. insulin secretion, insulin sensitivity and substrate metabolism

        2. distal components and modulaters of insulin signaling in muscle

        3. markers of mitochondrial dynamics and mitophagy in muscle and fat

        4. regulators of lipid droplet function and interaction with mitochondria in muscle and fat

        5. transcriptional and signalling networks regulating muscle metabolism

        6. phosphorylation and acetylation of metabolic and signaling enzymes in muscle and fat

        7. regulators of adipose tissue expandability in fat

        8. metabolomic signature in plasma

      METHODS Metabolic characterization and tissue biopsies Anthropometrics and biochemical
      analysis: Particpants in all cohorts will be examined at least 1 weeks prior to baseline
      clamp studies. This will include assessment of gender, age, BMI, blood pressure and ECG.
      Overnight fasting levels of anti-GAD65-antibody, HbA1c, screening blood tests, plasma
      glucose, FFA, lipid profile, adiponectin, leptin, serum insulin and C-peptide. VO2max is
      determined by a graded maximal test on a cycle ergometer using indirect calorimetry (8,35).
      Whole body composition (lean body mass, total, and regional fat mass) will be determined by
      DXA scans using a Hologic Discovery device (Waltham, MA, US). Lean and overweight/obese
      controls will be examined by an 2-h standard (75g) oral glucose tolerance test to exclude
      glucose intolerance (IGT).

      Euglycemic-hyperinsulinemic clamp: Before (baseline) and after the exercise training program,
      the participants are examined after a 12-h overnight fast by an euglycemic-hyperinsulinemic
      clamp (insulin 40mU/min/m2 for 4-h) as described (4-7). The clamps are combined with a 60 min
      intravenous glucose tolerance test (IVGGT) using a bolus of glucose (0.3 g/kg body weight).
      Insulin secretion is evaluated by estimates of first and second phase insulin responses
      during the first 10 min and the last 50 min, respectively. Tissue biopsies are taken as
      described below. The studies are combined with glucose tracers and indirect calorimetry
      allowing estimates of glucose disposal rates, glucose and lipid oxidation, and non-oxidative
      glucose metabolism and energy expenditure. Body fat (%) is determined by the bioimpedance
      method.

      Skeletal muscle and fat biopsies: In the basal and insulin-stimulated states of each clamp,
      skeletal muscle biopsies from m. vastus lateralis and subcutaneous abdominal fat biopsies are
      taken using a modified Bergström needle with suction under local anesthesia (4-9). Half of
      each muscle biopsy and all of each fat biopsy are rapidly frozen in liquid nitrogen within 30
      s and stored at -130°C for later analyses. One third of each muscle biopsy is immediately
      transported in an ice-cold isolation buffer to the lab for high-resolution respirometry (see
      below) (106). Small pieces of muscle (~5 mg) are embedded in Tissue-Tek and frozen in liquid
      nitrogen for immunohistochemistal analysis. Small cubes of muscle (1mm3) are pre-fixed in
      buffered glutaraldehyde and postfixation in osmium tetroxide for electron microscopy (73).

      Exercise interventions Acute exercise: After the baseline clamp, but prior to initiation of
      the exercise training program, the effects of acute exercise will be studied. After resting
      in supine position for 30 min the first set of blood samples and muscle biopsies are taken
      (see above). Then the subjects perform an aerobic exercise bout for 30 min on a cycle
      ergometer (followed by 30 min on a rowing machine (30 min) at an intensity of 60% of VO2peak.
      Blood samples are taken every 15 min, and oxygen consumption is measured by indirect
      calorimetry. After the exercise bout, the second muscle biopsies are taken while the subjects
      are resting in supine position, Finally, a third set of muscle biopsies will be taken 4 hours
      into recovery (see above).

      Exercise training: In all participants, the effects of 8-weeks supervised training will also
      be investigated. The aerobic exercise consists of 4 weekly sessions of 3 times 10 min on
      stationary bikes interspersed with 3 times 10 min on rowing-ergometers with increasing
      intensity and duration during the 8-week period. Training is a combination of steady-state
      exercise of 50-65% VO2peak during week 1-4 and intermittent exercise at higher relative
      intensities the last 4 weeks (up to 80% VO2peak). VO2max tests and DEXA scannings (body
      composition) are performed after the training period, but 48 hours before the final
      post-training clamp. VO2 max is determined in addition after week 4 and 6 in order to adjust
      the training intensities. Before and after (48 h) the training program all study participants
      will be examined by a euglycemic-hyperinsulinemic clamp and tissue biopsies as described
      above.

      Studies of skeletal muscle and adipose tissue biopsies Mitochondrial respiration:
      Measurements of mitochondrial respiration in permeabilized muscle fibers are performed in
      duplicate using a high-resolution respirometer (Oroboros Instruments) as described (96).
      Routine respiration (state 2) in the absence of adenylates is assessed by addition of malate
      and glutamate for Complex I substrate supply, followed by ADP-stimulated state 3 respiration.
      Succinate is then added to assess convergent electron input to Complex I and II. The
      integrity of the outer mitochondrial membrane is established by the addition of cytochrome c.
      This method allow studies of mitochondria in situ using very small biopsy samples.

      Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and western blotting: Total RNA is extracted from muscle
      and fat biopsies (obtained during the studies described above) using the TRIzol protocol with
      an extra phenol-chloroform step as described (67,97). Quantity of RNA is determined with a
      spectrophotometer, and RNA of high quality is assessed using Agilent 2100 Bioanalyser and
      degradometer software. Total RNA from all samples are treated with DNAse I and reverse
      transcribed to single-stranded cDNA using TaqMan reverse transcription reagents and random
      hexamer primers (Applied Biosystems). TaqMan gene expression assays for all relevant genes
      and TaqMan Universal Master Mix (Applied Biosystems) are used to quantify gene expression
      changes using Applied Biosystems Prism 7700. House-keeping genes will be tested for changes
      in response to the interventions, and the three most stable of these genes will be used to
      normalize gene expression levels. We will perform microarray-based mRNA and miRNA profiling
      using Affymetrix arrays in collaboration with the Department of Clinical Genetics at Odense
      University Hospital. Protein abundance and phosphorylation of all enzymes of interest will be
      studied in human skeletal muscle and fat biopsies (obtained during the studies described
      above) by Western blotting procedures as described (4-10) using commercial available
      antibodies, or using antibodies from our international collaborators.

      As outlined in the background of the proposal, we will measure mRNA levels and protein
      content and/or phosphorylation of multiple genes/enzymes involved in insulin signaling,
      Wnt-signaling and other regulators of adipose tissue expandability, mitochondrial dynamics
      and mitophagy, LD function, and transcriptional and signaling networks regulated by exercise.

      TEM and immunogold-labelling: Morphology, volume and localization as well as physical
      interaction between LD and mitochondria in muscle biopsies from the study cohorts before and
      after the different interventions are determined by transmission electron microscopy (TEM)
      using the principles of unbiased stereology as described (83,98). Immunogold-labelling using
      antibodies against e.g. PLIN5, PLIN3 and SNAP23 will be used in TEM studies as described
      85,99) to localize and quantify the interaction of these LD and other proteins with
      mitochondria in human skeletal muscle.

      Unbiased and targeted MS/MS-based quantitative proteomics: First, we will perform
      discovery-mode, quantitative MS/MS based proteomic studies of the acetylomes and
      phosphoproteomes in muscle and fat of individuals with obesity and T2D using novel
      quantitative techniques including isobaric labelling (iTRAQ) or Tandem Mass Gag (TMT). Later
      a list of confirmed lysine acetylation and phosphorylation sites identified these studies on
      muscle and fat enzymes involved in major metabolic pathways and selected signaling cascades
      will be created and used for targeted analysis. We will take advantage of a novel targeted
      quantitative proteomic approach called selected reaction monitoring (SRM) using a new
      high-sensitivity LC-MS/MS system as described (100). By this method hundreds of lysine
      acetylation and phosphorylation sites can be reliable quantified in whole muscle lysates or
      isolated mitochondria in a single experiment.

      Metabolomics: Metabolomics is the study of the metabolome, which represents all metabolites
      found in a biological sample. This complexity demands sophisticated separation and detection
      methods. By using comprehensive and quantitative analysis, it is possible to detect a wide
      range of metabolites including precursors, derivatives, and degradation products within a
      large dynamic range (101). Recent developments in analytical chemistry, especially liquid
      chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and
      the availability of extensive software tools for analyzing big data allow the detection,
      identification and quantification of very large numbers of molecules in the micro- and
      nano-molar range in body fluids, such as tissues, blood and urine (102). Compared to
      transcriptomics and proteomics, the metabolome is much more chemically diverse, and thus,
      multiple approaches involving different extraction and analytical methods must be applied to
      obtain unbiased and complete information about the entire metabolome. In this project, we
      will use both LC-MS and GC-MS-based metabolomics.

      Genetic manipulation of myotubes, adipocytes and mice: Genes and proteins found to be
      dysregulated in obesity and T2D will be used to design mechanistic studies using genetic
      manipulation of C2C12 muscle cells and 3T3-L1 adipocytes. We have currently established C2C12
      cells and 3T3-L1 adipocytes and facilities for knockdown (siRNA) and overexpression of genes
      using transfection. When it comes to muscle- and adipose tissue specific transfection and/or
      knock-out of genes in mice models, our collaboration with professor Jørgen Wojtaszewski at
      the August Krogh gives us access to muscle-specific knock-out of AMPK α1/α2, mTORC2, RAC1 and
      PGC1α , which can be used to test their impact or involvement in an observed abnormality in
      human muscle. Moreover, our collaboration with the group of professor Fredrik Karpe at the
      Oxford Centre for Diabetes, Endocrinology and Metabolism (OCDEM) at University of Oxford, UK
      gives us access to carry out genetic manipulation of immortalized cultured human adipocytes
      for studies of critical enzymes in Wnt-signaling.
    
  