
    
      This is a single site, double-blind, randomized, controlled study designed to explore
      buckwheat's glucose lowering effects in healthy volunteers and volunteers with type 2
      diabetes. A total of 24 volunteers consisting of 12 volunteers (healthy and diabetic) per
      group for both the acute and chronic phases of testing will be recruited through
      advertisement from the local community.

      In the acute testing phase, volunteers (healthy and diabetic) will be asked to attend 4
      visits one week apart for the duration of 3 hours per visit. A fasting blood sample will be
      collected at each visit. At each visit, all volunteers will consume in random order 1 of the
      following 4 products: i) crackers containing buckwheat; ii) crackers without buckwheat); iii)
      50 mls of oral solution containing glucose; or iv) 50 mls of oral solution containing the
      sugar substitute Splenda. The crackers will contain equal amounts of available carbohydrates.
      Blood sampling will occur at 15, 30, 45, 60 minutes, and then every 60 minutes for the
      remainder of the visit. Sampling (pre and post product consumption) will measure insulin,
      glucose, and various incretins. Open venous access will be secured after the first sample has
      been obtained to minimize the number of needle pricks. Total amount of blood obtained will
      not exceed 30 mls per visit.

      In the chronic testing phase, volunteers (healthy and diabetic) will receive the crackers
      containing buckwheat for consumption each day for 7 days. Prior to food consumption, a
      fasting blood sample will be obtained each day and a urine sample will be collected on Days
      1, 3, and 7 to assess bioavailability of buckwheat compounds (concentrations in blood and
      urine), insulin and glucose. Sampling for a lipid profile (total cholesterol,
      LDL-cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol and triglycerides), liver (ALT), kidney (creatinine),
      adipose function (adipokines), various incretins, as well as inflammatory status (various
      cytokines) will be done on Day 1 and Day 7. Total amount of blood obtained will not exceed 30
      mls per visit.
    
  