
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. The primary outcome is the change in numeric rating scale in self-reported nausea on a
      0-10 scale from baseline to 60 minutes of treatment.

      OUTLINE: All individuals who are eligible are randomized to a sequence of treatments: either
      placebo-ABH or ABH-placebo. The randomization list will be generated by the Study
      Biostatistician. Neither the patient nor the investigator will have knowledge of the actual
      content of Drug A or B, so the study will be double-blinded, and placebo controlled.

      Drug A: The dose of the drugs in the 1.0 mL dose will be 2 mg of lorazepam, 25 mg of
      diphenhydramine, and 2 mg of haloperidol in a pluronic lecithin organogel. It will be rubbed
      on the volar surface of the wrists by the subject, for 2 minutes as done in clinical
      practice, at time 0. Drug B: equivalent but no ABH.

      Subjects will rub 1 mL of the first drug, Drug A gel, between their wrists for 2 minutes.

      Subjects will be asked to rate and complete their nausea on the Memorial Symptom Assessment
      Scale (CMSAS). At time 60 two options can occur. One, if there is no effect after the first
      drug in one hour, then patients will receive the second drug. If there is no effect in one
      hour from second drug, patients will stop the study and resume normal treatment for their
      nausea. Or two, if the first gel reduces nausea by more than 1 point on the 0-10 scale,
      subjects will wait 4 hours to apply the next gel. At this point, the study procedures will be
      repeated. After treatment, patients are followed up for up to 8 hours.

      Subjects will be asked to rate their nausea on a 0 (no nausea) to 10 (worst possible nausea)
      scale at baseline, 60, 120, 180, and 240 minutes.

      Subjects will complete the Memorial Symptom Assessment Scale (CMSAS), a reliable and valid
      instrument for assessing relevant symptoms including lack of energy, lack of appetite, pain,
      dry mouth, weight loss, feeling drowsy, shortness of breath, constipation, difficulty
      sleeping, difficulty concentrating, and nausea.
    
  