
    
      The use of steroids in septic shock remains controversial. The purpose of this study is to
      determine whether hydrocortisone decreases 28-day mortality in patients with septic shock.
      The primary end point will be 28-day mortality in all the non-responders to ACTH (< or = 9
      mcg/dl or 250 nmol/L post ACTH). Secondary endpoints will be 28 day all cause mortality in
      the total group and in responders, ICU and hospital mortality, one year mortality, organ
      system failure reversal especially shock, and duration of ICU and total hospitalisation.

      In a double-blinded fashion (randomized on a 1:1 basis), patients receive 50 mg intravenously
      every 6 hours for 5 days. After 5 days, treatment will be tapered with 50 mg given
      intravenously every 12 hours for days 6-8, then 50 mg every 24 hours for days 9-11, and then
      stopped.

      All concomitant treatments, including antibiotics, fluids, vasopressors and ancillary
      therapies will be given at the discretion of the primary care physician. Evidence-based
      guidelines for the management of severe sepsis and septic shock by the International Sepsis
      Forum (Intensive Care Med 2001;27:S124-S134) are encouraged to be followed.

      All serious adverse events (SAE) which occur between days 0 and 28, which are unexpected
      and/or considered possibly or probably related to the study medication, must be documented
      and reported within 24 hours to the Safety and Efficacy Monitoring Committee. Non-serious
      adverse events will be listed on the case report form if they are unexpected and believed to
      be related to the study drug during days 0 to 14.

      Specific adverse events which will be monitored closely because of their relationship to
      corticosteroids and shock are:

        1. Use of corticosteroids, i.e. gastrointestinal bleeding and superinfection;
           hyperglycemia, hypernatremia, muscular weakness, etc.

        2. Shock and use of vasopressors, i.e. stroke, acute myocardial infarction and peripheral
           ischemia.

      In addition, substudies will include harmonization of cortisol by comparing cortisol levels
      measured in local laboratories and a central laboratory, immune and neuro-endocrine
      interactions, neuromuscular weakness and cytokines.
    
  