
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      Phase II

      To evaluate the impact of adding local consolidative therapy (LCT) to maintenance systemic
      therapy versus maintenance systemic therapy alone on progression-free survival for patients
      with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with no evidence of progression and
      limited metastatic sites after first-line systemic therapy.

      Phase III

      To evaluate the impact of adding LCT to maintenance systemic therapy versus maintenance
      systemic therapy alone on overall survival for patients with metastatic NSCLC with no
      evidence of progression and limited metastatic sites after first-line systemic therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the impact of adding LCT to maintenance systemic therapy versus maintenance
      systemic therapy alone on in-field local failure.

      II. To evaluate the impact of adding LCT to maintenance systemic therapy versus maintenance
      systemic therapy alone on the time to development of new lesions.

      III. To evaluate the impact of adding LCT to maintenance systemic therapy versus maintenance
      systemic therapy alone on toxicity.

      IV. To evaluate the impact of adding LCT to maintenance systemic therapy versus maintenance
      systemic therapy alone on duration of maintenance systemic therapy usage.

      V. To evaluate the effect of adding LCT to systemic therapy in limited stage IV NSCLC on
      Quality of Life (QOL) VI. To collect biospecimens and evaluate the correlation between
      clinical outcomes and circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA).

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized into 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM 1 (CHEMOTHERAPY ALONE): ): Patients may receive docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 60
      minutes on Day 1, erlotinib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD), or gemcitabine IV over
      30 minutes on Days 1 and 8. Patients with non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer may receive
      pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes on Day 1 alone or in combination with pembrolizumab IV
      over 30 minutes. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM 2 (SBRT AND CHEMOTHERAPY): Patients undergo LCT over 2-4 weeks. If LCT cannot be used to
      treat primary disease sites, patients also undergo intensity-modulated radiation therapy
      (IMRT) or 3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy (3DCRT) over 3-5 weeks. Within 2 weeks
      after completion of radiation therapy, patients receive chemotherapy as in Arm 1. Patients
      may possibly undergo surgery.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 3 years, then annually thereafter.
    
  