
    
      The National Heart and Lung Institute determines asthma as a common chronic airway disease
      distinguished by variable and reoccurring manifestations, bronchial hypersensitivity,
      reducing the flow of air in and out of the lungs and inflammatory reactions with in air
      passages in the lungs.

      Earlier in the first place asthma is also defined as existence of spontaneously reversible
      airway obstruction or with treatment and narrowing of airways also increased to different
      stimuli i.e. abrupt changes in weather, cold air, histamine, dust, pollen, feathers,
      exercise, viral upper respiratory infection, animal dander, cigarette smoke, fungal spores or
      respiratory allergens that increases bronchial hypersensitivity.

      segmental breathing technique is used for increasing the expansion of chest in individual's
      having empyema whose expansion has been decreased. Total 40 individuals with empyema were
      included in this study. Chest expansion at three levels have been checked i.e. at axilla
      level, at sternum level and at xiphoid level were examined before and after implementation of
      segmental exercise technique. Segmental breathing techniques play a major role in expansion
      of damaged lungs and as a consequence integral to rehabilitation of Respiratory disease.

      The effectiveness of segmental breathing technique and deep breathing exercise on expansion
      of chest and pulmonary function test. The physical therapy treatment comprises of dyspnea
      alleviating positions, simple breathing exercises, and exercises for thoracic expansion,
      inspiratory muscle training with incentive spirometers. Segmental breathing techniques are
      used to give support or enhance expansion of restricted lung in respiratory disorder. This
      technique is meant to have an effect on variation of mechanism, involving the stretch reflex
      process. Fast stretch on external intercostal muscles brings on assistance in contraction.

      Intercostal stretching with breathing control exercises might be more effective in enhancing
      lung parameters. This may also take part in ventilator capacity like tidal volume, saturation
      of oxygen and minute ventilation. Intercostal stretching might have stimulated the receptors
      of stretch mechanism in chest wall, hence distend the thoracic cavity which would have
      connected to medulla oblongata with nerve cell.

      The efficacy of buteyko method on control of asthma and quality of living in individuals with
      asthma. The buteyko breathing exercise is non-medical method that had shown to be better in
      reducing the frequency and seriousness of asthma. The interventional group manifested a
      considerable improvement in control of asthma score and quality of living score after four
      weeks. The other control group didn't manifest any improvement. This study suggested that
      buteyko breathing exercise may upgrade the physical, societal, spiritual and occupational
      effect on asthma and improved quality of living.

      The combined effect of buteyko breathing exercise and walking exercise on peak expiratory
      flow. The experimental group was specified for the combination of buteyko exercises and
      walking exercise for duration of eight weeks, three times per week and of 55 minutes of
      training session. The benefit of this technique is hold interval that can decrease overuse of
      carbon dioxide (CO2) that will control breath rate with the help of medulla oblongata in
      respiratory center, providing Nitric oxide (NO) which particular has bronchodilator effect.
      These both exercises minimise inflammatory reaction so that they decrease the sign and
      symptoms of asthma.
    
  