
    
      Knowing when to give fluids to the patient is very important in fluid therapy.It is
      appropriate to administer it to patients whose cardiac output will increase when the fluid is
      administered (a patient with fluid responsiveness). Appropriate fluid administration can
      hemodynamically stabilize the patient's condition and reduce unnecessary fluid
      administration, thereby reducing complications that occur when fluid is insufficient or
      excessive fluid is administered.

      The most commonly used dynamic variables in clinical practice are pulse pressure variation
      (PPV), stroke volume variation (SVV), and systolic pressure variation that can be obtained by
      invasive arterial tube insertion. However, recently a non-invasive monitoring method is being
      used in more and more areas, and in many cases it is necessary to closely monitor the
      patient's hemodynamic status without mounting an arterial catheter. Therefore, if the
      variables measured by a non-invasive method can predict fluid responsiveness at a reliable
      level, it will be of great help in clinical practice.

      According to previous studies, dynamic variables can relatively accurately predict fluid
      responsiveness only in patients undergoing mechanical ventilation. However, in actual clinic,
      it is necessary to evaluate fluid reactivity even in patients who are not under mechanical
      positive pressure ventilation. Accurate fluid treatment should be performed during or after
      surgery under spinal anesthesia in the recovery room. In addition, there are cases in which
      dynamic variables must be monitored non-invasively in spontaneous breathing patients who do
      not undergo mechanical ventilation even in intensive care units.

      It is clinically meaningful to predict fluid responsiveness in spontaneous breathing patients
      using such a non-invasive method of monitoring. However, there is limited data on how to
      evaluate fluid responsiveness in these patient groups. Therefore, the purpose of this study
      is to evaluate whether fluid responsiveness can be predicted in spontaneous breathing
      patients using non-invasive dynamic variables.
    
  