
    
      Enrolled subjects will be randomized to receive one of two treatment courses: a) MIST Therapy
      in conjunction with standard of care (SOC) (treatment group); or b)SOC alone (control group).

      On post-op day 1, subjects will undergo a baseline evaluation prior to initiating assigned
      study treatment, including: wound measurement, wound bed evaluation, description of periwound
      skin, measurement of type and quantity of exudation, wound clinical symptoms (pain, burning,
      itching), and digital photography. Subject will then receive assigned study treatment.

      SOC includes, but is not limited to, fluid resuscitation, pain medications, systemic
      antibiotics, control of bleeding, and standard dressings as appropriate for the moisture
      balance of the wound. SOC also includes providing a hydrocolloid border around the wound with
      a transparent film dressing over the donor site. No advanced or impregnated dressings are
      allowed during the study. No topical antibiotics or antibiotic dressings, topical antiseptics
      (silver, iodine, etc.,) or antimicrobials are allowed.

      The transparent film will be removed each day and wound fluid will be collected for analysis.
      After wound fluid collection, subjects will receive their assigned study treatment. Subjects
      randomized to receive MIST Therapy will be treated daily for 5 consecutive days. Following
      administration of the assigned study treatment, subjects will have replacement of the
      transparent film. The hydrocolloid will remain in place on the border of intact skin.

      Evaluations performed will include a wound assessment, digital photography, wound pain
      assessment and an adverse event assessment. Following the initial 5 day treatment, the study
      wounds will be dressed per SOC with dressing changes as needed.

      Subjects will undergo a weekly wound assessment through 6 weeks from the date of study
      enrollment. A weekly wound assessment will include the assessment of maintained wound
      closure, digital photography, and an adverse event assessment.
    
  