
    
      Prospective Observation Study of Cost Effectiveness of Interventions for Critical Ischemia

      Background The incidence of arteriosclerotic disease increases with age and is one of
      society's greatest public health problem. Impaired circulation to the lower limbs, termed
      peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is a common diagnosis in the older populations. Estimates
      show that about 10% of the population over age 70 suffers from symptomatic PAD. [1] Milder
      forms of the disease causes walking induced pain in the legs, termed intermittent
      claudication, resulting in a variable restriction of walking ability. As the disease
      progresses, circulatory impairment becoming more pronounced, often resulting in rest pain,
      impaired wound healing, or in the worst cases gangrene. These latter stages of PAD
      categorized as critical limb ischemia, is usually followed by a pronounced reduction in the
      individual's mobility and quality of life. The incidence of critical limb ischemia in Sweden
      is estimated at about 40 per 100 000 inhabitants, which means that each year more than 600
      individuals in the Västra Götaland Region (VGR) suffer from this condition. [2] Untreated
      critical ischemia leads to a high risk of amputations. Investigations of the blood
      circulation of these patients arterial circulation generally reveal extensive
      arteriosclerotic vascular lesions including arterial occlusions (stop) in the vessels
      supplying the lower extremities. Interventions designed to improve blood flow has ability to
      reduce symptoms and in the short or long term eliminate amputation threat. The established
      treatment principle has since the 1960s been bypass surgery. The method involves major open
      surgery, including a period of hospitalization and has a high incidence of local as well as
      general complications.

      Since more than a decade, a minimally invasive technique to restore flow in occluded artery
      has become widely used. The method termed as subintimal angioplasty (SAP) uses catheter and
      guide wire to get through the occluded vessel section, followed by balloon dilatation. The
      method is under development and increases in use both internationally and in Sweden. The
      advantage is that the procedure has less risk for local and systemic complications. The
      procedures is also associated with shorter hospital stays. Disadvantages are that the
      duration of treatment is often shorter and the procedure often has to be repeated. [3] It is
      currently unknown if SAP is a cost effective way to treat critical limb. Furthermore, the
      impact on patient health-related quality of life (HRQL) is in the short and long term
      unknown. W What role the minimally invasive technologies will have in the future is unclear,
      mainly due to that efficiency and cost-effectiveness compared to bypass surgery have not
      thoroughly been evaluated, which was pointed out in a national health technology assessment
      "Benartärsjukdom - diagnosis and treatment". [1]

      Purpose The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness, cost efficiency, and
      patient benefits including HRQL in the short and long term for the two principally different
      methods of treatment for critical limb ischemia in as far as possible unselected clinical
      population of VGR. The effectiveness of treatment methods are evaluated for their ability to
      prevent amputations, provide symptom improvement, duration of treatment (patency), cumulative
      health care cost up to two years, and the effects on HRQL.

      Question / Hypothesis

        1. Endovascular treatment (SAP) for CLI is a cost-effective treatment compared with open
           bypass surgery.

        2. SAP is associated with better HRQL in the short term and comparable HRQL in the long
           term (two years) compared with open bypass surgery.

        3. A clinical study of structure as below can identify selection criteria for the method to
           be offered to the patient as the primary method for critical limb

      Method: Sample / Representativeness The survey is conducted in the form of a prospective
      observational study in which the two cohorts followed for two years.

      Inclusion criteria: patients with CLI due to arterial occlusion of the superficial femoral
      artery and popliteal artery being considered for bypass surgery or SAP at any of the four
      vascular surgical units in VGR.

      Exclusion criteria: Patients with occlusions at levels above the origin of the superficial
      femoral artery or occlusions, which has a distribution more distal to the popliteal artery.
      Patients with inability to understand patient information for informed consent.

      A prospective randomized study with high internal validity, are often considered to have
      greater value than a controlled comparative observational study. The problem is that the
      external validity tends to be low in prospective randomized trials often only a small
      percentage of patients can be randomized between the two treatments.

      The difficulties of a prospective randomized study on this type of question can be
      exemplified by the BASIL study where only 20% of patients requiring treatment for CLI were
      randomized into the study. [4] The advantage of a prospective observational study is that
      substantially all of the patients in the region being treated for critical limb ischemia and
      that do not satisfy the exclusion criteria can be included, so that the external validity is
      high, and that the results may be implemented in the clinical practice.

      Inclusion of patients is made on the four units over two years, in connection with decisions
      on treatment. In total 250 patients under 2 years will be included in the study.

      Method: Grouping The analysis divided subjects into those who bypass surgery and those who
      have undergone endovascular treatment.

      Methods: The intervention Bypass Surgery: The operation is an open surgical procedure that is
      performed under general anesthesia or regional anesthesia. [5] This method means that the
      blood is bypassed the occluded artery by a new vessel (usually vein).

      Angioplasty: Using intra arterial catheter technology, a guide wire and catheter is passed
      through the occluded vessel section. Balloon dilatation will thereafter recreate a new
      channel for blood flow. [6] The surgery is a minimally invasive procedure that is done under
      local anesthesia.

      Method: Data Collection Initial data collection: General information as age, presence of
      diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, and smoking obtained.

      A validated scale, the Rutherford scale together with ankle pressure, assesses the degree of
      CLI. [7] Anatomic mapping of the vessel lesions before revascularization is performed by
      digital subtraction angiography, MRI or CT scan.

      In order to rate the extent of the arterial lesions the preoperative investigations were
      examined with respect to

        -  starting point of occlusion

        -  length of the occlusion

        -  the distal arterial run-off (number of open leg vessels). These data form the basis for
           subsequent matching of populations.

      Prospective follow-up:

      Clinical Evaluation: The two treatment groups had followed up at one, 12 and 24 months. At
      these time points, patients were examined with ankle pressure, ultrasound (duplex) and
      clinical condition (possibly amputation, ischemic degree of Rutherford scale). Any additional
      treatment for arterial occlusion or to prevent occlusion of during the study period was
      registered.

      The costs of treatment are followed prospectively in the Regional Health Database. After
      follow-up, a calculation of treatment costs for each patient. Health-related quality of life:
      data obtained before treatment, after 1 month and after 24 months using Vascular Quality of
      Life Questionnaire (VascuQol) that is designed for use in peripheral arterial disease and EQ
      5D.

      Method: Data Processing

      The treatment effect is estimated in the two groups with respect to:

        -  amputation free survival

        -  patancy

        -  clinical condition

        -  cumulative health care cost

        -  HRQoL

      Clinical follow-up in accordance with the DEFINE group consensus document for follow-up after
      treatment of lower limb ischemia. [7] After statistical matching of the population on the
      basis of the prospective data variables, a comparative analysis is performed. Special
      analysis is made of the patient population in which both methods are deemed to have been
      possible to implement.

      Cumulative cost of care: Both the costs and effects of both the methods will be studied.
      Costs will be followed in the Regional Health Database for admissions related to the two
      interventions. The cost of complications will be assigned patients under gross-costing
      method, which means that the price per action and cost per complication will be the same for
      all patients. In other words, it is therefore only the number and type of measure and number
      and type of complication that will affect the cost of each treatment arm. This does not
      affect the outcome of patient-specific factors that are not related to the question in the
      study. Efficacy will be based on measurements using the EQ-5D and the result of the
      measurement can be transformed into utilities which in turn can be used to calculate
      quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). [8, 9] Health-related quality of life: VascuQol is
      designed for use in peripheral arterial disease including CLI. The questionnaire consists of
      25 questions in 5 domains (pain, symptoms, activities, social and emotional). [11]

      Expected Results / Significance Critical ischemia is a common cause of pain, ulceration and
      gangrene of the lower extremities in the elderly. The disease causes great suffering for the
      victims and leads to large social costs in the form of high hospitalization consumption.

      For patients with CLI, treatment with bypass surgery has been the standard treatment for
      decades. The results are suboptimal, data from Swedish vascular register, Swedvasc shows that
      3% die within a month, 18% are not improved, 10% are amputees within a year. Over the past
      10-15 years, the technique of endovascular treatment, known as subintimal angioplasty,
      developed and spread to more and more clinics. The method is increasingly being used as
      first-line treatment of critical limb ischemia, despite lack evidence of its efficiency and
      cost effectiveness. As healthcare resources are limited, it is essential that a new treatment
      is evaluated before it is introduced as a routine method. For ethical reasons and resource
      reasons, it is essential that patients with severe disease may receive, in both the short and
      long term, the most effective treatment. This study aims to clarify the effectiveness of both
      bypass surgery and endovascular treatment of critical limb ischemia due to occlusion of the
      superficial femoral artery and / or knee artery in a clinical normal population.
    
  