
    
      This was a Phase 2, randomized, double-blind study of efficacy, safety, and tolerability of
      once daily (QD) dosing of LAI 590 mg versus placebo for 84 days in subjects with treatment
      refractory NTM lung infection on a stable multidrug regimen. At the conclusion of the
      randomized double-blind phase of the study, subjects who consented to continue in the
      open-label phase of the study received LAI 590 mg QD for 84 additional days. All subjects
      were required to complete a 28-day safety follow-up after their end of treatment study visit
      (Day 168). Subjects completing this study were consented for enrollment in a long-term
      follow-up phase and were asked to return to the study site at 12 months and 24 months (per
      protocol Amendment #3, the 24-month follow-up visit was no longer required) (visit window ± 2
      months) after the last dose of study drug (either after completing the randomized
      double-blind phase or the open-label phase). Subjects were stratified upon entering the study
      based on the presence or absence of cystic fibrosis (CF) and Mycobacterium avium complex
      versus M abscessus as the predominate NTM organism at baseline and were block randomized to
      receive either LAI or placebo in a 1:1 ratio in the double-blind phase.

      Subjects completing the main study, and subjects who completed the 84-day open-label phase,
      were consented for enrollment in a post-LAI safety follow-up assessment and were asked to
      return to the study site 12 months (visit window ± 2 months) after the last dose of study
      drug (either after completing the randomized double-blind phase or the open-label phase). The
      screening period required obtaining 3 morning sputum specimens (spontaneous or induced) for
      mycobacteriology. At each post-screening sputum timepoint, at least 2 and preferably 3 sputum
      specimens were obtained. At Day 1 (baseline), subjects were evaluated pre-dose and post-dose
      at the study site. Subjects returned to the study site briefly on Day 2 for collection of
      serum samples to determine creatinine clearance. On Days 28, 56, and 84, study drug was
      administered at the site and the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of study drug were
      evaluated. At Day 85, those subjects continuing in the open-label phase of the study received
      LAI 590 mg at the study site with pre-dose and post-dose assessments for safety and efficacy.
      Subjects returned every 28 days (Days 112, 140, and 168) in the open-label phase. A 28-day,
      post-dose follow-up visit occurred at either Day 112 for those subjects who did not continue
      in the open-label phase or at Day 196 for those subjects who continued in the open-label
      phase.

      Subjects completing the main study, and subjects who completed the 84-day open-label phase,
      were consented for enrollment in a post-LAI safety follow-up assessment and were asked to
      return to the study site 12 months (visit window ± 2 months) after the last dose of study
      drug (either after completing the randomized double-blind phase or the open-label phase).
      Arikace™, Arikayce™, Liposomal Amikacin for Inhalation (LAI), and Amikacin Liposome
      Inhalation Suspension (ALIS) may be used interchangeably throughout this study and other
      studies evaluating amikacin liposome inhalation suspension.
    
  