
    
      At first the subject will have 2 cycles of cancer drugs (Doxorubicin, Bleomycin, Vincristine,
      Etoposide, Prednisone, Cyclophosphamide). The doctors call this combination of cancer drugs
      ABVE-PC for short. A cycle equals 21 days. The cancer drugs will be given intravenously (IV).

      Those patients evaluated as having an early response to treatment will be put in the group of
      Rapid Early Responders (RERs). The RER group includes those patients whose disease has been
      reduced by 60% or more. The next step for patients with RERs is 2 more cycles of ABVE-PC
      chemotherapy followed by another evaluation of their response. Those determined to have a
      complete response (at least an 80% disease reduction) will receive no further therapy. Those
      patients determined to have less than a complete response will receive radiation therapy
      within 6 weeks after the last cycle or when blood counts are recovered. Radiation therapy
      will be given to the involved areas and by the standard of care of this hospital (Texas
      Children's Hospital). After radiation the subject will be off treatment.

      Patients with disease reduction less than 60% are put in the group of Slow Early Responders
      (SERs). The next step for patients with SER is 2 cycles of DECA (Dexamethasone, Etoposide,
      Cytarabine, and Cisplatin). On Days 1 and 2, the subject will be given dexamethasone IV
      first; afterwards, then they will receive the Etoposide and Cytarabine mixture. Cisplatin
      will be given by IV only on Day 1.

      BIOLOGY TESTS The doctors are investigating molecules in tumors and blood that may help them
      better understand the biology of Hodgkin's Disease. These studies may also help them
      understand differences in patients' responses to therapy.

      TISSUE FOR BIOMARKER STUDIES The doctors want to study the material that shows the make-up of
      the cancer (the genes of the cancer tissue) and the special "markers" of the tissue. Tissue
      from the subject's cancer biopsies will be used for these studies. They will collect these
      samples when the subject has a biopsy for clinical reasons.

      IMMUNE FUNCTION AND BIOMARKER BLOOD TESTS The doctors also want to collect blood samples to
      study the subject's immune system and to look at biomarkers in the blood.
    
  