
    
      Fibrinolysis is a process to lyse clot formed by thrombin. It starts with activating
      plasminogen to plasmin by the endogenous tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) and urokinase
      plasminogen activator (uPA). These activator are found in the endothelium, granulocytes and
      monocytes. Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) is the major inhibitor of tPA and uPA)
      and α2-antiplasmin is major inhibitor of plasmin. Plasmin wil degrade soluble fibrinogen and
      fibrin to produce fibrinogen degradation products and fibrin degradation products,
      respectively.

      Lumbrokinase has been investigated in animal studies. Kim et al was conducting on rats by
      administered freeze-dried powder of Lumbricus rubellus earthworm orally. This study showed
      that earthworm powder is valuable for the prevention and/or treatment of thrombotic
      conditions. Similar conclusion also shown on study by Lee et al, which compared
      antithrombotic and fibrinolytic activities of lumbrokinase SPP-501 (extracted from Eisenia
      andrei earthworm) with urokinase and t-PA in a thrombosis model of rat vena. The results of
      this study were decreasing of thrombus weight, shortening of euglobulin lysis time (ELT), and
      reducing platelet aggregation of rat which given SPP-501.

      Conclusion from several clinical trial similar with several studies on animal. From study
      which was conducted by Jin et al on 51 cerebral infarct subjects which were given 3 times 400
      mg lumbrokinase (n = 31) or control (n = 20) for 28 days. In the treatment group, kaolin
      partial thromboplastin time (KPTT) was prolonged, t-PA activity and D-dimer level increase,
      and fibrinogen decreased significantly. It is concluded that mechanism of lumbrokinase as
      oral antithrombotic and fibrinolytic are by inhibition of coagulation intrinsic pathway and
      activate fibrinolytic pathway by increasing t-PA activity. Fibrinolytic activity was also
      concluded by Rey, who was conducted study on 28 diabetic foot ulcer subjects, which were
      given 3 times 500 mg lumbrokinase per day (n = 14) for 7 days, or placebo. On this study, in
      the treatment group mean of D-dimer was increased.

      From many clinical trials, it is concluded that effects of lumbrokinase have seen after
      several days. It is different with intravenous fibrinolytic enzym, such as streptokinase and
      t-PA, which effects have seen soon after it was used. Therefore oral lumbrokinase could not
      replace the function of intravenous fibrinolytic enzym,that was used on acute thrombosis.
      Based on antithrombotic and fibrinolytic activity, lumbrokinase might used as secondary
      prevention after acute thrombosis, such as myocard infarct and stroke. Some researchers have
      started clinical trials about that hypothesis.

      Pilot study by Kasim et al was used a lumbrokinase in 10 patient with stable angina pectoris.
      This study showed that 70% of total sample receiving lumbrokinase had a significant decrease
      in summed stress score of perfusion imaging and better perfusion in viable myocardium after
      30 days of lumbrokinase treatment.
    
  