
    
      19 COVID is a deadly viral disease that has been spreading around the world for several
      months, and is caused by a CORONA family virus (COVID-19). This virus family causes upper
      respiratory tract disease and sometimes severe and fatal lung disease, as in the past:
      SARS-CoV (severe acute respiratory syndrome) and -MERS-CoV.

      Since the outbreak of the pandemic there has been a constant search for effective drug
      treatment for the disease. Following IN-VITRO evidence of the antiviral effect of CHLOROQUINE
      in CORONA viruses, this drug has been used empirically for COVID-19 patients and is currently
      recommended in Israel for the treatment of intermediate and severity disease.

      Currently, it is not common to treat patients with mild illness or asymptomatic carriers. In
      these situations, isolation is recommended until upper respiratory tract surfaces no longer
      show the presence of the virus, a period of approximately 20 days. .

      The mechanism of action of chloroquine is in part by inhibiting the virus distribution, and
      changing the intracellular acidity, the virus distribution site. The intracellular
      chloroquine concentration is determined by a pump called PGP that removes the drug from the
      cell and is activated by the drug. In the treatment of malaria, the benefit of low dosage of
      the drug has been shown to be effective due to the fact that the intracellular concentration
      of the drug is probably higher, and therefore the logic to examine this issue in COVID-19
      treatment.

      The purpose of this study is to test whether a low dose of Chloroquine will reduce the
      duration of the viral shedding and prevent the disease from worsening. Reducing the duration
      of viral shedding, shortens the time when there is a risk that the person will spread the
      disease, and the time when the person is in isolation and cannot return to his normal life.

      The trial will be conducted in two stages, first in patients with mild-grade symptomatology
      disease , and then, depending on the results of the first phase, Investigator's will consider
      chloroquine therapy in asymptomatic patients (carriers only) to reduce the duration of viral
      shedding and prevent the onset of symptomatic disease. (Chloroquine dosage at this stage will
      be determined by the results of the first stage) In the first stage, patients will be
      recruited at a slight level and will compare two doses of chloroquine (low and normal) with
      standard of care.

      In the second stage, Investigator's plan to examine asymptomatic carriers. Progress between
      Phase 1 and Phase 2 of the experiment will be contingent upon receiving a renewed approval
      from the Helsinki Committee, based on an interim report to be submitted.

      For the first study, patients diagnosed with COVID-19 patients will be recruited in a mild
      condition, with no background disease or drug therapy that endangers them with the side
      effects of chloroquine. will monitor patients' will be monitor for clinical status and
      periodic PCR (polymerase chain reaction ) results from nasal and pharyngeal surfaces.
    
  