
    
      Aim 1: To compare the respiratory system resistance and elastance obtained during
      constant-flow, volume-preset ventilation (using conventional means) and during
      pressure-preset ventilation (by analyzing the slope of the flow versus time waveform, as
      described below).

      Aim 2: To determine whether patient effort and level of alertness impair the accuracy of
      resistance and elastance measurements during pressure-preset ventilation.

      Hypothesis 1: Our primary hypothesis is that the flow versus time waveform contains
      information sufficient to calculate the respiratory system resistance and elastance. To test
      the primary hypothesis, we propose to measure resistance and elastance of subjects ventilated
      in the ICU during assist-control ventilation (a standard constant flow, volume-preset mode).
      Then we will record the flow versus time waveform during pressure-preset ventilation. By
      extrapolating the flow versus time waveform (which is generally linear) to the time axis, one
      can calculate elastance since at zero flow, the alveolar pressure equals the ventilator
      inspiratory pressure. Then Ers = (Pinsp - Total PEEP)/Extrapolated VT, where Pinsp is the set
      inspiratory pressure and extrapolated VT is the tidal volume if inspiratory time had been
      sufficient to allow equilibration between patient and ventilator (using trigonometry).
      Similarly, by extrapolating the flow versus time waveform to the flow axis (to find the
      maximal flow), one can calculate the resistance, assuming that flow depends on the pressure
      difference between ventilator and patient and the square of the resistance. We will compare
      the values derived during pressure-preset ventilation with those determined during
      assist-control (taken as the true values).

      Hypothesis 2: We hypothesize that inspiratory effort will be sufficient in some subjects to
      distort the flow versus time waveform from that which would be seen if the patient were
      passive, leading to erroneous values for resistance and elastance. We will estimate the
      respiratory drive using a standard measure, the fall in Pao during a brief inspiratory
      occlusion 100ms following the onset of inspiration (P0.1). Further, we will measure each
      subject's alertness on the Richmond Agitation-Sedation Scale (RASS). We expect our
      estimations of resistance and elastance to less accurate (during pressure-preset ventilation
      compared with assist-control) in subjects with greater respiratory drive and higher levels of
      alertness.
    
  