
    
      INTRODUCTION Dry eye disease (DED) is one of the most prevalent conditions at an
      ophthalmology office that may reach 15 to 40% of prevalence in the population. It is
      didactically classified as two forms that exist as a continuum: aqueous deficient dry eye
      (ADDE) and evaporative dry eye (EDE). In EDE patients Meibomian Gland Dysfunction (MGD) is
      the major etiology in which the insufficient meibum secretion can be decreased by cicatricial
      (trachoma, ocular pemphigoid, erythema multiforme) and non-cicatricial causes (skin disorders
      such as acne rosacea and atopic dermatitis, blepharitis).

      MGD pathophysiology can be explained by hyposecretion or ducts obstruction, resulting in low
      delivery of phospholipids and cholesterol that grant stability to the tear film.
      Hyposecretion of the sebaceous glands can result from intrinsic (age, ethnicity, hormonal
      profile) and extrinsic factors (chronic blepharitis, Demodex folliculorum infestation,
      contact lens wear, topical drops). Furthermore, the duct obstruction occurs in a consequence
      to cicatricial rearrangement of the terminal ducts or by non-cicatricial hyperkeratinization
      of the lid margins, leading to increased duct pressure, dilatation, and disuse atrophy of the
      glands.

      Questionnaires such as Ocular Surface Disease Index (OSDI) and Dry Eye Questionnaire-5
      (DEQ-5) that evaluate the grade of severity of DED and assessment of MGD by noninvasive tear
      breakup time (BUT) evaluation that measures tear film stability and by meibography under
      infrared light that analyses gland vitality are central when dealing with any EDE patient.

      The treatment of MGD can be very challenging in cases where a clinical approach with
      non-preserved ocular lubricants, lid hygiene, and warm compresses are not sufficient. Oral
      tetracyclines can be a good alternative in cases of evident lid inflammation to reduce
      bacterial colonization and inhibit collagenase action although long-term use intolerance
      limits its use.

      Thermodynamic treatment with a device that performs controlled local heating and massage of
      the ducts showed clinical improvement and symptoms reduction whereas multiple sessions are
      necessary. Mechanical debridement of gland ducts terminals with scalpel blade also improved
      ocular symptoms and gland function of patients with EDE with MGD. A combination of intense
      pulsed light (IPL) therapy and gland expression has been shown to be an effective treatment
      to MGD with increases in BUT and improvement of ocular symptoms related to DED.

      Plasma jet has been successfully used in Dermatology and is an increasingly popular method
      for smoothing wrinkles, blunt blepharoplasty, as well as performing thermal ablation for
      superficial skin layers.

      The investigators propose a new treatment for refractory MGD patients with plasma jet with a
      device used in Dermatology to remove the hyperkeratinization layer from the lid margin to
      unblock terminal gland ducts and use thermal stimulation to enhance meibum delivery.

      METHODS A prospective, interventional clinical safety and efficacy trial to determine the
      efficacy and safety of the treatment of refractory MGD patients with plasma jet will be
      conducted at Ophthalmology Department at Escola Paulista de Medicina (UNIFESP) with 25
      Caucasian patients.

      All patients will be instructed about the study design and will be given full access to the
      results at any time of the protocol. All will sign an informed consent form and have their
      identity protected in accordance with patient medical confidentiality. This case series is in
      accordance with Good Clinical Practices and the Declaration of Helsinki.

      Patients will be submitted to an ophthalmology workup with best-corrected visual acuity
      (BCVA) (ETDRS chart), dry eye questionnaires (DEQ-5 and OSDI), corneal topography, bulbar
      redness, tear meniscus height, noninvasive breakup time (NBUT), tear film osmolarity,
      meibography under infrared light, meibomian gland expression and Marx line assessment. All
      exams will be performed before and 30 days after the plasma jet application.

      Patients will be instructed about the procedure by the ophthalmologist and a nurse and the
      procedure will be performed after topical anesthesia with lidocaine 2.0%. The plasma jet will
      be applied 3 times on both superior and inferior terminal gland ducts in the lid margins with
      a 14.4mm tip and intensity of 5 on the device (0,9W) reaching only the superficial epidermis.
      Patients will receive topical antibiotics and corticosteroids after the procedure. During all
      periods (90 days) patients will use sodium hyaluronate 0,15% and actinoquinol at the
      recommended dosage of twice a day.

      The software program GraphPad Prism version 7.0 will be used to conduct the statistical
      analyses. Continuous data distribution will be verified by the Kolmogorov-Smirnov normality
      test. Data will be analyzed by the Kruskal-Wallis test with the Wilcoxon test considering
      2-time points for nonparametric variables and paired t-test for parametric variables. All p
      values of < 0.05 will indicate statistically significant differences.
    
  