
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the time to progression in patients with locally advanced, locally recurrent, or
           metastatic colorectal adenocarcinoma treated with combinations of oxaliplatin,
           fluorouracil, leucovorin calcium, and irinotecan.

        -  Compare the quality of life, response rate, time to treatment failure, and overall
           survival in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to ECOG
      performance status (0-1 vs 2), prior adjuvant chemotherapy (yes vs no), prior immunotherapy
      (yes vs no), and age (under 65 vs 65 and over). Patients are randomized to one of three
      treatment arms.

      Only arm II remains open to accrual.

        -  Arm I (Saltz regimen): Patients receive irinotecan IV over 90 minutes followed by
           leucovorin calcium IV over 15 minutes and fluorouracil IV once a week for 4 weeks
           followed by 2 weeks of rest. Courses repeat every 6 weeks. (Arm I closed to accrual as
           of March 15, 2002.)

        -  Arm II (FOLFOX4 regimen): Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and
           leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours plus fluorouracil IV over 22 hours on days 1 and 2.
           Courses repeat every 2 weeks.

        -  Arm III (oxaliplatin plus irinotecan): Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours and
           irinotecan IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 3 weeks. (Arm III closed to
           accrual as of March 15, 2002.) Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression
           or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed before treatment, during treatment (arm specific), and after
      completion of treatment.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 825 patients (275 per arm) have been accrued for this study
      thus far. Additional patients are being accrued on arm II. (Arms I and III closed to accrual
      as of March 15, 2002.)
    
  