
    
      Esophageal cancer ranks the fourth in mortality and the sixth in incidence among cancers in
      China according to the latest report of cancer epidemiology. Although the development of
      neoadjuvant therapy and radical esophagectomy have improved the prognosis of esophageal
      cancer patients, dysphagia and digestive tract reconstruction can cause malnutrition and
      infection-related complications. Postoperative enteral and parenteral nutrition have proved
      to be effective in improving outcomes after esophagectomy. However, whether to provide a
      preoperative nutritional support for patients with resectable esophageal cancer remains
      controversial.

      This prospective randomized controlled trial will evaluate the effects of preoperative
      enteral immunonutrition in esophageal cancer patients undergoing neoadjuvant therapy. The
      purpose of this study is to determine whether preoperative immune-modulating diet before
      surgery can improve the rate of complications and other perioperative outcomes.

      The sample size is estimated with the hypothesis that preoperative immunonutrition during the
      neoadjuvant therapy can reduce postoperative nutrition and immune-related complications after
      esophagectomy. According to the previously published articles, the required sample size of
      interventional and control arm (ratio=2:1) was calculated as 137 cases and 69 cases to detect
      the reduction in related complications from 50% to 30% based on a bilateral significance
      level (α) of 0.05 and a power of test (1-β) of 0.80. Considering an estimated drop rate of
      15%, the minimum sample size of this study is 244 patients, 162 cases in the interventional
      group and 82 in the control group. After signing the informed consent, every eligible
      participant will be randomized into either group based on a computer-generated random number.
      Blinding will not be applied to patients and surgeons due to the difficulty in clinical
      practice but outcomes assessor will be masked.
    
  