
    
      METHODS:

      Study design and population: This is a pilot prospective randomized clinical trial that will
      be carried out on 60 patients candidate for septoplasty subjected to general hypotensive
      anaesthesia. The patients will be recruited from Ear, nose and throat surgery department,
      Beni-Suef University Hospital. All the participants will be required to offer a written
      informed consent

      Sampling Technique:

      Patients will be randomly assigned into one of two equal groups; the first group will receive
      nitroglycerine (30 participants) (nitroglycerine group) and the second group will receive
      phentolamine (30 participants) (phentolamine group). Randomization will be carried out using
      a closed opaque envelope technique with the anesthetist will pick up a sealed envelope which
      contains a paper with the name of the group to which the patient will be randomized is
      written. Whichever the group written on the paper, the patient will be scheduled to it.

      All included patients will be subjected to the following:

      1) Cognitive assessment:

      Cognitive functions for the patients will be assessed (preoperative and 1 week postoperative)
      using the following psychometric tests:

        1. Paired Associate Learning test (PALT) Aim: to assess auditory verbal memory. The test
           uses the concept of semantic cueing

           .

        2. Benton Visual Retention test (BVRT) Aim: to assess visual perceptual, visual memory,
           visual motor and visuoconstructive abilities.

      2) Neurophysiological assessment: Digital Electroencephalograghy (EEG), quantitative
      Electroencephalograghy (QEEG) and Event related potentials (ERPs) and will be done for all
      included patients (preoperative and 1 week postoperative).

      Statistical analysis The sample size will be calculated using G*Power version 3.1.9.2
      Software based on this pilot study. The probability of type I error (α) will be 5%, and the
      statistical power (1-β) should exceed 80%. The data will be coded and entered using: the
      statistical package for social science version 15 (SPSS v 15). Descriptive statistics will be
      reported as mean ± SD and number (%) for categorical variables. Student t- test will be used
      for comparison between means of two unpaired groups of quantitative variables. Paired sample
      t- test will be used for comparison between means of two paired groups of quantitative
      variables. Chi square test will be used for comparison between two groups of categorical
      data. Mixed ANOVA test will be used for comparing paired data in two unpaired groups. The
      probability/significance value (P value) ≥ 0.05 is not statistically significant and <0.05 is
      statistically significant.
    
  