
    
      This proposed study continues a line of research by Doctors Cohen, Cook, Kahler, and
      colleagues on heavy alcohol use, HIV-associated brain dysfunction, and long-term HIV
      outcomes. The study will build on our past findings to determine the extent to which marked
      reductions in alcohol consumption at 30 days and again at 90 days via contingency management
      (CM) improves cognitive-behavioral performance, underlying brain functions and
      pathophysiology, and HIV-associated health outcomes. This feature in itself is a novel
      contribution and has rarely been done, but more importantly, it reflects the mission of the
      collaboration to develop actionable data on clinical trajectories in HIV infected heavy
      drinkers over age 50 that will instill high confidence in guiding next therapeutic steps. The
      study team will obtain a better understanding of how persons with HIV stop drinking, and what
      factors influence long-term drinking changes. These important clinical and scientific
      questions need resolution for successful treatment and management of HIV+ adults. This study
      is motivated by evidence that HIV-associated neurocognitive dysfunction continues despite
      effective combined anti-retroviral therapies (cART). Even mild cognitive impairments have
      detrimental functional effects and health outcomes that worsen as HIV+ people age. Heavy
      alcohol consumption is common among HIV+ adults, and contributes to functional brain
      disturbances directly or indirectly via systemic metabolic or inflammatory disturbances.
      However, our past findings indicate that current alcohol use is more strongly associated with
      cognitive and brain dysfunction among HIV+ adults than lifetime consumption; and that adverse
      brain effects occur primarily with heavy drinking. Our overarching hypothesis is that the
      impact of ongoing heavy alcohol use on the brain and cognition may be reversible, providing a
      strong impetus for the proposed study. The study team will conduct our research in Florida,
      which has the highest number of new HIV infections in the US, as well as an increasingly
      diverse population with HIV+, 50% of whom are now aged 50 years or over in the state.

      Our research will seek to modify alcohol consumption by using contingency management (CM) and
      measure for changes in brain pathophysiology and function, as well as changes in systemic
      inflammation, and gut and liver pathologies which are hypothesized pathways by which alcohol
      may increase brain dysfunction. The study team will also measure neurocognitive functioning
      related to learning, attention-executive functions, working memory, and processing speed,
      domains in which HIV+ persons experience persistent impairment. the study team will use
      Motivational Interviewing (MI) to learn more about how persons with and without HIV reduce
      drinking, what factors are associated with long-term drinking changes, and how these drinking
      changes influence HIV clinical health behavior and outcomes. If the impact of alcohol on
      systemic and cerebral inflammation is temporary, then reducing or eliminating alcohol
      consumption could dramatically improve cognitive function and indices of brain health, even
      among people who have consumed alcohol for many years in the past. Our research will directly
      test hypotheses that ongoing heavy alcohol consumption is associated with brain
      pathophysiology and inflammation that impairs both functioning and cognitive processing, and
      that the inflammation and its sequelae are reversible in most HIV+ persons with alcohol
      cessation. The proposed sample will be 140 adults with HIV infection and 40 adults without
      HIV infection (at least 25% female; age >50 years). Participants will be recruited from heavy
      drinkers (>=14 drinks/week women, >=21 drinks/week men) with HIV infection identified from
      our ongoing Florida Cohort. HIV- participants will be recruited from community medical
      clinics where flyers will be posted.
    
  