
    
      Rational and background:

      Cervical pain with upper limb radiating pain(neuropathic component), such as cervical
      spondylosis radiculopathy or cervical spondylotic myelopathy, is one of the typical and
      common neuropathic pain. However, in Japan, large number of those patients are treated with
      NSAIDs without adequately assessing the cause of pain, despite that α2δ ligand, SNRI
      (Serotonin and Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors ), and TCA (Tricyclic Antidepressants) are
      recommended in the clinical guidelines for neuropathic pain. Therefore, treatment
      satisfaction of these patients is low. This is currently a major issue in treatment for
      cervical pain with neuropathic component in Japan. In fact, our previous study which assessed
      the effect of pregabalin in low back pain patients with radiculopathy suggested that the
      selection of appropriate analgesics according to the cause of pain improved pain related
      sleep interference, pain and function. However, there are a few reports with regard to effect
      of pregabalin in cervical pain patients with neuropathic component. Therefore, we propose to
      conduct an observational study in order to assess the effects of pregabalin in cervical
      radiculopathy, when added to routine clinical care. The present study can encourage an
      understanding of the necessary of assessing cause of the pain, and treating with appropriate
      analgesics.

      Research objectives :

      To evaluate the effect of pregabalin comparing with the conventional analgesic care in
      chronic cervical pain patients with accompanying upper limb radiating pain(neuropathic
      component) treated in primary care settings under routine clinical practice.

      Study design:

      This is an 8-week, multicenter prospective non-interventional observational study. Subjects
      who have chronic cervical radiating pain patients with accompanying upper limb radiating pain
      (with a neuropathic component) and meet all other entry criteria are enrolled at baseline in
      the duration of study. Study arms are pregabalin with or without usual care vs. usual care
      (mono/combo therapy). The usual care are assumed NSAIDs, Antidepressants, weak opioids,
      acetaminophen etc.

      The analgesic treatment is determined by the clinical judgment of the physician in charge of
      patient management. This therapeutic choice is not related to the decision to take part in
      the study. All enrolled subjects will be received with analgesic treatment. The study
      requires 3 visits at least, baseline/enrollment visit, Week 4 visit and Week 8 visit (or
      discontinuation).
    
  