
    
      Three patients will be initially treated at the corresponding dose level of glasdegib at each
      dose escalation stage. Dose escalation will be started in a first cohort of 3 patients at a
      starting dose of 50 mg (Dose Level 1) and will then proceed as follows:

        -  If no dose-limiting toxicity is observed among the first 3 patients in a cohort, then 3
           additional patients will be treated at the next higher dose level.

        -  If a dose-limiting toxicity is observed in 1 of the initial 3 treated patients, 3
           additional patients, resulting in a total of 6 patients, will be enrolled and treated at
           the same dose level.

        -  If no further dose-limiting toxicity is observed (1/6 patients), dose escalation will
           continue to the next dose level in a new cohort of 3 patients.

        -  If ≥ 2/3 or 2/6 patients experience a dose-limiting toxicity, then MTD has been exceeded
           and the next lower dose of glasdegib will be expanded until a total number of 6 patients
           treated at that dose level is reached. If 0 or 1 patient out of 6 experiences a
           dose-limiting toxicity, this dose level will be declared MTD. If ≥ 2/6 patients
           experience a dose-limiting toxicity, the next lower dose level will be expanded.

        -  Prior safety data evaluation and approval by an independent data monitoring committee
           will be required before escalation at each dose level.

      In case that MTD is exceeded within the first cohort, then a -1 Dose Level (25 mg OD) will be
      tested. If MTD is exceeded at 25 mg OD, the trial will be stopped and no additional testing
      of glasdegib at lower doses will be allowed.

      Dose escalation will continue following the above-specified rules until MTD is declared. Once
      MTD is defined, dose expansion at MTD in cohorts of 3 patients will proceed until the
      pre-established sample size (20 patients) is reached. In the event that the highest
      pre-defined dose (200 mg OD) is tested in two successive cohorts of 3 patients and MTD is not
      attained, dose expansion at 200 mg OD will precede until a sample size of 20 patients is
      reached. The administered dose level may be subject to further adjustment (dose reduction
      only) in the dose expansion phase based on emerging safety, pharmacokinetic or
      pharmacodynamic data.

      Additional dose levels may be explored, if appropriate, based on emerging safety,
      pharmacokinetic, or pharmacodynamic data, prior safety data evaluation and approval by an
      external monitoring committee.

      Patients who are not evaluable for dose-limiting toxicity (e.g., those not receiving at least
      80% of the planned dose of glasdegib in the dose-limiting toxicity monitoring period (first 2
      cycles) for reasons other than study treatment-related toxicities) must be replaced.

      If the pre-specified sample size is completed before MTD is defined or before the highest
      pre-defined dose (200 mg OD) is tested in at least 6 patients, additional patients may be
      recruited into the study (for a total sample size of up to 24 patients) until MTD is defined
      or two cohorts of 3 patients complete treatment at 200 mg OD.

      Glasdegib may be dose reduced or discontinued during any cycle based on the patient's
      individual tolerability. During the dose-escalation phase, once a patient has a dose
      reduction for a study drug-related toxicity; the dose will not be re-escalated. Dose
      re-escalation up to the MTD will be allowed at the investigator's discretion during the dose
      expansion phase.
    
  