
    
      Patients undergoing unilateral, primary total knee replacement will be enrolled in the study
      in the treating surgeon's office at the time surgery is indicated and scheduled. Patient's
      will be asked to enroll in the study if they are indicated by the treating surgeon for
      primary total knee replacement, are 18 years of age or older, and, if they have no history of
      wound healing problems, chronic infection or connective tissue disorder and if they have a
      Fitzpatrick skin type between I and VI. Patients will be excluded from the study if they:
      have any prior history of surgery on the indicated knee; have a mental or psychological
      illness that prohibits them from consenting or completing the necessary forms; if they refuse
      to consent to be in the study; or, if they have a history of wound healing problems, or a
      diagnosed skin or connective tissue disease. Standard baseline health information and
      demographics will be collected at the time of enrollment (gender, age, co-morbidities, etc.).

      On the day of surgery, patients will be randomized to have their surgical incision treated
      with the non-ablative fractional laser or treated with the placebo laser. Randomization will
      be computer-generated and stored in opaque sealed envelopes. For each patient, randomization
      will take place prior to surgery in the holding area on the day of surgery. At discharge, the
      laser technician will open the sealed envelope to reveal the allocation into control or
      experimental groups. The technician will then treat the patient appropriately as per the
      protocol. Proper randomization will be ensured by the technician, principal investigator and
      co-investigators. The patients, principal investigator and co-investigators collecting the
      data will be blinded to the randomization. The technician providing the laser therapy will
      not be blinded.

      The incisional length will be determined by the treating surgeon at the time of surgery based
      on what he deems will be adequate given the patient's body habitus and the technical demands
      of the surgery. The skin incision will always be made with a new, sharp, sterile 10 blade.
      Subcutaneous dissection will be done with the scalpel as well.

      Closure of the wound will be done with 0-vicryl sutures for the arthrotomy and deep
      subcutaneous tissue. The sutures will be tied in an interrupted simple pattern. The
      superficial subcutaneous tissue layer will be closed with interrupted buried 2.0-vicryl
      sutures. The skin will be closed with a 4.0 monocryl running subcuticular stitch. The wound
      will be dressed with a sterile dressing that will come off on post operative day two.

      After the primary dressing is taken down, the wound will be left open to air unless there is
      active drainage. If active drainage is present, sterile gauze will be kept on the wound until
      it is dry.

      As a dry wound is a pre-requisite for patient discharge, no patient will be discharged with a
      draining wound. On the day of discharge, the patient will have the first of the non-ablative,
      fractional laser treatments done in the hospital. This will be performed by a registered
      technician who has been trained in the use of the non-ablative, fractional laser. The
      technician will be trained by the company providing the device and will have completed the
      hospital's required laser training prior to using the device on patients.

      The laser settings will be preset at 15 mjs and 50 mj. The number of passes used per patients
      will be 5 passes, and this is determined by the plastic surgeon included on the study and
      will be individualized to the patient's Fitzpatrick skin type. The technician will know the
      status of the patient's randomization and will either treat the patient with the laser or
      turn the laser on and apply it in the standard fashion without activating the device. The
      technician will also apply a Lidocaine patch in order to numb the area that will be treated
      by the laser device and keep the patient blinded from the treatment. The patients will be
      asked to wear opaque glasses that prevent them from seeing the technician using the laser so
      as to remain blinded to the treatment. Additionally, they will be asked to wear
      noise-cancelling headphones so as to minimize any sound the active laser makes.

      On the day of discharge the patient will have the first of the non-ablative, fractional laser
      treatments performed in the hospital by the registered technician who has been trained in the
      use of the non-ablative fractional laser. The patients will be given strict instruction in a
      standardized wound care regimen. They will complete a standard post TKR rehabilitative
      course. At the 4-week and 8-week time points the patient will return to the clinic for a
      wound check and for the 2nd and 3rd laser therapy treatment. The patients will see the
      surgeon at the 4-week follow up visit, as this is standard of care. At week 8,the
      non-Standard of Care visit, the treating surgeon's nurse and the laser technician will see
      the patients. If the patient, nurse or technician has any concerns about the status of the
      wound, the Principle Investigator will be notified. Patients will not be charged for the
      8-week visit.

      At the 4 week, 8 week, 3 month and 1 year visits the surgical scar will be photographed in a
      standardized, controlled fashion. Dr. Rothaus, a plastic surgeon, has extensive experience
      with standardized cosmetic photography and will provide his expertise. Briefly, the same
      camera, lens, lighting and position will be used for all patients at all time points. The
      goal is to have the only variable be the appearance of the scar. At each of these visits, the
      patient will complete a validated scar assessment outcomes tool, the Patient and Observer
      Scar Assessment Scale (POSAS).(22) Additionally, one of three experts (Dr. Rothaus, Ms.
      Trezza, Dr. Cornell) trained in scar assessment will inspect the patient's scar and complete
      the observer portion of the scar assessment instrument. In addition to the POSAS, each
      patient will also complete a valid knee outcomes instrument, the Knee Injury and
      Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS)(23) at each visit. The data will be collected in the
      physician's private office prior to the scheduled surgery and after surgery at each visit. An
      identified co-investigator, with the appropriate HIPAA and human subjects research training
      will be responsible for administering the knee instruments, answering any of the patient's
      questions, and then collecting the instruments after they have been completed. This will
      ensure that the surgeon does not have access to the patient's responses.

      The primary outcome will be the difference in POSAS score between patients treated with the
      laser and those treated with placebo. Secondary outcomes include the difference in POSAS
      observer score as well as the difference in KOOS score between the experimental and the
      control group.

      While the investigators group is the first to use this technology on Total Knee Replacement
      scars, Vasily et al. in 2009 reported on the effectiveness of laser treatment of
      post-surgical and traumatic scars and found that relative to baseline, 73% of scars improved
      50%, and 43% improved by 75% or more. Overall, all of the treated scars demonstrated some
      clinical improvement with a mean overall improvement of 52%. Side effects were minimal and
      included swelling (95%), erythema (94%) and purpura (5%).(9) All side effects completely
      resolved at the one-month follow-up visit.

      Additionaly, the investigators pilot study has demonstrated that the laser treatment is safe,
      as the investigators have applied the treatments to ten patients, in the manor mentioned
      above, and have not seen any complications thus far. On the basis of this data and the pilot
      study, treatment with the non-ablative fractional laser has been deemed both safe and
      effective.
    
  