
    
      Critically ill immature preterm infants experience multiple noxious stimuli while receiving
      care in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU). These noxious stimuli include, but are not
      limited to: venipuncture; insertion of intravenous and arterial catheters; suctioning of the
      nose, mouth and oropharynx; endotracheal intubation for mechanical ventilation; insertion of
      chest drains; repositioning and other types of patient manipulation. The delivery of optimal
      doses of analgesics for these noxious stimuli is a major challenge due to the lack of
      knowledge about drug disposition and its effects in this patient population.

      Morphine is the commonest analgesic used in the NICU. The Premature Infant Pain Profile
      (PIPP) is used to quantify pain in the NICU1. This objective score, which combines
      physiological and behavioural variables defining levels of discomfort, is used as a guide for
      the use of morphine in newborn infants. Multidimensional pain assessment tools, such as PIPP,
      can easily identify behaviour in healthy infants undergoing painful events, however, its
      efficiency is questionable when applicable to critically ill premature infants with
      neurological impairment, where the pain processing and modulation may be altered.
      Pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodynamics (PKPD) models can be used to quantitatively describe and
      predict drug disposition in the blood and the target organ (e.g., brain) in relation to doses
      and patient characteristics. Although there has been a global effort to describe morphine
      plasma levels in this population using a pharmacokinetic modelling approach2-5, PKPD model
      development has not been reported. The study of morphine pharmacokinetics to determine the
      optimal dose for balancing analgesia/sedation together with the design of pharmacodynamic
      model for morphine may provide a better understanding of nociception/pain profile based on
      the physiological variables of immature infants. Moreover, the PKPD model may be used to
      achieve optimal therapeutic effects through individualised model-based dose selection.
      Objective: This study is composed by four main objectives:

        1. First: Define target morphine plasma and brain concentrations. To this end, we will
           develop a morphine PKPD model based on population PK characteristics and morphine
           effects captured by functional readout of central nervous system function;

        2. Second: Develop an opportunistic sampling method for fragile populations based on saliva
           sampling;

        3. Third: Compare pharmacokinetic parameters calculated from saliva with plasma sample;

        4. Fourth: Application of the morphine PKPD model for prediction of optimal morphine dosing
           in individual patients using the Bayesian framework of model refinement.
    
  