
    
      If you agree to participate in this study, you will be taking glycine or a placebo for 12
      weeks - in two 6-week periods. These two 6-week periods are separated by a 2-week "wash-out"
      period where you take no study medication. During one of the 6-week periods, you will be
      taking glycine. During the other 6-week period, you will be taking placebo. Neither you nor
      the study staff will know in which order you receive the glycine or placebo. In case of an
      emergency, we can quickly find out which medication you have been taking.

      If you agree to participate in this study, we will then meet for a "screening visit" to see
      if you are eligible for participation in the study. You will have an interview where you will
      be asked about your history of psychiatric illness. We will also ask about your previous
      history with smoking and use of other drugs and about your current medications. We will ask
      you to sign an authorization form so that we can look at your medical record. We will review
      your medical record for medical and psychiatric diagnoses and treatment. We will check your
      heart rate and blood pressure. We will take a saliva (spit) sample to check for use of street
      drugs such as alcohol, cocaine, amphetamines, opiates, and marijuana. If you test positive
      for the presence of any of these substances, you will not be allowed to participate in the
      study. Information about drug use will not become a part of your medical record, but this
      information will become a part of your research record.

      After you have completed this screening interview, we will arrange a date and time for you to
      come back for an initial assessment before the start the study. The initial assessment takes
      about an hour and a half. During this assessment we will ask you questions about different
      psychiatric symptoms that you may be having. You will be asked about your thinking, mood,
      unusual experiences such as hearing voices, side effects from antipsychotic medications, and
      smoking behavior.

      You will have the carbon monoxide in your breath measured. Carbon monoxide is a gas contained
      in cigarette smoke, and measuring the level of carbon monoxide in your breath helps us to
      tell whether or not you smoke cigarettes. To measure your carbon monoxide, we will have you
      breathe into a small hand-held machine.

      We will also ask you about your regular activities during the day and what kind of
      hobbies/interests you have. Then you will do a memory test where the interviewer will tell
      you a story and ask you to repeat it back to him.

      After you have completed the initial assessment, you will begin taking the study medication.
      The study medication is glycine or identical placebo and is in the form of a liquid. A
      one-week supply of the medication will be given to you on your weekly visit to McLean
      Hospital. You will take one dose of medication with breakfast in the morning and the second
      dose of medication with dinner in the evening. You should keep the study medication
      refrigerated. You will take approximately 30 grams (about 1 quarter of a liter) twice per day
      for the first 6 weeks, but the exact amount that you will take will depend upon your weight.
      We will instruct you in exactly how much to take.

      At the end of the first 6 weeks of the study, you will stop taking the glycine or identical
      placebo for 2 weeks. During the 2 weeks where you take no study medication, we will arrange
      for you to come in for a brief check in visit (at week 7) to ask about any side effects after
      you have stopped taking the medication.

      After two weeks of taking no medication, you will again start taking glycine or placebo for
      the next 6 weeks.

      You will not change your regular medications during the study. You are to continue taking all
      your other medications throughout the study. You should notify Dr. Evins or any of the
      research staff if you start to take any new medications. You will come in every week to pick
      up your study medications.

      We ask you to come for an interview and a test of your memory four times throughout the
      study. The first time is the initial visit described above, before you have started taking
      the study medication.

      The other assessments will take place 6 weeks into the study (at the end of your first 6-week
      period on study medication), 8 weeks into the study (after the 2-week "washout" period when
      you will have been taking no study medication), and 14 weeks into the study (at the end of
      your second 6-week period on study medication).

      There will be a total of 4 blood draws that will occur on 4 separate occasions. The blood
      draws will take place on the same days as the scanning visits at McLean Hospital. At each
      blood draw, we will take about 1 tablespoon of blood. The total amount of blood we will take
      in the study is about 4 tablespoons.

      The study will last 14 weeks. At the end of the study, you will stop taking all glycine or
      placebo. If you or your doctor believes that glycine has been helpful to you and you wish to
      take it once the study has ended, it is available through some pharmacies, and you should
      discuss this option with your doctor or psychiatrist.

      We will ask you to attend one follow-up visit a week after the end of the study, when we will
      ask you about any side effects you may have experienced. We will also ask you about side
      effects throughout the course of the study. This follow-up visit would last about 15 minutes.
    
  