
    
      Participants in this study will partake in study surveys, daily blood glucose monitor
      measurements, and blood sampling for the duration of their participation. The study intends
      to recruit and randomize 300 participants.

        1. Surveys and Measurements

           All study participants may complete surveys via their personal iOS smartphone device on:
           study qualification (intake survey/eligibility screener), diabetes status (initial
           diabetes survey), physical activity (iPAQ), quality of life (SF-12), vitals,
           demographics hospitalizations and interaction with health care provider (attached), and
           diabetes distress. Most survey data will be collected at 1, 3, and 6 months. There will
           also be Weekly Engagement surveys which will be two simple questions each week. At the
           end of the study, a Feedback survey will ask participants about their study experiences.
           Surveys will each have a simple description to introduce participants to the survey they
           are being asked to take. These surveys will be administered through the Eureka mHealth
           Research Platform, the study's main tool for data collection, data storage, and study
           management. Specific usability assessments that are native to the Livongo or iHealth
           platform may also be shown through the device to the participants in order to gather
           user feedback information.

           After qualifying and providing consent to participate in the study, participants will be
           referred to a convenient lab or receive a mail-in lab test kit for establishing
           hemoglobin A1c (A1c) levels and lipid panel levels. A1c tests will be collected at
           months 1 (baseline), 3, and 6 (closeout). For each A1c test performed in the lab, 1mL
           (milliliter) of blood will be drawn. Lipid panels (total cholesterol, LDL, HDL, and
           triglycerides) will be collected at months 1 (baseline) and 6 (closeout). For each lipid
           panel, 1mL of blood will be drawn. If participants elect to use a mail-in lab test kit,
           for each A1c test or lipid panel, 35 microliters of blood will be collected and mailed
           in for testing (total 75 microliters at months 1 and 6, and 30 microliters at month 3).

        2. Randomization Once the baseline A1c value is obtained, the patient will be randomized
           (block randomization by diabetes type).

        3. Device Usage After randomization, participants will receive either the Livongo Health
           system or the iHealth glucose meter by mail.

           If a participant is randomized to the iHealth treatment group, participants will
           download the iHealth iOS application and receive an iHealth blood glucose meter in the
           mail. Participants will link the iHealth application with a mobile version of the Eureka
           mHealth Research Platform.

           If a participant is randomized to the Livongo system treatment group, the participant
           will receive the Livongo blood glucose meter device in the mail, create a Livongo
           account, and link their Livongo account with the Eureka mHealth Research Platform.
           Livongo- or iHealth-specific instructions will be provided with each meter and a study
           coordinator will be available to answer study participant questions about using the BG
           meters. Participants may be referred to Livongo or iHealth customer service for
           technical support, if needed.

           Participants will not be given specific instructions on how often to check their BG, or
           how often they should use the Livongo system or iHealth glucose meter as a part of this
           study. This is done in order to determine the uptake of the intervention and resulting
           behavior without outside prompting.

           Participants will either use the Livongo system or the iHealth glucose meter for 6
           months from the time of enrollment in the study.

        4. Messaging/Reminders Participants who have been mailed a BG (Blood Glucose) meter but are
           not using the device after two weeks will be contacted by in-app push notifications,
           text messages, email or a phone call for device setup and/or assistance.

      Participants will also receive reminders to complete study activities via in-app push
      notifications, text messages, email or a phone call.

      Two weeks prior to the end of the study period, participants will be contacted by email
      and/or receive in-app push notifications to remind them to complete their A1c measurement and
      closeout surveys.

      Note: Participation in this research study will not affect individual participants' standard
      clinical care for diabetes. Participants will remain under the care of their current health
      care provider and will be able to continue receiving all usual care from that provider. The
      health care provider will continue to provide recommendations for the number of times the
      participant should check their blood glucose. Although the participant wil be asked to use a
      different glucose meter for this study, the number of times they use it will still be
      determined by their health care provider. The same information that they received from their
      existing glucose meter will be available from the study glucose meter. During the study, they
      will be provided with glucose meter strips at no charge, to ensure that an insufficient
      number of strips will not interfere with their standard of care.
    
  