
    
      Semi-structured interviews will be conducted with patients, following a topic guide, which
      may be updated iteratively during the data collection period in response to ideas that may be
      generated. The topic guide explores key topics: (1) the patient's narrative; (2) the illness
      experience; (3) receiving the diagnosis; (4) their understanding of the 3PD label and
      beliefs; (5) expectations of recovery and treatment; (6) psychological and emotional factors;
      and (7) free comments. The interviews will be audio recorded and transcribed verbatim.

      Data will be analysed using inductive thematic analysis. Analysis will be conducted
      concurrently with data collection, allowing themes to be explored inductively as they emerge.
      Analysis will be performed by a multidisciplinary group consisting of a medical student,
      audio-vestibular physician and physiotherapist.

      Analysis will be conducted with the aid of the latest version of computer software NVIVO for
      Windows. The medical student will lead the analysis, generating the initial codes which will
      then be discussed in data analysis meetings held regularly over the data collection and
      analysis period until the group are happy with the coding and themes generated. Data
      collection and analysis will be approached with critical reflexivity in order to reduce the
      risk of bias. The team will ensure the analysis is grounded in the data.

      Patients will be included if they meet the diagnostic criteria for Persistent Postural
      Perceptual Dizziness (3PD). Patients will be excluded if they;

        -  Do not speak English or have special communication needs.

        -  Have cognitive impairment.

        -  Have acute severe psychiatric disorder (e.g. psychosis).

      The investigators plan to interview a minimum of 12 participants and review the need for
      further interviews up to 15 participants if there are new themes developing (i.e. if the
      investigators have not reached data 'saturation').
    
  