
    
      Study design Predict-VT is an investigator-initiated, prospective, open-label, single-center
      clinical trial. The research protocol has been approved by the Ethics Committee of the
      Clinical Center of Serbia. All participants will have to provide their informed consent in
      writing. The trial design will ensure that all participants abide by good clinical practice
      and the ethical principles of the Declaration of Helsinki II.

      Study population The study will include 600 patients with acute myocardial infarction with ST
      elevation (STEMI) who are eligible for treatment with primary percutaneous coronary
      intervention (PPCI) within 12 hours from the onset of symptoms. Enrollment started on January
      2017 . Recruitment will continue until 600 patients have been randomized. The end of the
      recruitment period is planned for January 2020. The trial will continue until all available
      survivors have been followed for at least 4 years.

      Objectives, end points and definitions The primary objective of PREDICT-VT trial is to test
      the hypothesis that the occurrence of ventricular tachyarrhythmias (VTA) and sudden cardiac
      death (SCD) is predictable with acceptable accuracy among STEMI patients undergoing PPCI.
      Therefore, the PREDICT-VT specified primary end point is the analysis of independent
      predictors of VTA and SCD in a period of 3-40 days following STEMI. The second objective of
      the study is the stratification of risk for VTA by constructing optimal predictive models and
      defining the classes of risk. The third objective of the study is a validation of the model
      using an independent sample of patients. The study's subanalyses will include: a. Analysis of
      the significance of non-sustained VTA lasting <30 seconds for the prognosis of patients with
      STEMI, b. Importance of frequent ventricular premature beats and/or emerging atrial
      fibrillation for the prognosis of patients and the emergence of SCD, c. Definition of risk
      factors for the occurrence of VTA in the subgroup of patients with preserved left ventricular
      ejection fraction (LVEF), considering that more than half of the SCD victims have preserved
      LVEF.

      Noninvasive and invasive assessment A 24-hour ECG Holter monitoring will be performed in the
      period of 5 ± 2 days after STEMI.

      Echocardiographic examination on Vivid E9 (General Electric) echocardiographic device will be
      performed 5 ± 2 days after STEMI and repeated after 50 ± 10 days. Standard echocardiographic
      methods of M-mode, 2D, color, pulse, continuous doppler, tissue doppler and 2D speckle
      tracking will be used. The analysis will include the parameters of systolic and diastolic
      functions and myocardial mechanics in accordance with the latest recommendations of the
      European / American Echocardiographic Association.

      The following angiographic variables will be analyzed: significant coronary artery stenosis
      -localization and number, number of diseased coronary vessels, length of stenosis, type of
      stenosis, coronary flow before and after the intervention, type and number of implanted
      stents.

      Patients will be followed-up after discharge from hospital for the occurrence of specified
      end points at 40 days, 1 year, 2 years and 4 years after enrollment by scheduled telephone
      interviews and outpatient visits. An independent Clinical Event Committee, composed of 3
      cardiologists will review and adjudicate the occurrence of each suspected clinical end point.
    
  