
    
      In order to improve overall health outcomes of minority patients, undergoing surgical care,
      the National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities (NIMHD) collaborated with
      the American College of Surgeons (ACS) and prioritized to evaluate the effect of improvement
      in culturally dexterous care on surgical outcomes for patients from disparity populations.

      Poor outcomes in patients are attributed to poor patient-provider communication which may
      lead to treatment errors, inadequate pain management, less patient-centered care, decreased
      adherence to treatment plans, and worse overall clinical outcomes. Additionally, studies have
      shown that some surgeons have pro-White implicit biases, which are unconscious, automated
      preferences that individuals may not even be aware of.

      Historically, formal training in cultural competency is generally integrated into medical
      education at the undergraduate level but it rarely continues up to the post-graduate level.
      Few surgical programs have attempted to incorporate cross-cultural communication skills into
      their educational paradigms, and the approaches to doing so have been inconsistent.

      In order to add the surgical context in post-graduate level medical education, the
      investigators adopted a novel approach to cross-cultural communication for surgical trainees,
      known as cultural dexterity. Cultural dexterity refers to a set of skills and cognitive
      practices used to maximize communication across multiple dimensions of cultural diversity and
      deviates from the concept of cultural competency in that it does not demand that learners
      associate certain practices and behaviors with individuals based on generalizations.

      Study design:

      Cross-over, cluster-randomized trial

      Study Procedures:

      Curriculum Administration

      The PACTS curriculum incorporates contemporary learning practices such as the "flipped
      classroom" model, team-based learning. It consists of e-learning modules, interactive
      sessions in which residents will apply concepts from the e-learning modules to roleplay
      scenarios constructed in a team-based learning format. Residents will be given detailed,
      scripted prompts for the role-play sessions followed by structured feedback from peers and
      facilitators.

      Outcome Measurement

      Patients

      To evaluate patients' satisfaction and clinical quality related to PACTS training, the
      investigators will administer surveys to patients treated by residents to determine
      satisfaction with pain management, communication, trust-building, and comprehension of the
      informed consent discussion two months before and after the intervention is implemented.

      Patient satisfaction will be assessed using elements of the validated Pain Treatment
      Satisfaction Scale (PTSS).

      Clinical surgical outcomes obtained from the NSQIP database will be assessed for each patient
      participant before and after the PACTS curriculum is implemented to measure individual
      outcomes such as length of stay, postoperative complications, unplanned reoperations, and
      30-day morbidity/mortality.

      Residents

      To evaluate the impact of PACTS on surgical residents' knowledge and attitudes about caring
      for diverse patients, the investigators will use a pre- and post-test in the form of
      validated instruments that assess knowledge, attitudes, and self-reported skills on a
      Likert-type scale.

      Resident skills will also be objectively assessed through an Objective Structured Clinical
      Examination (OSCE) that will be created by the study staff and administered immediately
      before the intervention and 3 months after the intervention has been completed. The OSCE uses
      5-point Likert scale questions to evaluate resident performance across multiple domains.
      These may be administered virtually or in-person.

      A Standardized Patient evaluator and a third-party trained impartial observer will evaluate
      the residents on these domains, and the resulting numerical scores will be averaged. It will
      serve both a summative and educational purpose in this context.

      Residents will be required to take a knowledge survey before and after receiving the PACTS
      curriculum or standard training. Attitudes regarding the importance of facing cross-cultural
      health care situations will be assessed across multiple domains using a novel survey
      instrument that is based on a survey that was used in a similar curriculum aimed at medical
      students, as well as the Values and Belief Systems domain.
    
  