
    
      Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) affects over a quarter of a million Canadians and this rate
      is expected to increase to 403,000 by year 2030 (Kaplan, Bernstein, Coward, Bitton, Murthy,
      Nguyen, Lee, Cooke-Lauder, Benchimol, 2019). The disease has a high burden for patients, with
      unpredictable, painful symptoms often requiring costly medications and surgery to facilitate
      disease remission. It is well established that individuals with IBD have significantly higher
      rates of anxiety and depression compared to the general population. (Bernstein, 2017; Graff,
      Walker, & Bernstein, 2009; Mikocka-Walus, Knowles, Keefer, Graff, 2016; Walker, Ediger,
      Graff, Greenfeld, Clara, Lix, Rawsthorne, Miller, Rogala, McPhail, & Bernstein, 2008).

      There is growing research on psychological treatment for individuals with IBD, providing some
      evidence that Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) reduces psychological distress in this
      population (Knowles, Monshat, & Castle, 2013). Traditional CBT delivery methods involve
      in-person treatment, with multiple sessions over time, either one-on-one or in small groups.
      Development of alternate modes of effective treatment delivery is vital to enhance access and
      facilitate availability, particularly given limited mental health service availability.
      Internet-Based Cognitive Behaviour Therapy (iCBT) may be an effective alternative treatment
      for persons with IBD and related stress, anxiety and/or depression (McCombie, 2016) as it may
      mitigate the aforementioned challenges. Potential benefits of iCBT include enhanced cost
      effectiveness, little to no wait time to begin treatment, and increased accessibility.

      Our research group developed and pilot-tested an internet-based cognitive behavioural therapy
      (iCBT) intervention targeting stress, anxiety and/or depression in adults with IBD. The
      intervention is housed on the Minddistrict online platform, the same platform used in our
      pilot study (HREB Ethics HS22087 (H2018:333) (Minddistrict, 2018, June, 1).The program was
      designed to be completed over 12 weeks. The study coordinator will be tracking participants'
      progress through the intervention by reviewing completion of questionnaires and modules.

      The intervention includes 9 core modules and 3 optional modules. CORE Modules: 1. About the
      program, 2. IBD and Stress, 3. Relaxation Strategies, 4, Commitment to Living Life Fully, 5.
      The Brain-Gut Connection, 6. Understanding Anxiety, 7. Overcoming Avoidance, 8. Depression,
      9. Behavioural Activation Optional Modules: 11. IBD and the Workplace, 12. Coping with Pain
      through Mindfulness, 13. Fatigue and Sleep

      The next stage in extending this research is to conduct a randomized control trial (RCT) to
      determine the efficacy of this internet-based intervention, utilizing a control condition and
      ensuring adequate sample size powered to detect differences between the intervention group
      and Treatment as Usual (TAU).

      Participants will be adults with confirmed inflammatory bowel disease, recruited from local
      enrollees of the IMAGINE study described earlier (IMAGINE, 2020, July, 2). They will be
      contacted by email to invite for participation in this study.

      Participants will be randomized using a computer-generated randomization schedule which
      allows for allocation concealment with a ratio of 1.2 (iCBT) : 1.0 (TAU).
    
  