
    
      Allergy skin prick tests and measurement of food-specific immunoglobulin E (IgE) levels are
      common but not robust means to diagnose food allergy, so patients may be placed on overly
      restrictive food elimination diets as a result of false-positive results. Such restrictions
      can lead to poor weight gain, malnutrition, and negative impact on quality of life. More than
      half of patients who are sensitized (ie, have a positive IgE test) to a particular food do
      not react to it during an oral food challenge, the gold standard for diagnosing food allergy.
      Development of food allergy does not always correlate to food-specific IgE levels. The care
      of these patients would be dramatically improved if decision points for food-specific or
      component IgEs could be identified that predict when an immediate hypersensitivity is
      present. This is especially an issue among patients with atopic dermatitis (AD), the most
      common chronic, relapsing inflammatory disorder of the skin affecting children. Patients with
      AD are more likely to develop other allergic conditions, including food allergy and
      sensitization. AD patients are also likely to have high levels of total serum IgE.

      In this study, participants aged 3-21 years (n = 175) with elevated total serum IgE levels
      and a history of AD will undergo open feedings and/or double-blind, placebo-controlled food
      challenges (DBPCFCs). Open feedings will be 1- or 2-step, depending on how often the

      participant regularly consumes the food at home. There are two DBPCFCs to milk: milk powder
      or (placebo) baked into a muffin, and straight milk powder or (placebo) mixed with a vehicle.
      The DBPCFC for peanut will be done with peanut flour or (placebo) mixed with a vehicle. Blood
      will be collected during the study for measurement of total and component IgEs as well as
      potential biomarkers of food sensitization vs. immediate hypersensitivity and reaction
      severity. From these data, we hope to identify diagnostic IgE threshold levels that will
      inform when oral food challenges are warranted in patients with elevated total serum IgE
      levels and AD, which is critically needed in the allergy field to facilitate the care of
      these patients.
    
  