
    
      The investigators will conduct a randomized trial among young adult (YA) cancer patients to
      rigorously test the hypothesis that universal testing identifies many YA patients with
      germline cancer risk who would be missed by conventional testing strategies, to improve
      adherence to risk reduction interventions among YAs with cancer susceptibility, and to
      increase ascertainment among relatives of these patients at increased genetic risk. The
      primary outcome of the randomized trial will be ascertainment of probands, but in a companion
      study, we will also explore the incremental utility of universal testing with respect to
      ascertainment of risk among relatives.

      Consenting patients will be immediately randomized using a computer-generated randomization
      algorithm using permuted variable block sizes with a concealed sequence. Randomization will
      be stratified by gender, National Comprehensive Cancer Network/American College of Medical
      Genetics and Genomics (NCCN/ACMG) referral criteria (meets/doesn't meet), and hospital (i.e.,
      HUP vs. other Penn Medicine hospitals). Note that because of demographic differences between
      hospitals, we are using hospital type as a proxy for race/ethnicity and so will not stratify
      for it separately. Randomization will occur in a 2:1 ratio (experimental: control).

      Patient enrollment for genetic testing will be completed within the first 12 months. If
      patients receive a pathogenic or likely pathogenic result then they will be followed for up
      to five years to evaluate the impact of the clinical decision support. Recruitment will end
      when approximately 1238 subjects are enrolled. Subjects will be recruited across five Penn
      Medicine sites, including Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania (HUP), Penn Presbyterian
      Medical Center (PPMC), Pennsylvania Hospital (PAH), Chester County Hospital (CCH), and
      Lancaster General Hospital (LGH).

      Patients who are notified of their eligibility status and indicate an interest in study
      participation will be directed to an educational website about hereditary cancer risk and the
      implications of genetic testing for patients and family members. They will also be provided
      information about the study. If they wish to consent after viewing the educational module,
      patients will be automatically sent to REDCap where, following consent, they also will
      complete a brief survey to obtain demographics and family history information. Patients will
      also have the option of reviewing information, providing consent, and completing
      sociodemographic and family history data collection via paper forms.

      Upon provision of signed informed consent and determination of high/low risk (based on
      ACMG/NCCN guidelines and determined by either the study research coordinator or clinical
      genetic counselor as outlined above), patients will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio
      (experimental: control) into one of the two study arms stratified by gender, meeting
      NCCN/ACMG criteria, and hospital type (HUP vs. other). Study enrollees will be encouraged to
      sign up to use their local patient portal, if they haven't done so already, in order to
      receive study communications, health information, and heath maintenance alerts.

      Management of patients randomized to the phenotype-based (standard) arm will depend on
      whether they are identified as being at high or low risk of having a genetic predisposition.
      Patients who do not meet high-risk criteria will have routine clinical care (i.e., no
      study-directed referral to a genetic counselor). Patients who do meet high-risk criteria will
      be referred to a genetic counselor at their treating Penn Medicine institution for a standard
      cancer genetics evaluation and testing based on genetic counselor recommendation and patient
      preference. Participants on this arm who receive genetic testing will be tracked and results
      will be manually entered into the study database, although if they are tested at Ambry
      Genetics (the lab used in the universal-testing intervention arm), positive results will be
      directly imported into PennChart (our local instance of Epic) via a secure interface, which
      already has been built and is operational.

      Patients randomized to the universal-testing arm will provide either a saliva or blood sample
      to have sequencing of a 66-gene cancer gene panel conducted by Ambry Genetics. Genetic test
      results will go directly into PennChart from Ambry via a secure interface (HL7). Patients
      identified as being at high risk according to NCCN/ACMG criteria will be referred to a
      genetic counselor at their treating institution, who will be asked to obtain testing using
      the Ambry 66-gene panel rather than by usual clinical tests. If they do not follow-up for
      clinical testing, as outlined above, they will be tested by the study team, using mailed
      genetic testing kits (with pre-paid mailers to Ambry Genetics). Patients identified as being
      at low risk will undergo testing using the Ambry 66-gene panel via mailed genetic testing
      kits (as above).

      Participants seen by a genetic counselor will have their results disclosed to them by their
      care team. Participants who enroll remotely will be notified that their results are available
      via their preferred method (patient portal, mail, or e-mail). Those patients with a negative
      result will be provided the result via the preferred method and given the option to speak
      with a genetic counselor. Those patients with positive results will be provided their results
      over the phone by either the study or their clinical genetic counselors or physician.
      Patients tested at Ambry will have their results directly imported into their charts via HL7;
      release of results via MyPennMedicine (MPM) will only occur only after genetic counselor or
      physician has spoken with the patient (manual release).

      As part of this study, genetic testing is being done for variants in genes known to be
      associated with increased cancer risk. However, it is possible that we do not know of all
      such genes, and we are interested in studies that may help to identify them in the future. As
      an optional part of the study, the investigators will seek consent from participants to use
      their DNA sample to help understand the development of cancer and other diseases. Possible
      future research may include other research on inherited cancer risk or the link between DNA
      and medical outcomes, including response to treatment or contributions to other disease
      research. Some research may include whole genome sequencing, a method that determines the
      exact sequence of a person's DNA. Participants may decline participation in this aspect of
      the study and only have their samples used for the main study.

      Eligible participants will be identified through one of two mechanisms. Most will be
      identified through the electronic health record (EHR) system, which at Penn Medicine is Epic,
      and will be referred directly to the study team via an Epic registry. Participants will be
      screened by a study research coordinator to determine study eligibility, making sure they do
      not meet any of the study's exclusion criteria based on information contained in the EHR.

      Alternately, some eligible participants will be identified at the time that they see a
      genetic counselor at one of the Penn Medicine cancer genetics practices and recruited by
      their local genetic counselor with immediate randomization. These patients will include, for
      example, patients who need to be seen more quickly than would be picked up through the Epic
      registry (e.g., breast cancer participants pre-surgery). Patients who have an appointment
      already scheduled with cancer genetics at the time they are picked up by the Epic registry
      will be recruited through their genetic counselors.

      Participants who do not meet NCCN/ACMG guidelines for referral to a genetic counselor will
      have routine clinical care, which does not include a genetic counselor visit or genetic
      testing for cancer predisposition. Participants who do meet NCCN/ACMG guidelines will be
      referred to a genetic counselor at their treating institution. Genetic testing will be
      ordered based on the genetic counselor's clinical recommendation and patient preference.
      Participants on this arm who receive genetic testing will be tracked and results will be
      manually entered into the study database, although if they are tested at Ambry Genetics,
      positive results can be directly imported into PennChart (our local instance of Epic) via a
      secure interface.

      Participants randomized to the universal-testing arm will have genetic testing using a
      66-gene cancer gene panel through Ambry Genetics. Participants will have saliva samples
      collected. For low-risk patients, as well as for high-risk patients who decline Genetic
      Counselor (GC) visits, Research Coordinators (RCs) will mail a saliva kit, along with a
      prepaid mailer addressed to Ambry Genetics and a completed testing requisition form, to the
      participant.

      Orders will be placed in PennChart and will link directly with the Ambry Genetics API. This
      functionality already has been built and implemented in PennChart. For both arms, clinical
      reports from Ambry including variant interpretations are directly imported into PennChart.
      Participants seen by a GC will have their results returned by that care team. Participants
      consenting remotely will be told in advance that they will be notified by their preferred
      method (patient portal, mail, email) that their genetic results are available. Negative
      results will be provided by that method, with the option of a GC visit upon request.
      Participants with positive results pathogenic/likely pathogenic or variant of uncertain
      significance (P/LP or VUS) will be told that results are available and be returned by phone
      by the study genetic counselor or their clinical genetic counselor. VUS results will be
      returned to tested patients with appropriate caveats.
    
  