
    
      Screening Subjects will be asked to complete a brief questionnaire about their lower
      extremity, which will be used to determine if they exhibit any of the exclusionary criteria
      (administered by the Study Coordinator). This will include past medical history, headache/
      migraine history, and any drugs/medications they are currently taking (which might influence
      the excitability threshold Hoffman reflex (H-reflex) measurement or central activation
      ratio). Subjects will also undergo quadriceps central activation ratio testing to determine
      the level of quadriceps inhibition. Upon review of the questionnaire and quadriceps central
      activation ratio, the study coordinator will determine a subject's eligibility (based on the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria). We will also collect age, height and weight for all
      subjects. Participants that qualify will provide written at this time which will be
      documented by the investigator.

      Quadriceps Central Activation Ratio We will use the superimposed burst technique to measure
      quadriceps muscle strength and to estimate quadriceps activation by calculating the central
      activation ratio. Subjects will be secured to a chair (Biodex multi-mode dynamometer) with
      their knees and hips bent to approximately 90 degrees. Subjects will perform a maximal,
      voluntary isometric knee extension contraction (MVIC) with continuous verbal encouragement
      from the tester. Once the MVIC reaches a plateau (representing subjects' maximal effort) an
      electrical stimulus will be manually triggered and delivered directly to the quadriceps
      through 2 stimulating electrodes which will be secured to the subjects' anterior thigh. The
      stimulus will cause the quadriceps to twitch resulting in a temporary increase in force
      production which we will measure. A ratio between the MVIC force and the highest force
      achieved due to the electrical stimulation will be calculated - this is called the central
      activation ratio. The electrical stimulus will be delivered manually with a square-wave
      stimulator in conjunction with a stimulus isolation unit) and will consist of a train of 10
      consecutive, square wave pulses of 600 microsecond duration, at an intensity of 125 volts
      with a carrier frequency of 100 pulses per second. Subjects will have the option of
      experiencing some "practice" pulses at lower intensity in order to become acclimated to the
      stimulus and the practice maintaining maximum effort in anticipation of the stimulation.

      Randomization Randomization will take place after enrollment and screening take place. The
      assessor will be blinded in this investigation. Therefore, the clinician responsible for
      educating patients regarding the exercise protocols will also be responsible for
      randomization. Randomization will take place on a 1:1 basis. Prior to starting the study, a
      binary random number generator will be used to generate the randomization scheme. These
      numbers will then by placed in sealed envelopes and label with individual subject numbers.
      The randomization envelopes will be stored in a locked drawer and will only be removed by the
      clinician responsible for randomization. The randomization envelope will then be stored in
      the participant's research folder.

      Quadriceps Hoffmann Reflex We will record muscle reflex activity by delivering a short
      percutaneous (through the skin) electrical stimulation to femoral nerve located in the
      inguinal fold. We will measure the reflex response of the quadriceps with surface
      electromyography. This measure helps to describe the function of a muscle before and after
      our exercise protocol. Subjects will be positioned comfortably in a lying-down position on a
      treatment table. Stimuli will be delivered to the femoral nerve by increasing the intensity
      in small increments with a 10 second rest interval after each stimulus, until the maximum
      H-reflex amplitude is recorded (Hmax). Then we will increase the stimulus voltage until we
      obtain a maximum M-wave. The H-reflex represents the proportion of the quadriceps motor
      neuron pool that is available for voluntary contraction and the M-wave represents the total
      volume of the quadriceps motor neuron pool and will be used to normalize the H-reflex
      recordings as H:M ratio. This measurement will be performed bilaterally.

      Exercise Intervention Participants in both groups will be instructed on a 14 day exercise (4
      supervised session and 10 home sessions) protocol on the day of enrollment. The protocol is
      comprised of 4 exercises focused on both non-weight bearing and weight bearing quadriceps
      strengthening. All participants will be asked to complete 3 set of 10 repetitions of
      isometric quadriceps contractions with a 15 second hold time, supine straight leg raises,
      body weight squatting, and body weight lunges daily. Participants will be required to
      complete the single limb exercises on the previously injured limb only. A compliance log will
      be given to each participant and will be reviewed at each supervised exercise session and at
      the final study visit. Participants will be instructed to discontinue exercise and contact
      the principle investigator if they experience knee pain due to the intervention.

      Participants in the electromyographic biofeedback supplemented exercise will also be
      instructed on correct setup and use of the electromyographic biofeedback unit. These
      instructions will focus on correct placement of the electromyography recording electrodes
      over quadriceps muscle as well as correct tuning of the feedback threshold for each exercise
      to maximize the benefit of the intervention. Electromyographic biofeedback will be used
      during all exercises throughout the course of the study for this group.

      Follow-up Testing After 14±1 days of exercise intervention all baseline measures will be
      re-tested in the same manner as explained above. A supervised exercise session and compliance
      check will be completed 3±1, 7±1, and 10±1 days following enrollment into the study. No
      follow-up measurements will be taken at this point, however an exercise compliance log will
      be collected from all participants.
    
  