
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of vorinostat (SAHA) when given in combination with
      flavopiridol (alvocidib) in patients with advanced solid tumors.

      II. Obtain preliminary data on the therapeutic activity of SAHA and flavopiridol in these
      patients.

      III. Evaluate the role of p21, p53, and apoptotic markers relative to treatment response in
      patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, open label, non-randomized, dose-escalation study of
      vorinostat (SAHA).

      Before beginning course 1 of study therapy, patients receive oral SAHA on days 1-3 in order
      to ensure tolerability of the drug. Beginning 1 week later, patients receive oral SAHA once
      daily on days 1-3 and 8-10 and fixed-dose alvocidib intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 2
      and 9. Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of SAHA until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients
      experience dose-limiting toxicity. An additional 10 patients are treated at the MTD of SAHA
      in combination with fixed-dose alvocidib. Once the MTD of SAHA in combination with fixed-dose
      alvocidib is determined, patients receive oral SAHA at one dose level below the MTD once
      daily on days 1-3 and 8-10 and divided-dose alvocidib IV over 30 minutes followed by
      alvocidib IV over 4 hours on days 2 and 9. Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. If this schedule is well-tolerated, the MTD of
      SAHA in combination with divided-dose flavopiridol is determined as above. An additional 10
      patients are treated at the MTD of SAHA in combination with divided-dose alvocidib. Patients
      undergo blood draws on days 1 and 9 of course 1 for pharmacokinetic analysis.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 4 weeks.
    
  