
    
      Cancer is a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Despite the use of surgery in
      an attempt to cure the majority of solid tumors, metastasis from residual cancer cells still
      remains a major cause of morbidity and mortality. As is the case with most cancers,
      loco-regional recurrence and distant metastases are all too common, even after successful
      surgical treatment and adjuvant therapy. Cancer metastasis is a complex process in which
      cancer cells evade the immune system. Cancer cells gain the ability to proliferate, migrate,
      and invade adjacent tissues, and together with angiogenesis, these capabilities facilitate
      the successful metastasis of cancer.

      General anesthesia and surgical stress during surgery suppress the immune response by
      directly affecting the immune system or by activating the hypothalamic-pituitaryadrenal axis
      and the sympathetic nervous system. Along with surgical stress, blood transfusion,
      hypothermia, and postoperative pain, anesthetics are associated with immunosuppression during
      perioperative periods because anesthetics/analgesics have direct suppressive effects on
      cellular and humoral immunity. In general anesthesia, it is suggested that inhalational
      anesthesia (INHA) such as sevoflurane and isoflurane may modulate antimetastatic immunity by
      inhibiting NK cell cytotoxicity and inhibit T helper cell proliferation. This could
      potentially be unfavorable for cancer survival. In contrast, propofol-based total intravenous
      anesthesia (TIVA) is suggested to have anti-inflammatory features and to be advantageous
      compared with INHA by promoting the activation of T-helper cells, decreasing matrix
      metalloproteinases, and not suppressing NK cell activity to the same extend as INHA. The
      immunological impact of the anesthetic agents may thus influence clinical measures including
      overall mortality and postoperative recovery. Recently, some readily available parameters,
      originated from routine complete blood count (CBC), have been investigated as potential
      biomarkers with mixed results and no consensus so far regarding its accuracy and clinical
      usefulness: neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), monocyte-to lymphocyte ratio (MLR),
      platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio (PLR), and mean platelet volume-to-platelet count (MPV/PC)
      ratio.

      The aim of our prospective observational study was to assess the value of NLR and PLR ratio
      regarding outcome underwent cancer surgery. Primary aim is to assess the preoperative and
      postoperative values of inhalational anesthesia vs total intravenous anesthesia.
    
  