
    
      This study was approved by the institutional review board at Baystate Medical Center. The
      study pool consists of all women who present to a single urogynecologist's office for an
      initial consultation with a complaint of urinary incontinence and/or pelvic organ prolapse.
      Those patients who consent for the research will be then randomized either to 2% Lidocaine
      Hydrochloride jelly (Akorn, Buffalo Grove, IL) or Surgilube (Fougera, Melville, NY) using
      computer generated blocks of 10. The latter is a commonly used, commercially available
      aqueous lubricant gel. Both the urogynecologist who perform the examinations and the patient
      will be blinded to the randomization. The appearances of the study gels are
      indistinguishable. Based on our power analysis targeting a power of 0.80, an α value of 0.05,
      and 20% difference in pain perception between the groups, we are aiming to recruit a sample
      of minimum132 subjects.

      First, demographic information including the age, parity, previous vaginal births, body mass
      index (BMI), race, diabetes, vaginal atrophy, neurological impairment, current estrogen use,
      indication for visit and exam anxiety will be collected as a part of patient history.
      Immediately after voiding, each patient will be placed in a lithotomy position. An
      independent nurse who is not involved in patient's care will prepare the study gels according
      to the randomization. After cleansing external urethral meatus with povidone iodine solution,
      a lubricated a sterile 14-French polyvinyl chloride Mentor Self-Cath catheter (Coloplast,
      Minneapolis, MN) will be placed transurethrally into the bladder to measure the postvoid
      residual volume. Following removal of the catheter, a cotton swab, lubricated with the same
      allocated gel, will be advanced to the urethrovesical junction until resistance was felt. The
      angle of the Q-tip with the horizontal plane will be measured at rest and with Valsalva
      maneuver. All the examinations will be performed by the same urogynecologist in the same
      order. Immediately following the Q-tip test, patient's perception of pain level will be
      measured using a validated pain scoring system, the Wong-Baker FACES visual scale where 0
      represented no pain and 5 represented worst imaginable pain. The rest of the physical
      examination will be completed after this pain assessment.

      We will evaluate patient characteristics and pain score variables by exposure to either
      Lidocaine or Surgilube using SPSS Version 11.01 software (Chicago, Illinois). For continuous
      variables, we will calculate the mean and standard deviation and then evaluate significant
      differences using the Mann Whitney U test. For categorical variables, we will calculate the
      number and percent and then evaluate significant differences using Pearson's chi-square test.
      Significance for all results was set at an alpha of <0.05.
    
  