
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine antitumor activity as measured by disease control rate at 12 weeks (DCR12) as
      assessed using immune-modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (iRECIST) in
      select homologous recombination repair (HRR) deficient pancreatic cancer patients with HRR
      deficiency (defined as mutations in BRCA 1/ 2, or PALB2).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess adverse events according to the current National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) and other safety parameters.

      II. To assess the time to next treatment (TTNT), objective response rate (ORR), time to and
      duration of response and duration of confirmed stable disease according to iRECIST.

      III. To assess progression-free survival. IV. To assess overall survival.

      CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess germline deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and serum markers of immune response.

      II. To determine changes in circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) profile after therapy with a PARP
      inhibitor (i) and a PD-1 inhibitor.

      III. To study mechanisms of resistance in ctDNA profile after therapy with a PARPi and a PD-1
      inhibitor.

      IV. To assess the tumor microenvironment for immune related changes (immune infiltration,
      PD-L1 and PD-1 expression, tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes [TIL]).

      V. To assess genetic profile of the tumor pre- and post-treatment. VI. To determine changes
      in the cytokine profile pre- and post-treatment.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive niraparib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Patients also receive
      dostarlimab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 every 3 weeks (Q3W) for cycles 1-4
      and every 6 weeks (Q6W) for subsequent cycles. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 2 years
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months
      until progressive disease (PD), and then every 6 months for up to 5 years after registration.
    
  