
    
      Primary autonomic failure is a disabling condition characterized by orthostatic hypotension.
      It is less well appreciated that at least 50% of these patients have high blood pressure when
      lying down [supine hypertension]. The mechanisms underlying supine hypertension in autonomic
      failure remain poorly understood. The hypertension in MSA patients may be explained by
      residual sympathetic tone, possibly acting on hypersensitive adrenoreceptors and unrestrained
      by the lack of baroreflex modulation. In contrast, the hypertension in PAF is associated with
      increased vascular resistance in the absence of residual sympathetic tone. However, the
      factors driving an elevation in either sympathetic or vascular tone in these patients remain
      unclear.

      The investigators hypothesize that angiotensin II, a hormone widely implicated in blood
      pressure regulation, plays a role in the supine hypertension of autonomic failure. To
      determine the contribution of angiotensin II to renin and blood pressure regulation in
      autonomic failure, the investigators will administer the angiotensin II receptor blocker
      losartan to MSA and PAF patients with supine hypertension. The primary endpoint will be
      changes in plasma renin activity, and subsequent components of the circulating
      renin-angiotensin system, in response to angiotensin II blockade. The secondary outcomes will
      be the decrease in blood pressure and changes in heart rate, cardiac output, stroke volume
      and systemic vascular resistance during administration of these drugs.

      Subjects will be studied on 2 separate days, one with oral administration of placebo and the
      other with losartan [50 mg]. The order of administration will be randomized in a single-blind
      manner. The investigators will collect blood samples before and every 2 hours after
      administration for up to 6 hours to determine if angiotensin II regulates plasma renin
      activity, and other components of the circulating renin-angiotensin system, in autonomic
      failure. The investigators will also obtain hemodynamic measurements before and every 1 hour
      (blood pressure and heart rate) or 2 hours (cardiac output, stroke volume and systemic
      vascular resistance) after drug administration.

      In a subset of patients the investigators will also administer the ACE inhibitor captopril
      [50 mg] on a separate study day using the same methods. Captopril is less specific for
      assessing the role of angiotensin II to hypertension. However, it may provide important
      information on the mechanism for angiotensin II formation in these patients.
    
  