
    
      Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) is a noninvasive outpatient technique of
      brain stimulation, based on the delivery of the localized magnetic field. It is now widely
      used a in a variety of neurological and psychiatric disorders.

      Several clinical and pathophysiological studies suggest efficacy of rTMS on the reduction of
      craving and/or addictive behavior in various addictions such as alcoholism, smocking or
      cocaine. Because of the addictive design of the BN, the effect of one session of rTMS on food
      craving has been tested.

      These studies show that stimulation of left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DPLPFC) under
      high frequency decreases craving food. In addition, in a healthy subject, studies show that
      rTMS appear to alter neuropsychological functions very involved in physiopathology of
      bulimia. To date, the investigators do not know if rTMS cold be a useful treatment in the
      treatment of bulimia. But in the light of these data, the investigators hypothesize that a
      program of rtMS may have a therapeutic effect and therefore an interest for the treatment of
      bulimia.

      The objective of this project is to assess whether a program of repetitive transcranial
      magnetic stimulation (rTMS) under high frequency at the left DLPFC reduces bulimic symptoms
      in the short term.

      This is a french multicenter study (Montpellier, Marseille, Saint Etienne), randomized,
      single blind, two arm, in addition of a treatment already validated (prescription of
      selective inhibitors of serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs)). The two arms are : one arm
      with SSRI + rTMS and an arm with SSRI + sham rTMS (placebo), 30 patients per group will be
      recruited.

      The methodology includes:

        1. an initial clinical and neuropsychological assessment.

        2. 10 TMS sessions of 20 trains of 5s with 55s interval cross train, at a frequency of 10
           Hz and 110% of motor threshold intensity of the left DLPFC. Fifty percent of patients
           will have a real stimulation and and the other fifty percent a sham stimulation.
           Subjects will be randomized to one or other of the two groups. During the first and last
           session a food challenge task will be administered before and after rTMS. Salivary
           cortisol level will be assessed throughout the protocol.

        3. the final clinical and neuropsychological assessment at 1 month (15 days minimum after
           the last Session of rTMS).

      The primary endpoint will focus on the number of binge within 15 days after the last session
      of rTMS.

      If the investigators hypothesis is confirmed the investigators will highlight a new
      therapeutic modality in the treatment of bulimia. The secondary objectives will permit a
      better understanding of the pathophysiology of the disorder and ways of possible therapeutic
      actions of rTMS
    
  