
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is one of the most common postoperative complications following
      cardiac surgery. This in turn translates into longer hospitalization, increased cost of
      hospitalization as well as association with thromboembolic events and mortality .

      Despite new-onset postoperative atrial fibrillation (NoPOAF) occurring in 20-40% of patients
      following coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery, the underlying mechanisms are not well
      established. However, it has been traditionally thought to be transient and benign to the
      patient.

      Recent evidence suggests that POAF may be more 'malignant' than previously thought,
      associated with follow-up mortality and morbidity.

      Previously, increased left atrial (LA) size and LA dysfunction have been shown to be related
      to the subsequent development of atrial fibrillation (AF), stroke, myocardial infarction, and
      heart failure.

      Also, recent studies suggest that LA dysfunction caused by the effects of oxidative stress,
      inflammation, and atrial fibrosis, has a role. In other words, by acute functional
      depression, preoperative LA dysfunction may be the starting point of the development of POAF
      after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG).(8) Therefore, as the improvement in the
      evaluation of LA function, preoperative LA dysfunction may emerge as an important component
      in the identification of patients with the risk of POAF after CABG surgery.

      Echocardiography is the most common diagnostic method for assessing atrial function but the
      technique has some limitations. Traditionally, assessment of left atrial function has been
      performed by measuring volumes with 2D echocardiography. Additionally, it can be assessed
      with transmitral Doppler and pulmonary vein Doppler. Recently, an alternative method has been
      incorporated, namely, measurement of myocardial deformation with color tissue Doppler-derived
      strain.

      However, this method has several limitations, such as suboptimal reproducibility,
      angle-dependence, signal artifacts and the fact that it only measures regional strain and
      does not obtain information about the curved portion of the atrial roof. To overcome these
      limitations in the quantification of atrial function, the use of speckle tracking
      echocardiography (STE) strain has been proposed. This technique is not derived from Doppler
      but rather from 2D echocardiography, it is angle-independent, and allows us to measure global
      as well as regional atrial strain. STE is a new technique of 2D echocardiography image
      analysis that allows the study of regional atrial myocardial deformation expressed by a
      dimensionless parameter.

      2-dimensional (2D) speckle tracking strain imaging is a feasible and reproducible technique
      for the assessment of LA function by evaluating LA deformation dynamics.
    
  