
    
      Systematic transrectal ultrasound (TRUS)-guided biopsies in men with a clinical suspicion of
      prostate cancer, based on digital rectal examination (DRE) and/or prostate-specific antigen
      (PSA) has been the diagnostic strategy for years. However, this method has known limited
      sensitivity and risks, as many men without cancer undergo unnecessary biopsies, clinically
      insignificant cancers are often detected while significant cancers are missed or under-graded
      and the biopsy procedure itself carries discomfort and morbidity. Prostate imaging capable of
      identifying clinically significant disease for targeted biopsy with high accuracy and
      efficiency is thus of importance. mpMRI (multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging) and
      mpMRI-targeted biopsies are being increasingly used, and they have improved the ability to
      detect clinically significant cancers, while reducing the diagnosis of insignificant cancers
      compared to TRUS-guided biopsies. Nevertheless, mpMRI has been limited by inter-reader
      variability, high level of expertise requirements and heterogeneity in definitions while
      mpMRI-targeted biopsies alone still misses clinical significant cancers revealed by
      TRUS-guided biopsies.

      There is an ongoing search for new cost-effective, manageable imaging technologies for
      adequate prostate cancer diagnosis. Various ultrasound modalities are in development striving
      to increase cancer detection among which contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) and
      elastography. Preliminary results of a multiparametric ultrasound (mpUS) approach, combining
      these different ultrasound modalities, seem promising. The number and quality of studies
      available, however, is relatively low, emphasizing the need for further work to define the
      role of mpUS.

      This is an investigator-initiated, prospective in-vivo validation study in humans to validate
      mpUS as imaging modality for detection and localization of prostate cancer by direct
      correlation with histopathology. Biopsy-proven prostate cancer patients scheduled for radical
      prostatectomy will be approached and consented to enter this study. Information about the
      study will be provided both verbally and in written form.

      Participants will undergo a mpUS imaging prior to their surgery. For the contrast enhanced
      mode of the mpUS an additional infusion of an ultrasound contrast agent through an
      intravenous cannula will be used during transrectal ultrasound scanning for the purpose of
      the study.

      The mpUS imaging data will be evaluated qualitatively and semi-quantitatively using
      parametric maps by prostate ultrasound experts blinded for radical prostatectomy
      histopathology. Histopathology will be evaluated qualitatively by an uro-pathologist blinded
      for mpUS imaging results. Hence, imaging data will be correlated with histopathology in a
      blinded fashion using a 3D registration system and 3D reconstruction model. Predictive
      accuracy of mpUS imaging for detection and localization of prostate cancer on histopathology
      will be analyzed.

      At a later stage, a mpUS classifier, most optimally combining the most relevant ultrasound
      parameters of each modality in one single resulting mpUS parameter will be developed.
      Furthermore, the additional clinical value of mpUS imaging in prostate cancer diagnostics
      will be determined by comparing mpUS results with that of available mpMRI data. mpMRI imaging
      data will be evaluated by an uro-radiologist using the PI-RADS (Prostate Imaging Reporting
      and Data System) criteria blinded for radical prostatectomy results.
    
  