
    
      The prevalence of depression in primary care is high. Primary care physicians serve as the
      initial point of contact for most patients with depression, yet it is estimated that only
      about half of the depressed patients who present for care are recognized and treated.
      Language barriers can further exacerbate this problem. Approximately 54 million people in the
      United States speak a language other than English at home and over 21 million are limited
      English-language proficient (LEP). Language barriers may result in less discussion about
      patients' mental health needs and fewer referrals to specialty mental health services. Recent
      advances in health information technology (HIT), however, may facilitate novel ways to screen
      for mental health problems among limited English proficient patients. The HIT intervention is
      a provider-level intervention that consists of four components: 1) web- based training for
      the providers; 2) multimedia electronic screening of patients for depression and PTSD; 3)
      immediate notification to the health care providers and integration with the patients'
      electronic health records (EHR); and 4) provider clinical decision support. In a randomized
      controlled trial in a primary care setting, we will assess the potential of a multi-component
      health information technology intervention to improve the screening rates, clinical
      detection, provider initiation of treatment, and patient outcomes for depression and
      post-traumatic stress disorder among LEP Southeast Asians. We will examine the usability and
      acceptability of this technology to patients with limited English skills and their providers.
      Finally, we will identify and evaluate potential facilitators and barriers to wide spread
      implementation and dissemination of the HIT intervention. This technology has the potential
      to be adapted and utilized for any group of limited English-language proficient (LEP)
      patients, regardless of their native language, and has the potential to be adapted for
      providers to aid in the recognition, diagnosis, and treatment of mental health problems in
      diverse primary care settings.
    
  