
    
      Massive resources are expended every year on cultural competence training for physicians.
      However no rigorous study that has assessed whether cultural competence training for
      physicians results in better health outcomes for their patients.

      The investigators propose to conduct a randomized clinical trial to compare two
      interventions. The study will involve three groups. The first, Physician Asthma Care
      Education (PACE), is a proven program for enhancing communication, therapeutic practice and
      the ability of physicians to foster effective management of asthma by their patients in
      general. The second is the PACE program plus skills and concepts considered in the literature
      essential to culturally competent practice (PACE PLUS). It is designed to give clinicians a
      higher degree of certainty and confidence in working across cultures. PACE PLUS was
      specifically developed to enable physicians to understand and overcome potential biases in
      their interactions with patients whose racial/ethnic identity is different from their own.
      The third is a control group that will not receive an intervention. Two racial/ethnic groups
      of patients will be the focus of the research: African American and Latino/Hispanic,
      specifically, Puerto Rican children with asthma and their parents or caretakers. The proposed
      study will evaluate the effects of the training for physicians on health outcomes for the
      children and performance ratings given to the physician by the parent of the child.

      The proposed study will address two questions:

        1. Does cultural competence training (PACE PLUS) produce better outcomes for minority
           patients, specifically African American and Puerto Rican children, and their respective
           parents, than a general communication training program (PACE)?

        2. Compared to the control group, is the Physician Asthma Care Education program (PACE),
           already shown to be effective with the general population of patients, effective when
           used with minority patients, specifically African American and Puerto Rican children,
           and their parents?

      The study hypothesis is that there will be positive outcomes for patients of physicians in
      both interventions but better outcomes for those patients whose doctors participate in the
      cultural competence training (PACE PLUS). That is:

        1. PACE PLUS compared to PACE will produce:

             -  reductions in children's health care use for asthma

             -  improved symptom experience for the children

             -  greater parent/caretaker satisfaction with the physician's performance

             -  enhanced asthma related quality of life for parents/caretakers of the patients

             -  higher levels of confidence and value placed by physicians on skills needed when
                working cross culturally

             -  increased use of National Asthma Education and Prevention Program (NAEPP)
                recommended therapies by physicians

        2. PACE compared to a control group will produce better outcomes on these six dimensions.
    
  