
    
      Objective:

      The objective of the field evaluation is to determine the effectiveness of reminiscence
      therapy (RT) using replicas of personal objects produced by 3D printing. To address this
      objective, randomized control field trials will be conducted in which the effects of high and
      low doses of RT using 3D-printed objects will be compared to the effects of using only
      traditional verbally-presented stimuli during RT. Effects will be measured on
      autobiographical memory, psycho-social status, and quality of life.

      Participants:

      The Co- Investigators, Dr. Berg-Weger and Dr. Anderson, in cooperation with the participating
      care organizations, will identify a total of 156 persons with memory loss of varying gender,
      race, and ethnicity to participate in the field trial.

      Study Design and Implementation:

      Two hypotheses will be tested. Hypothesis 1. An RT program dose consisting of 16 weeks of RT
      sessions using personalized physical objects produced by 3D printing will result in more and
      richer autobiographical reminiscence than a 16 week RT program dose consisting of 8 weeks of
      RT sessions using personalized 3D objects followed by 8 weeks of RT using verbal stimuli.
      Further, it is hypothesized that a full 16 weeks of RT using 3D objects will have a more
      significant positive effect on overall cognitive functioning, communication, and quality of
      life than 8 weeks of RT using 3D objects plus 8 weeks of RT using verbal memory stimuli.

      Hypothesis 2. Both programs of RT using personalized physical 3D-printed objects will result
      in significantly greater and richer autobiographical reminiscence than a program consisting
      of 16 weeks of more traditional RT using verbal memory stimuli, and also have a positive
      effect on overall cognitive functioning, communication, and quality of life.

      Study Design:

      A between groups design will be used to examine these hypotheses, with participants assigned
      randomly to one of three groups:

        1. a High Dose group receiving RT using personalized 3D objects for 16 weeks,

        2. a Low Dose group receiving RT using personalized 3D objects for 8 weeks followed by 8
           weeks of RT using traditional verbal stimuli, or

        3. a control group receiving more traditional RT using verbal stimuli related to personal
           objects of interest.

      The proposed high and low RT dosages are based on the higher and lower range dosages reported
      in two recent meta-analyses of RT. Personalized 3D objects will be identified for 3D-RT group
      participants by the therapist using a mobile application developed specifically for this
      project. Verbal stimuli for RT for the traditional RT group will be developed using exactly
      the same life history questions used in the mobile application. Questions will be selected
      from the list and discussed, one by one, until the discussion leads to a topic being
      identified by the Person With Memory Loss (PWML). An effort will be made to ensure that this
      process of identifying verbal stimuli for the Verbal RT group participants involves therapist
      contact time equivalent to that expended by the therapist in identifying personalized 3D
      objects for 3D-RT group participants.

      Thirty-minute therapy sessions will be conducted 1 time each week for 16 weeks. Every two
      weeks, a new 3D object will be identified by the caregiver/therapist working with the PWML,
      printed by Moai Technologies, and introduced to the therapy. Thus, each object or topic will
      serve as the RT stimulus for two sessions. In the unlikely event that the 3D object does not
      stimulate a full 30 minutes of discussion, the therapist will be prepared with more general
      reminiscence topics to introduce so that a full 30-minute session can be completed and
      contact time across sessions held constant. Participating RT therapists will be trained on
      how to make the transition. For those in the Verbal-RT group, a new verbally-presented topic
      of autobiographical interest to the PWML will be identified and introduced every two weeks.
      As with the 3D object groups, if the identified topic does not stimulate a full 30 minutes of
      discussion, the therapist will be prepared with more general reminiscence topics to introduce
      so that a full 30-minute session can be completed.

      This approach to delivering RT by means of regular, structured sessions with a trained
      caregiver draws on the successful paradigm developed in the United Kingdom for Individual
      Cognitive Stimulation Therapy (CST). Notably, all project collaborators in the St. Louis area
      are part of the university's CST network. Thus, they are already familiar with this paradigm
      and can easily adapt it to the program of RT sessions proposed here. This project's field
      collaborator in the Missoula area, The Goodman Group, is eager to be trained and to set up
      this RT paradigm in their Missoula and Hamilton, Montana facilities.

      Data Collection:

      PWMLs, assisted by caregivers as necessary, will complete the measures described below three
      times: 1) prior to the beginning of RT trials, 2) after the 8th week of RT, 3) at the end of
      the 16-week therapy period. It is estimated that completing these tests will require a total
      of 70 minutes of time for the PWML and 15-30 minutes for the caregiver.

      Summary of Measures:

        1. Measure: Cognitive stimulation/reminiscence. Instrument: Autobiographical Memory
           Interview (AMI), Kopelman, Wilson, and Baddeley, 1989

        2. Measure: Dementia severity Instruments: Saint Louis University Mental Status (SLUMS),
           Tariq, Tumosa, Chibnall, Perry, 2006 Revised Memory and Behavior Problems Checklist
           (R-MBPC), Teri, Truax, Logsdon, Uomoto, Zarit, Vitaliano, 1992

        3. Measure: Social engagement Instrument: Pleasant Events Schedule-AD (PES-AD), Lodsdon,
           Teri, 1997

        4. Measure: Mood Instrument: Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS), van Marwijk, Wallace, de
           Bock, 1995

        5. Measure: Quality of life Instrument: Dementia Quality of Life (DQoL), Brod, Stewart,
           Sands, Walton, 1999

      Interviews. At the end of the 16-week period, interviews will be conducted with all
      participating RT therapists and with a sample of 15-20 PWMLs who reported the greatest
      increase in quality of life during the 16 week therapy period. A stratified sampling approach
      will be used to select the PWMLs for interviews and will consider dementia severity and
      racial or ethnic background. The experiences of RT therapists and PWMLs with using the 3D
      printed objects in RT sessions and the online and mobile tools, will be assessed with both
      structured and open-ended questioning.
    
  