
    
      In this study, epiduroscopic discectomy procedures performed between January 2012 and July
      2016 at the Algology Clinic of the Department of Anesthesiology and Reanimation, Sakarya
      University Training and Research Hospital, were examined retrospectively. After approval was
      received from the Sakarya University Faculty of Medicine's Ethics Committee, patient
      information was obtained from the KarMed (Kardelen Software, Turkey) hospital information
      system. Files were scanned from the hospital archive. The age, gender, weight, lumbar disc
      herniation level, preoperative and postoperative surgical history, amount of physiological
      saline used during the procedure and duration of the procedure, whether a lumbar epidural
      steroid (LES) was used during the procedure, the amount of epiduroscopic laser use during the
      procedure, and complications after the procedure were examined. The Oswestry Disability Index
      (ODI) and Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) scores were recorded preoperatively, as well as after 2
      weeks and 2, 6, and 12 months postoperatively from the patient files.

      The 2007 Number Cruncher Statistical System (NCSS, Kaysville, Utah, USA) program was used for
      statistical analysis. The Student t-test and Mann-Whitney U test were used for descriptive
      statistical methods (mean, standard deviation, median, frequency, ratio, minimum, maximum) in
      two groups, as well as the normal distribution of quantitative data. The Kruskal-Wallis test
      and Mann-Whitney U test were used in the comparison of three groups with no normal
      distribution. The Pearson Chi-square test was used to evaluate qualitative data, and
      Spearman's correlation analysis was used to evaluate intervariable relationships. The
      Friedman and Wilcoxon signed ranks tests were used in the evaluation of three or more
      follow-up parameters without normal distribution. Diagnostic screening tests (sensitivity,
      specificity) and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis were used to determine the
      cutoff value for age. Significance was evaluated at the level of p < (0.01).
    
  