
    
      Cerebral palsy (CP) is a common cause of childhood disability with an incidence of 2.11 per
      1000 live births. Children with CP often develop problems with their feet during growth, with
      a reported prevalence of foot deformity of 86% in a group of 66 diplegic children.
      Deformities may occur in the ankle joint, subtalar joint (the joint below the ankle) and/or
      the foot itself. The European SPARCLE study reported that 54% of children with CP experienced
      pain in the previous week, which was associated with a poorer quality of life. This rose to
      75% in a subsequent study of adolescents. The most common place for children to experience
      pain is in the feet, especially for the more mobile children.

      Clinical experience is that deformed feet are challenging to manage with splints.
      Biomechanical changes in the ankle and foot affect the whole leg and a sudden deterioration
      in gait often follows, for example the development of a crouch gait pattern.

      Several mechanisms are proposed for the development of foot deformity, including calf muscle
      tightness, muscle imbalance, bony subluxation and collapse of the longitudinal arch. It is
      difficult to separate cause and effect as phenomena occur concurrently.

      Previously the research team have examined the morphology of the foot in detail using imaging
      techniques and gait analysis. To date no one has conducted similar studies looking at the
      subtalar joint in cerebral palsy and the orientation of the axis in this condition is
      currently unknown.

      Participants in this research (typically developing children and children with cerebral
      palsy) will only need to attend on a single occasion. They will spend around half a day in
      the hospital, with measurements being taken in two departments:-

      MRI scans: The children will have MRI scans taken of one leg. This will be done twice,
      firstly with the limb unloaded and then with a load applied to the foot. The child will have
      MRI opaque markers attached to bony landmarks on the skin before the scans are taken.

      Gait analysis: The children will attend the gait laboratory. Here they will be asked to wear
      shorts and a T shirt or crop top. A simple orthopaedic examination will be carried out to
      measure their legs and joints. They will then have retroreflective markers and
      electromyography (EMG) sensors attached to their legs and they will be asked to walk up and
      down the laboratory whilst their walking pattern is recorded. The record will include video
      images, 3D tracking of the marker positions and muscle signals from the EMG.

      At the end of the data collection they will be free to leave and their participation in the
      study will end.

      MRI scans will be segmented using Mimics (Materialise, Belgium) software to obtain bone
      geometries. As demonstrated in previous studies unloaded MRI scans allow high quality
      reconstruction of foot bone geometries, suitable for generating multi-segmental models of the
      foot and tibia in adult and paediatric populations. Subject-specific ankle and foot
      musculoskeletal models will be produced from the reconstructed patient's bone geometries,
      including personalized muscle attachments, derived from the MRI scans and subject-specific
      tibiotalar and subtalar joint axes, identified by fitting appropriate analytical shapes
      (spheres and cylinders) to the articular surfaces.

      The individual dynamic models will be validated by comparing their configuration in the
      stance phase of walking against the loaded MRI scans. External joint moments due to the
      action of ground reaction force will be computed using an inverse dynamics analysis
      implemented in OpenSim, while the contribution of the calf muscles to the internal joint
      moments will be estimated by computing the muscles' moment arms with respect to foot joint
      axes.

      This study will produce the first pilot data of static and dynamic subtalar morphology in
      children with cerebral palsy. The research team hope to identify potential mechanisms of
      deformity which can be used to categorise feet and inform treatment, prior to designing a
      future interventional clinical trial.
    
  