
    
      Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) represents a spectrum of diseases ranging from
      simple fatty liver (steatosis) to steatosis with inflammation and necrosis to cirrhosis, that
      occurs in persons who drink little or no alcohol. Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH)
      represents the more severe end of this spectrum and is associated with progressive liver
      disease, fibrosis and cirrhosis. The etiology of NASH is unclear, but it is often associated
      with obesity, type 2 diabetes, hyperlipidemia and insulin resistance. We have recently
      conducted a study of a 48-week course of pioglitazone in 21 non-diabetic patients with NASH.
      Serum aminotransferase levels and liver histology improved in most patients and the
      improvements correlated with changes in insulin sensitivity. These results are promising, but
      pioglitazone is associated with significant weight gain, is quite expensive, and its
      long-term safety is yet to be proven. In contrast, metformin is inexpensive, extremely well
      tolerated, and of proven long-term safety in patients with diabetes and pre-diabetes.

      In this study, we propose to treat 20 non-diabetic patients with NASH with metformin for
      48-weeks. After an initial evaluation for insulin sensitivity, fat distribution and liver
      biopsy, patients will receive gradually increasing doses of metformin orally to a maximum of
      2000 mg daily. Patients will be monitored at regular intervals for symptoms of liver disease,
      side effects of metformin and serum biochemical and metabolic indices. At the end of
      48-weeks, patients will have a repeat medical evaluation and liver biopsy. Pre and post
      treatment liver histology, fat distribution and insulin sensitivity will be compared. The
      primary end point of successful therapy will be improvement in hepatic histology as
      determined by reduction of at least three points in NASH activity score. Secondary end points
      will be improvement in insulin sensitivity, body fat distribution, and liver biochemistry.
    
  