
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) is a disease characterized by joint degeneration with subchondral and
      periosteal lesions . Coxarthrosis (hip osteoarthritis) is an important cause of disability,
      especially in the advanced age group. The risk of symptomatic coxarthrosis in persons up to
      the age of 85 is approximately 25%. There is a possibility of total hip replacement at a rate
      of approximately 10% due to advanced stage coxarthrosis. Kellgren-Lawrence staging system is
      used to show disease severity in osteoarthritis staging. According to this, Stage 0: there is
      no radiological change, Stage 1: there is a slight narrowing in the joint space, Stage 2:
      osteophytes are formed in the joint space with stenosis in the anteroposterior radiography,
      Stage 3: multiple osteophytes, significant narrowing of the joint space, sclerosis and Stage
      4 It describes a situation accompanied by large osteophytes, severe stenosis in the joint
      space, prominent sclerosis, and bone deformities.

      Although coxarthrosis is often thought to be a non-inflammatory pathology, recent studies
      have shown that joint degeneration correlates with the production of inflammatory factors and
      cartilage destroying enzymes. At the cellular level, it has been found that macrophage and
      perivascular T and B lymphocyte infiltration play a role in early and advanced stage OA.

      Neutrophils and lymphocytes are the main determinants of the inflammatory process. The
      neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio (NLR) is obtained by dividing the absolute neutrophil count by
      the number of lymphocytes obtained from the peripheral blood count. They are used as an
      indicator of the inflammatory process in inflammatory conditions such as ankylosing
      spondylitis, sarcoidosis, and cancers. In addition, platelet lymphocyte ratio (PLR) has also
      been found to be associated with disease activity and severity in diseases such as rheumatoid
      arthritis and psoriatic arthritis. Its use in the diagnosis and follow-up of OA has not yet
      been clearly demonstrated. However, changes in mean platelet volume are also used as an
      indicator of disease severity in systemic inflammatory diseases.

      There are very few studies evaluating the correlation of Neutrophil lymphocyte ratio,
      monocyte lymphocyte ratio and Platelet lymphocyte ratio with inflammatory parameters CRP and
      ESR levels in hip osteoarthritis and its relation with the staging of hip osteoatritis. The
      aim of this study to evaluate of the correlation of the inflammatory parameters with pain and
      radiological findings in the patients with coxarthrosis.
    
  