
    
      Schizophrenia is a psychiatric disorder that affects 1% of the population worldwide. The
      diagnostic announcement of this chronic disorder is an essential step in the patient's care.
      Recommendations specify the importance of including caregivers at the time of the
      announcement. In practice, caregivers are not systematically associated with the announcement
      of the diagnosis of schizophrenia, while the daily support of patients is provided in 75% of
      cases by the family. This support can lead to the exhaustion of caregivers and have
      repercussions on their sick loved one.

      This study will qualitatively describe and explore the experience of the diagnostic
      announcement in relatives of patients with schizophrenia. Specifically, the investigators
      will explore the history before the diagnosis is announced, the conditions of the
      announcement and the experiences of relatives as well as the impact at the personal and
      family-levels. This study will also explore the expectations of caregivers and avenues for
      reflection for announcement of schizophrenia diagnosis.

      The number of subjects to be included in this study is therefore set at 30. A preselection of
      each potential participant will be carried out by phone or in person to ensure the presence
      of inclusion criteria and the absence of non-inclusion criteria. The patients will also be
      provided with oral information about the study to allow sufficient time to reflect before
      inclusion. Then, the selection-inclusion-interview visit will take place visually in an
      intra-hospital or extra-hospital consultation structure of the Center Hospitalier
      Alpes-Isère. This visit will be unique and will consist of the entire protocol. It will be
      both a selection, inclusion and interview visit.

      Once the results have been analyzed, this study will provide a better understanding of the
      experiences of relatives of patients when the diagnosis of schizophrenia is announced, the
      impact of this announcement on caregivers and family relationships and the expectations of
      caregivers regarding this announcement. In the long term, the data collected will be add
      value in developing medical recommendations on consultation to announce the diagnosis of
      schizophrenia to relatives of patients, in order to best meet the expectations of relatives
      and to minimize as much as possible the harmful impact that can have such announcement.
    
  