
    
      DHA (Docosahexaenoic Acid ) is a long chain omega-3 fatty acid important for brain and eye
      development and function throughout life. It also supports heart health. DHA is the most
      abundant omega-3 in the brain and retina and is naturally found in breast milk. EPA
      (Eicosapentaenoic Acid ) is a long-chain omega-3 fatty acid important for overall health.
      However, unlike DHA, the body does not store EPA in significant quantities in the brain or
      retina (DHA is found in every cell throughout the body, EPA is not). These Omega 3 fatty
      acids are considered essential due to the inability of the human body to create them and the
      need to consume them from nutritional source. Food that is considered rich in omega 3 fatty
      acids are fat fish and green vegetables. Omega-3 fatty acids are "good fats," and are among
      the most important nutrients lacking in Western diets today. The average person in developed
      countries consumes less than 100 mg of DHA daily. With increasing awareness of the importance
      of DHA, many people realize that they need to make a change to their diet by adding DHA-rich
      foods or supplements.

      Alpha Linolenic Acid (ALA) is a shorter-chain omega-3 that serves as a source of energy and
      as a building block for long-chain omega-3 fatty acids (DHA and EPA). This precursor for
      omega 3 fatty acid is abundant in falx seeds. The mother and the fetus has the metabolic
      mechanism that enables them to transform ALA into EPA,DHA endogenously.

      Women during pregnancy are predisposed to a reduction in unsaturated long chain fatty acid
      (polyunsaturated Fatty Acid = PUFA) from the omega 3 group . Lately, a new hypothesis
      claiming that a reduced level of this essential acids expose the fetus later in his adult
      life to a spectrum of metabolic and cardiovascular disease. New publication on animal models
      showed higher rates of obesity, insulin resistance diabetes and cardiovascular damage on mice
      exposed short chain fatty acids compared to those treated with enriched ALA diet
      supplementation. Different nutritional and gynecological health organization around the world
      including the FDA, recommend incorporating omega 3 fatty acids supplementation to daily diet
      and specifically in pregnant women in order to raise their blood levels for the developing
      fetus. However, normal fatty acid profile of the omega 3 group in mother and fetus haven't
      been described yet . Furthermore, the total effect and future benefit to fetus haven't been
      thoroughly studied and is based mainly on presumptions.

      The aim of this study is to learn the typical omega 3 fatty acid profile at women near
      delivery and their fetuses and to compare it to women in productive years that are not
      pregnant.

      Study methods:

      Women close to term visiting the obstetrical triage and fitting inclusion criteria will be
      offered to participate in the study. Demographic medical and obstetrical information will be
      collected from medical files after giving signed informed consent .

      Blood sample ( one blood tube that will include 5 cc of blood ) will be taken while insertion
      of intravenous line in the delivery room, and another blood sample will be taken from the
      umbilical vein after delivery and separation of the fetus from the umbilical cord.

      Women for control group - healthy non pregnant women in fertility years, will be recruited
      from the gynecological clinic . Similarly to the study group, one of the study researchers
      will collect one tube for blood sampling ( equal to 5 cc of blood ).

      All samples will be sent for profile analysis of omega 3 fatty acids.
    
  