
    
      Twenty-three healthy men, of which 7 young (YM; aged 18-30 years) and 16 older adults (OM;
      aged 55-65 years) were recruited for the study. All participants underwent medical
      examination and routine blood and urine analysis. Exclusion criteria were: smoking; regular
      alcohol consumption; ferromagnetic implants; history of deep vein thrombosis with D-dimer >
      500 μg·L-1; acute or chronic skeletal, neuromuscular, metabolic and cardiovascular disease
      conditions; pulmonary embolism. Participants were informed of the purpose, procedures and
      potential risk of the study before signing the informed consent. The study was performed in
      accordance with the ethical standards of the 1964 Declaration of Helsinki and was approved by
      the National Ethical Committee of the Slovenian Ministry of Health on April 17, 2012.

      The study was conducted in controlled medical environment of the Orthopedic Hospital of
      Valdoltra, Slovenia. The participants were housed in standard air conditioned hospital rooms
      and were under constant surveillance with 24-hour medical care. For 14 days, the participants
      performed all daily activities in bed and received eucaloric controlled meals three times a
      day. Dietary energy requirements were designed for each subject multiplying resting energy
      expenditure by factors 1.2 and 1.4 in BR and ambulatory period, respectively. The resting
      energy expenditure was calculated as done in previous studies. The macronutrient food content
      set at 60% of carbohydrates, 25% fat, and 15% of proteins, according to the scheme of the so
      called "mediterranean diet" and adopted also in previous bed rest protocols. Energy balance
      was checked weekly by fat mass assessment. The daily protein intake was 1.1-1.25 g kg-1 in
      both groups, in BR and recovery period respectively, except the subgroups of OM who received
      a supplementation (see below).

      After the BR, participants underwent a rehabilitation protocol (R) that consisted of 4-week
      supervised multimodal exercise program with 3 sessions per week. In each session,
      participants performed 12-minute warm-up, 15-20 minutes of balance and strength training, and
      20-30 minutes of endurance training.
    
  