
    
      Part 1 will consist of an online survey, sent by email. This email will be sent through the
      TU (University of Tulsa) Student Affairs office to all incoming freshman students and will
      also be sent by study personnel to students who indicate interest in the study through the
      other recruitment efforts (i.e., flyers on campus). This survey will also allow students to
      indicate whether or not they would be interested in being involved in future research
      regarding mental toughness and strategies for college success. The second aim will be
      accomplished via Part 2 of the study. Part 2 is the longitudinal portion that assesses
      students' well-being (i.e., happiness, distress, anxiety, satisfaction, etc.) and academic
      success (i.e., retention at TU, GPA, etc.) before and after completion of either mental
      toughness training or "college as usual". These participants will be selected from the group
      of participants who complete Part 1 and/or via ongoing courses within each college at the
      university (see recruitment section). Part 2 will enroll a maximum of 300 participants/year
      for the first 3 years, each of whom will then be asked to remain in the study for 5 years.
      These participants will be contacted via phone, text message, or email to determine whether
      they are interested and meet criteria. Those who meet criteria will be scheduled for an
      in-person session at TU (Part 2) to complete written informed consent, provide the saliva
      sample, obtain instructions regarding the completion of survey sessions and the training
      protocol. Those who enroll in this study will then be asked to complete survey sessions
      repeatedly over the next 5 years: (1) During the first semester, Part 2 participants will be
      asked to complete three survey sessions, one pre- and one post- training phase, and one
      during finals week. (2) During the Spring semester of the first year, each participant would
      complete three surveys (within the first two weeks; mid semester; and during finals week),
      followed by one survey mid-Summer. (3) For Years 2-5, survey sessions would occur once per
      semester (Fall, Spring, Summer), allowing examination of how training may impact longer-term
      trajectories of academic success and psychological well-being. Each online surveys will
      assess for psychological well-being, demographics and medical history, and academic
      activities. For those who provide consent for us to access limited information from academic
      records (as specified in the consent and in the research protocol section of this document),
      the information will be combined with the collected survey data. For Part 3, data will be
      collected from a subset of participants during two neuroimaging sessions at LIBR (Laureate
      Institute for Brain Research). The first neuroimaging session will be completed within one
      month of beginning the training phase (mental toughness or "college as usual") and the second
      will be completed within one month of the end of the training phase. Each neuroimaging
      session will last approximately 3-4 hours and will involve completion of self-report measures
      regarding current affective state, a behavioral measure of exploratory behavior, and a
      functional MRI session during which participants will complete tasks related to processing of
      emotional faces, emotional images, and reward. The fourth aim will also be accomplished via
      Part 2 of the study, which involves the collection of DNA saliva collection once during the
      first semester of their first year. Samples will be collected in-person at their first
      baseline session, after written informed consent is obtained. This data will be used to
      assess any genetic markers of resiliency that exist in college populations and to determine
      if there are genetic markers that interact with the impact of mental toughness training
      (i.e., if individuals with specific genetic markers do better or worse with training).
    
  