
    
      The investigators aim to strengthen the assessment of acutely ill children in primary care,
      by introducing a diagnostic algorithm that can decrease antibiotic prescribing.

      In light of the prior evidence and its results so far, the ARON trial will test the impact of
      a diagnostic algorithm including a standardised clinical assessment, a POC CRP test, and
      safety netting advice.

      Therefore, the investigators propose to assess the clinical and cost-effectiveness of a
      diagnostic algorithm which includes a decision tree, POC CRP and safety netting advice in
      acutely ill children aged 6 months to 12 years of age presenting to ambulatory care, on AB
      prescribing, referral/admission to hospital, additional testing, mortality, and patient
      satisfaction.

      More specifically, the investigators' research question is whether this diagnostic algorithm
      is able to safely reduce antibiotic prescribing in acutely ill children presenting to
      ambulatory care.

      The decision whether or not to conduct a POC CRP test will depend on the standardized
      clinical assessment, i.e. a validated clinical decision tree, and subsequently for low-risk
      children on the intention to prescribe AB.

      The investigators will provide clear evidence-based guidance on how to interpret the CRP test
      result as outlined below.

      A process evaluation will examine how clinicians use CRP testing in their practice and how
      parents experience these consultations.

      The investigators propose a study, where children (6 months to 12 years of age) will be
      randomised to (a) a diagnostic algorithm with CRP testing and specific guidance on when to
      prescribe AB or (b) usual care. CRP testing will be done using a finger prick test (result
      within 4 minutes). The CRP level will then be given to the clinician who will communicate the
      result to the child/parents.

      The investigators aim to recruit 6111 children and will collect data registered by the
      participating physician, from the child's health record and children/parents directly. The
      investigators will describe how the intervention has worked in practice and how
      clinicians/parents have experienced these consultations.

      Guidance will be part of a diagnostic algorithm which includes clinically guided POC CRP
      testing and safety netting advice to inform parents on what to expect and what to look out
      for.

      Individual interviews will be conducted with clinicians and parents taking part in the trial
      within 30 days after the first contact consultation, to explore the social processes
      influencing embedding of the intervention within practice, and behaviour change techniques.

      These individual telephone interviews will be performed with a selection of parents to
      address whether their concerns were discussed appropriately and whether their expectations
      were met and how they experienced the consultation and/or POC CRP testing.

      The safety-netting advice will be supported by a parent information booklet, based on
      previous research (the "When should I worry"-interactive booklet (a guide to Coughs, Colds,
      Earache & Sore Throats), the "Mijn kind heeft koorts" booklet (Eefje de Bont,
      www.thuisarts.nl), and the "Caring for children with coughs"-leaflet (information about how
      to look after a child who has a cough and when to see the doctor)).

      The findings of this study could change the practice of ambulatory care physicians and might
      be of great interest to parents and childcare providers. The investigators will publish the
      findings of this research in academic journals, present at national conferences and discuss
      results with groups responsible for the national guidance on how to assess acutely ill
      children (Domus Medica, SSMG).
    
  