
    
      Cystic Fibrosis (CF) is an autosomal recessive systemic disorder of exocrine glands and
      secretory epithelia. The disease results from mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane
      conductance regulator (CFTR) gene which cause a variety of abnormalities. CFTR is absent or
      dysfunctional in cystic fibrosis. Most of the defects in CFTR result in abnormal chloride ion
      transport and abnormally viscous mucus. Nasal epithelial CFTR function will be assessed by
      the NPD procedure.

      NPD measurements are useful as a diagnostic tool in individuals with borderline or normal
      sweat chlorides, one or no identified CFTR mutations, and a clinical history suggestive of
      CF. The NPD has become the gold standard for detection and quantification of CFTR function in
      the airways. The assay has also served as an important endpoint since 1981. It has been used
      extensively and is standardized to assess the ability of new therapeutics in studies designed
      to replace, repair or restore defective ion transport in CF patients.

      The assay basically involves dripping small amounts of the test solutions into the anterior
      nostril in order to measure uptake or secretion of sodium and chloride. There are five
      solutions required for the NPD measurement:

        -  Solution #1: Buffered Ringers

        -  Solution #2: Solution #1+Amiloride

        -  Solution #3: Buffered Zero Chloride Solution + Amiloride

        -  Solution #4: Solution #3 + Isoproterenol

        -  Solution #5: Solution #4 + Adenosine 5'-Triphosphate-Disodium salt (ATP)

      The Cystic Fibrosis Therapeutics Development Network (TDN) is a formal affiliation of CF
      Research Centers in the US. Two Standard Operating Procedures have been developed by the TDN
      for the NPD procedure and qualification of those performing the measurement.

      Procedure Details:

      Briefly, a series of stopcocks is configured to allow perfusion of the above solutions
      through the port at the tip of an exploring catheter (PE50 tubing. All test solutions are
      perfused at a rate of 5.0 cc per minute. In each nostril, the PD readings in Ringer's at 0.5,
      1.0, 1.5, 2, and 3 cm (lumen negative) are averaged and taken as the average 'baseline' PD.
      The catheter tip is then placed at the most negative PD site and maintained for
      superperfusion measurements with a small piece of tape applied to the nasal tip (to hold the
      catheter for the duration of the protocol). All solutions are warmed to 37˚C prior to contact
      with the nasal mucosa.

      For each perfusion condition, a steady-state recording is obtained. The recording lasts at
      least one minute (for Solution #1) and for three minutes (for Solutions #2, 3, and 4) prior
      to proceeding to the next solution within the sequence. Solution #5 is perfused for a minimum
      of one minute, and confirms retention of ATP-activated Clˉ secretion in both CF and non-CF
      individuals. Several readings are obtained for data analysis, and then all nasal P.D.
      tracings are scored by investigators.
    
  