
    
      Hypophosphatasia (HPP) is a genetic disorder caused by mutation in the tissue-non-specific
      alkaline phosphatase gene (TNSALP). It causes impaired bone mineralisation, fractures, tooth
      loss, muscle weakness and possibly other adverse health outcomes.

      The infantile-onset forms are severe, and were often fatal until the recent availability of a
      treatment (Asfotase Alfa, Alexion Pharma). The childhood-onset forms are less severe, and the
      adult-onset form is mild, and often unrecognised or misdiagnosed as osteoporosis.

      The less severe forms of the disease are not well described, and because there has been no
      available treatment there has not been much research in adults. However, now that treatment
      is available there is a possibility of a clinical trial in adults.

      Additionally, patients with hypophosphatasia are often not recognised, and are misdiagnosed
      as having osteoporosis. This is important because patients with hypophosphatasia are at risk
      of developing atypical femoral fractures if they are treated with usual osteoporosis
      medication (bisphosphonates).

      A major contributor to the under-recognition of adult HPP is the lack of phenotypic
      description and biomarker definitions. The aim of this project is to identify the clinical
      and biochemical characteristics that identify HPP.

      In preparation for this study reference ranges for the commonly used HPP biomarkers (ALP and
      PLP) have been established, and used to screen 2000 patients presenting to metabolic bone
      services in Sheffield and Oxford.

      For this study, patients who have biochemistry suggestive of HPP (low ALP and high PLP), will
      undergo a detailed clinical assessment, with medical history, physical examination, bone
      biochemistry, targeted musculoskeletal imaging and HPP gene testing. Their results will be
      compared with a control group of metabolic bone clinic patients with normal ALP and PLP, and
      a group of patients with known gene-proven and clinically manifest HPP.

      The results will establish clinical phenotype and biomarker criteria for HPP diagnosis, which
      could be incorporated into future pathways for patients presenting to metabolic bone clinics.
      This will improve the identification of HPP and prevent harm from incorrect treatment with
      bisphosphonates.
    
  