
    
      All subjects will receive the PopSole™ offloading device at the screening/baseline visit, be
      asked to wear it for 4 weeks, and will be asked to return for an in-person evaluation at week
      2 and a completion study visit at week 4.

      Screening includes the following procedures:

        1. Performance of a limited physical exam, inclusive of participant's foot exam with a gait
           and shoe gear evaluation.

        2. Medical and surgical history collection

        3. Vital signs, medication profile, allergies, height, weight, and BMI calculation.

        4. Collection of demographic information

        5. 2D Photographs of both feet will be performed

      Subjects will be asked to complete:

        1. Questionnaires

             -  Foot and Ankle Ability Measure questionnaire

             -  Mayo Clinical Scoring System questionnaire

             -  American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society questionnaire

             -  Manchester Foot and Ankle Disability Index

             -  Pittsburgh Foot Survey

        2. Diary cards to document for the feet: pain, bruising, redness of the skin, itching,
           swelling, bleeding, and any concerns/issues not listed, as well as the location, date
           and day for each noted symptom.

        3. Offload Device Distribution. Devices will be provided for both feet to maintain symmetry
           and gait stability between the two feet. One pair of devices will be given for use in
           shoe gear, and one pair will be given for use in a slide in the shower.

      Follow up visit procedures:

      Week 2

        1. Collection of vital signs, medication profile, weight, and BMI calculation

        2. Limited physical exam with a foot exam

        3. Adverse Event Reporting

        4. Collection and distribution of feet diary cards

        5. 2D Photographs of both feet

        6. Foot Assessment Questionnaires

        7. Device survey - questions about the fit and feel of the device

      Week 4

      The same procedures listed for week 2, with the addition of PopSole™ Device removal and final
      foot diary card collection.
    
  