
    
      Preeclampsia is a disorder of widespread vascular endothelial malfunction and vasospasm that
      occurs after 20 weeks' gestation and can present as late as 4-6 weeks' postpartum. It is
      clinically defined by as blood pressure ≥140 mmHg systolic and ≥90 mmHg diastolic diagnosed
      for the first time after 20 weeks' gestation together with >300mg proteinuria/24 hours.

      The global incidence of preeclampsia has been estimated at 5-14% of all pregnancies.
      Pre-eclampsia affects approximately 6-8% of all pregnancies worldwide. Pre-eclampsia affects
      3-5% of all first time pregnancies, but early severe pre-eclampsia occurs in only 1:200
      pregnancies.

      Significant risk factors for pre-eclampsia are as follows: Nulliparity, age >40 years, black
      race, family history, chronic renal disease, chronic hypertension, antiphospholipid syndrome,
      diabetes mellitus , multiple gestation and high body mass index.

      Mild preeclampsia is defined as the presence of hypertension (BP ≥140/90 mm Hg) on 2
      occasions, at least 6 hours apart, but without evidence of end-organ damage.

      Severe preeclampsia is defined as the presence of 1 of the following symptoms or signs in the
      presence of preeclampsia:

      marked elevation of blood pressure (>160/110 mmHg), severe proteinuria (>5 g/24 hours), or
      evidence of central nervous system (CNS) dysfunction (headaches, blurred vision, seizures,
      coma), renal dysfunction (oliguria or creatinine > 1.5 mg/dL), pulmonary edema,
      hepatocellular injury (ALT > 2-fold the upper limits of normal), hematologic dysfunction
      (platelet count < 100,000/L or DIC), or placental dysfunction (oligohydramnios or severe
      intrauterine growth restriction). The HELLP (hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, low
      platelets) syndrome is a special subgroup of severe preeclampsia and is a major cause of
      morbidity and mortality.

      Eclampsia is defined as seizures that cannot be attributable to other causes in a woman with
      preeclampsia.

      The optimal management of a woman with preeclampsia depends on gestational age and disease
      severity Management of preeclampsia is challenging because it requires the clinician to
      balance the health of the mother and fetus simultaneously. Patients with mild preeclampsia
      are often induced after 37 weeks gestation. Before this, the immature fetus is treated with
      expectant management with bed rest, close monitoring of blood pressure and renal function,
      and careful fetal surveillance. For women with severe preeclampsia, induction of delivery
      should be considered after 34 weeks gestation unless the patient is eligible for expectant
      management in a tertiary hospital setting. The definitive treatment of preeclampsia is
      delivery of the fetus and placenta. Anti-hypertensive drugs are essential for severe
      hypertension (≥160 mmHg systolic or ≥110 mmHg diastolic) for reducing the risk of
      cerebrovascular accidents. Intravenous Labetalol, Nifedipine or hydralazine are the drugs
      most commonly used to manage preeclampsia but there is insignificant evidence to indicate
      which drug is preferable..

      Magnesium sulfate is the treatment of choice for the prevention and treatment of eclamptic
      seizures Where immediate child-birth is not essential, a delay of 24 hours will allow
      steroids to be given to mature the baby's lungs, although a shorter duration may still be of
      benefit.

      Preeclampsia is associated with short-term and long-term maternal and fetal complications.
      For the mother, it may lead to eclamptic seizures, stroke, intracranial bleed, uncontrolled
      hypertension, renal failure, and hemolysis. For the fetus, it may lead to intrauterine growth
      restriction, placental abruption, and the short-term and long-term complications of
      prematurity, as well as predisposition to adult cardiovascular and metabolic disorders.
      Currently, there is no effective therapy to preeclampsia, and delivery remains the only
      approach to preventing maternal morbidity and mortality. However, this is usually achieved at
      the expense of premature delivery and its associated morbidities. Moreover, following the
      delivery, preeclampsia resolved slowly within days, exposing the mother to late complications
      and increasing treatment cost significantly.

      To date, the exact etiology of preeclampsia remains unknown. However, evidence obtained in
      recent years, supports the theory that angiogenic imbalance is the end common pathway that
      leads to clinical preeclampsia. During normal pregnancy, vascular endothelial growth factor
      (VEGF) and placental growth factor (PlGF) promote pro-angiogenic state that regulates
      vascular tone and glomerular capillary health. In preeclampsia, these proteins are
      antagonized by excessive placental production of soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFlt-1),
      thereby creating angiogenic imbalance. After delivery, this imbalance resolves within hours
      to days correlating with the resolution of the disease. One of the observations that marked
      sFlt-1 as key player in the pathogenesis of preeclampsia was made in an animal model. It was
      demonstrated that preeclampsia can be induced in animal model by over expressing sFlt-1
      alone. In their model hydrophilic statins treatment decreased sFlt-1 levels and up-regulated
      VEGF and PlGF levels. Most importantly, statins ameliorated preeclampsia symptoms by
      improving hypertension and proteinuria in the preeclamptic mice.

      Statins are potent inhibitors of cholesterol biosynthesis and used successfully in the
      primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease. Additionally, statins are known
      to mediate pleiotropic effects via improving endothelial function and attenuating
      inflammatory responses. Rosuvastatin is a hydrophilic statin, characterized by low
      permeability through membranes, as the placenta and blood-brain-barrier. In addition, Short
      treatment (hours to days) with this type of statin improved the outcome of patients during
      acute myocardial infarction, sepsis, contrast-induced nephropathy, hepatic
      ischemia/reperfusion injury, emphasizing its preferential pleiotropic effects.

      Currently, the food and drug administration classiﬁes all statins as pregnancy category X and
      discourages their use during pregnancy due to higher abortion rate and teratogenicity that
      were observed in animals exposed to hydrophobic statins during pregnancy. Evidence for
      teratogenicity of the hydrophilic statins was never reported probably due to their limited
      permeability across membranes. Since the use of statins after delivery is allowed, the
      present study will aim to evaluate whether Rosuvastatin may accelerates preeclampsia
      resolution following delivery and potentially reduce postpartum preeclampsia complications.
    
  