
    
      There is an increasing prevalence of chronic heart failure (CHF) in Western societies. In the
      last decade, progress has been made in understanding the neurohormonal involvement in the
      progression of the disease and consequently, new treatments have been developed although the
      mortality rate still remains high. Chronic heart failure is associated with marked insulin
      resistance as well as increasing plasma levels of pro-inflammatory markers such as Tumor
      Necrosis Factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and Interleukin-6 (IL-6) with increasing severity of the
      disease. This has recently become an area of increased research interest. In CHF, insulin
      resistance may be present even when blood glucose levels appear normal. Independently of its
      influence on risk of arteriosclerosis, insulin resistance supports further progression of
      heart failure. Hyperinsulinaemia has also been found to worsen symptomatic status in CHF
      patients.

      The introduction of beta-blockers in the treatment of CHF may have a beneficial effect on
      insulin resistance. However, so far tested drugs seem to have little influence on production
      of pro-inflammatory markers in CHF patients. The use of beta-blockers in the clinical setting
      is also associated with weight gain. While weight gain is of benefit to patients with
      cachexia, a common problem in CHF, it is problematic in CHF patients who are already
      overweight, particularly since obesity is known to be implicated in the development of
      insulin resistance. Because of this, it would seem to be beneficial to prevent further weight
      gain in those patients with heart failure who are not cachexic. Weight loss in these
      patients, however should also be prevented since obese patients with CHF appear to have the
      better prognosis. As change in body weight has important implications for disease
      progression, choice of dietary treatment is of particular importance in CHF patients. Ideally
      in CHF patients, we should be maintaining body weight while still attempting to reduce other
      coronary risk factors such as insulin resistance and atherogenic dyslipidemia.

      Traditionally, diet for people with insulin resistance and other features of the metabolic
      syndrome has been based on a low fat, high carbohydrate dietary prescription. This has been
      questioned recently with emerging clear endorsement of diets that are restricted in saturated
      fat (< 10% of total energy [%E]) but by allowing higher amounts of monounsaturated fat
      (MUFA), also reduce the diet carbohydrate content and thus the glycaemic load. Metabolic
      studies in people with diabetes have shown that modified fat (high MUFA) diets are more
      effective than a low fat high carbohydrate diet in improving insulin resistance although no
      similar studies are yet available for people with heart failure.

      Studies in people with diabetes have also indicated that modified fat (high MUFA) diets are
      clearly more beneficial than low fat diets in the effects on triacylglycerols and HDL
      cholesterol and they also favorably influence blood pressure, coagulation, endothelial
      activation, inflammation, and thermogenic capacity. Modified fat (high MUFA) diets therefore
      reduce heart disease risk. Moreover, when the energy density is controlled through inclusion
      of plenty of fruit and vegetables, modified fat (high MUFA) diets do not promote obesity. One
      final benefit is better acceptance and compliance long term.
    
  