
    
      High proportion of patients with newly diagnosed early-stage breast cancer in Europe and US
      undergo to mastectomy. The absolute numbers of mastectomy rates in US is still today around
      38% and represent one of the most performed operation for cancer reasons. Despite the lack of
      a natural cavity needed for endoscopic viewing, applications of robotic surgery have recently
      emerged for superficial organs such as in the fields of thyroidectomy, oropharyngeal surgery,
      plastic and reconstructive surgery. However, it has never been applied in breast cancer
      except for a feasibility and safety study conducted at European Institute of Oncology.

      The technique was firstly published by Toesca et al. considering the first 3 cases. The same
      research as continued on breast cancer evaluating feasibility, reproducibility and safety
      studying 26 consecutive procedures of robotic nipple sparing mastectomy and immediate robotic
      breast reconstruction (article under peer to peer review at European Journal of Surgical
      Oncology, EJSO). In these initial cases of robotic nipple sparing mastectomy and immediate
      breast reconstruction authors found two main advantages such as the robotic optical vision
      and the minimal invasiveness. The two main limitations noticed in this initial experience
      were the duration of operating time and the additional costs related to the operation. The
      limitations of the applicability of robotic surgery to the breast, such as operating time and
      costs, might be offset by the advantages they observed such as better vision and minimally
      invasive approach with an anatomically more respectful mastectomy.

      This project is a superiority trial comparing robotic nipple sparing mastectomy and immediate
      breast robotic reconstruction with conventional open technique.

      The primary end-point is to evaluate patient satisfaction. Second end-point is to compare
      post-operative outcome considering complications, post-operative pain, reduction of the
      average length of stay of patients, long term oncological outcome of the two different
      surgical techniques.

      Patients will be randomized into two treatment arms:

      A. Open nipple-sparing mastectomy and immediate breast reconstruction with implant (Open NSM)
      B. Robotic nipple-sparing mastectomy and immediate robotic breast reconstruction with implant
      (Robotic NSM) Both arms will undergo to the same pre-surgical staging, intra-operative
      axillary surgical staging, post-operative multidisciplinary evaluation and adjuvant
      treatments according to international and internal protocols.
    
  