
    
      Natural history of cirrhotic patients is complicated by gastrointestinal bleeding which
      remains the most dramatic event considering is acute onset and is negative impact on life
      expectancy of LC patient. Over the last decade, improvements in therapy produce a sensible
      reduction in mortality of at least 20% at 6 weeks (8% at 24 hours) for each one episode of
      gastrointestinal bleeding.

      Furthermore, portal vein thrombosis (PVT) is a frequent (10-20%) event in liver cirrhosis
      (LC), often asymptomatic, which may worsen its clinical course by favouring gastrointestinal
      bleeding, in particular precipitating the grade of portal hypertension.

      Standing the coexistence of thrombotic and bleeding manifestations of difficult
      interpretation and management, only the elucidation of the mechanism leading to this complex
      hemostatic disturbance occurring in LC, would help us to explore new therapeutic strategies
      to prevent bleeding improving clinical outcomes.

      However the mechanisms underlying specific cirrhotic hemostatic disturbance is still unclear.

      On the last decade, has been investigated the presence of abnormalities in all hemostatic
      phases such as primary haemostasis (altered platelet function) or fibrinolysis and
      coagulation (impaired synthesis and activity of coagulation factors or hyperfibrinolysis.).
      The derangement of coagulation balance has been investigated and several studies identified
      abnormal haemostasis tests or coagulation factors as useful prognostic indexes of survival in
      LC patients Observational studies have shown that Factor VII, vitamin k dependent with short
      half-life (2 hours) is useful prognostic index of both acute and chronic liver insufficiency.

      Less well studied and more interesting is the potential role of primary haemostasis in
      determination of typical thrombotic and bleeding complications..

      It is well known that chronic liver disease is characterized by variable thrombocytopenia and
      thrombocytopathy Observational studies pointed out that platelet dysfunction is an
      abnormality occurring prevalently in severe liver failure. Child-Pugh C class patients
      present lower platelet counts and more prolonged bleeding times. Since platelets
      abnormalities are much more frequent depending on liver insufficiency severity, it is
      probably that several mechanisms account for that complex platelet dysfunction. A
      retrospective study with a 3 years follow- up demonstrate a strong association between
      previous gastrointestinal hemorrhage, prolonged bleeding time(> 10 minutes) and lower
      platelet count (<100.000/ μl) without explaining if this relationship is a casual one. These
      data indicate that in LC patients with an history of gastrointestinal blood loss
      thrombocytopenia or/and thrombocytopathy might be determinant in acute phase of bleeding.
      However, at the moment, studies in LC patients that prospectively analyze the platelet
      function role in favoring hemorrhage activity are not still available.

      Several hypothesis has been proposed to explain mechanisms leading to platelet abnormal
      function in LC patients, however, their nature and clinical significance are still a matter
      of discussion. For example, it is on debate whether platelet activity is influenced in
      positively or negatively manner in LC patients.

      From literature emerges that there is no agreement on the mechanism leading in-vivo platelet
      aggregation in patients affected by chronic liver disease. Laffi et al. suggested that in
      cirrhotic patients defective aggregation is most likely dependent on the alteration of the
      transmembrane signaling pathways and the increased urinary excretion of systemic TXA2
      metabolites may be related to increased intrasplenic platelet destruction. On the contrary ,
      Davì et al. found a significant correlation between urinary excretion of 2,3-dinor
      thromboxane B2(TXB2) and plasma prothrombin fragment 1+2 (F1+2), suggesting that clotting
      activation could partly account for in vivo platelet activation.

      Moreover, increased soluble P-selectin levels, in vivo marker of platelets activation, were
      found in patients with chronic C hepatitis and were correlated with severity of disease.
      These findings support the hypothesis that thrombocytopenia is not only related to
      autoimmunity mechanism but also to a condition of in vivo platelet activation induced
      directly by HCV infection.

      Over the last years, emerge that in vivo platelet function might be modulated by an
      alteration of pro-oxidant and antioxidant balance. F(2)-isoprostanes are prostaglandin
      F2-like compounds produced in vivo by nonenzymatic free radical-induced peroxidation of
      arachidonic acid in a COX-independent manner.

      Unlike lipid hydroperoxides, F2-IsoPs are also specific products of free radical-induced
      lipid peroxidation, chemically stable compounds and detectable in plasma and urine. One of
      the F2-IsoPs, which have shown interestingly to induce platelet aggregation and to stimulate
      vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation.

      The 8-iso-prostaglandin F2a measurement represent a sensible and specific index of lipid
      peroxidation.

      It has previously been demonstrated that chronic liver diseases are characterized by
      increased ROS production as well as decreased activity of antioxidant systems, resulting in
      oxidative stress.

      Hepatic fibrosis represents a wound healing response to injury that ultimately leads to
      cirrhosis. Mechanisms involved are still on investigation. Experimental and human studies
      showed that markers of oxidative stress and proinflammatory cytokines, are increased in liver
      diseases suggesting that inflammation could have a pivotal role in terms of progression of
      chronic damage.

      NADPH oxidase complex has been recognized as a critical mediator of liver fibrosis while is
      unexplored his probably role in modulating platelet function in cirrhotic setting.

      To investigate relationship between platelets, coagulation parameters and oxidative stress in
      cirrhotic patients, the investigators planned a cross-sectional study finalized to clarify
      platelets, haemostatic balance and oxidative stress contribution to thrombotic and bleeding
      complications occurring in cirrhosis's natural history, such as to identify new haemostatic
      parameters with predictive value on cirrhotic evolution and mortality.
    
  