
    
      With the development of medical science, more and more patients are being diagnosed with
      hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) at an early stage (single ≤ 5 cm in diameter or ≤ 3 nodules, ≤
      3 cm in diameter) allowing for radical treatment by hepatic resection (HR), liver
      transplantation, or percutaneous ablation . Liver transplantation can eliminate the tumor and
      cirrhosis at the same time, and is considered to be the most appropriate treatment for these
      patients. However, the lack of liver donors is a major limitation. Until now, HR has still
      been considered as the first-choice treatment for these patients, which may offer a 5-year
      survival rate above 50%. Percutaneous ablation, including percutaneous ethanol injection
      (PEI) and percutaneous radiofrequency ablation (PRFA), is usually considered to be a
      second-choice treatment for small HCC which is unresectable due to impaired liver function,
      and liver transplantation is not indicated.

      Recently, a clinical trial has shown that PRFA is as effective as HR for small HCC in terms
      of overall survival and disease-free survival. This has prompted some authors to suggest that
      PRFA could be more suitable than HR for early stage HCC. Some authors also have suggested
      that PRFA can be considered the treatment of choice for patients with single HCC ≤ 2.0 cm,
      even when HR is possible. On the other hand, some tumors (subcapsular location, adjacent to
      intestinal loops or main bile ducts) may be unsuitable for PRFA because of the risk of
      bleeding, tumor seeding, bile leakage, perforation, and so on. Furthermore, in our previous
      experience, some tumors (with deep locations, which were included as "central HCC") may be
      also unsuitable for HR because of risks of more injury of normal liver tissue, blood loss
      after resection, and so on. Therefore, the appropriate therapeutic option for these HCC
      tumors ≤ 2 cm, especially for central HCC, is still under debate. To clarify this issue, the
      investigators conducted a study that included a consecutive series of patients with single
      resectable HCC < 2.0 cm in diameter, who underwent PRFA or HR.
    
  