
    
      Elective liver resection is performed primarily for the treatment of benign and malignant
      liver tumors1. In addition, with the increasing use of living donor liver transplantation to
      supplement the inadequate pool of cadaveric organs available, liver resection is performed
      also in live liver donors2.

      Postoperative complications are common following liver resections. Occurrence of
      complications increases ICU and hospital stay, and resource utilization. The most serious
      postoperative complication after a liver resection is post-resectional liver failure (PLF)3.
      Risk factors for the development of PLF are preexisting liver disease, especially cirrhosis,
      excessive blood loss during liver resection, and liver ischemia and reperfusion injury4-5.
      Several strategies have been developed to combat excessive intra-operative blood loss
      including: lowering the central venous pressure6, hypoventilation7, and hepatic inflow
      occlusion using an atraumatic clamp8 (Pringle's maneuver)9; While inflow occlusion is the
      most important of these steps, hepatic ischemia and reperfusion is an important sequel to the
      inflow occlusion. Therefore, interventions which decrease hepatic ischemia reperfusion injury
      to the liver have the potential to improve outcomes following liver resection.

      A strategy that directly modulates the hepatic response to ischemia is ischemic
      preconditioning (IPC). Classically, IPC has been induced by exposing an organ to brief
      periods of ischemia and reperfusion before exposing the organ to a more prolonged ischemic
      insult. In patients undergoing liver resection, IPC decreases postoperative aspartate
      aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels15. IPC is also associated
      with decreased histological evidence of apoptosis as well as immunohistochemical evidence of
      increased protective gene expression16 in the liver.

      The primary disadvantage of IPC is the direct stress to the target organ as well as the
      mechanical trauma to major vasculature.

      More recently, it has been found that inhaled volatile anesthetics such as Desflurane,
      Sevoflurane and Isoflurane induce similar preconditioning effects19 without causing any
      significant direct organ damage. While several animal studies exist, which demonstrate the
      hepatoprotective effect of volatile anesthetics on the liver23, there is only limited
      clinical data examining their effect in humans. One recent small clinical study, examining
      the preconditioning effect of volatile anesthetic on patients undergoing liver surgery,
      showed that anesthetic pre conditioning (APC) using Sevoflurane significantly decreased the
      several measures of liver dysfunction postoperatively24.

      However, Sevoflurane is partially metabolized by the liver and may increase plasma fluoride
      concentration. Also, it may react with CO2 absorbent and can produce Compound-A, which in
      turn has been linked to nephrotoxicity. On the other hand, isoflurane, another inhalational
      anesthetic agent commonly used during liver surgery also has been shown to have a
      preconditioning effect in experimental animals, and does not carry the potential side effects
      of sevoflurane.

      Therefore, the primary objective of this study is to examine the efficacy of isoflurane to
      induce clinically effective preconditioning in patients undergoing elective hepatic surgery.

      Study Design:

      In this prospective study, patients undergoing elective liver resection with inflow occlusion
      (Pringle maneuver) at UH, Newark will be randomized (1:1) to either standard anesthetic
      management with Propofol (No APC group) or anesthetic preconditioning with 2 minimum alveolar
      concentration (MAC) of isoflurane (APC group). Because preexisting liver disease, especially
      cirrhosis, is an important determinant of post operative outcomes, and to balance the
      randomization of subjects regarding this important variable randomization will be stratified
      into those with and without preexisting liver disease. The primary endpoint is the occurrence
      of postoperative complications grade IIIb or greater (Clavien's classification). The
      secondary endpoints are peak postoperative aspartate and alanine aminotransferase (AST and
      ALT) and total bilirubin (T Bili), length of ICU and hospital stay, and a decrease in liver
      lipid peroxidation and apoptosis
    
  