
    
      Recent medical and technological advancements are progressively leading to increased survival
      rates of term and premature neonates. This project is concerned with detecting early signs of
      physiological disorders in term and preterm babies based on Eulerian Video Magnification,
      statistical analysis, and expert knowledge. Video recordings of skin coloration differentials
      for normal and sick neonates may be used to establish norms for each of the two major
      populations. Those and possibly other features will be used to develop an automatic
      contactless, noninvasive monitoring and diagnostic system that may detect early signs of
      disease. Early detection may lead to early diagnosis and preemptive treatment resulting in
      better outcome and lower costs of medical intervention. The objective of this project is to
      adapt the Eulerian Video Magnification for monitoring physiologic changes and then diagnosing
      potential disturbances in term and preterm neonates of different gestational ages. EVM uses
      video recordings of magnified skin color signals over time and thus permits analysis of
      physiological state changes such as heart rate and perfusion. Those changes would then be
      correlated with particular condition or disease states for the purpose of automatic early
      diagnosis and alarm issuance. Being contactless and non-invasive, the proposed system would
      be particularly helpful in vulnerable populations such as sick neonates. It may lead to
      earlier treatment, improved outcome, and possibly, decreased hospital stay.

      Parents of infants admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) at AUBMC will be
      informed about the study by their Attending physician. The medical research assistant will
      approach only interested and potential participants. An informed consent will be obtained
      prior to enrollment. All infants admitted to the NICU are eligible. Those will be divided
      into four equal groups: 1) "normal" term, 2) "normal" preterm, 3) "sick" term, and 4) "sick"
      preterm babies, where a "normal" health state is defined by the medical team as
      "physiologically stable". The medical team considers "sick" state based on pathological
      symptoms such as bradycardia, apnea, and hypotension among others. We target collecting video
      recordings for a total of eighty babies as a pilot number over the period of eight months.
      Each baby will be recorded for a minimum of twenty four hours. A subset of the eighty babies
      will be considered as a control group for reference. The control group will be selected based
      on a normal physiological state excluding babies with sepsis, respiratory distress, and
      congenital anomalies.
    
  