
    
      Docetaxel is an antineoplastic agent belonging to the taxoid family. It is prepared by semi
      synthesis beginning with a precursor extracted from the renewable needle biomass of yew
      plants. It acts by disrupting the microtubular network in cells that is essential for mitotic
      and interphase cellular functions. The Nanosomal Docetaxel Lipid Suspension (NDLS) consists
      of uniformly sized micro particles of docetaxel suspended in a lipid based formulation.
      Docetaxel Lipid Suspension for Injection 20 mg/80 mg was approved for marketing in India.
      Intas Pharmaceuticals Ltd., is marketing this drug in India under the Brand name of
      DOCEAQUALIP 20/80 (Nanosomal Docetaxel Lipid Suspension for Injection 20/80 mg/vial) since
      2013. This randomized, open label study is designed to assess the efficacy and safety of
      Nanosomal Docetaxel Lipid Suspension at the dose of 75 mg/m2 and at the dose of 100 mg/m2
      compared to reference product, Taxotere® at a dose of 100 mg/m2 in triple-negative breast
      cancer patients with Locally Advanced or Metastatic Breast Cancer. 657 patients (219 patients
      per arm) will be randomized in the study.

      To ensure consistent interpretation of measurable disease and objective endpoints for the
      study, all imaging studies performed throughout the study will be sent to an independent
      Central Radiological Facility for tumor measurement and evaluation of response. This
      independent review will have no impact on patient care. Continued participation in the study
      will be determined by assessment of clinical and radiological response by the Principal
      Investigator, and/or Radiologist. Efficacy evaluation will be done by CT scan/MRI and Bone
      scan at the end of treatment cycle 3 and will continue at every 3 cycles while the patient
      remains on treatment and compared to base line. Patient will continue study treatment until
      unacceptable toxicity or progression of disease. Patient will be screened up to 14 days prior
      to dosing and will be dosed on day 1. Patient will be advised to come in the facility at
      least 02 hours prior to dosing and will remain in the clinical facility until the completion
      of study drug administration. Dosing of patients will be done on ambulatory basis; hence
      patient hospitalization is optional. It is the responsibility of the PI to ensure that
      adequate medical supervision and care is available for the study patients during housing and
      entire duration of the study for utmost safety and wellbeing of the study patients. All
      safety analyses will be performed on the Safety set. Safety variables include AEs, clinical
      laboratory parameters, vital signs, physical examinations and electrocardiogram etc. Safety
      variables will be listed and summarized with descriptive statistics, as appropriate.
    
  