
    
      Introduction and Rationale:

      Wound care is a major clinical challenge and presents an enormous burden to health care
      worldwide. As wounds (chronic and acute) heal, a number of key biological changes occur at
      the wound site at the tissue and cellular level. Among these are inflammation, reformation of
      the epidermal barrier, and remodeling of the connective tissue in the dermis. However, a
      common major complication arising during the wound healing process, which can range from days
      to months, is bacterial infection. This can result in a serious impediment to the healing
      process and lead to significant complications, especially in chronic non-healing wounds.
      Currently, the standard wound care includes monitoring for possible infection by direct
      visual inspection under white light and by taking samples for analysis in the laboratory
      which takes approximately two days to provide a result. However, qualitative visual
      assessment only provides a gross view of the wound site (i.e., presence of purulent material
      and crusting) but does not provide the critically important information about underlying
      changes that are occurring at the tissue and cellular level (i.e., infection, matrix
      remodeling, inflammation, and necrosis).

      All chronic wounds contain bacteria. But whether the wound is in bacterial balance
      (contamination with organisms on the surface or colonization with organisms in the tissue
      arranged in micro colonies without causing damage) or bacterial imbalance (critical
      colonization and infection) is of primary importance to healing. It is important to note that
      there is a continuum of bacterial presence pro¬gressing from bacterial balance to bacterial
      damage in a chronic wound. The diagnosis of infection is typically made clinically based on
      signs and symptoms in and around the local wound bed, the deeper structures, and the
      surrounding skin. The presence and severity of bacterial infection is typically diagnosed
      based on the clinical appearance of the wound under white light (i.e., pain, purulent
      exudate, crusting, swelling, erythema, heat). A major problem is that bacterial contamination
      within and around a wound cannot be determined directly by visualization of the bacteria
      themselves under white light, but is based on clinical signs and symptoms caused by bacterial
      contamination and/or infection within the wound (i.e., pain, purulent exudate, crusting,
      swelling, erythema, heat).

      The remodeling and healing of connective tissues in wounds involves simultaneous synthesis
      and degradation of collagen fibrils. These bacteria include common species typically found at
      wound sites (i.e., Staphylococcus and Pseudomonas species). Bacterial swabs are collected at
      the time of wound examination and have the advantage of providing identification of specific
      bacterial/microbial species and quantification of bacterial burden. However, often, multiple
      swabs are collected randomly from the wound site and these are not targeted, and some
      swabbing techniques may spread the microorganisms around with the wound during the collection
      process, thus affecting patient healing time and morbidity. This may be a problem especially
      with large chronic (non-healing) wounds where the detection yield for bacterial presence is
      suboptimal, despite the collection of multiple swabs. Furthermore, bacteriological culture
      results often take about 2-4 days to come back from the laboratory, thus significantly
      delaying diagnosis and treatment. Thus, bacterial swabs do not provide real-time detection of
      infectious status of wounds. In addition, although wound swabbing appears to be
      straightforward, it can lead to inappropriate treatment, patient morbidity and increased
      hospital stays if not performed correctly. An image-based method that allows real-time
      monitoring of wound healing, particularly early dermal connective tissue remodeling, and the
      presence of bacterial contamination and/or infection over time could have a significant
      clinical impact.

      Autofluorescence imaging has been used in gastroenterology to image both collagen and
      bacterial fluorescence in clinical studies. We wish to expand the use of tissue
      autofluorescence imaging technology to wound care and management in order to provide obtain
      biologically relevant information of the wound site at the tissue and biomolecular levels in
      real-time during the healing process. When used to assess wounds, tissue autofluorescence may
      aid in determining the degree of wound healing and the presence of bacterial infection. In
      preliminary preclinical testing, we have discovered that when wounds are illuminated a
      specific wavelength combination of excitation light, endogenous tissue components emit a
      characteristic fluorescent signal, while bacteria emit a unique fluorescence signal.

      We have recently developed an innovative optical molecular imaging platform based on
      high-resolution fluorescence and white-light technologies in a hand-held, real-time,
      high-resolution, non-invasive (e.g. non-contact) format. This invention offers real-time
      detection of important biological and molecular information of a wound for the first time,
      and could have significant impact on improving conventional wound care and management. Based
      on extensive preclinical testing, the proposed technology has the capability of collecting
      autofluorescence images of wounds and detecting the presence and relative changes in
      connective tissue content and biodistribution involved in wound healing. It can also detect
      the earliest indication of bacterial/microorganism contamination within the wound (that are
      occult to standard white light visually-based assessment), thus providing a measure of
      infection status. This could significantly impact clinical wound care and management by i)
      reducing the complications associated with missed detection of bacteria infection, ii)
      facilitating image-guided swabbing/biopsy and iii) monitor wound healing over time.
      Furthermore, the compact and portable design of the imaging device platform makes it ideal
      for the clinical wound care environment as well as for point-of-care use for home-health care
      visits.

      Study Objectives and Specific Aims

      The primary objective of this clinical study is to evaluate the use and effectiveness of our
      'handheld' fluorescence digital imaging device platform for real-time non-invasive clinical
      monitoring of chronic wounds for healing and bacterial contamination/infectious status over
      time. This will enable us to determine if the device can detect and longitudinally track
      intrinsic changes that may occur during the wound healing process including, but not limited
      to, collagen re-modeling and bacterial infection of the wound site.

      As a secondary objective, we wish to obtain valuable end-user data on the clinical utility of
      the device within the wound clinic environment. This information will be used to optimize
      subsequent versions of the device during product development.

      Most importantly, we hope to conclusively verify the added value that this imaging device
      brings to traditional wound care practice, and to what extent it will change the gold
      standard.

      Specific Aims:

        1. To determine if the fluorescence imaging device can detect changes in connective tissue
           over time that can be correlated with wound healing or re-modeling, compared with
           changes in wound size over time.

        2. To determine the effectiveness of the fluorescence imaging device in detecting the
           presence (or contamination) of bacteria in and around a wound (including infection),
           compared with standard best practice methods (e.g. white light visualization and
           clinical signs and symptoms, with swabbing and bacteriology as the 'gold standard').

        3. To identify the relationships between autofluorescence imaging of tissues and bacteria
           in wounds (including the wound margin) and the following: i) clinical signs of
           infection, ii) microbial load (i.e., number of organisms per gram of wound tissue), and
           iii) diversity of microbial species in the wound (i.e., number of different species
           isolated per wound), and Gram signing.
    
  