
    
      written consent, patients will be randomized at the time of arrival to the preoperative care
      center on the day of surgery. One hundred twenty-six patients, 3 to 7 years of age undergoing
      tonsillectomy with or without adenoidectomy and tympanostomy tube placement, will be included
      in this study. Children who received antiemetics, steroids, anti-histaminic, or psychoactive
      drugs during the week before surgery will be excluded. Patients will be prospectively
      randomized to receive oral or IV dexamethasone 0.5 mg/kg (maximum dose 8 mg). Patients in the
      IV group will receive the dose once an IV is placed in the operating room. They will receive
      an oral placebo once consent is obtained on arrival to the preoperative center on the day of
      surgery. Patients in the oral group will receive their dose once consent is obtained on
      arrival to the preoperative center on the day of surgery. They will receive a placebo once
      the IV is placed in the operating room. Randomization will be via a computer-generated table
      of numbers. Study drugs will be marked only with a coded number label. The anesthesiologist,
      surgeon, patient, and family will be unaware of drug identity. All medication preparation and
      handling will be done by CHCO Investigational Drug Service.

      Patients will be fasted for solid foods for eight hours before surgery; clear liquids will be
      permitted until two hours before surgery. A standard anesthetic technique will be used.
      Premedication with oral acetaminophen 12.5-15 mg/kg will be given on arrival to the
      preoperative center. After obtaining consent study drug or placebo will be given at least 20
      minutes before surgery. General anesthesia will be induced with sevoflurane and 60% nitrous
      oxide in oxygen via mask followed by insertion of an intravenous (IV) cannula. Dexamethasone
      or placebo will be given immediately following IV placement. Propofol 2 mg/kg and fentanyl 1
      µg/kg will be given to facilitate intubation. Anesthesia will be maintained with a mixture of
      sevoflurane and air (FiO2 < 0.3All children will receive fentanyl 1-3 µg/kg (titrated to pain
      response in the operating room) and dexmedetomidine 0.5 µg/kg once surgery starts. All
      children will receive ondansetron 0.1 mg/kg (maximum dose 4 mg).All children will receive 20
      mL/kg lactated Ringer's solution during surgery (maximum IV fluid 750 mL given short time of
      surgical procedure). Routine monitoring including heart rate (ECG), arterial oxygen
      saturation (SpO2), blood pressure, temperature and end-tidal CO2 will be used throughout
      surgery. Surgical technique will be standardized, and all patients will have their stomachs
      suctioned at the completion of surgery.

      Each subject will be assessed by nursing staff utilizing standard of care practices in the
      PACU and patients will stay in the PACU (phase one and two) for 4 hours after surgery.
      Postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) will be defined as vomiting and/or retching without
      expulsion of gastric content and will be treated with IV phenergan (0.25 mg/kg, maximum 25
      mg) followed, if necessary, by IV diphenhydramine (1 mg/kg maximum 50 mg). Pain will be
      assessed using the numeric pain scale 0-10, Faces, Legs, Arms, Crying, Consolability Scale
      (FLACC Scale), or Revised Faces Scale.12,13 Pain scores > 5 will be treated with IV fentanyl
      0.5 µg/kg that can be repeated every 5 minutes for pain when necessary.
    
  