
    
      Over the last twenty years, HIV has transformed from a terminal disease to a condition with
      near normal life expectancy for patients who follow ideal treatment regimens. HIV-infected
      individuals still face many challenges and need to be active in self-management of HIV and
      other conditions in order to live a healthy life. In order to ensure that this population of
      HIV-infected individuals actively self-manages the condition, personal health records (PHRs)
      should be used more often. PHRs may simplify disease self-management, improve health
      outcomes, and reduce unnecessary health care use.

      The VA has one of the nation's largest PHR systems - My HealtheVet (MHV). MHV includes
      features that can help patient's self-manage the disease (e.g., prescription refill, viewing
      lab results view, secure messaging). While there has been recognition that MHV holds promise
      as a self-management tool, there has not yet been an examination of use of MHV features and
      the relationship to health outcomes in any chronic disease group, let alone in HIV-infected
      Veterans.

      The objective of this project is to evaluate MHV use by HIV-infected Veterans and providers,
      by completing three aims/steps.

      Aim/Step 1: Describe the relationship between use of MHV tools for self-management across
      HIV-infected Veterans and determine the relationship to health outcomes and care processes in
      these Veterans through review of medical records.

      The investigators will use the VA medical record data, which allows for the study of the
      diverse VA patient population with patients from a range of personal backgrounds, geographic
      locations, and VA health care networks. HIV infection will be determined by the presence of
      two outpatient HIV diagnoses or one inpatient HIV diagnosis. This study will use a
      retrospective group of HIV-infected Veterans who used MHV between October 2007- October 2018
      to evaluate the relationship between patient HIV care outcomes and MHV tool use. The
      investigators will look at data to carefully consider HIV-infected patient health status,
      health care received, and activity. The investigators will also look at Quality of Care (QC)
      outcomes which include medication adherence, CD4 count, viral load testing and detectable
      viral load, appointments, patient cancellations, patient no-shows, emergency department
      visits, flu vaccination, and syphilis and lipid testing. This aim/step will allow the
      investigators to examine differences in VA patients who have opted to use MHV versus those
      who have not opted to use MHV.

      Aim/Step 2: Describe how Veterans with HIV use MHV for self-management, and why Veterans
      choose to use (or not to use) specific MHV tools; and similarly how and why providers use (or
      do not use) MHV.

      The investigators will interview Veterans and providers to learn what motivates certain
      patients and providers/staff to use MHV in a certain way, or to understand MHV system issues,
      as well as attitudes and perceptions that prevent others from using MHV. The investigators
      will select patients and providers from six VA medical centers and interview those with
      high-, low, or no- MHV use. The investigators will discuss how participants use MHV to manage
      HIV and other conditions. The investigators will discuss with Veterans how providers use MHV
      as a tool for communication and coordination. With Veterans not using MHV (or minimal use),
      the investigators will ask about reasons. The interviews will be audio-recorded.

      Aim/Step 3: Incorporate findings from Aims/Steps 1 and 2 to design an intervention that will
      be tested by Veterans and providers.

      The investigators will compare the data from aims/steps 1 and 2 to develop an intervention
      that may improve self-management in Veterans with HIV. The investigators will identify
      Veterans and providers from two VA medical centers that will help the investigators test the
      intervention through "cognitive walkthroughs." Cognitive walkthroughs are used to test an
      intervention that is in the early stages of development. Veterans and providers will be the
      first to test if the intervention is acceptable and feasible. Participants will also offer
      feedback to the researchers as it relates to problems with using the intervention. The
      cognitive walkthroughs will be audio- and video-recorded.

      Additional Aim a: Analyze qualitative data across the racial/ethnic and gender groups to
      evaluate MHV use, utilizing these findings to tailor interventions to racial/ethnic minority
      groups use an modified intervention mapping approach.

      The investigators will develop an MHV intervention that meets the diversity of MHV user's
      needs, including Black and women Veterans. These findings could help MHV better understand
      how to target new interventions to potentially increase access to MHV and increase use of MHV
      for managing chronic conditions, among Black Veterans.

      Additional Aim b: Develop a protocol for conducting virtual modified intervention mapping.

      The investigators will develop the capability to conduct modified intervention mapping
      virtually. As no standard protocol has been developed for conducting intervention mapping
      virtually, the development of such protocol can contribute to lower cost, timely, and
      effective intervention design.
    
  