
    
      Compared to abdominal hysterectomy, the advantages of laparoscopic hysterectomy are decreased
      postoperative intravenous analgesia requirements, shorter length of hospital stay, quicker
      return to work and daily activities. Longer operating times have been shown to be offset by
      shorter hospital stays, with similar hospital costs overall. Compared to abdominal
      hysterectomy, laparoscopic hysterectomy is associated with less blood loss, fewer abdominal
      wall infections, or febrile episodes. The increased visualization allows for concomitant
      evaluation and excision of adhesions or endometriosis, as well as facilitating oophorectomy.

      Robotic systems were developed in order to facilitate laparoscopy by more ergonomic movements
      that are easier to perform and more precise. The da Vinci Surgical System (Intuitive Surgical
      Inc., Sunnyvale, CA, USA) has endowrist instruments that have seven degrees of movement and
      mimic the human wrist. It can also filter out tremors and other unintentional hand motions
      that may result from prolonged holding of instruments. The surgeon seated at a console
      commands the laparoscope and two laparoscopic surgical instruments.

      In the literature, several case series have described the use of robotic-assisted
      hysterectomy. Two of these series included patients that were undergoing surgery for
      suspected malignancy, and hence has a different patient population that we are going to
      enroll.Overall these studies have demonstrated the feasibility of using robot-enhanced
      technology in order to perform hysterectomy in series of approximately 10-20 patients, with a
      similar rate of complications compared to classical laparoscopy.

      The objective of this study is to conduct a prospective randomized controlled trial of
      robotic assisted versus traditional hysterectomy in the treatment of patients who have benign
      indications for hysterectomy, e.g. menorrhagia, symptomatic fibroid uteri, etc. Our primary
      outcome is operative time from incision to either closure or, in the case of concomitant
      prolapse or incontinence procedures, the completion of the hysterectomy portion of the case,
      i.e. closure of vaginal cuff and achievement of hemostasis from the hysterectomy. Secondary
      outcomes include intra-operative, peri-operative, and post-operative complications;
      post-operative patient outcomes as measured by the Short Form 36 (SF-36) questionnaire.
      Patient scores on this questionnaire before and after surgery can be used to calculate the
      quality adjusted life years (QALYs), which can then be used in the cost utility analysis.
      Patients' overall narcotic use and quality of life will also be assessed after surgery with
      diaries at different intervals. The diaries will consist of a daily narcotic/pain medication
      diary, a weekly assessment of return to normal activity, and assessments at 2, 4, and 6 weeks
      of surgical pain and ability to perform functional activities.
    
  