
    
      This project will be conducted as a collaboration between the ASSISTANCE PUBLIQUE HOPITAUX DE
      PARIS (or Paris teaching hospitals) and the Infection, Antimicrobials, Modelling and
      Evolution (IAME) research group, a joint appointment from Paris DIDEROT University, Paris
      Nord University and the INSTITUT NATIONAL DE LA SANTE ET DE LA RECHERCHE MEDICALE (INSERM).

      This study is a prospective multicentric non interventional observational, study, which will
      include up to 500 patients from 7 hospitals.

      Study Centres:

      Seven hospitals affiliated with the IAME research group and included in the ASSISTANCE
      PUBLIQUE HOPITAUX DE PARIS network will participate. The seven hospitals are all tertiary
      care teaching hospitals from Paris or the close suburbs, part of the ASSISTANCE PUBLIQUE
      HOPITAUX DE PARIS network. They account for a total of 4230 acute-care adult beds. A total of
      780 E. coli BSI occurred in these centres in 1 year with 15% of ESBL producing strains.

      This study will include adult patients hospitalized in one of the seven participating centres
      based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria listed below. A total of 14 clinical
      investigators (CI) and microbiology investigators (MI) will be responsible for patients'
      inclusion and data collection in each of the 7 study centres.

      Visits.

      Two visits will be organised:

      Visit 1: day of the patient's inclusion in the study (=day of the results of the first
      positive blood culture)

      Visit 2 : day the patient leaves the hospital or day 28 after Visit 1 if they are still
      hospitalized.

      At visit 1, the E. coli strain responsible for the BSI as well as any other positive sample
      will be conserved and sent to a central laboratory for full genome sequencing of the E. coli
      strains (IAME Laboratory, University Paris DIDEROT). The investigators will analyze the
      molecular characteristics of strains using high-throughput sequencing techniques to try to
      highlight virulence factors and will compare the results with clinical data.

      Endpoints

      The primary endpoint of this work is death at day 28 (or visit 2).

      Multiple secondary endpoints will be studied at day 28 including length of hospital stay and
      the need for intensive care.

      Statistics

      For the primary endpoint the investigators will analyse the risk factors associated to death
      at day 28 (yes/no) using logistic regression. The clinical risk factors achieving a P value <
      0.10 will then be entered into the multivariate logistic regression model. A backward
      selection method will be used to obtain a model in which all clinical risk factors have a P
      value < 0.05. Second, the link between death and various bacteriological factors will be
      studied using a similar approach. Third, a final multivariate logistic regression will be
      performed adding bacterial factors to the final model with clinical risk factors and
      performing a backward analysis. The investigators will also perform an exploratory analysis
      to study the association between all the E. coli genes and death, in a model adjusted with
      the important clinical factors as defined above.

      The investigators will use the results from the multivariate analysis to elaborate a clinical
      severity score for E. coli BSI, called the COLISCORE. The objective of the COLISCORE is to
      predict the patients' severity and outcome upon admission and help the clinician's initial
      management decisions. This score should be simple and easy to use at the patients' bedside.
    
  