
    
      Although a small number of interventions have been found to be effective in improving
      mobility and functional recovery after a hip fracture, these studies have routinely excluded
      patients with cognitive limitations, a group with poor outcomes after hip fracture. It is
      estimated that 15-20% of all hip fracture patients experience cognitive limitation following
      surgery from previously undetected cognitive impairment, delirium, and other post-operative
      complications that persist following hospital discharge and those with cognitive limitations
      are slow to recover. Despite potential for a full recovery, many hip fracture patients with
      cognitive limitation may be discharged early from rehabilitation settings due to
      misperceptions about rehabilitation potential, or other psychological issues that limit their
      participation.

      The innovation of this study is that it focuses on a critically vulnerable and costly group
      of patients (hip fracture patients with cognitive limitations) with an extended intervention
      that is tailored to the patient's needs and cognitive abilities. The post-rehabilitation
      period after hip fracture has been largely ignored and little is known about the effective
      strategies to help transition and maintain hip fracture patients (especially those with
      cognitive limitations) in the home setting. HipERS utilizes an effective approach to address
      for functional gains, but where limited attention has been given. It focuses on motivational
      and behavioral challenges in patients with cognitive limitations and their caregivers, which
      has been largely ignored in the hip fracture research

      This study will gather information from 5 people with cognitive limitations who fractured a
      hip. Caregivers (family relative or non-relative, unpaid or paid, formal or informal) will
      also be invited to participate. Hip fracture participants will receive a home-based exercise
      intervention that will start after their "normal" rehabilitation is done. The function-based
      exercise intervention will be provided by physical therapists 2-3 times a week for 6 weeks.
      Additionally, the physical therapist will encourage the caregiver to motivate and actively
      engage the hip fracture participant in the therapist-prescribed home exercise program so that
      this can be maintained at the end of the 6-week intervention. The feasibility of the
      intervention will be based on the percentage of sessions participants complete. The
      information we get from this feasibility study will be used to plan a larger study.
    
  