
    
      Hepatitis B virus chronically infects 350 million people worldwide and over one million
      Americans and approximately 4.1 million individuals (1.6%) in the US population have been
      infected with hepatitis C. These infections are the leading cause of end-stage liver disease,
      cancer and indication for liver transplantation in the world. Both can be transmitted
      sexually, perinatally and percutaneously. Coinfected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
      accelerates the progression of liver disease, and due to shared modes of transmission,
      chronic hepatitis B and C disproportionately affect people living with HIV.

      The primary objective of this study is to Identify people with viral hepatitis and providing
      linkage to care and future therapy with evaluation of disease progression; as well as
      characterizing those with hepatitis B and those treated for hepatitis C with directly acting
      antivirals over the course of 10 years.

      The study, including a participant questionnaire and phlebotomy, will be administered on-site
      at clinical facilities in the District of Columbia and Maryland, and at the Institute of
      Human Virology at the University of Maryland, Baltimore. The cohort will be designed to study
      research questions with respect to liver disease, disease pathogenesis using genomics,
      proteomics, and immunologic disease models. Secondary objectives include study of the
      immunopathogenesis of hepatitis B and C disease progression. In addition, this is an
      invaluable opportunity to evaluate the long term effects of hepatitis C clearance with direct
      acting antivirals, along with biomarker profile(s) for diagnosis and outcome. Moreover, this
      will serve as a catchment protocol to select appropriate participants for novel hepatitis B
      and C therapeutic trials.

      This study includes a standard-of-care treatment sub-study for patients with hepatitis B. In
      this sub-study, participants will receive an approved nucleos(t)ide analogue prospectively
      observed on therapy for change in liver fibrosis.

      The integrated clinics will provide an optimal environment for the adherence and engagement
      of medical care and education in decreasing transmission risks of infection. The study will
      establish a blood and specimen repository for participants and include a research database
      that will be used prospectively to test future hypotheses.
    
  