
    
      The study will be a single-center, prospective, randomized, double-blinded, controlled trial
      with placebo. It is planned to enroll 200 patients with lateral or medial epicondylopathy and
      divide them to four equal groups receiving an autologous platelet rich plasma (PRP) (N1=50),
      corticosteroid (N2=50) or hyaluronic acid (N3=50) injection in the area of lateral or medial
      epicondyle, or to control group (N4=50) receiving an injection of saline in the same area.

      After meeting the inclusion and exclusion criteria and before therapeutic intervention
      patients will undergo clinical and radiological examination and laboratory analysis of blood
      samples - complete blood count, C reactive protein (CRP), selected cytokines. Elbow
      anterior-posterior and lateral view X-ray and ultrasound examination will be performed to
      find signs of enthesopathy, asses calcifications and to exclude other pathologies.

      To measure the clinical effectiveness of the treatment examination including range of motion,
      limb girth measurements, grip and muscle strength measured by dedicated device (digital
      dynamometer) and regional pain severity measured by professional digital algometer will be
      performed. Patients will be asked to fulfil pain, functional and quality of live
      questionnaires, including Visual Analog Scale for pain intensity evaluation (VAS),
      Patient-rated Tennis Elbow Evaluation (PRTEE), Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand
      (DASH), The Mayo Elbow Performance Score (MEPS), The Oxford Elbow Score, The Subjective Elbow
      Value (SEV) and The Quality of life questionnaire SF-36.

      Patients from the experimental group will receive an injection of autologous platelet-rich
      plasma (PRP) without activator (2ml) in the area of attachment of the common extensor or
      flexor tendon under supervision of ultrasound (N1=50), corticosteroid - 2ml of 7mg
      Betamethasone (N2=50) or 2ml of 40mg hyaluronic acid with mannitol (N3=50). Patients from
      control group will get an injection of saline (2ml 0,9% NaCl) in the same area (N=50). The
      injection will be carried out with aseptic precautions, under regional anesthesia with
      Lignocaine 2%. Saline injection as placebo intervention for control group was chosen because
      of a similar impression for the patient comparing to other injections. Also there are some
      previously reported positive outcomes of that kind of intervention alone. The procedure will
      be performed in accordance with the principle of double-blinding. Every patient will get
      identification number which will be randomly assigned to one from all groups, in equal
      proportion. Both, patient and investigator will not know what kind of substance was used for
      the treatment. Only person giving the injection will have access to patients identification
      numbers list and will know the exact type of treatment.

      Part of the PRP sample (1ml) will undergo laboratory analysis of levels of bioactive
      compounds. Assessment of levels and concentrations of platelets, white blood cells and
      erythrocytes will be performed. The investigators will evaluate the content of selected
      cytokines in PRP using flow cytometry for growth hormones: Platelet Derived Growth Factor-AA
      (PDGF-AA), Platelet Derived Growth Factor-BB (PDGF-BB), Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor
      (VEGF), Epidermal Growth Factor (EGF), Hepatocyte Growth Factor (HGF), Fibroblast Growth
      Factor basic (FGF), Transforming Growth Factor Beta1 free active (TGFβ1) and inflammatory
      cytokines: Interleukin-1β (IL-1β), Interferon-α2 (IFN-α2), Interferon-γ (IFN-γ), Tumor
      Necrosis Factor -α (TNF-α), Monocyte Chemotactic Protein -1 (MCP-1), Interleukin-6 (IL-6),
      Interleukin-8 (IL-8), Interleukin-10 (IL-10), Interleukin-12p70 (IL-12p70), Interleukin-17A
      (IL-17A), Interleukin-18 (IL-18), Interleukin-23 (IL-23), Interleukin-33 (IL-33).

      Patients will be reassessed 1, 4, 12, 24 and 52 weeks after intervention. All patients will
      undergo ultrasound examination before treatment and during follow-up period. Every group will
      be instructed how to perform everyday stretching and strengthening exercises during the whole
      period of the study. All information about any complications will be collected and evaluated.

      After data unblinding, statistical analysis will be performed. Subjective and objective
      outcomes, safety, costs-effectiveness of three different injection therapies compared to
      placebo and between each other will be assessed.

      There are no original studies comparing clinical effectiveness between corticosteroid,
      hyaluronic acid, autologous platelet rich plasma and placebo in patients with elbow
      tendinopathy. There are only few good quality studies on the clinical effectiveness of
      lateral or medial epicondylopathy treatment with different injection therapies. Most of them
      compare only one injection method to active comparator or placebo. Usually follow-up period
      is less than 3 months. Frequent follow-up visits will help to reliably evaluate rate of
      recurrence and to evaluate correlation between subjective and objective (e.g. USG) findings.

      It is believed that results of this study will show significant positive clinical effect of
      different injection treatments of patients with humeral epicondylopathy. The investigators
      would like to find which one from injection treatments among corticosteroids, autologous
      platelet rich plasma and hyaluronic acid will provide best outcomes, safety profile, short
      and long-term efficacy, cost-effectiveness and the fastest return to work. The results of the
      study will increase the knowledge about the treatment of lateral and medial
      epicondylopathies, helping to create a reliable algorithm for supporting the decision-making
      process in everyday clinical practice.
    
  