
    
      Breast Cancer-Related Lymphedema (BCRL) tends to progress in stage and grade if it is not
      treated.

      Complex Physical Therapy (CPT), that includes Manual Lymph Drainage + Multilayer Bandage +
      Self-care, is the most used technique in order to join the benefits of each technique by the
      lack of great results with only one technique. The most volume reduction found in a study was
      achieved combining CPT and Pressotherapy(P). On the other hand, the use of Kinesio Taping
      (KT) for BCRL has been spreading lately although its clinical efficacy has not been
      determined by high quality studies.

      GOALS:

      Main objective: To analyze the effectiveness in the reduction of BCRL volume with KT versus
      CPT+P in patients attended at the rehabilitation service at HU12Octubre.

      Secondary objectives:

      To analyze possible changes after each therapy in:

        -  DASH (Disability Arm, Shoulder and Hand) outcome measure score.

        -  TTDL (textile therapeutic device for lymphedema) questionnaire score (a quality of life
           questionnaire for patients with breast cancer-related upper lymb lymphedema using
           textile therapeutic device that has been validated previously).

        -  Symptoms associated with BCRL (pain, heaviness, pressure and hardness) using visual
           analogue scale (VAS).

        -  Goniometry of Upper Limb.

      METHODOLOGY OF THE STUDY:

      Design: crossover trial, with a 3-month washout period between both treatment phases. Open
      design: it is impossible during the treatment to blind physiotherapists and patients, due to
      the observable differences between both therapies neither during their application nor in the
      hours after their removal, by the marks left in the skin. The statistical analysis will be
      supervised by staff of the Clinical Research Unit-Clinical Trials (i+12) of HU12Octubre with
      the variables coded to blind the analyst.

      Interventions: The two therapies compared are:

        -  CPT+ P.

        -  KT. Sample size: a sample of 50 patients (25 in each group) was calculated. Subjects of
           study and randomization: An initial computerized randomized sample was generated among
           the patients who had attended the Breast Pathology Rehabilitation visit at HU12Octubre
           during the previous year and who met the eligibility criteria and they were randomly
           assigned to the groups.
    
  