
    
      After radical prostatectomy, around one third of patients will have biochemical progression.
      Salvage radiotherapy (SRT) is still potentially curative, but about 40-50% of patients will
      progress further. Recently, success rates of SRT were significantly improved through the use
      of concomitant anti-androgen (AAT) or androgen-deprivation (ADT) therapy. In RTOG 96-01, 2
      years of bicalutamide 150 mg resulted in a 5% overall survival benefit at 12-years. In
      GETUG-AFU 16, 5-year progression-free survival was significantly improved when SRT was
      combined with 6 months of an LHRH agonist. Based on GETUG-AFU 16, most radiation oncologists
      now combine SRT with at least 6 months of ADT. However, ADT comes with several serious
      side-effects, both physical (cardiovascular, metabolic, musculoskeletal) and psychological
      (sexual, emotional and cognitive). It appears worthwile to look for alternatives in the form
      of AAT. In that respect, apalutamide, a potent competitive and purely antagonistic
      second-generation anti-androgen, is the ideal candidate.

      This trial is a phase II randomized, open-label study comparing salvage radiotherapy in
      combination with 6 months of ADT (arm A) versus AAT with apalutamide 240mg daily (arm B) in
      hormone-naïve patients with biochemical progression after radical prostatectomy. All subjects
      will receive salvage radiotherapy as standard of care and will be randomly assigned in a 1:1
      ratio to receive either 6 months of ADT with LHRH agonist or antagonist through 6 monthly,
      two 3-monthly or one 6-monthly injections (control arm A) or 6 28-day cycles of apalutamide
      240mg daily (interventional arm B).

      The study will include a screening phase, treatment phase, and a post-treatment phase.

        1. Screening phase: allows for assessment of subject eligibility up to 35 days prior to
           randomization.

        2. Treatment phase: includes the hormonal treatment for 6 months, to be started at the most
           2 weeks after randomization. Standard salvage radiotherapy will commence 2 months after
           start of hormonal treatment. During the treatment phase, patients will have 3 study
           visits:

             1. treatment initiation visit: first injection of LHRH (ant)agonist (arm A) or cycle
                1, day 1 (C1D1) of apalutamide (arm B).

             2. Concurrent with RT visit: if necessary (depending on product prescribed) injection
                of LHRH (ant)agonist (arm A) or cycle 4, day 1 (C4D1) of apalutamide (arm B).

             3. End of treatment visit: at the end of the 6 months of hormonal therapy.

        3. Post-treatment phase: will begin after a subject completes the treatment phase and the
           end of treatment visit and will continue until the primary endpoint is reached, i.e. the
           9-months (3 months after end of treatment visit) EPIC-26 sexual domain score.

      The primary objective of the trial is to compare sexual function between the 2 groups based
      on the EPIC-26 sexual domain (0 - 100 scale, with higher scores representing better sexual
      function) at 9 months after start of hormonal treatment (primary endpoint). The following
      secondary endpoints will be explored:

        1. Quality of life: assessed using EPIC-26 as well as the EORTC quality of life
           questionnaires C30 and PR25 as well as FACT-P.

        2. Toxicity: will be assessed using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
           (CTCAE) version 5.0.

        3. Efficacy: prostate-specific antigen (PSA) response rates, defined as a decline from
           baseline in PSA level of 80% or greater, as well as PSA complete response rates, defined
           as a decline from baseline in PSA level of 90% or greater, will be prospectively
           collected at the 4 treatment visits.

      At this point in time, no study has directly compared apalutamide to LHRH agonists or
      antagonists in combination with SRT. This trial may be a preamble to the design of a
      registration trial in such patients or indeed patients with a intermediate and high-risk
      localized disease that are scheduled for EBRT or brachytherapy as radical treatment and also
      benefit from 6 months of hormonal treatment.
    
  