
    
      IL-11 is a hormone normally produced in your body that plays a role in stimulating the
      production of platelets.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have what are called "screening
      tests". These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in the
      study. You will have a blood sample (1 teaspoon) collected to check your platelet count.
      Women who are able to have children must have a negative blood pregnancy test.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive one injection of
      IL-11 under the skin (usually of the arms, legs or abdomen) 3 times a week. If your platelet
      count increases, treatment will continue on this schedule as long as a platelet increase is
      observed. If the treatment is well tolerated but there is not enough of a platelet
      improvement, the dose and frequency of IL-11 injections may be increased. If the platelet
      count becomes high enough, treatment may be stopped but may also be restarted if necessary.

      During therapy with IL-11, additional blood samples (1 teaspoon each) will be collected to
      measure the platelet count every week until the platelets are stable and then every 2 to 6
      weeks while you are receiving treatment on study. No other tests are required for this study.

      While you are on this study, you will continue your treatment with imatinib mesylate or other
      tyrosine kinase inhibitor as decided by your doctor for standard care.You will be taken off
      if there is no response to treatment or if there are unacceptable side effects. There will be
      no follow-up after you go off study.

      This is an investigational study. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved IL-11
      for use in chemotherapy-caused low platelet counts. A maximum of 30 patients will take part
      in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  