
    
      Detailed Description:

      The primary clinical strategy to improve metabolic control in patients with Type 2 diabetes
      consists of lifestyle modification combined with pharmacologic intervention. However,
      alternative strategies, e.g. nutritional supplementation with over-the-counter agents, are
      extensively practiced by a large number of patients and are frequently undertaken without
      first informing the medical provider. Unfortunately, considerable controversy exists
      regarding use of dietary supplements in subjects with diabetes because efficacy data for many
      of the supplements consists of only uncontrolled studies and anecdotal reports. As such,
      there is a paucity of data in humans in regard to the effect of most commercially available
      supplements to improve metabolic abnormalities.

      One supplement that has attracted considerable clinical interest is chromium (Cr). However,
      routine use of Cr in subjects with diabetes is not currently recommended. In part, the
      controversy surrounding Cr supplementation stems from the lack of definitive randomized
      trials, the lack of "gold standard" techniques to assess glucose metabolism in the studies
      reported, the use of differing doses and formulation , and the study of heterogeneous study
      populations. As such, conflicting data has been reported that has contributed greatly to the
      confusion among healthcare providers concerning Cr supplementation. In order to provide a
      comprehensive clinical evaluation of Cr, we conducted a randomized, double-blinded,
      placebo-controlled trial in subjects with Type 2 diabetes. Individuals had baseline measures
      consisting of oral glucose tolerance testing, body fat and adiposity assessed, and then used
      established techniques to assess insulin sensitivity with hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamps.
      Individuals were evaluated for 6 months at which time repeat testing was done.
    
  