
    
      You have an early stage of prostate cancer that can be treated effectively with surgery or
      radiation. If you choose to take part in this study, you will be agreeing to receive only
      active surveillance. Active surveillance is an investigational way to manage low-stage small
      volume prostate cancer. While on active surveillance, you will have no treatment for the
      prostate cancer. However, you will have repeated Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) tests,
      physical exams, and other testing to detect when the cancer is becoming a greater risk which
      may require you to begin treatment.

      If you agree to participate in this study, you will not have standard therapy for prostate
      cancer. Your diagnosis will be confirmed as being of low risk by tests at MD Anderson. Blood
      will be drawn for PSA tests at the beginning of the study and every 6 months to monitor your
      cancer.

      You will have a biopsy of the prostate at the beginning of the study. Additional prostate
      biopsies will be performed at your first repeat biopsy at Year 1, and when a doctor thinks it
      is necessary.

      You will have digital rectal examination every 6 months to see if your doctor can feel any
      prostate nodules. You will have a transrectal ultrasonography every 12 months to see if your
      doctor can detect any abnormalities in the prostate.

      Additionally, you will fill out 7 surveys at the beginning of the study and again every 6
      months about how you are coping with the disease and the quality of your life. Each survey
      will take 5 to 10 minutes to complete.

      While you are on study, if an exam or test results show that your disease is getting worse,
      you will be given the opportunity to have treatment to remove the cancer. If you do choose to
      receive treatment, you will be taken off study and continue to receive standard follow-up.

      Long-Term Follow-Up:

      Every 12 months, the study staff will review your medical record or you will be called or
      e-mailed and asked how you are doing. If you are called, the call would only last a few
      minutes.

      This is an investigational study. About 1,000 patients will take part in this study. All will
      be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  