
    
      The aims of this application are to gain information in children with NF1 about possible
      clinical benefit of anti-oxidant treatment and to develop and evaluate quantitative
      brain-based and blood biomarkers relating to presence of NF1, symptom severity, and response
      to antioxidant therapy. Clinically, 50% of children with NF1 are underperforming or failing
      at school [1]. This frequently leads to decreased educational attainment and fewer
      opportunities as adults. An important first step was preliminary work using the PANESS scale
      and Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS)-evoked Short Interval Cortical Inhibition (rSICI)
      in children with NF1. The investigators propose to develop and extend our understanding of
      NF1-related motor and learning behavior in response to antioxidant therapy with NAC. The
      purpose of the present study is to 1) evaluate tolerability, safety, and clinical benefit of
      NAC in this double-blind placebo controlled study; 2) to evaluate motor function (PANESS) and
      physiology (TMS) biomarkers at baseline and after treatment; and 3) to quantify metabolomics
      profiles at baseline and after treatment. The investigators propose to study 20 children with
      NF1, ages 8-16 years, at baseline and after completion of 8 weeks of treatment with NAC.

      NAC therapy, if successful, is expected improve these parameters. The trial endpoints are:
      Does behavior improve? Does motor function improve? Are there TMS biomarkers that reflect the
      presence of NF1 and the response to NAC treatment? Are there metabolomics measures that
      reflect the presence of NF1 and the response to treatment? The investigators hypothesize that
      predictive measures exist and can be used as a foundation for an application for funding for
      a larger, more definitive, placebo-controlled trial involving biomarkers and clinical
      outcomes. The investigators believe this work has the potential to lay groundwork for future
      use of relevant biomarkers for treatment and outcomes research for NF1 as well as other
      biologically similar conditions, collectively designated the "RASopathies" (due to
      involvement of the RAS family of proteins) and ultimately to guide development of more
      effective treatments based on disease pathophysiology.

      SPECIFIC AIMS

      This study involves the following aims:

      Specific Aim 1: Primary Outcome of Study In children and adolescents with NF1, to
      characterize the behavioral and motor effects of 8 weeks of N-acetylcysteine (NAC) treatment
      in a cohort of 20 children and adolescents with NF1. The investigators will evaluate
      tolerability, safety, and clinical benefit of NAC in this double-blind crossover placebo
      controlled study. Aim 1.1: Characterize effects of NAC treatment on motor function in kids
      with NF1 using the Physical and Neurological Examination for Subtle Signs (PANESS). This is a
      validated scale that consistently demonstrates significant impairments in children with ADHD,
      and which preliminary data suggest may demonstrate more extreme problems in children with NF1
      than age-matched healthy controls (unpublished data from CCHMC). The investigators
      hypothesize that motor function scores rated with the PANESS scale will improve after
      treatment with NAC. Aim 1.2: Characterize effects of NAC treatment on ADHD symptoms in
      children with NF1. The investigators hypothesize that ADHD attention and
      hyperactive/impulsive symptoms, rated with the DuPaul Diagnostic and Statistical Manual
      Diploma in Social Medicine (DSM-5) based clinical rating scales, will improve after treatment
      with NAC.

      Specific Aim 2: Experimental aim # 1 In the same cohort, the investigators will identify
      potential novel biomarkers of neurodevelopmental burden in NF1. Aim 2.1: Describe the
      function and physiology of the motor system using Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) as
      a possible disease biomarker of NF1. Preliminary measures in our NF1 population also show
      abnormalities similar to established findings in ADHD. The investigators hypothesize that
      children with NF1 will have significantly less motor cortex inhibition using TMS
      measurements, and these measures will improve ("normalize") upon NAC treatment. The
      investigators will compare to age-matched healthy controls at Cincinnati Children's. Aim 2.2:
      The investigators propose to evaluate autotaxin as a candidate biomarker of oligodendrocyte
      dysfunction in NF1 participants. Preliminary data from biomarker discovery analysis of serum
      samples from healthy controls and NF1 patients showed lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC) depletion
      compared to healthy age/sex matched controls. In gene expression analysis autotaxin was
      elevated 4 times in neurofibroma Schwann cells compared to normal nerve Schwann cells. The
      investigators will collect serum and plasma from participants to assess autotaxin/LPC axis
      prior and post-NAC therapy. The investigators hypothesize that autotaxin axis abnormalities
      will be a biomarker of response to antioxidant therapy in our NF1 population.

      Specific Aim 3: Experimental aim # 2 In the same cohort, to evaluate metabolomics profiles as
      a possible disease biomarker that is affected by NF1 and by treatment with NAC as per Aim 1.
      Hypothesis 4: The investigators hypothesize that specific profiles will predict clinical
      response to antioxidant therapy compared to age-matched healthy control (unpublished data
      from CCHMC).
    
  