
    
      The number of medicines people take is increasing. Older adults are particularly at risk of
      adverse drug reactions due to polypharmacy. Adverse drug reactions cause avoidable patient
      harm, and around 5-8% of unplanned hospital admissions in the UK, costing the NHS £1.5-2.5bn
      pa. Many adverse drug reactions could be prevented with closer monitoring. The nurse-led
      Adverse Drug Reactions Profile (ADRe Profile) represents a unique instrument that records
      patients' observations and self-reported information on signs and symptoms that is likely to
      relate to an adverse reaction to medications. This project will establish the effectiveness
      of ADRe Profile in identifying patient problems possibly resulting from medicines in general
      practices and will be implemented in 3 phases.

      Phase 1 (4 months) Validity and reliability testing of the ADRe Profile will be performed
      with key stakeholders (patients, nurses, care assistants, GP's and pharmacists), before
      introducing the tool to general practices. Feasibility testing will also be undertaken.

      Phase 2 (12 months) The aim of this phase is to test whether the ADRe Profile identifies and
      ameliorates health problems. The practice nurse (or the researcher) will perform an ADRe
      consultation with a group of eligible service users and compare the number and nature of
      health and well-being problems identified with a similar group of service users who receive
      normal care.

      Phase 3 (6 months) Finally, to further explore the impact of the ADRe Profile, the
      researchers will conduct semi-structured interviews with health professionals (nurses, care
      assistants, GPs and pharmacists) and service users.

      The investigators hope that this study will help patients gain maximum benefits from their
      medicines and support nurses, pharmacists and GP's to reduce any bothersome side effects and
      problems that, if not addressed promptly, can lead to hospital admissions.
    
  