
    
      Thirty late life schizophrenia (LLS) participants, age 55 and over, will undergo the CR
      intervention after completion of the baseline assessments. CR is a group-based psychotherapy
      that will consist of two, 2-hour weekly therapist-guided classes over 12 weeks, with a
      half-hour lunch break. The 24 classes are divided into two iterations of 12 exercises each,
      repeated twice. CR consists of four techniques: (1) didactic teaching on the relevance of
      cognition for everyday functioning and the association between cognitive strategies and
      enhanced functioning (2) computerized drills targeting different cognitive domains, (3)
      in-class strategic monitoring to enhance metacognitive skills, and (4) discussion of the
      generalization of cognitive skills to daily life. The Brain Gym includes electronic tablets
      for participant use both during classroom sessions in addition to elective, drop-in practice
      sessions offered three times per week. Each group will consist of 4-6 participants. A group
      will be started once four to six consecutively referred participants complete baseline
      assessments. Each class is self-contained and the first class is always introductory to CR in
      order to enhance the comfort level with the computer equipment and program.

      Each of the 24 classes will have one, 5-10 minute block of didactic teaching, two 45-minute
      blocks of drill-and-practice of the online exercises, and a 20-minute lunch break. Exercises
      are delivered via Scientific Brain Training (SBT) Pro (2009). Computer exercises are designed
      to be enjoyable and reinforcing, with the difficulty level gradually increasing over time.
      The therapists optimize competency and motivation by individualizing the exercises for each
      participant. The difficulty level parameters are manually titrated according to exercise
      adherence and difficulty level progression, targeting 80 percent accuracy in order to
      optimize competency and motivation. In order to optimize learning and retention outside of
      weekly classes, participants are encouraged to return to the computer lab for ongoing
      practice of the online exercises, targeting 40 minutes of homework exercises per weekday for
      a total target of 200 minutes per week. Online logs allow for monitoring the time spent
      completing the computer exercises. The therapists review the online logs on a weekly basis
      with the participants at the end of the didactic class and before planning the homework for
      the following week. Participants' successful completion of a given exercise to the highest
      difficulty level is charted in the Brain Gym using their anonymized computer log-in name to
      serve as positive reinforcement and recognition of their achievement while maintaining
      privacy.
    
  