
    
      The present study could provide benefits to all aspects of treatment approaches involved in
      patients with low back pain: for the entire medical community by presenting better
      information about the actual surgical indications for patients with low back pain; for health
      insurers and in general, who can spend their investments in really effective areas, and
      especially for patients, who will receive appropriate treatments for their conditions.

      190 patients with indication of surgical treatment will be enrolled for this clinical trial
      and will be advised to receive a second opinion at Hospital Israelite Albert Einstein (HIAE).

      Both assessments (with orthopedic physicians) will be compared, and when consensus is reached
      about diagnostic hypotheses and treatment, patients will be referred for conservative or
      surgical treatment. Any disagreements will be resolved by a committee of spine surgeons (four
      orthopedists and four neurosurgeons with more than 15 years of experience).

      When the treatment chosen for the first medical care (two consultations of the orthopedic
      surgeons) is the conservative treatment, patients will be referred to consultations in the
      rehabilitation center. When surgical treatment is indicated, the patient will be referred to
      one of the eight surgeons of the spinal committee.

      All patients will have the freedom of choice to decide to participate in the study guided by
      the second opinion service or perform the recommended treatment in the first hospital in
      which they were treated.

      Sample size: For the calculation of the sample size estimate, we considered data presented in
      the study by van der Roer et al. (2006), in which the mean score obtained by the EuroQol
      instrument in pre-treatment patients was 0.70 in chronic patients, with standard deviation of
      0.19. Assuming that the correlation between the measurements obtained at the two main moments
      of comparison (baseline and after 10 weeks of treatment) is of the order of 0.5 and that the
      minimally relevant difference between the two moments is 0.07, we estimate that 90 patients
      should be considered in the conservative treatment group. Assuming that of the patients who
      use the second opinion service about 55% will perform surgical procedures in the service, we
      estimate that 100 patients should be included in this group. Sample size estimates were
      performed with the statistical package STATA version 10.0, considering 90% power and 5% level
      of significance.
    
  