
    
      Aim of study

        1. Primary end-point To compare and evaluate the incidence of biliary tract complications
           within 6 months after surgery according to the presence or absence of an intrabiliary
           stent during biliary reconstruction in liver transplantation.

        2. Second end-point Postoperative complications related to intrabiliary stent (cholangitis,
           acute pancreatitis, intestinal perforation, bleeding, etc.), liver transplantation and
           6-month survival rate, hospitalization period, re-hospitalization, non-biliary
           complications, and liver through comparative analysis The purpose of this study is to
           check the clinical effectiveness of the use of an intrabiliary stent during
           transplantation.

      Subject selection criteria, exclusion criteria, number of target subjects and their rationale

        1. Selection criteria ① 19 years old or older ~ under 70 years old

             -  Patients eligible for liver transplantation

                  -  Patients who have consented to written consent

        2. Exclusion criteria

             -  When performing hepato-plant anastomosis due to anatomical/biliary tract disease ②
                Patients who are not eligible for liver transplantation

        3. Target number of people and basis for calculation Since this study was compared with the
           control group, the number of subjects was calculated using a non-inferiority test. To
           calculate the number of study subjects, in the existing literature, the incidence of
           surgical site infection was 1.33% in the group with antibiotics and 3.36% in the group
           without antibiotics. The difference between the ratio between the two groups is 2.02%
           larger in the test group than in the control group, and as a result of calculating the
           study subjects by assuming the upper limit of the confidence interval between the two
           groups as the non-inferiority margin of 5.4%, 72 subjects per each group were required,
           10%. When calculating the dropout rate, 80 subjects per group, a total of 160 subjects,
           are required.

      Study design

        1. Clinical trial design This clinical trial is an exploratory clinical trial evaluating
           the safety and effectiveness of the use of intrabiliary stents during surgery in liver
           disease requiring transplantation. A screening test is performed on subjects who
           voluntarily agreed to participate in the trial in writing. On the day of surgery, after
           determining whether the selection/exclusion criteria are met, appropriate subjects are
           randomly assigned to the test group and the control group at a 1:1 ratio. In the control
           group, during bile duct anastomosis, a stent is not inserted into the bile duct, and the
           test group is inserted into the bile duct.

           On the OP day and on the discharge day, adverse reaction investigations, laboratory
           tests, and physical tests are conducted for safety and efficacy evaluation to evaluate
           postoperative pain and hospital stay. At one week after discharge from the hospital,
           adverse reactions, laboratory tests, and physical examinations are performed through an
           outpatient visit to evaluate the occurrence of postoperative complications related to
           infection, complications other than infection, and the need for additional procedures.
           In addition, the degree of postoperative pain, re-hospitalization, complications other
           than infection, and the need for additional procedures are evaluated and compared when
           visiting the emergency room due to the occurrence of postoperative infection-related
           complications within one month after discharge.

        2. Target registration and randomization method Subjects who agreed to voluntarily
           participate in the trial after hearing the explanation about this clinical trial will be
           given a subject identification code in the order in which they signed the consent form
           at the screening visit.In this clinical trial, the comparability of the treatment group
           is maximized and the treatment group's Randomization is performed to ensure the
           scientific validity of the clinical trial by not involving the subjectivity of the
           investigator in the assignment.

           Block randomization is performed to divide the patients who satisfy the
           selection/exclusion criteria and agree to participate in the clinical trial into 2
           groups and allocate them at a 1:1 ratio. For randomization, a statistical expert
           independent from this clinical trial generates a random assignment number using SAS
           ver.9.4 (SAS Institute Inc, NC, Cary, USA) or higher for Microsoft Windows and assigns
           it sequentially.

        3. Operation and storage of random allocation In this clinical trial, randomization is
           operated by a third party, and the investigator receives subject consent from the
           subject during the screening period, and records necessary matters and test findings to
           determine the subject selection/exclusion criteria. At this time, the subjects will be
           given screening numbers in order.

           Finally, whether or not to participate in the clinical trial is determined by checking
           the suitability of the subject's clinical trial. Subjects who are determined to
           participate in the clinical trial are enrolled in the clinical trial and assigned a
           randomization number through a randomization envelope according to the randomization
           method to the test group or control group on the day of surgery, and based on the
           randomization table operated by the investigator (surgeon). Groups are allocated
           according to the subject assignment number.

        4. Blind and unblind This clinical trial is a single-blind clinical trial. It should not be
           known to which group the subjects are assigned according to the assignment number, and
           the randomization table is kept by a third party, and the assigned envelope is managed
           in a separate place. During the clinical trial period, if blindfolding is required
           before the completion of the clinical trial due to a serious adverse reaction, the
           research manager contacts the randomization staff to review and approve the reason for
           the blindfolding, and then proceed with the blindfolding procedure.

      Criteria for end of study and early termination

        1. Criteria for cancellation and dropout In the case of the following occurrences, the
           clinical trial may be canceled or eliminated.

           ① When the subject requests to stop the test

           ② When the investigator judges that it is difficult to continue the clinical trial due
           to a serious adverse reaction

           ③ In case of violation of selection/exclusion criteria or serious violation of clinical
           trial plan

           ④ If the subject's follow-up observation is unsuccessful

           ⑤ When other testers decide that the test should be stopped

        2. Treatment at the time of cancellation and dropout If a subject is discontinued or
           eliminated from the clinical trial, the investigator shall record the date of
           discontinuation and dropout, the reason for the discontinuation and dropout, and the
           treatment and progress at the time of discontinuation and dropout, along with all data
           acquired until the time of discontinuation and dropout. Subjects with early
           discontinuation in the clinical trial for any reason are not replaced.

      Study method

        1. Clinical trial intervention plan

             -  Test group: stent insertion into the bile duct. (silastic stent)

             -  Control: No stent insertion into the bile duct. Only subjects who have consented to
                participate in the clinical trial and have been randomly assigned to meet the
                criteria for selection/exclusion will perform the procedure.

        2. Observation and inspection items

             -  Written consent and demographic survey, physical measurements, vital signs Before
                entering the clinical trial, the investigator explains in detail the purpose and
                contents of this clinical trial to the subject and obtains written consent. After
                written consent, demographic information is investigated in the case record, and
                the date of written consent, subject's initials, gender, date of birth, etc. are
                recorded, and physical measurements (height, weight, BMI) and vital signs (systolic
                blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, pulse, body temperature) Also measure and
                record. After each visit, physical measurements (weight, BMI) and vital signs
                (systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, pulse, and body temperature)
                are also measured and recorded.

                  -  Investigation of medical history and drug administration history At the
                     screening visit, the interview and past medical records are reviewed, and the
                     subject's entire life history is investigated and recorded based on the
                     screening visit. In addition, after investigating and recording all drugs
                     taken from 30 days prior to the screening visit, and checking whether there is
                     a change in the condition of administration of the combination drug that was
                     investigated during the screening test at each visit thereafter, and whether
                     there is a new combination drug, Record it on the case record.

                       -  Physical and laboratory tests Physical and laboratory tests (blood and
                          urine tests) are performed through screening visits and interviews at
                          that visit, and the test results and normality are recorded in the case
                          report.

                          ④ ASA class According to the physical condition classification system
                          established by the American Society of Anesthesiology, an evaluation is
                          made between 1 and 6 points according to the physical condition of the
                          patient undergoing surgery and anesthesia and recorded in the case
                          report.

                          ⑤ Imaging examination investigation Imaging tests should be collected if
                          there are any results.

                          ⑥ Surgery, hospitalization information investigation The following items
                          are investigated for information on surgery and hospitalization.

                          • Anesthesia time from start to finish

                          • Operation time from abdominal incision to skin suture

                          • Surgery time required for resection

                            -  Bleeding and intraoperative blood transfusions:

                               -Measured in cc, taking into account the amount of blood inhaled
                               during surgery and the weight of tape and gauze.

                                 -  The amount of red blood cells and whole blood administered
                                    during surgery is measured in cc.

                            -  After surgery, the investigator evaluates the patient's recovery
                               status (when the gas is released) once a day.

                            -  Evaluation items for patient recovery status: Record the progression
                               of meals once a day every day, and if discharge is not made, the
                               record of the progression of meals and postoperative complications
                               on the discharge date is finally evaluated.

                                 -  Investigation of complications related to infection
                                    Infection-related complications are divided into surgical site
                                    infection and wound infection, and other complications are
                                    investigated as non-infection-related complications. Symptoms
                                    such as fever are not collected as complications, but the cause
                                    is investigated and classified as complications. In addition,
                                    if additional procedures are needed due to the occurrence of
                                    related complications, the information should be collected.

        3. Inspection items for each visit

             -  Visit 1 (Screening, -28D ~ pre OP) • written consent

                  -  Determination of conformity to the selection/exclusion criteria

                  -  Demographic information and medical history survey

                  -  Physical examination

                  -  Physical measurement/Vital signs

                  -  Pre-drug investigation

                  -  ASA class

                  -  Abdominal ultrasound

                  -  Laboratory tests

                  -  Imaging examination investigation

                  -  Evaluation of pain level (VAS score)

                       -  Visit 2 (Baseline, OP day, surgery day)

                  -  Determination of conformity to the selection/exclusion criteria

                  -  Physical examination

                  -  Physical measurement/Vital signs

                  -  ASA class

                  -  Surgery Information Survey

                  -  Investigation of complications related to infection

                  -  Random assignment

                  -  Clinical trial intervention

                       -  Visit 3 (post OP±1D, discharge date)

                  -  Physical examination

                  -  Physical measurement/Vital signs

                  -  Concomitant drug investigation

                  -  ASA class

                  -  Laboratory tests

                  -  Hospitalization information investigation

                  -  Investigation of complications related to infection

                     ④ Visit 4 (1W±1D)

                  -  Physical examination

                  -  Physical measurement/Vital signs

                  -  Concomitant drug investigation

                  -  ASA class

                  -  Hospitalization information investigation

                  -  Investigation of complications related to infection

                     ⑤ Unscheduled visit (when visiting the emergency room) (OP+30D)

                  -  Hospitalization information investigation

                  -  Investigation of complications related to infection

                  -  Adverse reaction evaluation
    
  