
    
      Study Design We will enroll 40 consecutive patients with VRE colonization who are admitted to
      Transplant ICU of Montefiore Hospital.

      Methods:

      A total of 40 patients will be randomized to SDD or no SDD by the Investigational Drugs
      Service of the Pharmacy. No placebo will be used for those assigned not to receive SDD.
      Patients will either receive standard of care or standard of care + SDD. No treatment of any
      kind is being withheld from the participants. Enrolled patients will be those known to be
      colonized with VRE (after obtaining informed consent from patients or patients' proxy). SDD
      will be given enterally through the nasogastric tube which will then be clamped for 1 hour.
      SDD will be stopped when patients are extubated. Otherwise SDD will be given for 7 days.

      Day 1 is when patients are started on SDD which consists of colistin 100 mg, gentamicin 80mg,
      and nystatin 2 million/U in 23mL. It is given every 6 hour via a nasogastric tube with the
      nasogastric tube then clamped for 1 hour. Stool will be collected once a day at baseline (pre
      administration of SDD), and then days 4, 7 and 14 for quantitative culture of resistant
      pathogens in the stool. VRE, MRSA and Pseudomonas aeruginosa will be sought. An endotracheal
      aspirate once a day will also be collected on these days (baseline, 1, 4, 7, and 14) for
      qualitative culture for the presence of MRSA and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. If there are no
      bowel movements on the days that stool is to be collected, no samples will be obtained. In
      addition, if the endotracheal tube is pulled, no further endotracheal aspirates will be
      obtained. Samples will only be obtained if available.

      In addition, for women of child bearing potential (any female who is biologically capable of
      becoming pregnant), a small sample (about 1 teaspoonful) of blood will be taken from a vein
      in the subject's arm for a pregnancy test, prior to study drug administration. Pregnant
      women, or women who are currently breast-feeding an infant, will not be allowed to take part
      in this study.

      The primary microbiologic endpoint will be measurement of fecal density of VRE on day 7, in
      comparison to measurements on day 1. Secondary endpoints are changes in VRE fecal density
      from baseline to day 14, changes in MRSA fecal density from baseline to day 14, and presence
      of colistin resistant Pseudomonas in stool or endotracheal aspirates at day 14.

      The following information will also be collected: Demographic data (address, date of birth,
      etc.) which includes age, sex, height, weight, and state of birth, previous reports
      associated with the participant's condition, laboratory results, current medication use, and
      any other prior medical problems/history. This information will be obtain from the medical
      record and/or the subject and become part of the research record.

      Sample storage of the organism

      The biologic samples (organism) will be under the control of the principal investigator of
      this research project. To protect confidentiality, all personal identifiers (i.e., name,
      social security number, and birth date) will be removed (de-identified) and replaced with a
      specific code number. The information linking these code numbers to the corresponding
      subjects' identities will be kept in a separate, secure location. The investigators on this
      study will keep the samples indefinitely. The biologic samples will be provided to Dr. Curtis
      Donskey, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio. Dr Donskey will perform colony
      counts on the samples in order to determine the density of organisms in the sample, using
      methods he described in work he published in the New England Journal of Medicine (11). All
      samples will be provided de-identified. Dr Paterson will perform pulsed field gel
      electrophoresis on the isolates to determine if isolates are genotypically identical between
      baseline and post-SDD. If a subject withdraws and provides the request in writing, samples
      collected and not already processed will be destroyed. All samples will be kept in Dr
      Paterson's laboratory in Scaife Hall, Room 812, 3550 Terrace Street or in Donskey's
      laboratory at the Cleveland Veterans Affairs Medical Center, East Avenue, Cleveland OH.
    
  