
    
      1. Study Design.

           1.1. Patient population. More than 500 coronary artery bypass surgeries (CABG) are
           performed annually at Jackson Memorial Hospital (JMH), the main teaching hospital of the
           U of M School of Medicine. The study coordinator works in close collaboration with Dr.
           Ricci, Co-Investigator. Dr. Ricci, working with other cardiac surgeons in his division,
           will screen all patients scheduled for CABG, and those who satisfy the eligibility
           criteria listed below will be invited to participate. Over a period of 37 months
           (between study months 4 and 41) 500 patients will be recruited and initially randomized
           to 2 groups: one (n=250) to receive conventional PRBC (unwashed PRBC) and the other
           (n=250) PRBC depleted of MP (washed PRBC). Approximately 50% of CABG will require PRBC
           transfusion during surgery and approximately 25% after surgery.

           The patient population can be further classified into the following subgroups: subgroup
           1 (n=100), surgery transfusion with PRBC; subgroup 2 (n =100), surgery transfusion with
           washed PRBC; subgroup 3 (n =200), without any transfusion; subgroup 1a (n =25), surgery
           and post-surgery transfusion with PRBC ; subgroup 1b (n =25), no transfusion during
           surgery but post-surgery transfusion with PRBC; subgroup 2a (n =25), surgery and post
           surgery transfusion with washed PRBC; group 2b (n =25), no transfusion during surgery
           but post-surgery transfusion with washed PRBC.

           The comparison of major interest for this study is that of Subgroup 1 vs. 2, with
           approximately 100 patients each. -- Those not requiring transfusion (Subgroups 3, n ≈
           200) will serve as a "pure comparison" group. The remaining patients are those who
           require post surgery transfusion(s). The characteristics of patients in groups 1a, 1b,
           2a, and 2b and their outcomes will be ascertained and they will be included in ancillary
           analyses. It is anticipated that only a small proportion of patients will require more
           than one post-surgery transfusion. Data pertaining to 2nd, 3rd, etc post-surgical
           transfusions will be collected and used for descriptive purposes and ancillary
           statistical analyses.

           1.2. Protocol on Transfusion Algorithm for the Washed PRBC Group.

           General Considerations

           Potential study participants will be screened and those satisfying the exclusion
           criteria, including patients with known platelet dysfunction or coagulopathy, will not
           be eligible for the trial. Once informed consent is signed, eligible candidates will be
           randomized to either of two approved transfusion practices: normal PRBC's or washed
           PRBC's.

           For patients randomized to the normal PRBC group, the usual blood bank procedures for
           transfusion will be followed during the pre-, intra-, and post-operative periods.

           For patients randomized to the washed PRBC group, the following general rules will be in
           place:

           Rule 1: PRBC's will be washed prior to surgery to avoid any delay in transfusion.

           Rule 2: The Blood Bank must be notified minimum 1 hour prior to transfusion, if more
           washed PRBC's are needed during or after surgery.

           Rule 3: Safety will never be compromised and the standard of care as applicable to blood
           transfusion requirements in coronary artery surgery patients will be preserved. In
           emergency situations, normal PRBC's will be transfused, if there is not enough time for
           PRBC washing.

           1.3. Blood sampling.

           Blood samples (in two tubes of citrated Vacutainers) will be obtained in all patients
           prior to induction of anesthesia, 1 hour after completion of surgery, and 1 and 7 days
           after surgery. Blood samples will be coded as follows:

           • BSa1, sample taken at induction of anesthesia • BSa2 1 hr post surgery • BSa3 at 1 day
           post-surgery • BSa4 at 7 days post surgery •

           Residual samples of every PRBC bag transfused, including that remaining in the tubing,
           will be obtained for MP profiling.

        2. Main objectives of clinical study.

           The study is not designed to study major transfusion complications which are rare. The
           studies on biochemical physiologic host responses to the two types of PRBC are our main
           interest. They will be assessed by the sensitive assays previously described. Among
           patients showing abnormal test results, only a small fraction are expected to manifest
           clinically evident complications. The main objective of the clinical study is to asses
           these responses and compare the above described subgroups 1, 2 and 3 with respect to:

           2.1.Subclinical physiologic host responses including endothelial disturbance,
           procoagulant and proinflammatory responses, and oxidative stress;

           2.2. Minor or subtle post-transfusion reactions such as alteration of vital signs,
           cardiac disturbances, respiratory disturbances, O2 saturation; and in addition,
           short-term (<30 days) complications of cardiac surgery.

           2.3. A third aim is to assess correlation between laboratory biomarkers and clinical
           outcomes (minor transfusion reactions, short-term surgical outcomes), to gain insight
           into the mechanisms underlying adverse effects of transfusion and surgical
           complications. This will generate useful data on which tests or combination of tests
           best predict risk of complications of transfusion and surgery, regardless of whether
           they are found to be attributable to RMP or not.

           2.4. A fourth aim is to assess the mortality rate one year after surgery. This will be
           done by telephone, e-mail, or regular mail contact with the patients or their next of
           kin.

        3. Patient recruitment; Randomization; pre-operative and perioperative care.

           3.1. Preoperative evaluation recruitment of patients. As normal part of preoperative
           evaluation, all cardiac surgery patients undergo complete medical history and physical
           examination, routine laboratory tests prior to a surgical procedure (including CBC,
           platelet count, chemistry, blood coagulation, lipid profiles, CRP, blood group), and
           cardiac evaluation including 2-D echocardiography and cardiac catheterization.

           All patients scheduled for CABG at JMH will be screened for eligibility. Medical records
           of all patients will be reviewed, and the following preoperative information will be
           evaluated and entered in the study data base: (1) Demographic and other characteristics
           including age, sex, race, blood type, body surface area (m2); (2) cardiac information:
           NYHA class I-IV, EKG, echocardiogram with ejection fraction; (3) preexisting medical
           conditions: hypertension, diabetes, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, renal
           function, liver function, prior history of MI, stroke, peripheral vascular disease,
           thrombosis.

           Patients who satisfy the eligibility criteria listed below will be invited to
           participate in the study. The study coordinator will assist the Co-I with the entire
           process of recruitment and follow-up study. Prior to study enrollment, written informed
           consent will be obtained according to UM-IRB guidelines.

           3.2. Randomization. Once informed consent is signed, participants will be initially
           randomized to receive either packed red blood cells (PRBC) or washed packed cells
           (WPRBC). The randomization schedule will be prepared by Dr. Gomez using a block
           randomization scheme with varying block size. Copy of the randomization schedule will be
           provided to the study coordinator and the blood bank.

           Dynamic randomization scheme:

           To prevent potential imbalance between the two main groups due to the effect of some
           patients not requiring transfusion, a dynamic randomization scheme has been designed.
           Briefly, the randomization schedule will be designed to assign prospective patients
           sequentially to receive either washed or unwashed packed cells (PC). However, if any
           patient does not require a transfusion during surgery, this patient will be reassigned
           to Group 3 (non-transfusion) and will simply be skipped in the queue, and the next
           patient will be assigned to that position in the queue (since that position was not used
           due to no transfusion).

        4. Laboratory assessments.

      Overview. Subclinical physiologic responses (biomarkers) following transfusions will be
      assessed by laboratory studies. Broadly, the focus of interest is on sensitive markers of
      endothelial disturbance, procoagulant, proinflammatory, vasoactive and oxidative stress.

      4.1. Routine blood tests will include CBC, platelets, reticulocyte counts, blood chemistry, C
      reactive protein (CRP), lipid profiles, DIC screen and tests for hemolysis.

      4..2. Plasma MP. Total MP is measured by FITC-labeled lectin, Ulex; RMP by GlyPhA; PMP by
      CD41 and CD42+/CD31+; others as noted below.

      4.3. Endothelial disturbance. (See Table C.1). Performed by assay of endothelial MP (EMP)
      using markers CD62E or CD31+/CD42- and EMP conjugates.

      4.4. Procoagulant activities: All of the following reflect aspects of procoagulant activity:
      platelet activation marker CD62P; platelet MP (PMP) by CD42; total MP which are AnV+; total
      MP which are TF+; and MP-mediated thrombin generation (MP-TGA); Thrombin-antithrombin complex
      (TAT complexes).

      4.5. Inflammatory markers. The following were selected as most informative. (i) Leukocyte MP
      (LMP) by flow cytometry: LMP are accepted by many investigators to reflect leukocyte
      activation, i.e., as inflammatory marker.

      (ii) CD11b expression on leukocyte subsets. Widely accepted as a sensitive marker of
      leukocyte activation and inflammation. It is a simple and sensitive assay.

      (iii) Platelet-leukocyte and EMP-leukocyte complexes are increasingly used as sensitive
      markers of inflammation.

      (iv) Complement (C) activation. Detection of C components on MP by flow cytometry. Fragment
      C1q and C3 are measured on MP by flow cytometry. MP-associated IgG/IgM are of related
      interest and are measured in the PI's lab by FITC-goat anti-human Ab.

      (v) Leukocyte nitric oxide (NO): Leukocyte NO is considered a marker of inflammation but also
      responds to oxidative state. In addition, it may reflect vascular tone since it is loosely
      coupled to plasma NO levels.

      4.6. Other Biomarkers. (i). CD40L in plasma and MP-bound. CD40L, a marker both of
      inflammation and thrombosis, will be assayed by ELISA (Bender Med Systems).

      (ii) Oxidative stress: ELISA kits which simplify the assay have become available at a
      reasonable cost. We have selected the kit from Assay Designs EIA because of good sensitivity
      (35 picrograms/mL).

      (iii) Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in plasma and MP.

      4.7. Assay of MP from aliquots of PRBC transfused to patients. As stated earlier, residual
      blood from each PRBC bag transfused to patients will be obtained and analyzed for MP
      properties, e.g. total MP, RMP, contaminating MP (PMP, LMP, EMP), procoagulant activity,
      CD40L. This will enable verification of depletion of MP in washed PRBC's and assessment of
      any unusual properties that might be associated with adverse effects that may occur in the
      recipient.
    
  