
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Approximately 50 million Americans suffer from hypertension, a condition associated with
      increased risk for stroke, heart attack, and kidney failure. While non-pharmacological
      intervention has resulted in dramatic reductions in resting systolic and diastolic blood
      pressure for those with elevated pressures, a debate continues over the efficacy of
      pharmacological intervention because of deleterious side effects. As a result, there has been
      an increased interest in aerobic exercise as a non-pharmacologic approach in treating
      hypertension. Recent reviews of literature have synthesized research using the 'traditional'
      approach (chronologically arranging and describing the studies, perhaps by sub-topic) which
      may result in subjective, non-replicable conclusions. Consequently, the relationships among
      such variables as subject characteristics, experimental design quality, training program
      characteristics, and how they contribute to changes in resting systolic and diastolic blood
      pressure is not clear.

      The meta-analytic approach is used in the study to synthesize research on the relationships
      among variables associated with aerobic exercise intervention and resting systolic and
      diastolic blood pressure in adults. Meta-analysis is a method of pooling the results of
      separate studies. It is a quantitative approach for increasing statistical power of primary
      end points and subgroups, resolving uncertainty when studies disagree, improving estimates of
      effect sizes, and answering questions not posed at the start of individual trials.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      In the first two years of the study, a meta-analysis was conducted of all studies published
      since 1966 on aerobic exercise and blood pressure. The study was renewed in FY 2000 to
      conduct meta-analysis of all studies of exercise training in children and youth under age 21
      years in which resting BP was measured. This will include both randomized and non-randomized
      clinical trials of at least eight weeks duration found in English journals and theses between
      1966 and 1999. Standard meta-analysis techniques will be applied.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  