
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the efficacy of allogeneic large multivalent immunogen (LMI) vaccine and
           aldesleukin, as defined by clinical benefit rate (percentage of patients demonstrating a
           complete response, partial response, or disease stabilization as assessed by RECIST
           criteria), in women with stable metastatic breast cancer.

      Secondary

        -  To measure the immune response in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  To determine the progression-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  To determine the 1- and 2-year overall survival rates in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  To determine the safety profile and toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive allogeneic large multivalent immunogen (LMI) vaccine intradermally
      on day 1 and aldesleukin subcutaneously on days 7 and 8. Treatment repeats every 28 days in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with disease
      progression after 2 courses of vaccine therapy resume the chemotherapy regimen for which
      prior disease stabilization was achieved. Beginning 2-4 days after completion of
      chemotherapy, patients receive one dose of LMI vaccine followed by aldesleukin on days 7 and
      8. Patients achieving at least stable disease continue to receive LMI vaccine and aldesleukin
      as above. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Peripheral blood mononuclear cell samples are collected periodically for research studies.
      Samples are analyzed to assess the frequency of leukocyte subsets (including B cells, T
      cells, NK cells, and monocytes) via flow cytometry; frequency of T-regs (T cells that express
      CD4, CD25, and FoxP3); and responses to keyhole limpet hemocyanin and tetanus toxoid via
      ELISA assay. Other immunological studies are also performed.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months.
    
  