
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Evaluate the tolerability of infigratinib in patients with low-grade and high-grade
      platinum ineligible upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess tolerability in those with GFR 30-49. II. Evaluate the objective response rate
      (complete response [CR] + partial response [PR]) of infigratinib after 2 cycles in UTUC with
      and without FGFR3 alterations.

      III. Correlate tumor tissue FGFR3 alteration (presence/absence, alteration type, and clonal
      status) with response and occurrence/severity of adverse events (AEs) such as
      hyperphosphatemia.

      IV. Evaluate upper tract, bladder and local/distant recurrence within 12 months.

      V. Evaluate renal function pre-treatment and after two treatments. VI. Evaluate
      patient-reported quality of life (QOL) outcomes during treatment.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Explore intra-tumor heterogeneity, gene expression profiles, and changes in tumor
      microenvironment using single cell ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing (scRNA-seq) and mass
      cytometry by time-of-flight (CyTOF) pre and post treatment to identify potential mechanisms
      of response and/or resistance, and correlation with the occurrence/severity of AEs.

      II. Explore urinary/upper tract washing FGFR3 alterations as potential biomarker for
      detection and response.

      III. Explore cell free deoxyribonucleic acid (cfDNA) for detection of FGFR3 alterations and
      as a predictor of response.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive infigratinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats
      every 28 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. During weeks 8-9 (at least 48 hours after last dose of infigratinib), patients
      undergo surgery.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then every 3 months
      for up to 1 year after surgery.
    
  