
    
      Hospitalized preterm infants undergo an average of 12 painful procedures daily, with less
      than half receiving pain relief. Poorly treated early pain can have long lasting negative
      effects that impact later learning, development, and reaction to future pain, stress, and
      emotional experiences. While sweet tasting solution (sucrose) is considered the standard of
      care for reducing behavioral responses to acute procedural pain in preterm infants, some
      evidence that sucrose may not similarly reduce pain related brain activity raises concerns
      regarding the degree of pain relieving effect. This concern is especially relevant as the use
      of sucrose to manage repeated acute pain has not been found to prevent heightened later pain
      associated with this exposure. Strong evidence suggests that maternal infant skin-to-skin
      contact (SSC) is effective in reducing behavioral responses to pain. Given the multi-sensory
      benefits of SSC, it is highly likely that SSC provided during pain in early life may reduce
      pain induced brain activity.

      Infants ( n=126) (32 to 36 completed weeks gestational age) admitted to the Neonatal
      Intensive Care Unit, and their mothers within the first seven days of age will be randomly
      assigned to receive: i) SSC or ii) 24 % oral sucrose. Each baby will receive both the
      PinPrick and heel lance, following a no treatment baseline period. The primary outcome is
      pain related brain activity measured using an electroencephalogram (EEG) pain-specific
      event-related potential. Secondary outcomes include pain intensity measured using a
      behavioural infant pain assessment tool (Premature Infant Pain Profile-Revised) and rate of
      adverse events.

      This will be the first study to examine the effect of SSC on pain induced brain activity in
      the preterm infant brain during experimental and clinical pain stimuli, measured using EEG.
      Given the negative neurodevelopmental outcomes associated with unmanaged pain, it is
      imperative that preterm infants receive the most effective pain relieving treatments to
      improve their health outcomes.
    
  