
    
      Primary objective - cross-sectional phase 1. To describe the frequency of early-morning, day-
      and night-time COPD symptoms according to phenotypes in a cohort of Italian patients with
      stable COPD (GOLD 2014 criteria). Symptoms will be evaluated by means of the Night-Time,
      Morning and Day-Time symptoms of COPD questionnaire. Primary objective - longitudinal phase
      1. To describe the 12-month frequency and evolution of early-morning, day- and night-time
      COPD symptoms according to phenotypes measured at enrolment. Symptoms will be evaluated by
      means of the Night-Time, Morning and Day-Time symptoms of COPD questionnaire. Secondary
      objectives - cross sectional phase 1. To evaluate the association between early-morning, day-
      and night-time symptoms frequency at enrolment and the following outcomes: • dyspnea level •
      disease severity, as defined by the GOLD 2014 criteria (stages A to D) • quality of life •
      physical activity • quality of sleep • frequency and severity of exacerbations • level of
      depression and anxiety Secondary objectives - longitudinal phase 1. To describe the 12-month
      variation of the following outcomes according to phenotypes measured at enrolment: • dyspnea
      level • quality of life • physical activity • quality of sleep • frequency and severity of
      exacerbations • level of depression and anxiety 2. To describe the healthcare resources
      utilization in a cohort of Italian patients with COPD during 12-month observation, globally
      and by phenotypes. STUDY DESIGN: Italian observational cohort multicentre study in patients
      with stable COPD PLANNED NUMBER OF SUBJECTS: 600 patients STUDY PROCEDURE The study plan
      foresees: -Enrolment visit [Baseline visit (V1)] -A control visit at 6 months since Baseline
      at the investigational site (V2) -A final visit at 12 months since Baseline at the
      investigational site (V3) The clinical staff at the investigational sites will collect
      retrospectively all the necessary information about the medical history of the patient to
      confirm his-her eligibility. Patients confirmed with a diagnosis of stable COPD will be
      evaluated at enrolment visit and, if eligible, they will be asked to provide a written and
      signed privacy and informed consent form. The diagnosis of stable COPD should be compliant
      with 2014 GOLD criteria (stages A to D). At enrolment visit, patients will be asked to
      complete questionnaires for early-morning, day- and night-time symptoms, level of dyspnea,
      quality of life, physical activity, anxiety and depression levels, sleep quality, as well as
      to provide data on lifestyle, such as smoking. The investigator will be requested to complete
      study case report forms (CRFs) recording specified baseline information (demography data,
      medical history and comorbidities, COPD phenotype, ongoing treatments for COPD). Finally
      patients will perform a spirometry (baseline, lung volumes, bronchodilation test and CO
      diffusion) according to routine clinical practice. No additional mandated interventions on
      top of routinely performed physician visits, examinations or treatments will be required.
      Except the completion of the questionnaires, there are no other study-prescribed procedures.
      Any procedure ordered by the physician during this study will be one that is appropriate to
      the routine clinical care delivered to the COPD patients at the discretion of the physician.
      After 6 and 12 months, the same information as in the enrolment visits will be collected,
      excluding demographic data, to ascertain any changes in the outcomes of interest, including
      any exacerbations and medical healthcare resources utilization in the period between the
      visits. At follow up visits, patients will undergo the same procedures (spirometry) performed
      at the enrolment visit. For the entire period of observation, data regarding Adverse
      Event/Serious Adverse Event will be collected.
    
  