
    
      This application seeks to reduce racial/ethnic disparities in HIV/AIDS treatment. National
      studies have consistently shown that many persons living with HIV/AIDS (PLHA) in the U.S. (an
      estimated 10-19% of PLHA), predominantly people of color, delay taking Highly Active
      Antiretroviral Therapy (HAART) until late in their HIV disease or never initiate HAART when
      it is medically necessary, even when engaged in care. This population is of critical
      importance because they experience disproportionately higher morbidity and earlier mortality
      compared to their peers on HAART, and higher health care costs. Further, they are less likely
      to achieve virologic suppression, increasing the probability of HIV transmission to others.
      However, we do not yet have a behavioral intervention to increase the timely initiation and
      continued use of HAART for PLHA-DD. This proposal seeks to address a serious gap in existing
      programs by creating a culturally targeted, sustainable, multi-level, and individualized
      video-based behavioral intervention for the population of PLHA who are medically eligible for
      HAART but who have delayed or declined HAART (referred to as "PLHA-DD"). This is not an
      adherence intervention per se, but will serve as a complement to, and primer for, existing
      adherence interventions, from which PLHA-DD can benefit when they initiate HAART. The
      proposed study is innovative in that it seeks to broaden the HAART adherence research
      paradigm to include HAART initiation.

      Barriers to HAART initiation for PLHA-DD are multi-faceted. At the individual level, for
      example, PLHA-DD suffer from negative attitudes toward HAART (particularly medical mistrust
      and fear), a lack of accurate knowledge about HAART and health, and "competing priorities,"
      including mental health problems and substance use. PLHA-DD also experience powerful social
      barriers to HAART including negative peer norms regarding medications and stigma. Further,
      structural barriers such as poor access to necessary resources and supports (e.g.,
      transportation, paperwork) and ancillary services (e.g., mental health care) impede HAART
      initiation.

      We will create a culturally targeted video-based intervention to increase motivation and
      psychosocial and practical preparedness for HAART among PLHA-DD. The study is guided by two
      complementary theoretical models: the Theory of Triadic Influence, a social-cognitive theory
      that integrates individual, social, and structural influences on health behavior and the
      Anti-racist Stance, which acknowledges the salience of barriers linked to racial/ethnic
      minority status in the lives of PLHA-DD (associated with exclusion, stress, discrimination,
      and poor access to institutional structures), without assuming homogeneity among PLHA-DD. The
      intervention will be flexible and individualized: there will be a 12-week intervention period
      during which participants will receive three structured sessions (including one with a
      "support partner" to reduce social barriers, plus patient navigation, an efficacious
      low-threshold and adaptable approach to reduce individual and structural barriers to
      initiating and sustaining HAART. The intensity of navigation will depend on need, increasing
      the intervention's efficiency. The sessions will consist of individualized interactive
      components and targeted high-quality video components, which will enhance ease-of-use,
      fidelity, and future sustainability.

      The aims of this three-year project are to:

        1. Explore health care and social service providers' and PLHA-DD's perspectives on barriers
           to/facilitators of initiation and continuation of HAART for PLHA-DD at the levels of
           individuals, networks, organizations, and other structures;

        2. Develop components of an intervention and examine their acceptability, safety,
           feasibility, and gather preliminary evidence of their efficacy with respect to HAART
           initiation and continuation among PLHA-DD medically eligible for HAART.

      To accomplish these aims, we will conduct a three phase study: (1) an Elicitation Phase to
      explore barriers to HAART among PLHA-DD (n=16) and health care and social service providers
      (N=18); (2) a Development Phase to create intervention components using Intervention Mapping,
      a mechanism for integrating theoretical models, data, and the literature; and (3) an
      Evaluation Phase to test and revise intervention components (N=30-50 PLHA-DD recruited from
      two large urban HIV clinics and assigned to an intervention or control arm using permuted
      blocks random assignment and interviewed at 3 time points).

      We will also explore peer recruitment approaches to reaching PLHA-DD. PLHA recruited through
      peers will be seen at a local field site but will engage in the same procedures as the
      clinic-recruited cohort.

      We will enroll a total of 90-100 PLHA-DD, ideally half from clinics and half through peer
      recruitment.

      The urgent need to address disparities in HAART initiation and continuation and support
      access to HAART for vulnerable populations has been identified by numerous scientific and
      community leaders, health care providers, and public health officials. Although PLHA-DD are a
      modest proportion of the population of PLHA (10-19%), efficacious interventions to reduce
      morbidity, increase longevity, increase viral load suppression, and reduce health care costs
      associated with delayed HAART initiation are sorely lacking for this group, and have very
      high potential public health significance.
    
  