
    
      Pediatric asthma, the most common childhood chronic illness, remains a significant public
      health problem. Research indicates marked health care disparities in asthma, with Latino
      children at particular risk for poor health outcomes. Maternal depressive symptoms are also
      high among poor women who have children with asthma, and may compromise effective asthma
      management. The first AIM of this R21 application is to develop a manualized treatment to
      integrate asthma education with CBT strategies to reduce depressive symptoms among Latina
      mothers of children with persistent asthma. Such an intervention has the potential to improve
      asthma outcomes through increasing maternal knowledge and self-efficacy to manage asthma.
      During Year 1, Expert Consultants and an investigator team with expertise in asthma
      education, culturally tailored treatment, and CBT for Latinos will provide input into the
      development of the integrated intervention (MAADRE, for its acronym in Spanish). Focus groups
      will be conducted with our target population in Rhode Island and Puerto Rico to refine
      intervention content. Qualitative data analyses will be used to prioritize intervention
      targets and to identify contextual differences between Island and Mainland groups. The second
      AIM of this application is to conduct a small two-site pilot of the MAADRE intervention in
      Rhode Island and Puerto Rico. During Year 2, the investigators will test the intervention
      with depressed mothers of children with asthma (32 in Puerto Rico and 32 in Rhode Island.)
      Mothers will be randomly assigned to receive either the MAADRE intervention or asthma
      education + child health (control). The investigators expect that target children of
      participants in the MAADRE intervention will have improved asthma outcomes (asthma symptom
      days, lung function as measured by FEV1 and FEV1/FVC, asthma-related quality of life, and
      asthma control) relative to the control condition. The investigators also anticipate that
      participants in the MAADRE intervention will have greater reduction in depressive symptoms
      and improved self-efficacy to manage asthma relative to the control condition. Findings from
      the proposed application will be used to design a larger RCT to evaluate the effects of the
      MAADRE intervention on asthma outcomes, and to compare cost-effectiveness of the intervention
      approaches.
    
  