
    
      Background: Previous research has shown that low mobility among older people in hospital is
      associated with poor health outcomes including worsening physical function and increasing
      dependence in activities of daily living. There is evidence that the implementation by
      hospital staff of a mobility or exercise programme for older people in the acute care setting
      is feasible with promising outcomes including improvement in physical function, shorter
      hospital stay and reduced nursing home admissions. However employing additional therapy or
      nursing staff is costly and there are well-recognised shortages of suitable applicants to
      recruit to these posts. Many National Health Service trusts have an established volunteer
      workforce and in Southampton trained volunteers have successfully assisted older inpatients
      at mealtimes.

      Objective: This study aims to assess the feasibility and acceptability of using trained
      volunteers to increase physical activity levels of older people in hospital.

      Methods and design: The first part of this feasibility study is the development with the
      therapy team of a training programme, based on existing literature and best practice, to
      ensure competency of volunteers in mobilising patients and encouraging physical exercise. The
      study will be conducted on 2 wards (1 male 1 female) within the Medicine for Older People
      department. Eligible patients will be encouraged by volunteers to mobilise or perform
      chair-based exercises, depending on their mobility status, at least twice a day for about 15
      minutes each session. The recruitment and retention rates of volunteers will be analysed as
      will the physical activity interventions they were able to effect. The recruitment of
      patients, their physical activity and adherence to the intervention will be studied.
      Qualitative interviews and focus groups will be conducted to explore the views and
      experiences of the patients, volunteers and health care professionals involved in this study.
      Participants will be characterised including the measurement of physical activity levels
      using a StepWatch Activity Monitor and GENEActiv accelerometer. This feasibility study is not
      powered to show a statistical difference in the outcome measures but data from this study
      will determine the sample size for future controlled trials.

      Discussion: Results from this study will provide valuable information regarding the use of
      trained volunteers to promote physical activity among older inpatients and the practicalities
      of implementing the intervention throughout the whole department.
    
  