
    
      The investigators plan to assess the effects of increasing both canola oil and plant protein
      foods while reducing carbohydrate intake in the context of a Mediterranean type diet on
      weight loss, glycemic control and cardiovascular risk factors in type 2 diabetes.

      Obesity rates in Western nations have shown a dramatic rise in the last 20 years and diabetes
      rates have doubled, a trend which is predicted to be repeated over the next 20 years. In
      Canada the predicted cost to the healthcare system in only 7 years will rise to $17 billion.
      Weight loss diets (such as Atkins, Eddies, South Beach and Zone) emphasizing carbohydrate
      restriction have become increasingly popular for the prevention and treatment of diabetes. As
      a result, lower carbohydrate diets are being selected by health conscious members of the
      general population including those with diabetes. Because such diets in effect promote a high
      intake of protein from animal sources, even in the presence of weight loss, serum cholesterol
      levels rise due to increased cholesterol and saturated fat intake; and a further rise in
      serum lipids is likely to occur in the long term when weight loss has ceased. On the other
      hand, lower carbohydrate dietary patterns that are higher in plant rather than animal fat and
      proteins have been associated with improved blood lipids and reduced risk of heart disease
      and type 2 diabetes.

      The investigators have therefore planned a study in which a weight reducing low carbohydrate,
      Mediterranean type diet that is high in plant proteins and canola oil will be compared to a
      weight reducing high cereal fibre diet in a 3 month study. 150 overweight and obese
      participants with type 2 diabetes will be randomized to one of 2 treatments.

      Study visits will be as follows: weeks -2, 0 (for randomization), 2, 4, 8, 10 and 12. Body
      measurements, blood pressure and blood samples will be taken at each visit except week 2. The
      week 2 visit will be mainly for reinforcement of dietary advice; also body weight will be
      measured and blood drawn for fast glucose and HbA1c. Diet records will be reviewed at all
      visits. 24 hour urine samples will be collected at week 0 and week 12.

      On completion of the 12 week study, participants will be given the option of continuing on
      the same diet or trying the opposite diet for a further 12 weeks. Visits will be every 4
      weeks for a total of 3 visit. Body measurements, blood pressure and blood samples will be
      taken during these visits as in the initial 12 week study.
    
  