
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune disease characterized by progressive immune-mediated
      destruction of myelin and axons within the CNS. Despite the development, approval and
      clinical utilization of several medicines for patients with MS, most patients continue to
      accrue progressive disability. High-dose cyclophosphamide is chemotherapy treatment option
      for severe, refractory, immune-mediated illnesses such as MS. There is growing evidence that
      high dose cyclophosphamide is well tolerated and effective in MS. Our experience with 9
      patients who underwent treatment at the Johns Hopkins Hospital yielded impressive results
      with a significant 40% reduction in baseline disability and an 81% reduction in MRI
      gadolinium enhancing lesions. Five out of 9 patients had recurrence of new brain MRI lesions
      during 24 months of follow-up, recurring in 4 patients during the first year of follow-up.
      Our findings suggest that high-dose cyclophosphamide holds promise in inducing remission and
      reducing disability in relapsing remitting MS however the recurrence of MS disease activity
      (evidenced by worsening disability, clinical exacerbations or ongoing MRI evidence of new
      lesions) suggests that high-dose cyclophosphamide given as a treatment on its own, is not
      sufficient to induce long-term remission.

      Glatiramer acetate has been shown to be a more general suppressor of autoimmune disease,
      inhibiting the onset of experimental animal models of uveoretinitis, rheumatoid arthritis,
      immune rejection of grafts against host and host against graft disease, and inflammatory
      bowel disease. Glatiramer acetate was originally developed based on the observation that it
      inhibited the onset of clinical disease in an animal model of multiple sclerosis,
      experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Glatiramer acetate suppression of EAE was
      found to be a general phenomenon not restricted to a particular species, disease type or
      encephalitogen used for the induction of EAE. A unique feature of glatiramer acetate is its
      promiscuous binding with high affinity to various class II MHC molecules and it potent
      induction of Th2 regulatory T cells. Moreover glatiramer acetate has subsequently been shown
      to be a more general suppressor of autoimmune disease, inhibiting the onset of experimental
      uveoretinitis, immune rejection of grafts against host and host against graft disease, and
      experimental inflammatory bowel disease.

      We plan to investigate the properties of glatiramer acetate against the recurrence of MS
      disease activity following high dose cyclophosphamide induced cessation detectable
      autoimmunity. This study is a prospective, open-label two-year follow-up study in 12 patients
      with relapsing-remitting MS who are unable to tolerate or have failed to optimally respond to
      conventional therapy and are at high risk of disease progression and loss of function.
      Patients who elect to enter the study will be given a single course of high-dose,
      cyclophosphamide regimen without transplantation. Patients will then receive 20 mg of
      glatiramer acetate subcutaneously 4 to 6 weeks after the last dose of high-dose
      cyclophosphamide, to allow the immune system to have time to begin to reconstitute without
      glatiramer acetate but still provide sufficient time for glatiramer acetate to vaccinate
      against recurrence of MS disease activity.

      The primary outcome of this pilot study will be to determine if high followed by a
      maintenance dose of glatiramer acetate is safe in this patient population. We hypothesize
      that institution of glatiramer acetate treatment following high-dose cyclophosphamide
      treatment will extend the period of disease free activity and further reduce the disability
      in patients with relapsing remitting MS.
    
  