
    
      Hypothesis: In this study, we hypothesize that videolaryngoscopy (VL) is associated with a
      decreased risk of intubation failure compared to direct laryngoscopy in the critically ill.
      We also hypothesize that VL is associated with fewer number of intubation attempts and
      decreased risk of complications compared to DL.

      Background: In the critically ill, endotracheal intubation is a high-risk procedure with
      complications occurring in up to 54% of patients. Our own published work has demonstrated
      that more than one attempt at intubation occurred in 33% of patients and was associated with
      a three-fold increased risk of severe complications. VL provides a superior laryngeal view
      when compared to DL which may translate into less failed intubations, and resultant decreased
      complications.

      Specific objectives:

        1. Determine point estimates for failure to intubate on the first attempt, which can then
           be used to power a larger efficacy trial examining VL vs. DL in the critically ill.

        2. Compare VL vs. DL on risk of intubation failure (as defined by one than more attempt)

        3. Compare VL vs. DL on number of attempts at endotracheal intubation, time-to-intubate,
           and risk of complications.

      Methods:

        1. Design: Single center, randomized-controlled pilot study

        2. Patients: Forty critically ill patients requiring urgent endotracheal intubation (within
           30 minutes) by the intensive care team.

        3. Intervention: Patients will be randomized to initial attempt at intubation by VL vs DL.

        4. Power Calculation: Given this is a pilot study to generate point estimates, power
           calculations have not been performed. However, 20 patients in each arm will provide a
           robust point estimate that can be used to power a future efficacy study.

        5. Analysis: Data will be analyzed in an intention-to-treat fashion. Our primary objective,
           failure to intubate on the first attempt, will be analyzed using Fisher's exact test.
           This test will also be used to analyze the risk of complications comparing VL to DL.
           Number of attempts at intubation and time-to-intubation will be analyzed using a
           Wilcoxon rank-sum test.

        6. Potential Pitfalls: As slow recruitment is always a concern, we conservatively estimate
           that 5 patients will be enrolled per month, thus requiring a total of 8 months for
           patient accrual.

      Significance: If VL results in fewer complications during endotracheal intubation, then this
      technique may become widely adopted for this high risk procedure. Furthermore, in many
      centers, anesthesiology support for airway management of the critically ill may be limited,
      if at all present. Thus, the impact of this research may be even more applicable outside of
      the tertiary teaching centers where airway management expertise is readily available.
    
  