
    
      Objective of the study:

      The primary objective of this study is to investigate whether social support by a partner or
      friend and treatment of patients' illness perceptions influences the rate of adherence to an
      activity advice compared to treatment of patients' illness perceptions alone in patients
      suffering non-specific low back pain. Secondary objectives are; 1) Whether 'treatment of
      illness perceptions' changes patients' maladaptive illness perceptions into realistic ones,
      2) Whether maladaptive illness perceptions, comorbidity and/or obesity and/or rate of
      recurrences of non-specific low back pain and/or attitude and intention to physical activity
      influences patient's adherence to an activity advice.

      Study design:

      This study is a multicentre randomized two arm, controlled clinical trial. During a
      twelve-week intervention period, one group of patients will receive an activity advice added
      to usual treatment including 'treatment of illness perceptions' (C-group). The other group
      will receive an activity advice and the intervention addressing social support by a partner
      or friend added to usual treatment including 'treatment of illness perceptions'
      (SoSup-group). Patients will be assessed at baseline, and after one, 6 and 12 weeks.
      Recruitment is scheduled from October 2016 to July 2017. The study will be performed in 12
      centres for physiotherapy in the province Zuid-Holland, the Netherlands.

      Study population:

      It is mentioned that individuals with recurrent non-specific low back pain score more
      unfavourable on lifestyle risk factors including physical inactivity than individuals without
      or first time non-specific low back pain (van Oostrom et al., 2012). To include potential
      physically inactive non-specific low back pain sufferers, patients ≥18 years presenting with
      at least a second episode of non-specific low back pain who are not physical active in
      accordance with the NNGB are recruited for the study.

      Intervention (if applicable):

      In both the C- and SoSup-group an activity advice will be added to usual treatment. The
      advised activities will be walking and/or cycling outdoors, meeting the Dutch Standard
      Healthy Physical Activity (NNGB) (Hildebrandt et al., 2007). In both groups cognitive
      treatment on illness perceptions according to the common sense model to the patient in the
      presence of the partner or friend will be given. During a maximum of two half-hour contacts
      in a standardised dialogue on maladaptive beliefs and feelings about identity, time-line,
      causes, controllability, and curability of low back pain are mapped, maladaptive perceptions
      are challenged, alternative perceptions are formulated (Siemonsma et al., 2013). The
      intervention in the SoSup-group (intervention group), organizing social support by a partner
      or friend depending on patient's preferences, will be added. During a maximum of two
      half-hour contacts (one for explanation and one for evaluation), in a standardised discussion
      the partner or friend will be stimulated to support the patient in executing the activity
      advice. During 12 weeks the social support by a partner or friend will be executed for at
      least 5 times a week.

      Primary study parameters/outcome of the study:

      The primary outcome measure will be walking and/or cycling according to the NNGB and social
      support.

      Secundary study parameters/outcome of the study (if applicable):

      Other outcomes will be 1. measures of illness perceptions. 2. measures of comorbidity, BMI,
      number of recurrences of non-specific low back pain, measures of attitude and intention to
      physical activity 3. measures of refusal of the study.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness (if applicable):

      The social support described in this study is designed for better outcomes of physical
      activity levels patients suffering low back pain, and has no proven advantage on better
      outcomes on pain and disability in non-specific low back pain sufferers. Therefore we
      consider there is no disadvantage in the SoSup-group versus the C-group because patients in
      both groups receive concomitant best evidence healthcare according to the Dutch guideline for
      low back pain (Staal et al., 2013). No adverse effects of the interventions are expected.
      There are no ethical implications to be expected as a result of this study, treatment of all
      patients during the intervention period will be according to the Dutch guideline for low back
      pain.
    
  