
    
      VSL#3 (Original De Simone formulation, further abbreviated as VSL#3), a potent probiotic
      preparation, has been tested as an adjuvant therapy in inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD),
      chronic unspecific inflammatory disorders of the gastrointestinal tract (the most frequent
      forms of IBD are Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC)). VSL#3 has been shown to
      improve symptoms of IBD both in animal models and in humans-the most impressive results have
      been observed in preventing of pouchitis in UC patients. Several possible mechanisms of its
      action have been suggested, including change in gut microbial diversity, immunomodulatory
      function (upregulation of interleukine-10), etc., however, the list is probably far from
      complete.

      Bile acids (BA) play an important role in the gastrointestinal tract - besides facilitating
      fat (and protein) digestion and resorption, they act as general antimicrobial agents within
      the small intestine (maintaining the small intestine more or less microbe-free), colonic
      microflora modifiers, intestinal innate immunity regulators, and importantly as signalling
      molecules on the liver-intestine/intestine-liver axis. Under pathological conditions (such as
      BA malabsorption) BA can worsen the IBD symptoms (namely diarrhoea), by irritating colonic
      mucosa or by inducing colonic secretion of electrolytes.

      The study hypothesis is that the beneficial effect of VSL#3 might be partially explained by
      alteration of BA metabolism. There exists a complex crosstalk between gut microflora and BA:
      BA affect microbial growth, whereas BA structure is modified by bacteria (deconjugation, 7 α
      dehydroxylation). Several observations might support this hypothesis: VSL#3 ameliorates
      symptoms of radiation or chemotherapy induced diarrhoea, as well as diarrhoea of critically
      ill patients - conditions, that can be caused by BA malabsorption. Similarly, oxalate
      absorption (closely related to BA malabsorption) has been shown to be lowered by VSL#3. The
      main question to be addressed in the proposed study is, therefore, whether VSL#3
      administration can somehow change metabolism of bile acids (BA).

      Additionally, urinary metabolite levels are strongly influenced by differences in the
      intestinal microbiota, since both gut bacterial metabolism, and shared metabolism by the host
      and bacterial species ('co-metabolism'), generate specific metabolic products. Such
      metabolites may therefore be used as markers of microbial metabolic activity, reflecting
      systemic, functional differences. This application of urinary metabolic profiling avoids the
      technical difficulties, and methodological differences, found in molecular studies of the
      intestinal microbiota in IBD, which have contributed to often discrepant findings. Specific
      urinary metabolites related to gut microbial metabolism differ between CD patients, UC
      patients, and controls. The emerging technique of urinary NMR-based metabolic profiling with
      multivariate analysis was able to distinguish these cohorts. This study should address the
      question, whether VSL#3 administration changes the nuclear magnetic resonance-based urinary
      metabolomic profile.
    
  