
    
      The primary purpose of this paper is to compare the use of an online telerehabilitation
      platform versus a standard prerecorded DVD in supporting the sustainability of outcomes
      achieved during a comprehensive multidisciplinary pain rehabilitation program.

      Primary Hypotheses Graduates from a comprehensive interdisciplinary pain rehabilitation
      program will…

        1. …demonstrate greater adherence to post-discharge home exercise recommendations when
           given access to an online telerehabilitation platform compared to DVDs offered as
           current standard of care.

        2. …achieve greater sustainability of programs outcomes including pain intensity, level of
           function, and reduction of opioid use.

      Primary Research Questions

        1. Does access to an online telerehabilitation platform impact adherence to post-discharge
           home exercise recommendations in graduates from a comprehensive interdisciplinary pain
           rehabilitation program?

        2. Does access to an online telerehabilitation platform impact outcomes sustainability and
           opioid use in graduates from a comprehensive interdisciplinary pain management program?

      Additional items that will be evaluated by this study include the participants' experience
      and satisfaction with use of the online telerehabilitation platform.

      Secondary Hypotheses

        1. Participants using the online telerehabilitation platform will report a more enjoyable
           experience and overall greater satisfaction with post-discharge self-management compared
           to participants receiving standard of care.

        2. Utilization of the online telerehabilitation platform will be associated with
           perceptions of usefulness and ease of use of internet technology.

      Secondary Research Questions

        1. Does use of an online telerehabilitation platform impact patient satisfaction with
           post-discharge self-management compared to current standard of care?

        2. Does internet technology acceptance impact utilization of post-discharge self-management
           resources provided through an online telerehabilitation platform?
    
  