
    
      All patients who meet eligibility for the study will be consented during their clinic visit
      or upon arrival to labor and delivery. If patients elect to participate in the study,
      enrollment in the study will be noted in their sticky note in EPIC (electronic medical
      record) which will be ready available to all members of the health care team. If patients
      during the labor process require a cesarean section, the anesthesiologist will pick up a
      sealed envelope (which will contain the allocation sequence and group assignment). A
      randomization block design with mixed block sizes will be used to generate the allocation
      sequence by using the nQuery Advisor computer software.

      The sealed envelopes will be readily available to the anesthesiologist and kept in the
      anesthesia workroom. Following delivery of the infant, the patient will receive the standard
      oxytocin infusion. Following administration of the oxytocin infusion, the patient will be
      given either methylergonovine 0.2 mg IM (intramuscular) or placebo (1 ml of normal saline,
      intramuscular). This will be drawn up and administered by the anesthesiologist. The
      obstetrician (delivering provider performing the cesarean section) will be blinded to the
      group assignment. Documentation of the drug will be recorded in epic in the medication
      administration record.

      The delivering provider will be responsible for determining and relaying to the
      anesthesiologist whether additional uterotonics are needed throughout the procedure.
      Additional uterotonics will be given in accordance to the current guidelines outlined by the
      American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG). The delivery provider will
      assess uterine tone at 4 minutes (satisfactory versus unsatisfactory). The registered nurse
      will be responsible for setting up a timer to let the OB provider know when 4 minutes have
      passed. Nursing will call out once the 4 minutes have passed and the OB provider will state
      whether adequate tone was noted. The anesthesiologist will be responsible for documenting
      whether a placebo/study drug was given and uterine tone after 4 minutes. This documentation
      will be placed back into the sealed envelope by the anesthesiologist and placed in the
      anesthesia workroom. Nicole Masse (primary investigator) will be responsible for storing
      folders in a secured, locked file cabinet within the Maternal Fetal Medicine offices.

      As routinely done at the time of cesarean delivery, the registered nurse will be responsible
      for measuring and documenting the quantitative blood loss. As routinely performed on all are
      patients who undergo a vaginal or cesarean delivery, preoperative hemoglobin and
      postoperative day one hemoglobin levels will be collected.

      In the event a postpartum hemorrhage was to occur, the obstetrician will then be un-blinded
      as management of a postpartum hemorrhage will be driven by whether normal saline or
      methergine was given as part of the study.

      The primary outcome, the need for additional uterotonics, will be assessed in the operating
      room. Other outcome which will be assessed in the operating room include uterine tone and
      quantitative blood loss. Outcomes which will be assessed in the immediate postpartum period
      include: postpartum hemoglobin values, need for a blood transfusion, admission to the
      intensive care unit, endometritis).

      No long-term follow will be needed.
    
  