
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the complete response rate up to 6 cycles after randomization as defined by
      centrally read positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) (integral
      biomarker) of 2 targeted therapeutic regimens (obinutuzumab + umbralisib [TGR-1202] or
      obinutuzumab + lenalidomide) with obinutuzumab + chemotherapy (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin
      hydrochloride [doxorubicin], vincristine sulfate [vincristine], and prednisone [CHOP] or
      bendamustine hydrochloride [bendamustine]) in patients with early relapsing or refractory
      follicular lymphoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To validate the prognostic association of the m7-FLIPI model, demonstrating that the
      population of follicular lymphoma patients who respond poorly to chemoimmunotherapy are
      enriched for having a high-risk m7-FLIPI score, and that the score is associated with
      progression-free survival (integrated biomarker). (Primary translational medicine) II. To
      estimate the 30-month sustained complete response rate (CR30) defined by centrally read
      PET/CT with each of the regimens in this early relapsing or refractory follicular lymphoma
      population.

      III. To estimate best response up to 12 cycles of therapy, progression free survival,
      duration of response and overall survival with each of the combinations in early relapsing or
      refractory follicular lymphoma.

      IV. To evaluate the adverse effects of each of the regimens in early relapsing or refractory
      follicular lymphoma.

      V. To evaluate the predictive performance of non-invasive genotyping (m7-FLIPI in circulating
      tumor deoxyribonucleic acid [DNA]) of plasma at study entry relative to standard tumor
      genotyping (m7-FLIPI) of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tumor tissue.

      VI. To evaluate the association between the detection of active lymphoma by PET-CT and the
      detection of circulating tumor DNA in plasma at baseline, after 6 and 12 cycles, and at 30
      months after initiation of study therapy.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive obinutuzumab intravenously (IV) on day 1 and umbralisib orally (PO)
      daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive obinutuzumab IV on day 1 and lenalidomide PO on days 1-21. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for up 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM III:

      PRIOR BENDAMUSTINE-BASED CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive obinutuzumab IV on day 1,
      cyclophosphamide IV on day 1, doxorubicin IV on day 1, vincristine IV on day 1, and
      prednisone PO on days 1-5. Treatment with obinutuzumab repeats every 21 or 28 days for up to
      12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Treatment with
      combination chemotherapy repeats every 21 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PRIOR CHOP CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive obinutuzumab IV on day 1, and bendamustine IV over
      60 minutes on days 1 and 2. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 or 12 cycles
      (bendamustine and obinutuzumab, respectively) in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  