
    
      Anisometropia is a condition in which one eye has a significantly different refractive error
      from the other and commonly leads to the development of refractive amblyopia in the affected
      eye. High isoametropia is the condition in which both eyes have high refractive error and
      commonly leads to bilateral refractive amblyopia if untreated. Amblyopia is the condition in
      which vision does not develop fully in the brain due to disuse or misuse of one or both eyes.
      Typically, in high anisometropia, a contact lens in the eye with the stronger refractive
      error and/or glasses must be used to correct the refractive error. Commonly, infants and
      children with this condition refuse to wear the contact lens or glasses because the other eye
      sees normally. There are other problems in treating high anisometropia with glasses. One is
      aniseikonia, the condition of image size disparity between the two eyes. This causes
      difficulty for the brain of the affected person to fuse the images from the two eyes because
      the image from one eye is much larger than that from the other eye. This results in
      asthenopia (eye fatigue) and sometimes even diplopia. If the anisometropia is severe,
      significant amblyopia will result in the eye with the stronger refractive error and, if not
      treated at an early age, permanent and potentially severe vision loss will result.

      In high isoametropia, contact lenses or glasses must likewise be used in order for normal
      vision to develop. Most children with isoametropia will wear glasses well because they cannot
      see well without them. By contrast, children with developmental delays, chromosomal
      abnormalities, autism, or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and high isoametropia very
      commonly will not wear the needed refractive correction due to strong tactile aversion to
      anything touching the face or head. If the refractive error is high, significant bilateral
      (isoametropic) amblyopia will result and, if not treated at an early age, permanent and
      potentially severe vision loss will result.

      PRK can normalize high refractive errors and potentially improve the amblyopia in affected
      children. The purpose of this study is to investigate whether children with high
      anisometropia or isoametropia with amblyopia that are nonresponsive to standard therapy and
      receive PRK develop better longterm visual acuity. Secondary outcomes are stability of
      refractive correction, and corneal health.
    
  