
    
      Subject Recruitment

      Recruitment will take place at SLUCare Dermatology Des Peres Clinic. Patients with non-study
      related appointments with Dr. Glaser regarding the management of primary hyperhidrosis will
      be approached by a research member. Patients will be given ample time to review study design
      and have questions and concerns addressed. After inclusion and exclusion criteria, study
      purpose and design, signed consent (parent or guardian will sign if subject is a minor),
      assent (for minors only, not signed) and HIPAA release are attained, the patients will be
      enrolled in the study.

      The investigators will be recruiting two types of patients for this study. (1) New patients
      being seen for evaluation for primary hyperhidrosis. These subjects will be presenting to the
      hyperhidrosis clinic for the first time. If enrolled, these subjects will have all data
      prospectively collected. (2) Established patients being seen for ongoing management of
      primary hyperhidrosis who have documented baseline gravimetric measurements (defined as
      measurements taken while the patient was undergoing no active therapies for primary
      hyperhidrosis). These subjects will be presenting to the hyperhidrosis clinic for continued
      care. If enrolled, these subjects will have some data collected retrospectively with the
      remainder collected prospectively (see below for details).

      Withdrawal or Discontinuation

      Subjects may withdraw from the study at any time. If a subject desires withdraw from the
      study, the subject will be give a reason for study withdraw which will be included in
      publication. If a subject misses a scheduled visit the subject will be contacted via phone to
      ask if the subject is withdrawing from the study or reschedule a visit.

      Because the subjects are only undergoing gravimetry, a non invasive way of measuring sweat
      production, it is highly unlikely that there would be any reason to discontinue a subjects
      participation due to safety. However, if at any point the supervising provider feels that a
      patient is at risk of harm the subject may be withdrawn from the study. In this case, a
      reason would be recorded for publication purposes.

      Screen Failures

      For those that fail screening, all information collected prior to that time will be shredded
      and disposed of in confidentiality trash bins. Only a reason for failing to pass screening
      will be recorded for publication purposes.

      Subject Visits

      Subjects will be screened, sign consent (parent or guardian will sign if subject is a minor),
      review assent (only applicable to minors) HIPAA release, and enrolled at an initial visit.
      Patients will have a monthly electronic or telephone survey to fill out. Patients will be
      seen every 3 months in clinic until the patient has achieved treatment response and/or no
      treatment changes are required. 6 months after this visit, the patient will be seen in clinic
      again***. If the subject has a sustained treatment response and/or has no treatment change,
      the subject will exit the study. If these conditions are not met, then the subject will
      resume 3 month visits.

      It is important to note that these visit will overlap with non-study related visits that
      occur as a part of management of the patient's disease. Disease management decisions, such as
      which therapy to prescribe, will occur independently of this study and will not be affected
      by study participation. All visits will occur within 18 months after the study begins. No
      further study encounters will occur after this time period regardless of treatment changes or
      response.

      *** Subjects may choose to forgo this 6 months visit and complete it electronically or by
      telephone.

      New Patient

      Subject Visit 1, 1 hour:

      The subject will first verify his or her name and contact information. After the subject
      agrees to study participation they will sign a consent (permission) and a release of health
      information. Consent will be signed by parent or guardian if the subject is a minor. If the
      subject is a minor assent will also be reviewed with the subject. Inclusion and exclusion
      criteria will be reviewed.

      Through an interview with a research team member and chart review, the following data will be
      collected:

        -  Basic demographics

        -  Current treatments

        -  Hyperhidrosis Disease Severity Scale score (a scale that rates how the subject feels
           sweating affects daily activities) for all sites:

        -  Scalp

        -  Face

        -  Underarms

        -  Inframammary

        -  Chest

        -  Back

        -  Hands

        -  Feet

        -  Groin

        -  Buttocks

        -  Questionnaire regarding the subject's disease state (see attachment).

      Patients will then undergo gravimetric measurements of all sites affected by hyperhidrosis as
      detailed in the attachment. Areas affected by HH will be defined by areas with an HDSS 3 or
      greater. For details on the gravimetry protocol, see attachment.

      Subject Visits, follow-up, 30 minutes:

      The following data will be collected through subject interview:

        -  Current treatment

        -  HDSS for all sites.

        -  Questionnaire regarding the subject's disease state (see attachment).

        -  Presence or absence of side effects

      Patients will then undergo gravimetric measurements for sites with previous measurements. For
      detailed protocol see attachment.

      Established Patient

      Subject Visit 1, 1 hour:

      The subject will first verify his or her name and contact information. After the subject
      agrees to study participation they will sign a consent (permission) and a release of health
      information. Consent will be signed by parent or guardian if the subject is a minor. If the
      subject is a minor assent will also be reviewed with the subject. Inclusion and exclusion
      criteria will be reviewed.

      Through chart review, the following data will be collected:

        -  Baseline (defined as data collected while the patient was not undergoing any treatment)
           HDSS score and gravimetric measurements for all sites

        -  Number of treatment changes since initiating care

        -  Basic demographics

      Through an interview with the patient, the following information will be collected:

        -  Current treatment

        -  HDSS score for all sites

        -  Questionnaire regarding the subject's disease state (see attachment).

        -  Presence or absence side effects

      Patients will then undergo gravimetric measurements for sites with previous gravimetric
      measurements.

      Subject Visit, follow-up 30 minutes:

      This will be the same as new patient follow up visits.

      Subject Electronic/Telephone Survey: Monthly, 15 minutes

      The following data will be collected through a phone or electronic interview between a
      research team member and the subject:

      - Questionnaire regarding the subject's disease state (see attachment).
    
  