
    
      Porcine xenograft has been used as a barrier to the skin for over 30 years, and due to its
      wound healing promoting factors, we believe that its use may result in decreased healing
      time, smaller scar size, better cosmetic outcomes, lower pain levels, and decreased rates of
      infection and other post-surgical complications.

      Upon completion of dermatologic surgery following standard procedures, patients will be
      randomized into one of two groups (porcine xenograft placement or second intention healing).
      Weekly follow-up via questionnaires will be conducted as well as a final office visit
      follow-up at 3 months.

      The application of porcine xenograft dressings for wound healing was first studied in 1985,
      with evidence supporting several benefits when compared to traditional dressings [1].
      Subsequent studies have substantiated the use of this dressing for a variety of clinical
      settings [2,3].

      The EZ-DERM™ porcine xenograft is a biosynthetic dressing made from porcine collagen
      containing aldehyde crosslinking [1,3]. It has been most commonly applied to the management
      of 2nd degree burns, both partial-thickness and full-thickness defects [4]. This dressing can
      be used for two healing purposes, either for primary healing or as an intermediate in the
      preparation for a skin graft [2].

      Compared to other biosynthetic dressings, porcine xenografts afford longer wound adherence
      and can be stored at room temperature [1]. The xenograft triggers rejection by the surgical
      defect, increasing local vascularization [5]. It also allows for rapid granulation, a reduced
      risk of infection, as well as reduced wound-related fluid and thermal losses [6-8]. There is
      also evidence that the quicker wound healing reduces the frequency of dressings,
      hospitalization time, pain, and analgesic [9,10].

      Several clinical case series have extended the use of porcine xenografts to Mohs Micrographic
      Surgery (MMS) to facilitate post-operative wound care. Porcine xenograft dressings were
      determined to be safe, well-tolerated, and able to be applied to a wide anatomical range
      [3,12].

      In addition to biosynthetic dressings, healing via second intention remains an alternative
      [13,14]. The extremities of elderly patients are a common location for wound granulation.
      Drawbacks to second intention healing on the extremities include prolonged healing time and
      extended wound care for the patient [15].

      Chern et. al. completed a review of biological dressings in dermatologic surgery and
      concluded that there is a limited number of studies focusing on the conclusive benefits of
      dressings [16]. Although studies have established that EZ-DERM™ was helpful for wound healing
      following Mohs surgery, there have not been any definitive statistical measures reported in
      the literature. Additionally, there is a lack of studies assessing the direct comparison to
      second intention healing.

      Our plan is to perform a direct comparison of porcine xenograft placement to second intent
      healing. Based on the previously studied benefits of the xenograft as a barrier to the skin
      and one which has wound healing promoting factors, we believe that its use may result in
      decreased healing time, smaller scar size, better cosmetic outcomes, lower pain levels, and
      decreased rates of infection and other post-surgical complications.

      Our study will allow surgeons to make informed decisions on whether porcine xenograft
      dressing is superior to that of second intention healing and thus worth considering.
    
  