
    
      The investigators are particularly interested in the Arthritis Self-Efficacy Scale (ASES),
      conceived to highlight a change of the faith of the patients in their capacities to make
      usual thinks or behaviour in front of consequences of the degenerative osteoarthritis,
      further to a therapeutic education.

      The ASES is an auto-questionnaire compound of 20 items, from 0 to 10 on a digital scale and
      distributed in three domains: control of the pain (on 50), function (on 90) and other
      symptoms (on 60).

      This questionnaire was already translated into Swedish, Dutch and Turkish.

      Translation of the ASES and cultural adaptation :

      The translation of the ASES in French followed the recommendations of the literature, which
      recommend a double translation, then a double back - translation with synthesis of the data
      in every stage. A final commission deliberate then a final translation, culturally adapted.

      Patients' cohort and procedure of validation :

      The prospective validation will be made with patients affected by degenerative osteoarthritis
      who fill the questionnaire ASES. These patients arose from cures of three thermal
      establishments of Auvergne. One group participated in therapeutic programs centered on the
      physical activity; the other one followed exclusively the water cure and received at the end
      of the cure an explanatory notebook on the degenerative osteoarthritis with physical
      exercises centered on the muscular strengthening of lower limbs.

      Feedback :

      Assessments conducted by the using of self - questionnaires:

      - Sent by mail to the patients and back at 3 and 3,5 months

      Ethics:

      A written consent was collected before inclusion in the study and a document intended for the
      information was given to the patient. The study is anonymous, indeed, index forms will be
      coded before IT processing to guarantee the anonymity of the patient.
    
  