
    
      According to the report of Census & Statistics Department (2011a), there are still 659,300
      daily smokers (11.1%) in Hong Kong and smoking kills over 7,000 people per year (Lam et al.,
      2001). Smoking also led to an annual medical cost, long-term care and productivity loss of
      US$688 million in 1998 (McGhee et al., 2006), which was equivalent to 0.6% of GDP in the
      region (Census & Statistics Department, 2011b). Smoking is addictive, and it is difficult for
      motivated smokers to quit without assistance. On the other hand, many smokers may not be
      ready to quit or wanted to quit on their own, and it is difficult to reach them.

      The Quit and Win programme provided another opportunity to reach large group of smokers, and
      it aims to widespread quit attempts among smokers via incentives in order to boost up the
      number of quitters (Cahill & Perera, 2011). Although such competitions appear to reach large
      cohorts of smokers, there is still insufficient evidence of its effectiveness in helping
      smokers to achieve complete cessation (Cahill & Perera, 2009).

      In 2009, we conducted a 3-armed randomized controlled trial to compare the effectiveness of
      two additional interventions of a 3-minute brief telephone advice (TEL group) and 8 of SMS
      messages (SMS group) to the usual care of smoking cessation self-help material (Control
      group) in the Quit to Win Contest 2009 [cite the final report]. More than one thousand
      participants were successfully recruited in a period of 2 months, with an overall
      self-reported quit rate of 21.6% among the contestants. However, no statistical significant
      evidence was found for the additional brief telephone advice or the SMS messages in
      increasing the quit rate. In 2010, we conducted another RCT on the Quit to Win Contest 2010
      to compare the effectiveness of an on-site face-to-face brief smoking cessation advice vs.
      self-help materials (control) to achieve quit rate and changes in smoking behaviors. Once
      again, we recruited over one thousand participants during a period of 2.5 months. A higher
      quit rate was observed in the intervention group (18.4%) than the control group (13.8%) at
      6-month follow-up, although it was marginally statistical insignificant (p = 0.08) (Wong et
      al., 2012). To conclude, both Quit to Win Contests in Hong Kong have successfully reached and
      captured the interest of a large number of smokers in the community who otherwise may not
      even think about quitting smoking. On the other hand, additional smoking cessation
      interventions seem to boost up the quit rate among smokers who joined the Quit to Win
      contest, and a dose-response relationship may appear among the additional interventions.

      The theory of The Health Action Process Approach (HAPA) suggests that one's intention of
      behaviour change can be fostered by knowing that the new behaviour has positive outcomes as
      opposed to the negative outcomes that accompany the current behaviour; and planning (action
      planning and coping planning) serves as an operative mediator between intentions and
      behaviour (Schwarzer, 2008). Previous evidence has shown the applicability of the HAPA in
      changing people's health behaviours, e.g., physical exercise, breast self-examination, seat
      belt use, dietary behaviours, and dental flossing; and its generalizability has been
      confirmed by Schwarzer (2008). A theory-based health education card (pocket size), which was
      guided by the HAPA, will be developed and distributed to the participants as a reminder and
      like a 'homework assignment' to be completed at home, for the purpose of enhancing their
      intention and practice of the suggested behaviour (quitting smoking).

      Short-Message Service (SMS) is one of the new methods of communication in the recent decade
      and an expanding number of studies were conducted in 2000s since it is in a self-help mode,
      inexpensive (in terms of manpower), can be readily disseminated, and available immediately
      upon request. Research evidences suggested that the SMS-delivered health intervention
      (including smoking cessation) have positive short-term outcomes (Fjeldsoe et al., 2009).
      Specifically, the intervention may increase the intention of quitting (Yu, 2010, Ybarra,
      2011), but the use of such program was under-utilized (Andrews et al., 2012). In 2009, we
      conducted a RCT to test the additional effect of 8 SMS smoking cessation advice toward
      smokers who participated in a Quit to Win contest towards self-help material [cite the final
      report]. Although the results did not support the additional effect of SMS smoking cessation
      advice, it may due to the deficient number of SMS messages provided.

      Community-Based Participatory Research (CBPR) is a partnership approach in a scientific
      research that involves the collaboration among community partners and academic researchers
      throughout the research process (Israel et al., 1998). It has been found effective in
      enhancing community input, building community capacity, and addressing barriers to health in
      study participants who have historically been underrepresented in research (Andrews et al.,
      2012, Horowitz et al., 2009). Community partners have the capability of managing a great deal
      of resources and manpower, and utilizing their network within the community, which are
      beneficial to a scientific research involving population-based interventions. To effectively
      raise the awareness of the contest and recruit as many participants as we can from the
      community, working with NGOs in the 18 Hong Kong districts with a CBPR model may be one
      possible way of program implementation.

      The challenge of applying the CBPR model in the smoking cessation program is to equip the
      staffs from NGO about the related skills and knowledge, and maintain the quality of research
      process and intervention. Therefore, training programme and briefing session will be provided
      to the participated NGOs for the relevant knowledge transfer. In addition, process evaluation
      will be conducted throughout the recruitment and research process so that the quality and
      integrity of the effort by the involved NGOs can be monitored and evaluated.

      Hence, we proposed to (1) test the effectiveness of an on-site face-to-face counseling using
      a theory-based health education model vs. SMS message vs. self-help materials to assist
      smokers who participate in the Quit to Win Contest 2012; (2) use a Community-Based
      Participatory Research (CBPR) model to build capacity and to engage community partners in
      taking on this important public health issue for sustainability in the community.
    
  