
    
      The Italian Registry of Cardiac Arrest (RIAC) has been established in Italy by the Italian
      Resuscitation Council (IRC). It is a free web registry based on Utstein style data collection
      for all EMS and ICU departments that want to participate to this study.

      This research project will include all events that occur between 00.00 on October 1st, 2014
      and 23:59 on September 30th, 2019. The RIAC registry allows to follow and collect data from
      consecutive patients with cardiac arrest.

      The expected outcomes of RIAC are:

        -  The implementation of an Italian registry of cardiac arrest that allows the prospective
           data collection.

        -  The study of the incidence of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) among the general
           population and related outcomes (hospital admission and long-term outcomes). An
           observational, prospective, multi-centre study on patients assisted by EMS which collect
           data on cardiac arrest using RIAC.

        -  The study of the incidence of in-hospital cardiac arrest (IHCA) among hospitalized
           patients, the quality level of treatments during the hospitalization period and the
           long-term outcomes. An observational, prospective, multi-centre study on hospitalized
           patients in hospitals which can efficaciously respond to an in-hospital emergency and
           collect data on cardiac arrest using RIAC.

        -  The study of the quality of post-resuscitation treatments for patients who suffered a
           cardiac arrest (OHCA-IHCA) admitted to ICUs. An observational, prospective, multi-centre
           study on patients admitted to ICUs which collect data on cardiac arrest using RIAC.

        -  A national database of cardiac arrest that will enable future participations to European
           projects, such as EuReCa "An international, prospective, multi-centre, three-month
           survey of epidemiology, treatment and outcome of patients suffering an out-of-hospital
           cardiac arrest in Europe".

      For the perspective incidence study of IHCA, OHCA and the quality of post-resuscitation
      treatments, all cases with a cardiac arrest diagnosis aged ≥ 18 years old will be included.
      All patients without a cardiac arrest diagnosis will be excluded.

      The main outcomes for the study population are listed for each subgroup.

      Out-of-hospital Cardiac arrest:

        -  Estimate the incidence of cardiac arrest among the representative general population.

        -  Describe the implemented interventions outcomes.

        -  Define the cohort of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest arrived alive at the emergency
           department and describe the in-hospital pathway.

        -  Evaluate the quality of long-term outcomes (30-days survival; survival to discharge) of
           patients discharged alive.

      In-hospital cardiac arrest:

      • It is expected to enlist 10-20 patients per year per each participating hospital.

      Quality of post-resuscitation treatments in ICUs:

      • It is expected to enlist a number of patients which is calculated as the number of survived
      patients to IHCA and hospitalized in ICU plus the number of patients with OHCA arrived alive
      at emergency unit and hospitalized in ICU.

      Statistical data analysis will be based on three main objectives. The incidence of cardiac
      arrest for OHCA will be evaluated as the ratio between the number of confirmed OHCA occurred
      during the whole study and the referring population.

      The incidence of cardiac arrest for IHCA will be calculated using as denominator, the
      population at risk (ordinary recovery other than day hospital and day surgery). For the
      evaluation study of the quality level of treatments in Intensive Care Units, a multivariate
      analysis will be performed to assess the connection between outcomes and treatments. In
      particular, the relation between injury variable (duration of no-flow time and CPR defined as
      flow <20%), treatments (temperature, glycaemia, convulsions, hypothermia, serum potassium
      levels, acidosis during the first 72 hours, etc.) and outcome to discharge defined using CPC
      classification, will be evaluated.

      The proportion of patients with CPC 3 and CPC 4 on the amount of IHCA an OHCA cardiac
      arrests, will be evaluated.

      All participanting EMS/hospitals able to provide at least the core data, need to fill out a
      letter of intent to participate in this study and must provide an ethical approval from the
      local Ethical Committee.
    
  