
    
      Cognitive decline is one of the primary symptom triad of Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus (NPH).
      Neuropsychological measures have been demonstrated as being effective in the diagnosis of
      NPH, and in assessing the efficacy of treatment intervention. Hence, neuropsychological
      assessment is a critical component in the assessment for the presence of NPH. Specifically,
      measures of attention/concentration, fine motor skills, executive functioning abilities,
      speed of processing and memory have been found to be useful in the assessment of NPH and
      treatments thereof.

      Neuropsychologists are typically found in large hospitals, academic centers and in urban
      locations. Neuropsychologists are under represented in rural or low population centers. At
      the present time, cognitive assessment is frequently limited to a Mini Mental Status
      Examination. Furthermore, neuropsychological testing can be very expensive for patients,
      given insurance constraints. Finally, there is no standardized test battery that is used in
      different centers treating this patient population. The creation of a standard battery that
      could be used in other NPH centers would promote research collaboration.

      A computerized neuropsychological test battery was developed in Umea, Sweden with the
      specific goal of using tests that are considered to be sensitive to the cognitive profile
      observed in NPH. The battery was developed in JAVA and Adobe Flash making it platform
      independent (Runs on Mac, Windows and Linux). The test battery is administered on a touch
      screen display, where the tests are presented through animations with audio instructions.
      Before the real test trails are administered, subjects are given practice trials with
      auditory and visual feedback. For the American version of the test, the auditory stimuli have
      been translated and recorded in English.
    
  