
    
      This is a randomized prospective single-blinded pilot study. Residents from the internal
      medicine residency program will be assigned a unique number to de-identify them, and then
      randomized, stratified by post-graduate year (PGY) level, by random number generator to
      intervention and control groups. Only de-identified information will be used in subsequent
      analysis, and no individual results will be used. Residents will not know to which group they
      have been randomized.

      Both the intervention and control groups will take a pre-course survey assessing their level
      of training, area of specialty/interest, and level of confidence in the recognition and
      management of sepsis.

      Both the intervention and control groups will then be put through 2-4 simulated scenarios
      using high-fidelity simulation. In the intervention group, these scenarios will be sepsis
      syndrome scenarios. In the control group, non-sepsis scenarios will be administered.

      Immediately following the scenarios, a written knowledge quiz focusing on recognition and
      management of sepsis will be administered to subjects in both groups.

      Following the quiz, there will be a debrief session for subjects in both groups of the
      simulation scenarios, pointing out what was done correctly and what was not.

      There will then be a brief didactic teaching session focusing on recognition and management
      of sepsis administered to subjects in both groups.

      2-4 months later, subjects in both groups will be brought back to the simulation lab and
      tested on a new identical set of simulated sepsis scenarios. This will be videotaped and
      scored by an impartial volunteer who will score performance according to a check-list of
      critical actions. Following the simulated scenarios, the written quiz administered at the
      first visit will be given again. Subjects in both groups will then get debriefed on their
      performance.

      Data can then be compared between the control and intervention group in terms of written and
      practical performance. Other potential analyses include before and after performance in the
      intervention group, comparison between the intervention and control groups, as well as
      subanalysis by PGY level. Student's paired and unpaired t-test will be the model for
      statistical analysis, and the investigators will utilize a statistician for data analysis.

      In developing and implementing a multi-modality sepsis teaching curriculum, and demonstrating
      its superiority to a didactic-only curriculum, the investigators hope to justify the
      permanent implementation of a multi-modality teaching module to educate residents (and other
      healthcare personnel) which will lead to improved recognition and management of sepsis and
      improved patient outcomes.
    
  