
    
      This study will examine the relationship between the rate and composition of mass gain during
      overfeeding plus resistance training, investigate the validity of multiple assessment methods
      for quantifying body composition changes during this period, and evaluate the effects of
      subject presentation on the interpretation of body composition changes. For this study,
      resistance-trained males between the ages of 18 and 40 will be recruited. At baseline,
      participants will complete body composition and metabolism assessments after an overnight
      period of fasting and resting (i.e. standardized conditions). These baseline assessments will
      be repeated in the afternoon of the same day after a period of ad libitum physical activity
      and dietary intake (i.e. non-standardized conditions). At both visits, body composition will
      be evaluated by a criterion 4-compartment model, necessitating assessments via dual-energy
      x-ray absorptiometry, air displacement plethysmography, and bioimpedance spectroscopy.
      Additional assessments will be conducted using single- and multi-frequency bioelectrical
      impedance analysis, infrared 3-dimensional scanning, and ultrasonography. At a separate
      baseline session, muscular performance will be measured via 1-repetition maximum and
      repetitions-to-failure tests on the barbell bench press and plate-loaded hip sled. Once
      baseline assessments are completed, participants will commence a 6-week, 3-days/week,
      full-body, progressive resistance training intervention in conjunction with overfeeding.
      During the intervention, participants will be asked to maintain their habitual diet while
      also consuming a high-calorie protein/carbohydrate supplement designed to promote mass gain.
      Dietary recommendations to promote adequate protein intake for maximal fat-free mass
      accretion will also be provided. For all participants, a target mass gain of 1+ pounds per
      week will be implemented. However, due to known variability in the propensity to gain body
      mass during overfeeding and resistance training, it is expected that natural variability in
      the actual mass gained will be present at the conclusion of the study. After the overfeeding
      plus resistance training intervention is completed, participants will complete three
      post-intervention research visits, which will be identical to the baseline visits.
      Appropriate statistical methods will be used to address the specific aims of this project.
      These will include linear regression analysis, paired-samples t-tests, effect size
      calculations, and validity evaluation through metrics such as the constant error, total
      error, standard error of the estimate, and 95% limits of agreement.
    
  