
    
      Preoperative Details :

      Every patient is examined for 1- Shoulder balance 2- Pelvic balance 3- Thoracic hump 4-
      Neurological examination. Also preoperative whole-spine X-ray anteroposterior and lateral
      view radiographs in erect position are obtained for accurate preoperative planning.
      Three-dimensional Multi-Slice Computed Tomography (MSCT) scan is obtained to delineate
      posterior vertebral column pathoanatomy before surgery. Whole-spine MRI is obtained for
      declaration of any associated spinal cord malformation.

      Operative Details :

      Appropriate patient positioning on the operating frame to avoid excessive pressure points in
      the axilla, allow the abdomen to hang free, and to maintain stability of the trunk during
      surgery. Standard posterior exposure is performed, and pedicle screws are placed using a
      free-hand technique as. The exposure at the osteotomy site is extended laterally to resect a
      portion of the medial ribs to enhance the exposure of the vertebral body to be removed.

      Once adequate exposure is achieved, a wide laminectomy is completed from the pedicles of the
      proximal vertebra to the pedicles of the distal vertebra. Use of tranexamic acid to minimize
      osseous bleeding during these lengthy surgeries is advisable. At this point, a short rod is
      placed into the pedicle screws of 1 side to include at least 2 pedicle screws proximally and
      2 pedicle screws distally, to provide stability during the osteotomy. Once this rod is
      secured, the proximal and distal discs are removed and the vertebra to be removed is
      outlined.

      Then, the osteotomy is started from the pedicle on the contralateral side, and extending into
      the body. The exiting nerve roots are tied and transected at the thoracic levels, gently
      retracted at the lumbar levels. The removal of vertebral body is proceeded using Kerrison
      rongeurs and osteotomes as necessary. After adequate removal, another rod is placed to the
      already osteotomized side, and secured. At this point the rod on the other side can be
      removed or kept in place, depending on the amount of expected instability.

      The resection carried similarly on the contralateral side. The posterior wall of the
      vertebral body is kept intact until the very end of the osteotomy. After the removal of the
      vertebral body and discs, using a reverse cutting curette the posterior wall is fractured
      with anteriorly directed blows and removed using rongeurs. The endplates of the neighboring
      vertebrae are cleaned off of any remaining cartilage to expose bone surfaces to achieve
      fusion.

      The anterior defect is augmented with morsellized cancellous graft with or without the use of
      a titanium mesh cage, depending on the width of the void. After the completion of resection,
      deformity correction is carried out and the posterior instrumentation system is secured using
      pedicle screws. Application of Wakeup test to detect any on-table neurology. Decortication
      followed by addition of remaining autograft and allograft to the fusion is performed.
      Posterior wound closure is performed over a drain.

      Postoperative Details :

      Follow-up protocol is carried out after 2 weeks, 3 months, 1 year, and 2 years
      postoperatively with whole-spine X-Ray radiographs in erect position, and after 1 year with
      Multi-Slice Computed Tomography (MSCT) scan to assess fusion rate.
    
  