
    
      Twenty four subjects were recruited after Open Reduction Internal Fixation (ORIF) of DRFs.
      Inclusion criteria were: individuals aged 18 to 65 years. Individuals with previous
      orthopedic or neurological impairments of the upper limb or a cognitive impairment were
      excluded from the study. Subjects were enrolled from the department of hand surgery at the
      Sheba medical center.

      Each subject read and signed an informed consent form pretrial. Each subject went through an
      intake session documenting personal information, upper limb ROM, pain levels and functional
      tests recorded by a certified occupational therapist (OT), hand therapist. The Sagittal group
      activated the wrist mostly in the sagittal plane while the research group activated the wrist
      also in the DTM plane, via the Modified Dart Splint (MDS).

      All of the subjects in both groups received 12 therapy sessions, 30 minutes each one, 2-3
      times a week, during 6-8 weeks following the removal of the cast. Certified hand therapists
      used several different treatment techniques during the sessions, to achieve the primary goals
      of edema control, increased Range of Motion (ROM), and decreased stiffness. Compressive wrap
      with retrograde massage, scar management, soft-tissue mobilization, joint mobilization,
      active motion and ROM exercises were practice patterns used in this study for all subjects,
      regardless their group. Both groups were instructed to exercise at home, 3 times a day, 10
      minutes per exercise session. The MDS was fitted to the subjects in the DTM group on their
      first evaluation session. They received oral and written instructions regarding the donning
      and manner of exercise. Specifically, they were instructed to use the MDS at home. For each
      10-minute exercise session, they were asked to perform 5 minutes of radial-extension under
      resistance and then 5 minutes ulnar-flexion under resistance. In addition, this group was
      required to fill in a chart at the end of each practice session (morning, noon and evening),
      throughout the intervention period. The researcher performed weekly phone calls to remind the
      DTM group to fill these out. The Sagittal group was instructed to perform at home active
      wrist motion similar to that practiced during the supervised therapy sessions. The prescribed
      instructions were similar to the exercises performed during the sessions.

      At the completion of the treatment, the subjects were reexamined by the same evaluator that
      performed the baseline evaluation.
    
  