
    
      Specific Aims:

      Aim 1: Evaluate integrity of the extracellular matrix in patients with LGMD by measuring
      serum growth factors and cytokines and compare these to a disease control (BMD) and normal
      volunteers.

      Aim 2: Measure growth factors and cytokines following medical evaluation and compare them to
      the baseline levels.

      Aim 3: Discovery Aim for future multicenter clinical trials in LGMD. Aim 3A: Abstract medical
      records with particular emphasis on age of disease onset, initial clinical symptoms,
      progression and location of the muscular weakness, treatments attempted, and other medical
      complications. A review of the diagnostic testing performed will also be conducted.

      Aim 3B: Perform complete clinical evaluation including anthropometric measures, evaluation of
      joint limitations, timed functional testing, muscle strength, pulmonary function, and a
      cardiac assessment.

      Aim 3C: Determine patient understanding of diagnosis of LGMD and genetic testing results. A
      questionnaire will be generated that addresses the patient's understanding of his/her
      diagnosis as well as their understanding of genetic concepts of autosomal recessive
      inheritance, genes, molecular testing and implications for themselves as well as their
      family.

      Aim 3D: Quality of Life (QOL) questionnaires will be administered. These will be used to
      identify functional limitations by the patients and compare those limitations with the
      clinical evaluation.

      Study Description

      Only one visit will be necessary for this study. The study visit includes:

        1. Review of the informed consent form

        2. Blood collection Blood will be collected for the following: DNA extraction to confirm
           genotype if not already performed; Muscle Enzymes before and after physical evaluation;
           and Growth factors and cytokines: before and after physical evaluation.

        3. Medical history review

        4. Physical Examination

        5. Questionnaires: Participants will complete 3 questionnaires: Diagnosis and genetic
           testing, ACTIVLIM, and INQoL

        6. Clinical Evaluator assessment which includes: Manual Muscle Testing, Quantitative Muscle
           Testing, Pulmonary Function Testing, Anthropometric measurements, and Timed and
           Functional testing

        7. Cardiac evaluation will include: Electrocardiogram and Echocardiogram

      Control subjects will be required to come to the test site to complete the informed consent
      process, clinical evaluator assessment, and have blood drawn before and after the clinical
      evaluator assessment. No other examinations or procedures will be performed on the control
      participants.
    
  