
    
      Rationale: Development of dynamic hyperinflation is a primary limiting factor of exercise
      tolerance in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). To lessen the development of
      dynamic hyperinflation, and to improve exercise tolerance in COPD patients, the investigators
      have developed a breathing-retraining technique to be used during pulmonary rehabilitation.
      This breathing-retraining technique is designed to decrease respiratory rate and prolong
      exhalation. The investigators demonstrated that, in the short-term, hyperinflation and
      exercise duration improved more with breathing-retraining plus exercise-training than with
      exercise-training alone. Because a crucial aspect of pulmonary rehabilitation is the
      maintenance its short-term benefits over the long-term, the investigators now propose to test
      whether short-term benefits of breathing-retraining plus exercise followed by an
      adherence-intervention program are sustainable over the long-term Primary Hypothesis: (H1) In
      COPD patients, improvements in exercise duration on a constant- load treadmill test will be
      greater after 12 weeks of breathing-retraining plus exercise-training followed by a 42-week
      adherence-intervention program (1 yr. total) than after 12 weeks of exercise-training alone
      followed by a 42-week adherence-intervention program (1 yr. total). Secondary Hypotheses: One
      year after randomization, exercise-induced dynamic hyperinflation will be less during a
      constant-load treadmill test (H2), 6-minute walking distance will be longer (H3), and mastery
      over breathing will be greater (H4) in the breathing-retraining plus exercise-training group
      than in the exercise-alone group. Lastly (exploratory objective), the investigators will
      assess the effect of the patient's physiologic, psychologic and clinical phenotype on short-
      term and long-term responsiveness to pulmonary rehabilitation.

      Methods: The proposed study is a randomized, controlled clinical trial in which 250 patients
      with moderate-to-severe COPD will be enrolled. One hundred forty of these patients are
      expected to qualify for randomization into the breathing-retraining plus exercise-training
      group or the exercise-training alone group. Patients will receive 12-weeks of supervised
      training according to group assignment (three times weekly) followed by an
      adherence-intervention program (weekly phone motivational interviews, home-exercise program,
      and monthly laboratory booster sessions). Follow-up testing will be completed at 12 weeks,
      and at 6 and 12 months. Testing will include pulmonary function test, incremental-load and
      constant-load treadmill tests, 6-minute walk test, measurements of dyspnea, assessment of
      respiratory and quadriceps muscle strength and endurance and quadriceps ultrasonography.
      Analysis: In the principal analysis of the primary outcome measure (exercise duration; H1)
      the investigators will compare changes in exercise duration (constant work-rate treadmill
      test) from baseline to end of study using 2-sample t-test (two-tailed =.05). The primary
      analysis will be based on intention-to-treat principles. Multiple imputation will be used for
      study subjects missing the 12-month measurement. This imputation model will be based on
      baseline characteristics of study participants. Several secondary analyses of the primary
      outcome measure will be performed (H2-H4). Linear regression will be used to determine
      whether the observed treatment benefits persist after adjustment for baseline covariates and
      measures of adherence to treatment. Since several measurements will be taken on each patient,
      mixed-models analysis will be used to compare the changes on the constant-load treadmill test
      over time between the two groups.
    
  