
    
      This will be a prospective multi-centre randomised controlled trial with two treatment arms.
      We plan to include up to 15 UK centres. Patients that have been referred for catheter
      ablation of symptomatic persistent AF will be recruited. Patients will be consented and have
      their baseline review after having been listed for AF ablation on the hospital waiting list.
      They will be randomized to one of two treatment arms. All patients will undergo their
      procedure using a 3D mapping system. Standard catheters will be used during the ablation
      procedure. Because the STAR mapping™ system will be configured for use with a special version
      of the 3D mapping system Carto (BIosense Webster) the study will mandate use of clinically
      approved Carto catheters: Smarttouch thermocool ablation catheter and the Pentarray mapping
      catheter. Ablation procedures will be carried out using the usual policies and protocols of
      the institutions involved except for the specific points below. The two treatment arms
      include:

        1. Control arm - PVI alone After PVI, no further ablation in AF will be allowed. If the
           patient organizes into an atrial tachycardia (AT) during PVI this will be mapped and
           ablated. Otherwise, in accordance with common clinical practice, a 30 minute waiting
           period will be observed following PVI to watch for acute pulmonary vein reconnection.
           During this waiting period, mapping data will be acquired using the multipolar pulmonary
           vein mapping catheter to acquire STAR mapping™ data. The operator will be blinded to
           these data. This is done using the pentarray mapping catheter to acquire a minimum of 10
           widely spaced globally distributed left atrial recordings of 30 seconds each outside the
           pulmonary veins. If the patient has remained in AF post PVI then electrical
           cardioversion will be performed, the pulmonary veins checked and re-isolated if needed,
           and the procedure terminated.

        2. Experimental arm - PVI followed by STAR guided ablation. If the patient organises to
           sinus rhythm after PVI alone then a 30 minute wait will be observed to ensure sustained
           PVI and the procedure terminated. If patients remain in AF following PVI, the left
           atrium will be mapped using a multipolar mapping catheter to acquire a minimum of 10
           widely spaced globally distributed recordings outside the pulmonary veins. STAR mapping™
           data will be exported and maps generated. Ablation will then be targeted at the leading
           sites identified by STAR mapping™ in order of ranking (1st first, 2nd second, etc.) with
           the end-point of AF termination. If AF terminates further sites will not be targeted. If
           patients terminate to an atrial tachycardia then this will be mapped and ablated as per
           standard clinical practice.

      If AF persists following ablation of all STAR mapping™ identified sites then mapping of the
      right atrium may be considered if the septum consistently activates early and the coronary
      sinus activation is predominantly proximal to distal, and further ablation permitted in the
      right atrium if indicated. If patients remain in AF following ablation then they will be
      electrically cardioverted.

      Follow-up All patients will undergo 12 months follow-up with an ECG at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months,
      and a 48h ambulatory Holter monitor at 6 and 12 months. Patients will routinely continue
      anti-arrhythmic therapy for up to 3 months post procedure which will be considered a blanking
      period. After 3 months rhythmically active antiarrhythmic drugs will be stopped.
    
  