
    
      Despite multifactorial treatment patients with type 2 diabetes are still at high risk of
      cardiovascular disease. The clinical LEADER trial demonstrated a reduction in cardiovascular
      events in patients with type 2 diabetes treated with the GLP-1 receptor agonist liraglutide
      and there are a number of studies indicating that liraglutide has a positive effect on the
      vascular phenotype. Several of the animal or ex vivo studies suggest an anti-inflammatory
      mechanism behind this effect. However, no in vivo human studies have been undertaken to test
      this hypothesis and it would be of significance to determine the precise mechanism since
      atherosclerosis has large prognostic impact in patients with type 2 diabetes.

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the mechanism behind the anti-atherogenic effects
      of liraglutide.

      In a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, parallel trial we will included 100
      patients with type 2 diabetes. Patients will be randomized 1:1 to an active treatment period
      of 26 weeks or placebo for 26 weeks.

      The primary endpoint is change from baseline to week 26 in vascular inflammation, assessed by
      Flour Deoxy Glucose (FDG)-Positron Emission Tomography/Computed Tomography (PET/CT).
      FDG-PET/CT is currently the only clinically available technique for specific in vivo
      evaluation of vascular inflammation and for quantification of the effects of medical
      intervention on plaque inflammation. FDG-PET of arteries has been proven very reproducible
      and therefore has high power to show a treatment effect in a smaller group of patients.

      A number of complementary methods exist that assess different steps in the atherogenesis like
      endothelial function (e.g. endo-PAT, glycocalyx measurement), artery wall thickening (e.g.
      carotid intima media thickness), or coronary atherosclerosis (e.g. coronary artery calcium
      score). For comparison these other methods will be included as secondary endpoints as they
      are generally more accessible and less expensive.
    
  