
    
      This study will address a number of specific concerns, including:

        1. the incidence of hypocapnia and hypercapnia;

        2. the factors (e.g. ventilatory mode) contributing to hypocapnia and hypercapnia;

        3. the impact of hypocapnia and hypercapnia on progression of ARDS, duration of
           ventilation, ICU stay, hospital stay and patient outcome;

        4. the impact of pH (respiratory versus metabolic cause) on outcome variables.

      LUNG SAFE was a prospective observational study. There was not patient intervention. The
      current analysis is a secondary analysis of this existing database.

      Data will be abstracted form the database on all patients meeting the inclusion criteria for
      ARDS (during the first 2 days from AHRF onset) for the following variables: Patient's
      demographic characteristics (age, sex) and chronic comorbidities, Arterial PCO2, pH in first
      48 hours, Data on P/F ratio over course of illness, Duration of ventilation, ICU stay,
      hospital survival in patients identified as being exposed to hypocapnia (pCO2 < or = to
      30mmHg) and hypercapnia (PCO2 > or = to 45mmHg); Main ventilatory variables: mode of
      ventilation, tidal volume, respiratory.

      Descriptive statistics will include proportions for categorical and mean (standard deviation)
      or median (interquartile range) for continuous variables, according the data distribution.
      The amount of missing data in the LUNG SAFE database is low so no assumptions will be made
      for missing data.

      In order to investigate the relationship between PaCO2 and management factors, the
      investigators will stratify study population according the presence or absence of hypercapnia
      and will evaluate differences in management factors, using appropriate statistical tests. In
      detail, proportions will be compared using chi-squared or Fisher exact tests and mean values
      were compared using T-test or Wilcoxon rank sum test, as appropriate. Shapiro-Wilks test will
      be used to assess normality in data distribution. Moreover, they will perform univariate and
      multivariable logistic regression models using hypercapnia as dependent variable. Stepwise
      regression approach with significance alpha levels of 0.05 (both for entry and retention)
      will be used to establish a set of independent predictors. Odds ratios (ORs) and 95%
      confidence intervals (CIs) will be reported as measure of association.

      They will assess the association of hypercapnia with different outcomes (ARDS progression,
      duration of mechanical ventilation, ICU and hospital stay and mortality) using generalized
      linear regression models (Poisson or Logistic regression models, according outcome
      distribution) and adjusting the relationship with all possible confounders identified with
      stepwise approach. Results will be reported as ORs, incidence rate ratios and corresponding
      95% CI.

      Particular attention will be given to the relationship and interaction between pH and PaCO2.

      Survival analysis (Kaplan-Meier approach) will be used to estimate the time of liberation
      from invasive mechanical ventilation, of ICU and hospital discharge, and of hospital
      mortality within 28 days of AHRF onset in patients with and without hypercapnia. Differences
      in survival time will be assess by Log-Rank test.
    
  