
    
      In patients with prostate cancer the current methods to assess treatment response of bone
      disease such as computer tomography (CT) and bone scan (BS)are unreliable, insensitive to
      bone disease and have limited criteria to assess disease response confined to bones. Blood
      tests are inaccurate although some newer tests (e.g. circulating tumour cells tests) show
      promise but are still under investigation and nuclear medicine investigations such as PET/CT
      imaging have higher sensitivity, meaning they can detect more sites of disease who are indeed
      disease than CT or BS but they are more costly and less widely available compared with MRI
      within the NHS.

      For this study the Whole body MRI (WB-MRI) includes a measurement called diffusion-weighted
      imaging (DWI) which is relatively new and has a high sensitivity for bone metastases. This
      technique can be used to measure total bone disease volume (TDV) and the disease apparent
      diffusion coefficient (ADC) which reflects the tumour tissue cell density. Previous studies
      have shown good reproducibility of both these measurements and a significant increase in the
      mean tumour ADC is observed in patients who are responding to effective treatment.

      However WB-MRI application across the NHS is ad-hoc, CT and BS techniques are entrenched
      within clinical practice despite their known limitations. Another factor that limits wider
      adoption of WB-MRI is the lack of sophisticated analysis software to enable disease across
      the body to be quickly evaluated.

      This multi-centre imaging study will provide the opportunity to evaluate the performance of
      WB-MRI with a novel software diagnostics for evaluating the treatment response of advanced
      prostate cancer patients.

      This prototype can used to evaluate WB-MRI data from different scanners and address a current
      major unmet need for the treatment and follow-up of patients with bone disease from cancers,
      so that the test may more widely benefit patients across the NHS in the future.
    
  