
    
      Interested participants who can verify >10lb weight-loss over the last year and a half will
      be randomly assigned to either the control group, in which they will be asked to attend
      weekly weigh-ins at Brigham and Women's Hospital (BWH) over the course of a year, or to the
      deposit contract intervention group. Both the control group and the deposit contract group
      will complete the weekly weigh-ins for one year. The deposit contract group will additionally
      have a financial component: these participants will be asked to make a deposit of at least
      $100 each 10-week period over the course of one year (50 weeks), and can recoup this amount
      as detailed above. All participants will take baseline and end-of-study surveys.

      During an enrollment meeting, study staff will request via an authorization form that
      participants allow approved members of the research staff to examine their electronic medical
      record for the duration of the study if they receive their care at a BWH-affiliated practice.
      This will confirm their >10lb weight loss.

      At the end of every 10-week period, DC participants will receive an email with how much money
      they recouped. Participants who did not recoup the full amount they deposited must bring in a
      check to the following weigh-in to cover the difference so that participants have at least
      $100 deposited for the following 10-week period. Additionally, participants will have the
      option to use their initial study baseline weight, or be re-weighed for a new baseline weight
      for the following 10-week period, for which they will then use as their target weight. They
      will also have the option to increase or decrease their deposit for the upcoming 10-week
      period as needed.

      Each subject may skip non-consecutive weigh-ins without losing their weekly contribution.
      However, if subjects skip two or more consecutive weekly weigh-ins, participants may only
      recoup up to one of those skipped weigh-ins if they are successful in their weight management
      in the week that they return for a weigh-in. Skipped weigh-ins will not roll over into a new
      10-week period.
    
  