
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the overall survival and event-free survival of all infants diagnosed with
           ependymoma before their third birthday.

        -  To determine the overall survival and event-free survival of infants diagnosed with
           ependymoma before their third birthday when treated with standard chemotherapy
           comprising vincristine, carboplatin, high-dose methotrexate, cyclophosphamide, and
           cisplatin.

      Secondary

        -  To investigate the reasons why the primary tumor was completely resected in patients who
           were able to undergo complete resection of the tumor.

        -  To continue to investigate the biological characteristics of ependymoma.

        -  To correlate functional imaging studies of ependymoma with biological characteristics of
           the tumor.

        -  To provide a standard treatment regimen for patients with residual disease after optimal
           surgery who have already participated in a phase II study.

        -  To prospectively document renal function, hearing, and neurocognitive late effects after
           completion of study treatment.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to extent of prior
      surgical resection and presence of metastatic disease (complete resection of tumor vs
      metastatic disease at diagnosis vs no complete resection of tumor).

      Patients receive vincristine IV on days 1, 15, and 29, carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1,
      high-dose methotrexate* IV over 24 hours on day 15, cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day
      29, and cisplatin IV over 48 hours on days 43 and 44. Treatment repeats every 8 weeks for 7
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with
      residual disease after completion of treatment may receive other treatment at the discretion
      of the investigator.

      NOTE: *Patients initially treated on clinical trial CCLG-CNS-2005-03 who have no residual
      disease do not receive high-dose methotrexate in courses 5-7.

      Patients undergo observational assessments comprising physical and neurological examination;
      MRI/ MRS scanning of the head and spine; and audiology, renal, endocrine, neurocognitive, and
      quality of life evaluations periodically for at least 5 years after the completion of study
      treatment.
    
  