
    
      The ReSource Project is a unique, large-scale study on the effects of mental training
      techniques. Over a period of three to nine months, participants practice a wide range of
      mental exercises that are designed to enhance attentional control, body- and self-awareness,
      emotion regulation, self-care, compassion, empathy, and perspective taking. Overall, the aim
      of the training is to improve mental health and social skills. It may reduce stress, improve
      mental clarity, increase life satisfaction, and lead to a better understanding of others'
      views, values, and actions.

      The ReSource Project is a secular program developed by a team of experienced meditation
      teachers, scientists, and psychotherapists.

      Over the last decades, isolation, stress, and psychological tensions have been steadily
      increasing in our society. Mental training can alter stress responses, physical health,
      resilience, attention, perception, emotional experience, and social behavior. Evidence for
      these results is based on previous studies showing behavioral changes, as well as observed
      changes in brain function and structure. Moreover, health factors, such as peripheral
      autonomic responses, stress hormones, and immune parameters were significantly changed after
      training.

      The ReSource Project consists of three consecutive modules: called "Presence", "Perspective",
      and "Affect". The Presence Module trains mindful attention to internal mental and physical
      processes. The Perspective Module focuses on socio-cognitive abilities, such as insight into
      the nature of the mind and self, and also the ability to assume the perspective of others.
      The Affect Module focuses on constructive ways of dealing with difficult emotions, and works
      to cultivate prosocial motivations and positive emotions such as compassion.

      In contrast to most previous studies of just a few months, the ReSource Project will be
      conducted over a period of 3-9 months for three experimental cohorts (cohorts start in a
      shifted design; 2 cohorts train over a period of 9 months (all 3 Modules in different orders,
      13 weeks per Module), 1 cohort trains over 3 months (only the Affect Module)), and will cover
      a wide range of practices intended to enhance cognitive and socio-affective skills. 2 retest
      control cohorts account for the effects of repeated testing.
    
  