
    
      PURPOSE 1 - to determine whether it is possible to achieve better control of inflammatory
      joint disease activity in early rheumatoid arthritis by using musculoskeletal ultrasound,
      instead of clinical examination, to identify the presence, or absence, of synovitis

      NULL HYPOTHESIS 1 - using musculoskeletal ultrasound to confirm / refute the presence of
      ongoing synovitis will NOT allow better control of early rheumatoid arthritis nor prevent
      progression of destructive joint disease despite patients receiving more intensive disease
      modifying therapy regimens

      PURPOSE 2 - to determine whether baseline measures of certain biochemical and pathological
      factors, associated with the development of inflammatory synovitis, are predictive of
      response to therapy in early rheumatoid arthritis and short term outcome measures of
      inflammatory joint disease activity, functional ability and quality of life

      NULL HYPOTHESIS 2 - serial measures of biochemical and pathological factors, associated with
      the development of inflammatory synovitis, will NOT correlate with short term outcome
      measures of disease activity and therefore cannot be used to predict a patient's prognosis
      nor identify those at risk of progressive, destructive joint disease

      TRIAL DESIGN - randomised, prospective single blinded trial of treatment strategy with a
      nested study correlating baseline measures and 18 month outcomes

      Investigators will not be blinded to treatment group. Treatment decisions and escalation of
      therapy will be dictated by a standardised protocol. The sequence of therapy escalation will
      be identical for both groups. The groups will differ on the threshold needed to progress to
      the next treatment step

      Assessors of disease activity, radiological and pathological outcomes will be blinded to
      treatment group and their findings will form the basis of each groups final outcome measures

      TREATMENT PROTOCOL - the sequence of therapy escalation will be the same for each group. The
      groups differ by the 'trigger' required to progress to the next treatment step. Therapy will
      escalated in each group if the measured disease activity exceeds that groups threshold
      trigger. Changes in DMARD therapy doses and/or combinations take three months to reach
      maximum effect; therefore, at least a three month gap will be left between each treatment
      escalation

      PRIMARY OUTCOME MEASURE

        1. Magnetic Resonance Imaging of Dominant Wrist - baseline and 18 months. Images will be
           scored using the OMERACT RAMRIS(Rheumatoid Arthritis Magnetic Resonance Imaging Score)
           atlas. The change in each patient's synovitis and erosion scores will be pooled and
           compared for each intervention group

        2. 44 joint Disease Activity Score - Mean change of DAS44 with time will represent the rate
           of response to treatment. Mean area under curve DAS44 will represent overall level of
           disease activity throughout the study period

      SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES

        1. European League Against Rheumatism Response Rates - A EULAR Good response is defined as
           a greater than 1.2 change in DAS44 and a final DAS44 less than 2.4. Disease remission is
           defined as DAS44 less than 1.6

        2. Functional Measures - Health Assessment Questionnaire and EuroQoL-5D questionnaires at
           enrollment and then every 3 months.

        3. Plain Xrays - plain xrays of hands, wrists and feet at baseline and 18 months. Change in
           Sharp score between baseline and 18 month films will be reported

        4. Biomarker analysis - analyses will include specific genetic factors(genomic DNA), gene
           expression (RNA analysis), novel autoantibody assays, cytokine / emerging inflammatory
           protein profiling, lipid / lipoprotein based markers, metabolic assays and assessment of
           bone and cartilage turnover markers.

      Samples will be collected at baseline, 3 months and 12 months (if not commenced on
      etanercept), immediately before commencing etanercept, 3 months and 6 months after commencing
      etanercept and 3 months after cessation. Final disease outcome measures for each patient will
      be correlated with baseline biomarker values to determine if any predictive relationships
      exist.

      All values will be entered into a logistical regression analysis to try and create a
      statistical predictive model. Serial biomarker analyses will demonstrate how the different
      components of the pathogenetic process respond to the different stages of DMARD therapy.
    
  