
    
      Study objectives are:

        -  Detecting the changes of practice in performing total thyroidectomy with ICG.

        -  Comparing ICG-performed minimal invasive total thyroidectomy

        -  Identifying the cut-off points that predict low PTH levels (less than 20pg/ml)

        -  Identifying and analyzing problematic groups of patients The study is designed as a
           prospective observational multi-center study. Any patient that has indication for a
           total thyroidectomy will be considered eligible.

      The study will be conducted until 60 subjects are included. It is estimated that it will take
      up to 3 months to enroll the patients.

      Pre-Surgery: Procedures preformed such as routine hospital examinations, antibiotic
      prophylactic treatment, anticoagulant treatment and diet will be according to the standard
      management protocol and will be recorded for the study. The following pre-surgery information
      will be recorded:

        1. Demographic information including: name, age, gender, ethnicity

        2. Height, weight, BMI and American Society of Anesthesiologists physical status
           classification system (I-VI)

        3. Behavioral history (Smoking, alcohol or drug use)

        4. Preoperative labs (WBC, Ht, Hgb, Ca2+, P, fT3, fT4, TSH, PTH, VitD)

        5. Diagnosis including clinical observations and previous imaging results

        6. Pre-operative characteristics of the adenoma

        7. Medications

        8. Current and past history of surgical and medical comorbidities

      Intra-operative: The surgeon will perform the preplanned operation. The following
      intraoperative variables will be recorded for all patients:

        1. Surgery date

        2. Duration of surgery

        3. Operation performed

        4. Procedure related comments

        5. Number and location of the visualized glands

        6. Intra-operative ICG score (ranging from 1 to 3 [5]) for each grand

      Pathology data form: The following pathology data will be recorded for all patients:

        1. Post-operative diagnosis including pathology report

        2. Possible parathyroids excised Postoperative follow-up: Follow-up evaluation will be
           performed during hospitalization

      1 Postoperative labs (WBC, Ht, Hgb, Ca2+, P, fT3, fT4, TSH, PTH)
    
  