
    
      Context:

      A large proportion of children with advanced heart disease (AHD) die in the pediatric cardiac
      intensive care unit (CICU), where parents describe obtaining a realistic understanding that
      their child had a life-limiting disease only 2 days prior to death. Delayed or inadequate
      communication within teams or with families may contribute to this lack of understanding (as
      shown in children with other serious illnesses), while interactions with pediatric palliative
      care specialists (PPCS) have been shown to improve communication and understanding of
      prognosis. The limited number of PPCS, however, means that all clinicians in the CICU must
      have the skills to support parental decision-making, including giving bad news and eliciting
      parental goals for their child.

      Objectives:

        1. To develop a communication skills training (CST) program for interprofessional teams in
           the pediatric CICU via a co-design process.

        2. To evaluate CICU clinicians' perceived feasibility and acceptability of the CST.

        3. To evaluate CST impact on communication skills and team function in actual family
           meetings.

        4. To describe and evaluate parents' communication challenges in the CICU and their
           satisfaction with communication.

      Study Design:

      Prospective cohort study with pre and post assessments around an intervention.

      Setting/Participants:

      Clinicians at the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP) and parents of children
      previously hospitalized in the ICU will be invited to participate in the co-design portion of
      the study to develop the team and family based intervention. A separate group of volunteer
      attending intensivists, cardiologists, cardiac surgeons, front line clinicians, bedside
      nurses, and social workers from the pediatric CICU at the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia
      (CHOP) will undergo the intervention and participate in observed family meetings before and
      after the intervention. Other clinicians who are participating in an observed family meeting
      will also be enrolled. Parents or legal guardians and their children in the CICU who have
      been there for at least 7 days and are expected to stay at least another 7 days will also be
      consented and enrolled.

      Study Interventions and Measures:

      Intervention:

      The intervention includes both an interprofessional team training that will include practice
      in communication skills of giving bad news and building team collaboration and a family
      oriented intervention to prepare them for family meetings.

      Measures:

      The Co-design process to develop the intervention will have focus groups to evaluate the
      interventions' content and perceived feasibility.

      The impact of the intervention on CICU clinicians' perceived usefulness and satisfaction with
      the training will be measured with post-intervention and one month follow-up surveys.

      For the actual family meetings, assessment of the impact of the intervention on communication
      and team function in actual family meetings pre and post-intervention will be done by coding
      audio recordings with validated tools and qualitative coding of content. Collaboration will
      be measured using the amount of time different members of different disciplines speak, and
      team member perception and satisfaction with collaboration will be measured using a validated
      tool.

      Parents' experiences in family meetings and perspectives on communication with the clinical
      team will be measured with a pre-intervention survey measuring parental mood, affect, and
      satisfaction with communication or with semi-structured interview.
    
  