
    
      This study will include patients with one of the following: (1) Philadelphia
      chromosome-positive (Ph+) Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML); (2) FLT3 (gene) internal tandem
      duplication positive acute myeloid leukemia [FLT3 (gene) ITD-AML]. The investigational drug
      DCC-2036 has shown in the laboratory to affect different kinds of proteins in CML or AML
      cancer cells, which may help to stop these cancer cells from growing. This is a Phase 1
      study. This Phase 1 study will test the highest safe dose of the investigational drug,
      DCC-2036, how often the drug should be given, and how well Ph+ CML and AML patients will
      tolerate DCC-2036. Patients' study doctor will review their past medical history, surgery(s),
      known allergies, and past/current medications. In addition, blood tests and bone marrow
      biopsies will be taken to determine if persons are eligible to participate in this study.

      During the first part of this study, patients will receive different amounts of DCC-2036 to
      determine the highest safe dose. Multiple dose levels of DCC-2036 will be tested and as long
      as no medically unacceptable side effects are noted, the dose will be increased for the next
      group of study patients. When the highest dose is reached, a larger number of patients will
      be enrolled to receive DCC-2036 at the highest (safe) dose level. Additional study patients
      will be enrolled in a group called an "Expansion Group" and receive the study drug at the
      highest well tolerated dose. Evaluation of the safety and efficacy (how well the study
      medication treats leukemia) will be studied in this trial. Disease assessment will be
      monitored as follows: (1) Blood samples will be collected for disease response and for
      mutational analysis if disease has gotten worse (progressed); (2) Bone marrow samples may be
      collected by having an area of the hip or chest bone numbed with an anesthetic and a small
      amount of bone marrow drawn through a needle; (3) For CML patients only, blood samples will
      be collected for BCR-ABL transcript levels. Patient safety is of primary importance in this
      Phase 1 study. Safety assessment will be monitored as follows: (1) Physical examinations will
      be performed regularly during your doctor's visits; (2) Routine blood tests will be performed
      on a regular basis to assess potential side effects that may be caused by study medication on
      different organs like (and not limited to) liver, kidney and bone marrow; (3) Based on
      reports of potential side effects to the heart that may be caused by study medication,
      patients will be required to have echocardiograms and blood draws to measure the level of
      serum N-terminal fragment pro B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP). An echocardiogram is a
      noninvasive test that uses sound waves to produce images of your heart. These images will
      tell the doctor how a patient's heart is beating and pumping. The NT-proBNP is a blood test
      that will help the patient's doctor evaluate how well the heart works. After initial testing
      is completed, patients will then be required to have these safety evaluations performed at
      intervals of 3-cycles (approximately every 3 months) for as long as they are taking the study
      medication. Patients who experience muscle weakness or peripheral neuropathy will be assessed
      by blood draws to measure creatine phosphokinase (CPK) levels. Measuring CPK levels may help
      the patient's doctor determine whether or not the symptoms they are experiencing are the
      result of muscle damage or due to other causes. The most common eye disorders include blurred
      vision, dry eyes, and visual impairment. Patients will be required to have complete eye
      (ophthalmologic) evaluations. After initial ophthalmologic exams, patients will be required
      to have an exam after the completion of every 3 cycles of study medication (approximately
      every 3 months) and at the time they stop taking study medication. Blood samples will be
      collected for pharmacokinetic analysis. Pharmacokinetics is the study of the bodily
      absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion of drugs. Blood samples will also be
      collected for pharmacodynamic analysis. Pharmacodynamic analysis measures biomarkers that are
      either proteins or genes (also called DNA) that are associated with a disease that may also
      be related to how you respond to a treatment or what type of side effects may happen. The
      investigational drug DCC-2036 has not been approved by the United States Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA). The FDA allows DCC-2036 to be used in research studies only. DCC-2036
      will be given to patients only during this study and not after the study is over.
    
  