
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the 2-year progression-free survival of patients with progressive or recurrent
           Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with tandem autologous stem cell transplantation (2 courses
           of high-dose therapy with autologous stem cell rescue).

        -  Determine the response rate in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the toxic effects of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Salvage therapy (for patients with relapsed disease after achieving a previous complete
           response): Patients receive at least 2 courses of salvage chemotherapy or radiotherapy.
           No more than 6 weeks later, patients proceed to autologous hematopoietic stem cell
           collection.

        -  Autologous hematopoietic stem cell collection: Patients undergo autologous hematopoietic
           stem cell collection. Patients with an inadequate number of collected stem cells are
           removed from the study.

        -  Pre-transplant salvage radiation: Patients with residual tumor greater than 5 cm after
           initial salvage therapy undergo involved-field radiotherapy. All patients then proceed
           to the first preparative regimen.

        -  First preparative regimen: Patients receive high-dose melphalan IV on day -1.

        -  First autologous stem cell transplantation (SCT): Patients undergo autologous SCT on day
           0. At least 28 days later, patients proceed to second preparative regimen.

        -  Second preparative regimen: Patients receive 1 of the following preparative regimens:

             -  Total-body irradiation (TBI)-based regimen: Patients undergo TBI twice daily on
                days -8 to -5. Patients also receive etoposide IV over 4 hours on day -4 and
                cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day -2.

             -  Carmustine-based regimen: Patients receive carmustine IV over 2 hours on days -6 to
                -4, etoposide IV over 4 hours on day -4, and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day
                -2.

        -  Second autologous SCT: Patients undergo second autologous SCT on day 0. After completion
           of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and then annually
           for up to 7 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 85 patients will be accrued for this study over 2 years.
    
  