
    
      Objectives This pilot study aims to investigate the feasibility of validating the
      anti-pruritic effectiveness of the sole acupuncture intervention and the efficacy of
      different frequent treatments of acupuncture, and discovering noble candidates of a specific
      biomaterial associated with the development of atopic dermatitis. Moreover, the result will
      be facilitated in calculating the sample size on the further study.

      Trial design A randomized, sham-controlled, different intervention frequency trial will be
      conducted at the Kyung Hee University Korean Medicine Hospital from June to November 2016.

      Participants and Recruitment

      Recruitment Acquiring consent will be conducted by the investigators with the principle of
      informed consent which confirms participants' voluntarism. The participants will sign the
      document made of general consent form and additional consent provisions for blood collection
      and use of their human derived material first of all. The exemplary consent paper and other
      related literature can be offered upon request.

      Randomization and allocation concealment The AD patients will be randomized to one of the
      three groups via block randomization.

      An independent statistician will product random numbers with the PROC PLAN of SAS 9.2 (SAS
      institute Inc., Cary, NC, USA) and transfer them to the Acupuncture and Meridian Science
      Research Center (AMSRC) at Kyung Hee University where the each randomization number will be
      sealed in a sequentially numbered non-transparent envelope by a staff uninvolved in this
      study.

      At the beginning of the randomization process, the investigator will call the independent
      staff in AMSRC to pass the screening number of the participant. Then the AMSRC staff
      immediately assign the participating patient to one of three groups by unsealing a numbered
      envelope. It will be documented in the trial master file thoroughly.

      Blinding The participating patients and the assessor will be blinded to the group allocation
      of patients in this trial. It is impossible for acupuncturists to be unaware of the group
      assignments, but they will not perform the outcome measurements or data analyses.

      To prevent a possible bias, the eye patch will be applied for the patients during the
      acupuncture treatment, and they will be unable to see the practice procedures. All the
      acupuncture treatment, regardless of the group assignment, will be practiced by using Park
      sham devices (AcuPrime Co., Ltd., Exeter, UK) which is attached on the applied acupoints as
      to block the sighting of penetrating or non-penetrating on the skin of acupuncture needles 9.
      The acupuncture needles and devices will be maintained for 15 min identically.

      Intervention Acupuncture treatment Both manual acupuncture treatment and acupressure would be
      conducted on every participating AD patient. It was designed to become a pragmatic treatment
      procedure corresponding with real clinic settings.

      In this study, the manual acupuncture treatment is composed of basic acupuncture treatment
      and additional acupuncture treatment: partially individualized acupuncture treatment will be
      conducted on the basis of the traditional meridian theory and consensus by the experts in
      acupuncture and the atopic disease. The number of applied acupoints per patient per session
      ranges from 6 to 19. The optional points include ST43, GB41, LI2, TE3, SI3, TE6, SI2, BL66,
      LR3 and SP3.

      The clinical research coordinator will ask the symptoms associated with additional
      acupuncture treatment to reduce the bias. The acupuncture treatment will be practiced with a
      sterilized stainless needle (40 mm length and 0.25 mm diameter; Dongbang Acupuncture Inc.,
      Bundang, Sungnam, Korea) by one same Korean Medicine Docter. Manipulation technique will be
      performed to elicit 'de qi' sensation. The needle will be inserted in depth of 5 to 30 mm and
      retained for 15 minute.

      Acupressure technique will be taken after the elimination of stainless needles. The 1.5 mm
      press tack needles (Haeng Lim Seo Won Medical co., China) will be attached on four acupoints
      per participating patient per session: LI11 bilaterally and auricular-Shenmen
      contralaterally. It was designed with the traditional meridian theory and consensus by the
      experts in acupuncture and the atopic disease. The patients will be instructed by the
      involved staff to press the applied press tack needles located on LI11 when they feel severe
      pruritus for 3 min.

      All the acupuncture practice will be carried out by the same Korean Medicine Doctor, who will
      be trained for 10 hours to guarantee that he could perform the identical acupuncture
      treatment according to the pre-constructed protocol.

      Dropout criteria on patients' visits During the study period, each patient will visit 12 or 8
      treatment sessions according to allocated group. Since frequent visit would be the burden to
      participating patients and cause absences from the trial, we made the criteria on the absence
      of participants of each group and the range of dropout. Acupuncture group 1, which have total
      12 acupuncture treatment, ought to complete 10 treatment sessions to minimum and acupuncture
      group 2 and sham acupuncture group, which have total 8 acupuncture treatment, ought to
      complete 6 sessions. Each treatment session of all the allocated group cannot be delayed over
      6 days from the previous session.

      Outcome measures One health care provider involved in this study will conduct a series of
      outcome measures. There will be no separation between primary and secondary outcome since it
      is an exploratory pilot study to search independent effectiveness of acupuncture intervention
      on atopic dermatitis and secure a dataset for the further study.

      SCORAD index Itch VAS EASI score POEM DLQI CES-D STAXI

      Investigating biomaterials with blood collection Serum total IgE measurement Serum
      cytokine/chemokines measurement Serum cortisol measurement MicroRNA microarray

      Statistical Methods Sample size calculation The current trial was established as a pilot
      study to investigate the anti-pruritic effects of acupuncture for the patients with atopic
      disease. A total of 30 AD patients, 10 in each group, and 20 healthy controls will be
      recruited during the study period in regard of 20% dropout rate. Its outcomes will suggest
      evidences for feasibility of further large-scale study and sample size calculation.

      Statistical analysis A statistician uninvolved in the research team will take charge of the
      statistical analysis by using the SPSS 21.0 (IBM SPSS Statistics, New York, USA). Categorical
      variables will be provided with percentages and continuous variables will be provided as mean
      and standard deviation.

      The intervention effectiveness will be analyzed with the changes between the baseline and the
      end of treatment period or follow-up period. Data analysis of baseline characteristics
      between allocated groups will be compared through a repeated-measures analysis of variance
      (ANOVA) test and χ2 test respectively on continuous variables and categorical variables.

      The different efficiency according to three times or twice weekly acupuncture treatment will
      be analyzed with the changes in itch VAS and SCORAD index by the Mann-Whitney U-test on
      continuous variables and χ2 test on categorical variables. The difference on therapeutic
      efficiency between verum acupuncture treatment groups and sham acupuncture treatment group
      will be investigated in the same way. And these outcome data will be analyzed with 0.1
      (two-sided) statistical significance level and the 90% confidence intervals regarding with
      the professional advice for the small sample size. For the further study, the difference on
      treatment groups and control group will be applied to calculate the number of needed
      participants with a set on 0.05 α and 80% power.

      Protection of human subjects Ethical approval and registration This study protocol was
      approved by the Institutional Review Boards at Kyung Hee University Korean Medicine Hospital
      (KOMCIRB-160212-HRBR-004). It will be performed in accordance with the standards of the
      International Committee on Harmonization on Good Clinical Practice and the revised version of
      the Declaration of Helsinki.
    
  