
    
      The treatment proposed in this study is based on the hypothesis that direct arterial infusion
      of chemotherapy to metastatic tumours of the liver whilst the blood flow to the organ is
      isolated could potentially yield benefits that cannot be achieved with existing treatment
      regimens.

      There are three treatment stages; implantation of a vascular access device (known as the
      AVAS), intra-arterial liver isolation oxaliplatin (LIOX) infusions and explantation of the
      AVAS.

      Implantation: the participant is admitted to hospital and the AVAS is surgically implanted
      under general anaesthetic. The AVAS is an implantable large bore cannula with one end that
      can be anastomosed directly onto a peripheral vessel and the opposite end exiting the
      patient's skin. The device can be opened to access the patient's vasculature when required
      and closed when the device is not in use. In accordance with the manufacturer's
      Instructions-For-Use (IFU), the AVAS will be implanted in the axillary artery (i.e. the upper
      pectoral area) or in the common femoral artery (upper thigh) by a surgeon experienced in
      vascular disease. The implantation procedure takes around 2 hours. After implantation, the
      participant is monitored overnight.

      Intra-arterial LIOX infusions: the participant is admitted to the angiography suite and under
      general anaesthetic or conscious sedation, intra-arterial hepatic isolation chemotherapy
      infusion is administered by an interventional radiologist. The first infusion can be
      administered 2 days after device implantation and infusions are spread out over an 8-week
      period at a maximum such that the patient receives 5 to 7 infusions in total, has at least 2
      full calendar days between each infusion, and there are no more than 2 infusions over any 7
      consecutive days. Each infusion can take between 2-3 hours during the first few infusions but
      should only take 1-2 hours for the remaining infusions as the radiologist becomes
      familiarised with the patient's vascular anatomy.

      During the Phase Ib stage, the starting dose of the oxaliplatin infused will be 50mg/m^2 and
      this dose will be escalated by 5mg with each patient until an optimal dose is established.
      The optimal dose will be used for all patients enrolled during the Phase II stage.

      Explantation: the final infusion session is followed by the device explantation immediately,
      or at a later time depending on the availability of operating rooms and the condition of the
      participant. The surgical removal of the device takes approximately 1-2 hours, the
      participant is monitored overnight and discharged the next day.

      In addition, capecitabine will be administered orally as per standard care (1000 mg/m^2 twice
      daily in 2 week cycles) throughout the study treatment period (from enrolment to 4 weeks
      after the AVAS explantation) as a form of systemic disease management. The oncologist may
      modify the capecitabine dose/frequency based on the patient's response to the medication.
    
  