
    
      Study Design:

      Effectiveness of flipped classroom compared to traditional lecture classroom among
      physiotherapy participants - Quasi Experimental Study: This method of study divides a group
      of participants from respective year and semester into two groups, controlled (traditional
      lecture) and flipped classroom without their knowledge at the beginning of study. Each batch
      of participants, ranging from year 1 to year 3 will have two groups of study.

      Subjects:

      Physiotherapy Students. participants from each intake will be randomly allocated into
      TC(traditional classroom) and FC(flipped classroom).

      Inclusion Criteria:

      - All physiotherapy participants of University Tunku Abdul Rahman

      Exclusion Criteria:

      - Participants who are not UTAR physiotherapy participants

      Instruments:

      Demographic profile of participants Index Of Learning Styles Questionnaire Perception and
      satisfaction questionnaire Examinations on post teaching session/experiment

      Procedures of study:

      Study Settings:

      Lecture rooms of University Tunku Abdul Rahman Sg. Long Campus.

      Sampling Method and Recruitment of Participants:

      The number of participants of physiotherapy will first be obtained from the Faculty General
      Office (FGO) UTAR. Then the participants selected will be grouped into two groups of
      traditional classroom (TC) and Flipped classroom (FC). Since it is a single blinded study,
      the participants will not know which group they belong to.

      Procedures:

      The study will be conducted in two phases:

      Phase 1

        -  Perception and Satisfaction questionnaire will be developed

        -  A validation test will be conducted on the Perception and Satisfaction questionnaire
           (face, content and construct) before conducting the study. The validation process will
           involve the participation of lecturers, professors and students by convenience sampling.

      Phase 2

        -  To prevent bias from the researchers, each participant will be given their code as their
           identification number. Then the participants will be randomly divided into two groups.
           They will be briefed on the purpose of study (stating that, the investigators would like
           to see the efficacy of various teaching methods on students' knowledge gain) and
           procedure of the study (examinations will be conducted, surveys at the end of each class
           session and at the end of the study). They are requested to fill up basic demographic
           data, consent form and ILS questionnaire(measuring the learning style of student) before
           beginning the study.

        -  In this study, the lecture will be given by the 'Researcher 1' to standardize the input
           to the participants of the two groups. This will produce a standardized input to the
           students of the two groups of teaching method.

        -  For the FC (flipped classroom) group, the length of the pre-recorded lecture videos will
           be the same which the participants can view it unlimitedly. An assignment will be given
           for FC group that will be attempted during the discussion class(2 hours) a week after
           with the lecturer. No grades will be given for the assignment.

        -  Meanwhile for the TC(traditional classroom) group, a standard lecture class of 1 hour
           and 1 hour of tutorial class will be conducted on the same topic. The same ungraded
           assignment will also be given to this group a week after the lecture class to be
           attempted in the tutorial class

        -  For the assignment given, a case study on the topic taught will be designed.

        -  One day gap will be given following the discussion and tutorial class for FC and TC
           groups respectively following which an examination of 1 hour duration will be conducted
           to test on their level of knowledge (assessed by exam score) on the topic being taught
           for both the groups using the same set of questions. The examination papers will be
           coded and will be marked by the content expert.

        -  At the end of the study, each participant will be given a feedback questionnaire to
           evaluate their perception and satisfaction on the teaching method applied on them using
           the 'Perception and Satisfaction Questionnaire'.
    
  