
    
      Ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury is a common problem in patients undergoing aortic clamping
      for vascular surgery and may lead to systemic inflammation and organ dysfunction. Increased
      production of pro-inflammatory molecules and oxidative stress induced by I/R are responsible
      for microvascular alterations similar to those observed during sepsis, which result in tissue
      hypoxia. Anesthetics can affect the microcirculation. Propofol causes vasodilation
      stimulating NO production and decreases microvascular density. A final arteriolar
      vasodilation could involve a greater oxygen delivery and better perfusion, but a massive
      dose-dependent vasodilation could lead to a shunt of blood flow with reduced oxygen
      availability. Volatile anesthetics cause dose-dependent vasodilation too and desflurane,
      unlike isoflurane and alothane, maintains myocardial, hepatic, intestinal and muscle blood
      flow. This prospective observational study aims to evaluate the effects of intravenous and
      balanced anesthesia on sublingual and peripheral muscle microcirculation in patients
      undergoing elective open abdominal aortic aneurysm repair. This study was approved by the
      investigator's local ethical committee of Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria "Ospedali
      Riuniti" of Ancona, Italy. A written informed consent was obtained from all patients.
      Patients were eligible if they were scheduled for elective infrarenal abdominal aortic open
      repair with or without prosthetic aorto-aortic or aorto-bisiliac bypass under general
      anesthesia. Patients received balanced (desflurane + remifentanil) or total intravenous
      (TIVA, propofol + remifentanil, with target-controlled infusion) anesthesia according to the
      attending physician's decision, resulting in two study groups. Spectral entropy was used in
      monitoring anesthetic depth. A goal-directed hemodynamic management was applied in all
      patients. Hemodynamics was evaluated with Flotrac/Vigileo (Edwards Lifesciences) monitor
      according to routine clinical practice. Arterial and central venous blood gases were measured
      according to routine clinical practice. All measurements were collected before anesthesia
      induction (baseline) and at end-surgery. Changes in sublingual microvascular flow and density
      were assessed with incident dark field illumination imaging (Cytocam, Braedius, Amsterdam,
      NL). After gentle removal of saliva and other secretions with a gauze, the probe was applied
      to the sublingual region, avoiding excessive pressure. Three sequences of 10 seconds each
      were recorded in 3 different mucosal areas. Subsequently, clips were analysed offline by AVA
      software (Automated Vascular Analysis v3.0). The following parameters were calculated for
      small vessels: microvascular flow index, total vessel density, perfused vessel density,
      percentage of perfused vessels, flow heterogeneity index. Near infrared spectroscopy
      (InSpectra, Hutchinson Technology, MN, USA) was applied on the thenar eminence with a
      vascular occlusion test (VOT) to assess variations in the peripheral muscle tissue
      oxygenation and microcirculatory reactivity. A probe was applied on the thenar eminence, and,
      after a 3-minute period of stabilization, tissue O2 saturation (StO2) and tissue haemoglobin
      index (THI) were recorded. Then arterial inflow was arrested by inflating a sphygmomanometer
      cuff to 50mmHg above the systolic arterial pressure; the cuff was kept inflated until StO2
      decreased to 40% and finally was released. StO2 modifications were continuously recorded
      during the reperfusion phase until stabilization. The following parameters were extrapolated:
      StO2 downslope, StO2 upslope, area of hyperemia. Statistics: normality of distribution will
      be assessed with Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Data will be expressed as mean±standard deviation
      or median [1st-3rd quartile], as appropriate. Two-way ANOVA with Sidack's multiple
      comparisons test or Wilcoxon and Mann-Whitney U test were used to compare variables between
      the two time points into the same group and between two groups at time-matched points as
      appropriate. A p value <0.05 was used to indicate statistical significance.
    
  