
    
      The inability to engage in the usual activities of daily living is one of the most
      distressing experiences of people afflicted with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
      (COPD). Exercise intolerance progresses relentlessly as the disease advances and can lead to
      virtual immobility and social isolation. Our understanding of the complex interface between
      physiological impairment and disability in COPD has increased considerably in recent years.
      It has become clear that in COPD, exercise intolerance ultimately reflects integrated
      abnormalities of the ventilatory, cardiovascular, peripheral muscle and neurosensory systems.
      Ventilatory constraint is the dominant contributor to exercise limitation in more advanced
      disease. Recently, important studies have been conducted on the role of peripheral muscle
      dysfunction in exercise limitation in COPD.

      The present study will test the hypothesis that the administration of bronchodilators (i.e.,
      inhaled β2-agonist and inhaled anticholinergics in combination) in normoxemic COPD patients
      during moderate-intensity constant-load exercise may result in an enhancement of oxidative
      metabolism, reflected by reductions of O2 def and phase 2 tV'O2.

      Fifteen normoxemic patients with stable COPD (FEV1 less than 60 % predicted) and severe
      chronic breathlessness (Baseline Dyspnea Index less than 6) will complete the study.

      Each patient will perform three visits. At the first visit, patients will be familiarized
      with the various questionnaires and scales for rating the intensity and quality of symptoms
      and they will carry out pulmonary function testing and a symptom-limited incremental cycle
      exercise test in order to determine the anaerobic threshold (AT), the peak work-rate and the
      peak oxygen uptake. Each patient will subsequently complete two visits in which they will
      receive either nebulized bronchodilator (BD) (Combivent®, ipratropium 0.5 mg + salbutamol 2.5
      mg) or placebo (PL), in random order. At 90-100 minutes post-dose, patients will perform
      pulmonary function tests, then they will perform a constant-load exercise test at 80% of AT
      V'O2. During constant-load exercise tests (2nd and 3rd visit), small samples of blood from
      the earlobe of each subject will be collected in order to determine the level of lactate and
      breathing gases (oxygen and carbon dioxide) in the blood.
    
  