
    
      Endometriosis is a gynecological pathology affecting women during periods of genital
      activity, which prevalence is underestimated and varies from 10 to 30%. It is characterized
      by dysmenorrhea, dyspareunia, chronic pelvic pain or infertility. These various
      manifestations lead to an alteration of the quality of life.

      Among women consulting for chronic pelvic pain or suspicion of endometriosis, it is
      recommended to evaluate pain, as well as suggestive symptoms and localizers using validated
      quality of life questionnaires such as Endometriosis Health Profile 30 (EHP 30).

      In case of chronic pelvic pain and suspicion of a deep lesion, the assessment of disease is
      based on the interrogation (deep and positional dyspareunia, urinary or digestive catamenial
      functional signs), pelvic clinical examination by a referral physician, an endovaginal
      ultrasound by a referral sonographer and pelvic MRI also by a referral radiologist.

      However, interpretation is not always easy with a high rate of false negatives. In case of
      absence of pathognomonic iconographic signs and, if there is an impact on patients' quality
      of life, a diagnostic laparoscopy can be proposed. This procedure can help to affirm or
      invalidate endometriotic lesions not visible in imaging, allowing either an excision or
      lesion destruction.

      Although the beneficial role of surgical management in spontaneous fertility has been
      demonstrated, the clinical benefit of reducing pain and improving the quality of life in
      isolated uterine sacral ligament lesions has not been demonstrated by clinical studies with a
      good level of evidence.

      Through this study, we would like to evaluate the functional benefit on the quality of life
      in the short and medium term of laparoscopic surgical management in case of suspicion of
      isolated uterosacral ligament endometriosis documented by standardized pelvic MRI.

      All MRI exams will be analyzed blindly by an expert radiologist.
    
  