
    
      Conventional complete dentures have been used as a clinically accepted prosthetic treatment
      for completely edentulous patients for almost a century. [1] One of its advantages is ability
      to customize teeth arrangement and to check each step of the preceding steps before the
      delivery stage.

      Conventional complete dentures fabrication consist of several steps of recording,
      transferring, evaluating, and creating artificial substitutes for patient's teeth and gingiva
      which must be in harmony with patient's mouth and face. All this steps demand high
      experience, artistic, and skillful operator and technician.

      However denture processing results in polymerization shrinkage of the resin (due to flask
      cooling), and distortion of the denture base (due to stress release after denture base
      removal from the stone cast), and decreasing the accuracy and denture adaptation. [2] These
      dimensional changes increase the gap between the denture base and underlying mucosa,
      resulting in an ill-fitting denture.[3] Denture adaptation and fitting plays a crucial role
      in complete denture retention (by physical means), stability, and patient comfort. [4]

      Also, flask closure must be done under considerable pressure to ensure metal-to-metal contact
      between the halves of the flask to confine the resin inside the mold with no excess.[5] In
      addition to the inherent processing shrinkage and/or expansion properties of the acrylic
      resin.[6] Researchers tried to overcome these disadvantages by changing the technique of
      polymerization of the resin, by using of microwave energy, dry heat, and visible light.[7]
      But unfortunately researchers found that, Discrepancies in the base adaptation shown by
      several techniques are not easily corrected after complete denture processing.[8] Denture
      base adaptation to the stone cast is usually not satisfactory, especially in the midline
      section of the central portion of the posterior border.[9] To overcome the previous
      disadvantages computer aided manufacturing technology was applied to complete dentures. Some
      advantages of digitally fabricated complete dentures are 1) reduced number of patient visits;
      2) superior strength and fit of dentures; 3) omitting multiple error-introducing steps such
      as impression, waxing, and casting.[10] 4) reduced cost for patient and clinician; 5) easy
      denture duplication (due to stored digital data); 6) standardization of clinical research on
      complete dentures and implant-retained overdentures.

      To fabricate physical prototype (model) there are two different approaches: subtractive and
      additive manufacturing.

      Subtractive manufacturing is based on milling the denture from a larger blank by a computer
      numeric controlled (CNC) machine. The input data for this method are principally from an
      optical or contact probe digitizer, which can only capture the external surface data of the
      anatomy and not the internal tissue surface of the object.

      Although CAD/CAM dentures have many advantages compared to conventional ones, but the CAD/CAM
      protocol introduces additional steps (like scanning, software modeling, and milling) in the
      fabrication process that can lead to inaccuracies.[11] Another disadvantage of CAD/CAM is its
      inability to reproduce fine details by milling .[12] Additive manufacturing is the process
      that creates objects from 3D model data, in an additive layer by layer manner.[13] The
      additive systems used in dentistry are stereo-lithography, selective laser sintering or
      melting, and 3D printing.

      The main advantage of additive technology is the ability to create minor details (undercuts,
      voids, complex internal geometries) in the proposed model. In addition to Incremental
      vertical object build-up, no material wastage, large objects produced, passive production
      (i.e., no force application), and ability to print multiple materials at the same time (in
      case of 3D printing). [15] A clinical study was done to compare the accuracy values of
      maxillary conventional heat-polymerized trial denture bases with those RR printed ones and
      the results were as follows: Mean deviation was (-0.0051mm), (SD, 0.19mm).[16]

      In the same study authors used ratings from 100-mm VAS in 10 patients and 20 prosthodontists
      comparing conventional and RP methods and the results were as follows:

      Patients comparing overall satisfaction: P=0.59, prosthodontists comparing overall
      satisfaction: P=0.87 The term selective laser sintering is used to describe the fabrication
      of a pattern from ceramics or polymers while selective laser melting describes pattern
      fabrication from metal.[14] The laser beam locally raises the temperature close to the
      melting point of the metal particle, to avoid complete melting. The platform is slightly
      immersed in the powder, and powder thickness is controlled by a cylinder rolling on the
      powder pool. After each new powder layer application, the laser melting process is repeated
      until the 3D object is completed.

      Stereo lithography technology consists of photosensitive resin bath, a model-building
      platform, and ultraviolet laser for curing. To fabricate the desired model the layers are
      cured successively, and bonded together from bottom to top. As the first layer is polymerized
      the model-building platform is brought down inside the bath, and another layer of resin is
      added and cured. This process continues until the desired model is completed.

      In 3D printing system the material is extruded from a nozzle that solidifies as soon as it is
      deposited on the manufacturing platform. The layer pattern is achieved through horizontal
      nozzle movement and interrupted material flow. This is followed by vertical movement for the
      sequential layer deposition.

      The captured 3D data of model slice into cross-sections by a certain thickness. Inputting the
      processing parameters based on the contour information of each layer sheet allows for the
      automatic generation of the numerical code. Finally, a 3D object consisting of a series of
      layers is formed by stacking. This technology can receive CAD data directly and create new
      samples or models quickly without need for molds, cutting tools, or tooling fixtures.

      Thanks to this technology, wasting less material, employing less human power, decreasing
      treatment time at the chair side, decreasing treatment cost, and lowering the rates of
      contamination, is possible.

      In this study, a combination of conventional technique and RP will be used to fabricate
      complete dentures to overcome the polymerization shrinkage which results from conventional
      processing.

      Explanation for choice of comparators:

      Heat processed denture base is the treatment of choice for most of edentulous patients and it
      is considered as the golden standard and the main comparator for the new techniques. But
      using Heat Cured Acrylic resin would require many laboratory steps which introduce several
      errors.[14] Meanwhile, the introduction of rapid prototyping method with high accuracy which
      eliminates some of the laboratory steps was the reason for choosing it to compare it with the
      conventional method
    
  