
    
      Prostate cancer is the most common neoplasm of solid organs in Brazil. Definitive diagnosis
      of the tumor is established through prostate biopsy, indicated in patients with elevated
      levels of PSA or suspicious rectal examination. The ultrasound or MRI-guided prostate biopsy
      is mostly performed through the transrectal route worldwide. Although it is a relatively safe
      procedure, transrectal prostate biopsy (TRUSB) can present several complications, such
      bleeding, acute urinary retention or infection. Infectious complications are an important
      concern for the urologist and have different presentation, ranging from isolated fever to
      severe sepsis. Antibiotic prophylaxis is an effective widely used practice, however, due to
      increasing rates of bacterial resistance, there is a growing trend in the incidence of
      infectious complications after TRUSB. Therefore, alternative strategies to decrease
      infections rates following biopsies are welcome. Our aim was to compare the infectious
      complications of intrarectal povidone-iodine cleansing associated to formalin disinfection of
      biopsy needle tip at prostate biopsy.

      A prospective controlled study will be conducted enrolling 1152 consecutive prostate biopsies
      in a single center high volume urology Brazilian Public Hospital. The patients will be
      randomized at a 1: 1 ratio for two different groups: group A - rectal cleansing and
      disinfection of the needle tip vs. Group B - controls at transrectal ultrasound guided
      prostate biopsy. Patients will obtain a urine culture 48 hours after biopsy and complete a
      telephone interview 7 days after undergoing the procedure. The primary endpoint will be the
      rate of infectious complications, defined as 1 or more of the following events: fever ≥37.8
      ºC; urinary tract infection (UTI) or sepsis (standardized definition). We will also evaluate
      the predictive factors of infectious complications
    
  