
    
      Serious fungal infections are significant complicating and life-threatening occurrences in
      patients with advanced HIV infection. Oropharyngeal candidiasis is found in almost all such
      patients, and causes pain, difficulty in swallowing, and loss of appetite. Similarly,
      esophageal candidiasis causes illness in the population. Cryptococcosis, endemic mycoses, and
      coccidioidomycosis also cause significant illness and death in AIDS patients. Once
      established, fungal infections in AIDS patients generally require continuous suppressive
      therapy because attempts at curing these infections are usually unsuccessful. Fluconazole has
      a number of characteristics that would make it a logical candidate to examine as a
      prophylactic agent in patients with advanced HIV infection. Animal studies have shown it to
      be prophylactic in models of candidiasis, cryptococcosis, histoplasmosis, and
      coccidioidomycosis. Initial experience in patients with active cryptococcal meningitis
      appears favorable, and studies of oropharyngeal candidiasis show it to be effective.

      AMENDED: 11/01/90 Sufficient numbers of patients will be enrolled from all centers starting
      at week 8 of participation in the parent study to achieve a total of 240 evaluable patients
      who will remain in the nested study for a maximum duration of 45 months. Enrollment will
      continue until all eligible and interested 081 patients are enrolled. Fungal prophylaxis will
      begin at the time of enrollment into the nested study and will continue until an efficacy or
      safety end point is reached, until withdrawal from the nested study, or until death.

      Original design: Patients included are those already enrolled in ACTG 081. Patients are
      enrolled from all centers at either week 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, 28, or 32 of participation in the
      parent study. They are randomized to receive either oral fluconazole or clotrimazole troches.
      Prophylaxis continues until a serious fungal infection develops, the end of the parent study
      is reached (which is expected to be December 1991), the patient withdraws from either the
      nested or parent study, or the patient dies. Clinical examination is performed at 2 weeks and
      then monthly (or more if clinically indicated) for the duration of antifungal prophylaxis;
      the schedule of evaluation is the same as for the parent study. There is a 1-month
      postprophylaxis follow-up after discontinuation of prophylaxis for any reason.
    
  