
    
      Fetal alcohol spectrum disorder (FASD) prevalence is up to 10 times higher in American
      Indians and Alaska Natives (AI/ANs) than in the general US population, yet FASD is 100%
      preventable. Even moderate alcohol use during pregnancy can affect fetal growth and
      behavioral outcomes. Alcohol use disorders and binge drinking in women are among the
      strongest risk factors for FASD in their offspring. AI/ANs have the highest prevalence of
      alcohol use disorders among US racial and ethnic groups, and are the most likely to engage in
      binge drinking during pregnancy. A growing consensus indicates that prevention of
      alcohol-exposed pregnancy must begin before conception. One promising approach is the
      Changing High-risk Alcohol Use and Increasing Contraception Effectiveness Study (CHOICES),
      which combines motivational interviewing with contraception counseling for non-pregnant
      women. In a randomized trial, women receiving CHOICES were 36% more likely to have reduced
      risk for alcohol-exposed pregnancies after 6 months than women receiving usual care, but the
      trial did not enroll AI/ANs or rural women. Although the Centers for Disease Control and
      Prevention has recommended its dissemination, the public health value and cost-effectiveness
      of CHOICES in AI/ANs is unknown. We propose a randomized controlled trial of an adapted
      intervention - Native-CHOICES - to reduce risk of alcohol exposed pregnancies in AI/ANs. We
      will enroll 350 AI/AN women living on the Cheyenne River Sioux Indian Reservation in South
      Dakota who are 18-44 years old, have risky drinking behaviors, are not currently pregnant but
      are able to become pregnant, and are sexually active but not using effective contraception.
      Native-CHOICES will consist of 2 motivational interviewing sessions plus 1 contraceptive
      counseling session over 4 weeks, with supportive electronic messaging for 3 months to
      increase perceived social connectedness and support for modifying drinking behavior and using
      contraception.
    
  