
    
      Proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR), characterized by neovascularization and ﬁbrous
      proliferation, is a severe and common complication of diabetes mellitus (DM). Persistent
      vitreous hemorrhage (VH) caused by neovascularization and tractional retinal detachment (TRD)
      caused by ﬁbrous proliferation can lead to permanent vision loss or even blindness, which are
      the most common indications for surgical intervention.

      As neovascularization is the basal pathophysiological change of PDR and vascular endothelial
      growth factor (VEGF) has been acknowledged as primary angiogenesis factor, the preoperative
      adjunctive use of VEGF blockade is rationally proposed. The anti-VEGF drugs have been
      reported to be effective in bringing about regression of retinal neovascularization,
      shortening surgical duration, avoiding risk of iatrogenic retinal hole and secondary
      operation for the recurrent VH.

      Conbercept (KH902) is a newly developed anti-VEGF drug and has been applied in clinic.
      Because of its additional binding domain of VEGFR-2, conbercept can bind to all isoforms of
      VEGF-A, VEGF-B, and placental growth factor (PLGF). A number of studies have presented its
      high affinity in the treatment of fundus diseases such as wet age-related macular
      degeneration (wet-AMD), macular edema secondary to retinal vein occlusion[8] and diabetic
      retinopathy. Also, recent randomized controlled trials have shown its protective effect of
      conbercept for the surgical treatment of PDR.

      Although the overwhelming clinical evidence supports the anti-VEGF drugs as the preoperative
      adjuncts for PDR, the optimal duration between anti-VEGF injection and surgical intervention
      has not yet reached a consensus. Longer duration is related to higher incidence of the
      development or progression of TRD. It might provide clues by investigation of the pattern of
      cytokine changes in humor aqueous, vitreous, and blood. No studies have been done to date in
      patients with PDR to quantify the reduction of intravitreal VEGF-A, -B, PLGF or other
      cytokines levels in these patients following intravitreal Conbercept injection or to evaluate
      the effects of VEGF or PIGF blockade on the neovascular regression and surgical outcome in
      patients with extensive diabetic proliferative neovascularization.

      The goal of this study is to quantify the reduction of changes of VEGF-A, -B, PLGF levels in
      patients receiving r pre-operative intravitreal Conbercept after variable time intervals (1,
      2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 days).
    
  