
    
      The hypothesis underlying this study is that treatment outcome in molecular radiotherapy is
      dependent on the absorbed doses delivered rather than on the radioactivity administered. For
      up to 50 patients, post treatment dosimetry will be performed to establish the range of
      absorbed doses and associated uncertainties delivered to thyroid remnants, residual disease,
      and healthy organs from an ablative administration of I-131 radioiodine.

      Imaging systems in participating centres will be characterised (system volume sensitivity,
      partial-volume effect and dead-time) and set up for quantitative imaging to allow for
      collation of data. Patients will be assigned to one of two dosimetry gamma camera scanning
      schedules. For scanning schedule 1 (Standard of Care) a single standard-of-care scan will be
      acquired according to local protocol with regards to time post-radioiodine administration. A
      minimum of 20 patients will be assigned to scanning schedule 2 (Standard of Care + Additional
      Imaging), for which a standard-of-care scan and three additional SPECT-CT scans will be
      acquired at 24±4 hours, 48±12 hours, 72±12 hours and 120±48 hours post-radioiodine
      administration.

      SPECT imaging datasets will be reconstructed with attenuation and scatter corrections to
      allow quantitative dosimetry calculations. Time integrated activity will be derived from
      analysis of the quantitative SPECT data and combined with relevant dose factors to obtain
      absorbed dose estimates for each target tissue. The subset of patients with additional
      imaging will be used to establish the pharmacokinetic properties of radioiodine in each
      tissue type (biological retention half-life) to enable determination of time integrated
      activity in patients with a single standard-of-care scan.

      A minimum of 3 whole-body retention measurements will be performed per day during the
      patient's stay in hospital, approximately every 2-6 hours, according to local standard of
      care procedures. At each external measurement time point the quantified level of
      radioactivity in the whole body will be recorded.

      Patients will be followed-up at their standard-of-care clinic visits to assess the success of
      treatment as well as for short to mid-term toxicity. Results from standard of care
      biochemical, radiological and haematological assessments (TSH, thyroglobulin,
      anti-thyroglobulin antibodies, ultrasound, serum creatinine, haemoglobin, white cell count,
      neutrophil count and platelet count) will be recorded to assess response to treatment.
      Statistical analysis of the relationship between the absorbed doses and outcome data will be
      performed.
    
  