
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Diabetes is a major health hazard in Oklahoma Indians. A further important aspect is the
      apparently high vulnerability of the diabetic Oklahoma Indians to atherosclerotic disease. In
      the mid 1980s, this group had the highest prevalence of 0-wave changes on the
      electrocardiogram and amputation for ischemic gangrene of all 14 international samples in the
      World Health Organization Multinational Study. Its cardiovascular mortality rates were 2-3
      times those of other national samples. An epidemic of coronary heart disease was attacking
      this Indian population.

      Between 1973 and 1978, 1,085 adult Oklahoma Indians who were diagnosed with non-insulin
      dependent diabetes mellitus were recruited for a study on diabetes. The data from the study
      were used in part for the World Health Organization Multinational Study of Vascular Disease
      in Diabetes. The subjects were given a complete physical examination which included blood
      pressure, height, weight, electrocardiogram and detailed eye examination. Data were also
      collected on plasma cholesterol, plasma triglyceride, and proteinuria. Family histories and
      body weight were reviewed. The study followed this cohort.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This longitudinal study followed a previously studied cohort. Detailed baseline data
      collected in 1973-1978 were available. In phase I of the study, the life/death status of all
      1,085 subjects was ascertained up to January 1, 1986. Death certificates were obtained and
      cause of death analyzed. For the survivors, a personal interview and physical examination
      were performed in Phase II. Occurrence of specified diabetes-related vascular complications
      was documented. The detailed follow-up questionnaire included all the data required for the
      WHO Multinational Study of Vascular Disease in Diabetes plus specific information related to
      this population. Analysis was conducted on overall mortality rates, disease-specific
      mortality rates, and survival time. Prevalence and incidence of morbidity from micro- and
      macrovascular complications were estimated. The extent to which selected risk factors were
      associated with or could predict the development of vascular diseases was examined. The
      results of the analyses were compared with those obtained in the WHO Multinational Study.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  