
    
      This study is a prospective, triple-arm, randomized, open-label, dose-escalation exploratory
      clinical trial involving HIV-1 infected participants treated with suppressive combination
      antiretroviral combination therapy (cART). The primary objective of this study is to evaluate
      a new strategy for reducing the residual reservoir of HIV-1 infected cells that persists
      despite treatment with current HIV drugs. The clinical trial is conducted in the Infectious
      Diseases Clinical Trials Unit (CTU) at the Massachusetts General Hospital.

      The study medication includes two agents: panobinostat is an oral tablet that can reverse
      HIV-1 latency and awaken HIV from a "sleeping" condition during which it is protected from
      the human immune system. The second drug is pegylated interferon-alpha2a (IFN-alpha2a), an
      injectable cytokine that activates the immune system. The combined use of both agents may
      lead to immune-mediated elimination of HIV-1 infected cells in which viral latency has been
      reversed by panobinostat.

      Participants will be randomized to receive a treatment course with panobinostat alone (Arm A,
      4 participants total), panobinostat in combination with pegylated IFN-alpha2a (Arm B, 10
      participants total), or pegylated IFN-alpha2a alone (Arm C, 4 participants total).
      Participants receiving panobinostat will undergo one week of treatment (15mg, dosed every
      second day on Monday, Wednesday, Friday), followed by three weeks off-treatment. Subcutaneous
      injections with pegylated IFN-alpha2a will be administered at the start of the week-long
      treatment course (simultaneously with the first dose of panobinostat for Arm B). ART will be
      continued during the entire treatment duration in all study participants.

      Participants will undergo close monitoring for side effects during the entire time of study
      participation. The total study duration will be 2 months.
    
  