
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death in women, and mortality from CVD
      is higher in PMW compared to age-matched men. PMW are at a greater risk for developing HTN, a
      major risk factor for CVD. They are also more likely to have uncontrolled or resistant HTN
      despite medication.

      ANG II is a common therapeutic target for the treatment HTN. ANG II blockade is highly
      effective in normalizing blood pressure (BP) in hypertensive male rats, but does not reduce
      BP to the same degree in hypertensive post menopausal female rats. Endothelin-1 (ET-1)
      receptor antagonists reduce BP in hypertensive postmenopausal female rats, but have no effect
      on males. Thus the mechanisms contributing to HTN in female rats and likely women,
      particularly after menopause, are complex, multifactorial and not completely understood.

      After menopause, the vasoconstrictor effects of both ANG II and ET-1 are amplified in animal
      models. As such, these two predominant pathways may contribute to the high incidence of HTN
      in PMW. ET-1 is a potent vasoconstrictor produced and released by endothelial cells that
      binds to two receptor subtypes, ET-A and ET-B. While both receptors are located on vascular
      smooth muscle (VSM) and mediate vasoconstriction, ET-B receptors are also located on the
      endothelium and mediate vasodilation via nitric oxide.

      Importantly, the production of ET-1 and expression of ET-A and B receptors can be modulated
      by hormones such as estradiol and ANG II. Estradiol attenuates ET-1 production, and reduces
      ET-1 mediated vasoconstriction via an ET-B receptor mechanism in vitro. Thus, decline in
      estradiol after menopause may enhance vasoconstrictor tone via ET-1 and lead to HTN. ET-1
      also potentiates the vasoconstrictor effects of ANG II since the vasoconstrictor and
      hypertensive effects of ANG II are ameliorated by ET-1 receptor blockade. Additionally, ANG
      II stimulates the synthesis of ET-1 and upregulates ET-A and ET-B receptor expression on VSM.
      The ANG II receptor antagonist Losartan reduces ET-A and ET-B receptor expression and
      attenuates the constrictor effects of ET-1 in a diabetic rat model. Therefore, ET-1 is an
      important independent factor contributing to HTN in PMW, but therapeutic agents targeting
      both ANG II and ET-1 may have greater efficacy given their interactions.

      The investigators propose a comprehensive assessment of vascular function by measuring blood
      flow responses in the cutaneous circulation during perfusion of ET-1 receptor antagonists via
      microdialysis, combined with measures of intracellular protein and receptor expression of
      endothelial cells and skin punch biopsies collected from normotensive and hypertensive PMW.
      Investigators central hypothesis is that hypertensive PMW have greater ET-1 mediated
      vasoconstrictor tone due to increased ET-1 expression, down-regulation of ET-B receptors on
      endothelial cells and up-regulation of both ET-A and ET-B receptors on VSM leading to
      increased vasoconstriction and HTN. Investigators further hypothesize that ANG II exacerbates
      the increase in ET-1, and ET-A and ET-B receptor expression contributing to exaggerated
      constriction with HTN in PMW.
    
  