
    
      Background of the study:

      An anterior cruciate ligament rupture is a serious injury to the knee with high probability
      of the occurrence of dynamic instability, accompanying lesions and early post-traumatic
      arthrosis. Despite conservative treatment through rehabilitation or ACL reconstruction
      surgery not all patients do return to their previous activity levels. Moreover degenerative
      changes, especially early posttraumatic arthrosis, are not counteracted.

      In order to optimize the clinical results after ACL surgery, a renewed interest has emerged
      in healing the patient's own ruptured ACL after attaching. Literature suggests that with the
      current innovations in surgical repair techniques of (natural) healing of a ruptured ACL may
      result in similar clinical outcomes in comparison to the gold standard, the ACL
      reconstruction. In addition, it may even reduce degenerative changes occur in relation to the
      gold standard. Moreover, the return to daily activities and sports level seems significantly
      faster than after ACL reconstruction.

      The hypothesis is that a suture (suture repair) of a ruptured ACL, combined with a dynamic
      intraligamentary stabilization, as well as microfracture of the femoral notch, passes, at
      least equal efficacy in comparison with an anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction using
      autologous hamstrings in terms of functional recovery 1 years postoperatively.

      The DIS bonding technique will be applied in the current study to surgically repair (suture)
      the ruptured ACL. DIS is an abbreviation and stands for intraligamentary dynamic
      stabilization (DIS). DIS has been used in humans and seems to provide a high patient
      satisfaction, favorable clinical and radiological results. However, to our knowledge, to
      date, no randomized comparative study has been conducted yet in which the DIS technique is
      compared with the gold standard, the ACL reconstruction.

      Objective of the study:

      Primary goal:

      Investigate the hypothesis that suture repair of a ruptured vkb, combined with a dynamic
      intraligamentary stabilization and microfracture of the femoral notch, results in at least
      equal effectiveness compared with an ACL reconstruction using autologous hamstring in terms
      of functional recovery one year postoperatively in terms of a patient self-reported outcome
      related to be able to conduct daily and sporting activities.

      Secondary objective:

      Evaluation of clinical outcomes, self-reported by the patient outcomes, osteoarthritis,
      rehabilitation time required for return to daily and sporting activities and levels of
      sporting activity which has returned in patients with status after an ACL rupture and suture
      repair augmented with a dynamic intraligamentary microfracture and stabilization of the
      femoral notch in comparison with an anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction with the
      ipsilateral hamstring graft.

      Study design:

      This study is a single center stratified block randomized controlled trial. Patients with ACL
      rupture, confirmed by an orthopedic surgeon based on the outpatient history and radiographic
      images, will be randomized into an experimental ('repair' / DIS) group after inclusion and a
      control (reconstruction, regular care) group. Patients will be stratified on the level of
      sport/physical active practice, on the basis of the Tegner score. The Tegner score is an
      evaluative and inventory questionnaire on which the patient indicates the gravity of his work
      and/or sports activities. A higher score is associated with a higher level of physical
      strain/activity . On the basis of the Tegner score patients will be stratified into a
      'moderate' physically active stratum (group Tegner score 5-6-7) and 'highly' physically
      active stratum (group Tegner score 8 -9-10). Stratification based on the degree of physical
      activity is considered to be important because the extent and severity of physical
      activity/strain in daily life poses a potential (difference) in risk of re-rupture between
      the two study arms. In order to minimize potential differences in 'exposure' or 'risk of
      re-rupture' between the two study groups stratification is relevant.Measurements take place
      at baseline, peri-operative / immediately after surgery, 6 weeks, 3,6,9 months and 1, 2, 5
      and 10 years postoperatively.

      Study population: (Physically) active patients from 18 untill 30 years, who has visited the
      outpatient clinic of the orthopedic surgeon because of a knee injury resulting in a ACL
      rupture, for whom surgery indication for an ACL reconstruction exists and who can be operated
      on within three weeks after the onset of the ACL rupture.

      Intervention:

      n=48 patients will participate in the current study. Patients will be assigned to a suture
      repair of the ruptured vkb complemented by a dynamic intraligamentary stabilization (DIS) and
      microfracture of the femoral notch or the gold standard, a ACL reconstruction.

      Primary study parameters/outcome of the study:

      Self-reported functional outcome at one-year follow post surgery measured by the IKDC 2000
      subjective scale.

      Secundary study parameters/outcome of the study (if applicable):

      Secondaire eindpunten: Self-reported functional outcome at one-year follow post surgery
      measured by the IKDC 2000 subjective scale 6 weeks, 3,6 and 9 months, 2,5 and 10 years post
      surgery, self-reported disabilities (KOOS), level of physical activity (Tegner), satisfaction
      (VAS) as well as IKDC physical examination (clinimetretrics) 6 weeks, 3, 6 en 9 months, 1, 2,
      5 and 10 years post surgery; instrumented anteroposterior laxity, leg symmetry index for jump
      tests as well as isokinetic quadriceps en hamstrings force 6 en 9 months, 1, 2, 5 en 10 years
      after surgery; radiologic signs of arthrosis 1,2 5 and 10 years post surgery; reruptures of
      the ACL within 10 years post surgery, classification rupture pattern peroperative.
    
  