
    
      Background of the study:

      The introduction of population-based breast cancer screening and implementation of digital
      mammography have led to an increased incidence of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) without a
      decrease in the incidence of advanced breast cancer. This suggests DCIS overdiagnosis exists.
      We hypothesize that asymptomatic, low-risk DCIS (grade I and II DCIS) can safely be managed
      by active surveillance. If progression to invasive breast cancer would still occur, this will
      be lowgrade and hormone receptor positive with excellent survival rates. Also,
      breast-conserving treatment will still be an option, if no prior radiotherapy has been
      applied. It also may save many low-risk DCIS patients from intensive treatment.

      Objective of the study:

      The primary end-point is ipsilateral invasive breast tumor-free rate at 10 years.

      Secondary end-points are among others: overall survival, breast cancer-specific survival,
      mastectomy rate and patient reported outcomes. To determine whether low- risk DCIS can safely
      (measured by ipsilateral invasive breast cancer rate at 10 years) be managed by an active
      surveillance strategy or if the conventional treatment, being either wide local excision
      (WLE) only, WLE plus radiotherapy or mastectomy, possibly followed by hormonal therapy, will
      remain the standard of care.

      Study design:

      Phase III, open-label, non-inferiority, multi-center, non-randomized clinical trial. By
      patient's preference, women will be included into one of the following arms: active
      surveillance or standard treatment according to local policy, being either WLE alone, WLE
      plus radiotherapy or mastectomy, possibly followed by hormonal therapy. The same follow-up
      scheme will be applied in both study arms, i.e. annual mammography for a period of five years
      and an additional two mammograms at year seven and ten.
    
  