
    
      The hypothesis of this study is that inspiratory muscle training (IMT) for a three-month
      treatment will improve dyspnea in lung cancer patients with stable disease experiencing
      breathlessness.

      Plan of Investigation Subjects The sample will be a heterogeneous group of outpatients cared
      for in a large university medical center in China (Southwest Medical University Hospital).

      Methods The trial will be a two-arm, non-blinded, randomized controlled study. Patients will
      be randomly assigned through a computer program to IMT or a control group by an independent
      statistician. The IMT group will receive standard care and additionally the IMT intervention.
      The control group will receive standard treatment.

      Study Design Intervention: A pressure threshold device will be used to deliver IMT, which is
      commercially available by Phillips Respironics. When patients inhale through the IMT device,
      the valve blocks air flow until the patient generates sufficient inspiratory pressure to
      overcome the resistance provided by the spring-loaded valve. The patient must generate the
      inspiratory pressure, in order for the valve to open and allow inhalation of air. The IMT
      protocol will have five sessions weekly for 12 weeks for 30 mins/day, divided over two
      sessions.

      Procedures Participants will be recruited at the outpatients' clinic of Southwest Medical
      University Hospital or referred to the research team by the clinicians. Patients allocated to
      the experimental arm will have training in the IMT use and the trainer (device) will be
      adjusted to a level which is comfortable to each patient. In the control arm, patients will
      be visited for completing the study assessments at the same times as in the experimental arm
      (months 2 & 3).

      Sample Size The investigators have used the mBorg score change [primary outcome] in baseline
      to month three assessment of 0.80 obtained in the pilot study and the established minimally
      important difference of 1 for the mBorg to calculate sample size requirements, adding a 25%
      attrition observed in the pilot study. This corresponds to a sample size of 196 subjects.

      Data Processing and Analysis The statistical software package IBM SPSS version 23.0 will be
      used. Descriptive statistics will summarize the sample characteristics. Generalized
      estimating equations (GEE) models will be used to compare differential changes in the
      outcomes between the two study arms across multiple time points (baseline-month 2 and month 3
      assessment). A p-value of <0.05 was considered statistically significance. Intention-to-treat
      analysis will be carried out.
    
  