
    
      Potential patients, who will be identified as suffering from moderate COVID-19 (as set forth
      in the FDA guidance for industry dated May 2020) will be recruited.

      After the patient has signed the Informed Consent Form (ICF), and after confirmation that the
      patient meets all eligibility criteria, the patient will be enrolled to the relevant dose
      group according to the following sequential design:

      Single Intravenous (IV) dose of Allocetra-OTS with 5x10^9 cells, Single Intravenous (IV) dose
      of Allocetra-OTS with 10x10^9 cells, Two IV doses of Allocetra-OTS with10x10^9 cells each
      dose (separated by 72 hours).

      Each dose cohort will consist of 3 and up to 6 patients. In each dose cohort, starting with
      dose cohort 1, a single patient will be enrolled and dosed. If no dose limiting toxicity
      (DLT) is observed after at least 1 week and following review of relevant safety data of the
      first patient in that cohort by the DMC, 2 additional patients will be enrolled.

      If no DLT is seen in the initial 3 dosed patients within a certain cohort and following DMC
      review, the first patient in the next dose cohort can be enrolled, repeating the same
      sequence of enrollment as described above.

      If 1 DLT is seen in the initial 3 dosed patients within a certain cohort, the cohort will be
      expanded to a total of 6 patients. If >2/6 patients experience a DLT, the MTD will be
      reached. If no more than 1 patient out of 6 experiences a DLT, the next sequence of
      enrollment will be continued.

      DMC will review and assess safety data at the predefined timepoints to recommend on cohort
      expansion or cohort escalation.

      Investigational Product (IP) administration will occur on Day 1 within 12±4 hours from the
      time of eligibility.

      Following IP administration (Day 1), patients will be followed for safety and efficacy
      assessments through 6 months.
    
  