
    
      The study will be conducted over the period of one year on 100 Hospitalized, COVID-19
      patients, fulfill the inclusion and exclusion criteria, and are admitted for care at COVID-19
      management facilities in Max healthcare Hospital will be eligible for inclusion in the trial.
      This Phase II, open label, randomized controlled trial. Consecutive patients meeting the
      inclusion-exclusion criteria and providing informed consent will be randomly assigned to the
      test and the control group using random numbers generated by randomization.com. Patients in
      the test group will receive convalescent plasma and the control group will be on standard
      care.

      COVID-19 convalescent plasma will be collected from recovered individuals if they are
      eligible to donate blood. For infusion of plasma existing SOP of the wards w.r.t transfusion
      of FFP should be followed with special care to monitor these patients during and post-24
      hours of transfusion. An ABO compatible plasma bag of approx. 200ml will be issued
      maintaining all the blood bank records after thawing at 37 degree Celsius. The first plasma
      transfusion may be followed by one or two additional doses of 200 ml at 24 hours interval
      according to disease severity and tolerance of the infusions. Baseline data about the
      demography, clinical presentations, ongoing medical therapy, and clinical history of
      participants in both arms will be collected and compared. Response to convalescent plasma
      will be coded as a binary outcome - based on whether the composite primary end point is met
      or not. Adverse events associated with infusion of convalescent plasma will also be
      descriptively summarized and compared with the adverse events experienced by participants
      receiving standard of care.

      Eligibility of Potential Donor

        1. Only males and nulliparous female donors of weight > 55 kgs will be included.

        2. Donor eligibility criteria for whole blood donation as per the departmental SOP will be
           followed in accordance to the Drugs & Cosmetics Act 1940 and rules 1945 therein (as
           amended till March 2020). Donor will be screened, followed by brief physical
           examination.

        3. Donors not fit to donate blood based on the history and examination will be deferred and
           excluded from plasma donor pool for a time period specified by country regulation &
           departmental SOPs.

        4. In addition to the aforementioned donor eligibility criteria, two EDTA samples (5 ml
           each) and one plain sample (5 ml) will be drawn for the following pre-donation tests as
           required for convalescent plasmapheresis (CPP).

             -  Blood group and antibody screening - Antibody screen positive donors will be
                deferred.

             -  Complete blood count including Hb, Hct, Platelet count, Total and differential
                leucocyte count. Donors with Hb>12.5g/dl, platelet count >1, 50,000 per microliter
                of blood and TLC within normal limits will be accepted.

             -  Screening for HIV, HBV and HCV by serology and NAT. Donor negative by both the
                tests will be included.

             -  Screening for syphilis and malaria by serology. Negative donors will be included

             -  Total serum protein. Donors with total serum protein > 6gm/dl will be accepted (as
                per Drugs and Cosmetics (Second Amendment) Rules, 2020)

             -  Titration of anti-COVID-19 (both IgG and IgM) antibodies and SARS- CoV-2
                neutralizing antibodies may be done depending on availability of facilities at the
                time of testing. (Desired titers for IgG antibodies >1024 or neutralizing
                antibodies >40) doubling dilution of donor serum will be done and titration will be
                done using ELISA. If not done at the time of plasma collection the donor samples
                will be stored in aliquots at <-80° C to be tested at a later date.

             -  Molecular test for COVID-19 either from nasopharyngeal swab specimens or blood may
                be done depending on availability of tests. Donors positive will be deferred.
    
  