
    
      Once each patient has signed the informed consent document and it has been verified that the
      inclusion criteria are met, it will be assigned the same identification number (ID) that is
      related to its Clinical History (CH) by simple coding; custody of the file with the
      relationship of each ID with its CH will be the responsibility of the principal investigator.
      Patients admitted to the Guadarrama Hospital with the diagnosis of stroke and who meet the
      eligibility criteria will be treated by their usual physiotherapist, who will administer the
      standard dry needling intervention plus standard physiotherapy treatment or only standard
      physiotherapy treatment as a function of being trained and qualified to administer dry
      needling.

      Patients will receive 6 sessions of DNHS® (Dry Needling for Hypertonicity and Spasticity)
      technique with an interval of 1 week between each session (1st to 4th sessions) and every 15
      days (5th and 6th sessions). The procedure will be applied according to the corresponding
      protocols established in the NWPs (Normalized Work Plans) used in the usual clinical practice
      in the Guadarrama Hospital. All patients (both groups) will receive standard daily
      physiotherapy treatment for the affected arm according to the NWPs used in the Guadarrama
      Hospital.

      The DNHS® technique is specifically indicated for the treatment of spasticity. This technique
      differs from that usually used to relieve pain and deactivate myofascial trigger points
      (MTPs). The muscles to be treated are placed in a submaximum stretching position; the
      evaluation criteria when defining the needle insertion zone are based on finding an increase
      in modularity and muscle activity in the area when the muscle undergoes rapid stretching.
      Once the area to be treated is located, the needle is inserted and moves between 0.5 and 1 cm
      in / deep and fan out / surface to cause a local or global spasm reaction. Treatment ceases
      when the frequency of these responses decreases markedly or disappears. If the patient feels
      "not tolerable" pain (some discomfort from the dry needling is usual), you can stop the
      treatment at any time. Before and after each dry needling session or standard physiotherapy
      treatment patients will be evaluated by an independend assessor blinded to intervention ,
      using the upper limb block of the Fugl-Meyer scale that assesses motor skills and sensitivity
      of the affected arm, evaluation of pain through NRS10 and assessment of spasticity of muscles
      to be treated by MMAS. Also, at the beginning, in the 4th session and at the end of the
      study, the Euro-QoL 5D 5L quality of life survey will be administered, with a license for
      use. In addition BSS and ULP will be evaluated at the beginning and at the end of the study.
      In each dry needling session, the caliber of the needle used, the number of fast-in and
      fast-out of the needle and the number of the spasm reactions caused for the purpose of
      establishing the dose pattern shall be recorded for each treated muscle.
    
  