
    
      There are various treatment options that can be used for the treatment of PUS, which include
      extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy (SWL), ureteroscopy (URS), percutaneous nephrolithotomy
      (PCNL), antegrade uretero-lithotripsy, laparoscopy, and rarely, open surgical procedures.
      However, the standard, and the most frequently used modalities are SWL and ureteroscopy. When
      comparing the effectiveness in the treatment of Proximal Ureteric stone (PUS) between SWL and
      URS, SWL has lower rates of complication and morbidity, but URS has a higher likelihood of
      successfully treating the patient within a single procedure. Additionally, with the
      advancements in technology and miniaturization of the ureteroscopes, along with the presence
      of auxiliary instruments such as holmium laser and retrieval baskets, ureteroscopy is more
      widely used.

      In the proximal ureter, SR-URS tends to encounter difficulties in accessing the stone, but
      F-URS aids in overcoming those difficulties. As a result, the use of F-URS for PUS has
      indicated a strong success rate with lower likelihood of complications. When comparing the
      drawbacks of the two types of modalities, F-URS tends to be more expensive, and requires
      auxiliary instruments. And SR-URS tends to have lower success rate along with an increased
      rate in complications.

      The precedence of FURS over SR-URS in the treatment of PUS is yet to be extensively studied.
      Presently there are only five studies that have compared the two modalities of treatment.
      But, due to the lack standardization of variables, procedure, follow-up imaging and reporting
      of outcomes in the past studies, it is imperative to conduct study that is prospective and
      randomized in nature.

      The present study is randomized in nature, comparing the stone free rate and complications
      rate between SR-URS and F-URS for the treatment of PUS, whereby the preoperative assessments,
      procedure and reporting of outcomes will all be standardized.
    
  