
    
      Pathophysiologic factors that may contribute to stiff knee gait in persons with brain injury
      are muscle hypertonicity of the quadriceps muscles, hip flexor weakness, and over activity of
      the gastrocsoleus muscles in terminal stance(1). Kerrigan et al (2) reported that
      hyperactivity of the Rectus Femoris (RF) during swing phase was a key contributor to this
      dynamic swing phase deficit in adults with spastic paresis. Overactivity of the RF muscle
      during early swing phase has also been identified as a major contributor to stiff knee gait
      dysfunction in children with cerebral palsy (3). Recognition of the role of RF over-activity
      in stiff knee gait in the cerebral palsy population has led to surgical and medical
      interventions aimed to minimize this constraint on swing phase mechanics, such as RF
      transfers, RF release, and Botulinum toxin injections (BTX-A)(4,5). Research in the cerebral
      palsy population supports the application of these interventions to improve knee flexion
      during swing phase and improve overall gait function and efficiency (6).

      The applicability of these directed interventions for stiff knee gait, particularly the less
      invasive BTX-A injections to RF, has not been well examined in adults with spastic paresis.
      Two research groups (7,8) examined the immediate effects of a motor branch block of RF in
      persons post-stroke with stiff knee gait and reported improved maximum knee flexion and mean
      knee flexion velocity during preswing and swing phase following the block. Very few
      studies9,10 to date examined the short-term effects of BTX-A injection to RF on gait function
      and energy cost during walking in persons post-stroke who ambulated with stiff knee gait.
      Stoquart and colleagues9 found that at two months following BTX-A injections, subjects had
      improved maximum knee flexion during swing phase and improved knee flexion velocity during
      toe off. Energy cost improved only in that subset of subjects who had greater than 10 degrees
      of knee flexion during swing phase prior to BTX-A injections. The results of this prospective
      observational study provided initial support for the efficacy of BTX-A intervention for stiff
      knee gait in adults post-stroke, however, the authors only examined the short-term effects of
      this intervention(9). Also, this study had limitations in its methodology, as gait function
      pre- and post-BOTOX® intervention was assessed using an automated treadmill as opposed to
      gait analysis during overground walking at self selected gait speed. Further research is
      needed to determine if there is longer-term benefit of BTX-A injections to RF on gait
      function in the brain injury population.

      Research Design:

        -  Double-blind randomized controlled trial

        -  Subjects will be randomly assigned to experimental or control group

        -  The experimental group will receive BTX-A injection to rectus femoris (RF) followed by
           usual care

        -  The control group will receive saline injection to RF followed by usual care

        -  Subjects and researchers will be blinded to group assignment

        -  Three-dimensional computerized gait assessments will be conducted pre-treatment (within
           2 weeks prior to BOTOX®/placebo injection), 1 month post and 4 months post-injection
    
  