
    
      All patients diagnosed with AML (new diagnosis or relapsed/refractory disease) can be
      included.

      This project aims to establish a platform for comprehensive diagnostic and research platform
      in the context of the Spanish PETHEMA cooperative group, constituted by 80 institutions and
      seven central laboratories with extensive technological capacity.

      This will be a prospective, multicenter, non-interventional study. It will be performed in 7
      central laboratories (Hospital Universitario la Fe, Hospital Universitario de Salamanca,
      Hospital 12 de Octubre, Hospital Universitario Virgen del Rocío, Hospital Reina Sofía,
      Hospital Dr. Negrín and Clínica Universidad de Navarra) from the spanish PETHEMA group that
      will receive and process bone marrow and peripheral blood samples from AML patients at
      diagnosis and at resistance or first and subsequent relapses. In parallel, all patients will
      be enrolled in the ongoing PETHEMA epidemiologic registry of AML with a large number of
      clinical data however no safety information/Adverse Events about drug treatments will be
      collected. Currently, the PETHEMA group is reporting 600 newly diagnosed patients per year
      and accounts for 5000 cases in the data-base.

      It is expected that the investigator will analyze 450 samples from 450 newly diagnosed
      patients that will participate in this study in a period of 2 years (225 per year). This
      means that roughly 40% of all AML patients from the PETHEMA group institutions will be
      included in the study.

      In addition, other 250 samples from relapsing/refractory patients will be included in 2
      years. Of these 250 samples form relapsing/refractory patients, it is expected that 150
      samples will be drawn from patients in whom the sample was already analyzed at diagnosis in
      the current study, and 100 samples will be drawn form 100 additional patients that were not
      previously included in the study at the initial diagnosis. So, the expected distribution of
      analyzed samples will be: 450 at diagnosis, 150 resampling at first relapse from patients
      already analyzed at diagnosis, and 100 samples at first or subsequent relapse from patients
      not included in the study at the time of diagnosis. The investigator expect at least 500
      patients and 700 samples.

      Molecular diagnosis by NGS will be rapidly reported to the treating physician (<48-72 hours),
      in order to facilitate inclusion of patients in potential targeted therapy trials in AML.

      Through the analysis of leukemic cells in samples from a large cohort of patients treated
      homogeneously, it is intended to delve into the prognostic value of genetic lesions that are
      observed at diagnosis by means of a large panel of mutations by next-generation sequencing.
      Thanks to this ambitious cooperative study, the investigator will be in an unprecedented and
      novel situation to understand the cellular mechanisms associated with chemoresistance of
      leukemic cells. This could allow us to design new therapeutic strategies of personalized
      medicine that will be able to eradicate these cells with minimal toxic effects on patients
      with AML.
    
  