
    
      Vestibulodynia (VBD) is a chronic pelvic pain condition that affects 1 in 6 reproductive aged
      women, yet remains ineffectively treated by standard trial-and-error approaches. The
      investigators have identified two distinct VBD subtypes that may benefit from different types
      of treatment: 1) VBD peripheral (VBD-p) subtype characterized by localized pain specific to
      the vulvar vestibule, and 2) VBD central (VBD-c) subtype characterized by pain at both
      vaginal and remote body regions. Preliminary data further demonstrate that VBD-p and VBD-c
      subtypes differ with respect to patient reported outcomes (e.g., physical and mental health),
      production of cytokines (intracellular proteins that regulate the activity of pain nerves and
      inflammatory processes), and expression of microRNAs (small non-coding RNA molecules that
      regulate gene expression). Women with VBD-p exhibit normal psychological profiles; balanced
      circulating pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines; and dysregulation in microRNAs that
      regulate the expression of genes in estrogen pathways. In contrast, women with VBD-c report
      decreased functional status and increased somatization; increased pro-inflammatory but not
      anti-inflammatory cytokines; and dysregulation in microRNAs that regulate the expression of
      genes relevant to muscle, nerve, and immune cell function. Based on these data, the
      investigators hypothesize that two VBD-p and VBD-c subtypes will preferentially respond to
      peripheral, central, or combined treatments and can be distinguished by cytokine and microRNA
      profiles. These hypotheses will be tested in a phase III clinical trial that evaluates
      diverse treatment strategies in women with VBD-p and VBD-c. Participants will be randomly
      assigned to one of four parallel arms: peripheral treatment with 5% lidocaine + 0.5 mg/ml
      0.02% estradiol compound cream, 2) central treatment with the tricyclic antidepressant
      nortriptyline, 3) combined peripheral and central treatments, or 4) placebo. The treatment
      phase will last 4 months (with a 6-week titration at treatment initiation and 2-week taper
      period at 4 months), with outcome measures and biomarkers assessed at 4 time points (0, 2, 4,
      and 6 months). First, the investigators will compare the efficacy of treatments in
      alleviating pain among women with VBD-p and VBD-c using standardized tampon insertion with a
      numeric rating scale and self-reported pain on the McGill Pain Questionnaire. Next, the
      investigators will compare the efficacy of treatments in improving perceived physical,
      mental, and sexual health among women with VBD-p and VBD-c using standardized questionnaires.
      Finally, investigators will measure cytokines and microRNAs in women with VBD-p versus VBD-c
      using multiplex assays and RNA sequencing, and determine the ability of these biomarkers to
      predict treatment response. Successful completion of the proposed work will provide new
      insights into the mechanisms that drive pain perception and treatment response in two
      distinct VBD subtypes, and determine the efficacy of peripheral, central, and combined
      therapies in reversing this pain. Such findings will readily translate to improved patient
      care, permitting the millions of women with VBD, their partners, and clinicians to make more
      informed decisions about pain management.
    
  