
    
      Arterial access is the key step during the endovascular treatment of cardiovascular diseases.
      However, failure in hemostasis of the arterial access sites is associated with high risk of
      complications such as bleeding, pseudoaneurysm, and arteriovenous fistula. Major bleeding
      events after percutaneous coronary intervention has been shown be associated with poor
      short-term as well as long-term prognosis. Thus, there have been a variety of approaches to
      quickly and effectively achieve hemostasis of the puncture site. The traditional method was
      to apply manual compression followed by simple dressing directly on the puncture site.
      Despite a long history and economic advantage, this method required prolonged hemostasis
      time, substantial efforts by trained practitioner, and patients' discomfort.

      Use of hemostasis pad that accelerates blood clotting has become an effective alternative.
      The ezClot pad is a new product that uses chitosan, a deacetylated complex carbohydrate
      derived from the naturally occurring substance chitin. The positively charged chitosan
      molecules attract the negatively charged blood cells and platelets, thus promoting clots. The
      ability to hemostasis of chitosan has been proven with the HemCon® pad (HemCon Medical
      Technologies, Inc., Portland, OR, USA). This study was designed to confirm the safety and
      efficacy of the ezClot pad in patients undergoing percutaneous procedures with arterial
      approach. Two cohorts will be included in this study: transradial and transfemoral cohort.
      Among the transfemoral cohort, the safety and efficacy of the ezClot pad will be compared
      with the BloodSTOP® pad (LifeScience PLUS, Palo Alto, CA, USA). The BloodSTOP® pad is an
      etherized and oxidized regenerated cellulose matrix that achieves hemostasis by activating
      the intrinsic coagulation pathway.

      Transradial approach is increasing used during coronary procedures. The most important
      benefit of transradial approach compared to transfemoral approach is low risk of major
      bleeding. Widely used method for hemostasis of radial puncture sites were manual or
      device-assisted compression. There is yet only a limited data regarding the use of hemostasis
      pad after transradial approach. The hypothesis will be tested in the transradial cohort that
      the combined use of a hemostasis pad and a compression device is superior to that of a
      compression device only in terms of hemostasis in patients who underwent transradial coronary
      procedures.
    
  