
    
      Anorexia nervosa and other restrictive eating disorders with pronounced starvation is one of
      the most acute and life-threatening conditions in child psychiatry and requires immediate
      treatment. Anorexia nervosa is the eating disorder which most often causes pronounced
      starvation, and also has the highest mortality in psychiatry. These conditions are hard to
      treat, and there are not many successful treatment methods. Family therapy, and more specific
      family based treatment has so far proved to be the most successful treatment method for the
      young patient with anorexia nervosa.

      For patients presenting with severe underweight, it is critically important to treat
      starvation and achieve medical stabilization and weight gain as the first priority. Research
      shows that weight gain during the first month of treatment produces a better outcome.
      Family-based treatment has the best evidence support to achieve early weight gain for
      adolescents with anorexia nervosa.

      In child and adolescent psychiatry in the Region Skåne in Sweden, a working group have
      developed guidelines for providing intensive and evidence-based treatment during the first
      month in case of severe restrictive eating disorder with pronounced starvation.

      Whenever a young person diagnosed with an eating disorder is suspected to suffer from
      starvation, an assessment shall be offered promptly, normally at the latest within fourteen
      days. If significant cardiac symptoms are reported, assessment must be made within a few
      days. The treating service should be prepared to offer at least 1-2 visits a week directly at
      treatment start.

      The high-intensity treatment focuses on medical stabilization and weight gain from the first
      visit. The goal of the treatment during the first month is weight gain of at least 2 kg
      (exception made for atypical anorexia nervosa with a normal or high weight - where the goal
      is to achieve medical stabilization). The focus is on helping the patient to conquer
      starvation. Interventions for normalizing eating will continue after this period.

      The project is aiming at implementing this treatment program in the general child psychiatric
      clinic, with its main focus on the implementation of evidence based family therapy. In the
      project the investigators have developed two treatment manuals, one for the general family
      treatment during the first month and one for the family meal.

      12 child psychiatric outpatient clinics in the south of Sweden will take part. The study aims
      to evaluate the implementation of a standardized treatment model during the first month.

      The ROCKETLAUNCH project will be running for three years. The study will gather data at three
      time points.

        1. At treatment start

        2. After one month

        3. At one year follow-up.

      The investigators are going to evaluate:

        1. The implementation, how the clinical organization and the therapists follow the
           treatment protocol.

        2. The waiting time and the frequency of treatment sessions.

        3. Amount of in-patient care.

        4. The outcome of the patient, with focus on weight gain and medical stabilization. The
           investigators will also look at psychological improvement, and evaluate the improvement
           in specific eating disorders psychopathology and improvement in general psychiatric
           psychopathology.

        5. The health economic cost. The main outcome variables, such as weight gain, waiting time,
           frequency of treatment sessions and amount of inpatient care will be compared with the
           patients and families who have been in treatment before the ROCKETLAUNCH project
           started.
    
  