
    
      Aim of the study:

      To investigate the importance and relative contribution of interpersonal and intra-individual
      factors, including lifetime trauma exposure, emotion regulation, social group belonging and
      socioeconomic deprivation in predicting PTSD symptoms in older adults.

      Primary research questions:

        1. Will greater lifetime trauma exposure predict higher levels of PTSD symptoms in older
           adults?

        2. Will greater difficulties in emotion regulation predict higher levels of PTSD symptoms
           in older adults?

        3. Will a lower number of group identifications predict higher levels of PTSD symptoms in
           older adults?

        4. Will higher levels of socioeconomic deprivation predict higher levels of PTSD symptoms
           in older adults?

      Secondary research questions:

        1. What is the relative contribution of lifetime trauma exposure in predicting levels of
           PTSD symptoms in older adults?

        2. What is the relative contribution of difficulties in emotion regulation in predicting
           levels of PTSD symptoms in older adults?

        3. What is the relative contribution of group identifications in predicting levels of PTSD
           symptoms in older adults?

        4. What is the relative contribution of socioeconomic deprivation in predicting levels of
           PTSD symptoms in older adults?

      Design:

      The study will employ a cross-sectional, within-groups design. An opportunistic clinical
      sample of older adults, aged 65 and over, in receipt of psychological treatment for PTSD,
      anxiety or depression in the Older People Psychological Therapies Service in NHS Tayside will
      be recruited. Participants will be asked to provide basic demographic information and to
      complete five measures, screening for cognitive impermanent and measuring PTSD symptoms,
      lifetime trauma exposure, emotion regulation and group identification. Correlation and
      multiple regression analyses will be used to answer the research hypotheses.
    
  