
    
      BACKGROUND Failure in symptom relief in children with cancer leads to physical and emotional
      distress. Success in symptom relief is assumed to decrease distress. To initiate a
      person-centred approach to child-centred care means to elucidate, listen to and affirm the
      child´s story. Assessments of distress and symptoms are essential in symptom relief for
      children with cancer. However, the exclusive assessment of pain intensity can be considered a
      restrictive description of the experience. Novel assessment tools that give a broader
      description of symptoms are needed. Self-reports of symptoms are the gold standard for
      measuring symptoms, and strategies to achieve symptom relief to represent a dynamic and
      interactive process. A complex intervention has been chosen, and the project follows the
      Medical Research Council´s key principles and actions for consideration in the developing of
      the intervention.

      AIM This project aims to investigate whether a person-centred communication intervention
      employing a new digital communication tool for children undergoing cancer treatment decrease
      the children's self-reported distress

      Research questions:

      Does adding a digital reporting and communication tool, decrease distress in children with
      cancer, aged 5-17 years, who undergo high-dose methotrexate treatment?

      Does the adding of a digital reporting and communication tool, increase person-centredness in
      children with cancer, aged 5-17 years, who undergo high-dose methotrexate treatment?

      Hypothesis: (i) Person-centred communication with children undergoing cancer treatment,
      applying a digital reporting and communication tool, will lead to reduced self-reported
      distress on an analogue assessment tool (paper sheet) (primary outcome), a decrease in
      neuropeptides, neurosteroids and peripheral steroids for stress and pain in blood, and an
      increased person-centeredness (secondary outcomes) (effect).

      (ii) The person-centred communication is performed in child-centred ways to proactively
      assess children's symptoms (process) and will be evaluated with frequency of use and
      feasibility.

      METHODS/DESIGN Study design The children will participate in a cross-over design where they
      are their own controls. This is a hybrid design, which evaluates both the effects and the
      implementation (process).

      The participant is given a code in a predetermined order; the code shows whether he or she
      should start either with intervention (application) or with the control conditions.
      Randomization of the codes occurs in advance at randomizer.org, and the researcher always
      picks the codes in a predetermined order without knowing if it is intervention or control.
      This is revealed when the participant has agreed to participate in the study. Participating
      children participate twice, once as a control and once with e-health support Pictorial
      support in Person-centered care for children (PicPecc).
    
  