
    
      Clopidogrel is the most widely used P2Y12 receptor inhibitor and is the only agent of this
      class currently recommended in patients with stable coronary artery disease (CAD) undergoing
      PCI, and for the treatment of stroke or PAD. Although the efficacy of DAPT with aspirin and
      clopidogrel has been consistently shown in different clinical settings, rates of ischemic
      recurrences remain elevated despite this treatment regimen, especially in high risk patients.
      This has been in part attributed to the high interindividual variability in responses to
      clopidogrel. Pharmacodynamic (PD) studies have shown that approximately 30-40% of patients
      experience high on-treatment platelet reactivity (HPR) while receiving clopidogrel treatment.
      Importantly HPR status has been strongly associated with an increased risk of ischemic
      events, in particular stent thrombosis, in patients with ACS and following PCI. This
      underscores the need for strategies aimed to reduce HPR rates in patients treated with
      clopidogrel. Multiple approaches have been advocated to reduce HPR rates. The pleiotropic
      effects associated with lipid lowering therapies, in particular statins, have been subject to
      extensive research. In a previous study treatment with high-dose atorvastatin in addition to
      double-dose clopidogrel reduced platelet reactivity significantly more than double-dose
      clopidogrel alone in statin-naïve patients with stable CAD and HPR. To date, the exact
      biological mechanisms involved in the statin modulation of platelet function are not fully
      understood, although likely attributed to both its lipid-lowering and non-lipid-related
      effects.

      Evolocumab is a monoclonal antibody targeting proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9
      (PCSK9) that is administered subcutaneously (s.c.) at a dosage of 140 mg every 2 weeks or 420
      mg once monthly. In clinical trials evolocumab was more effective than placebo and/or
      ezetimibe in reducing LDL cholesterol, including when added to statin therapy. The use of
      evolocumab plus standard therapy, as compared with standard therapy alone, significantly
      reduced the incidence of cardiovascular events. Whether the reduction in cardiovascular
      events is simply due to LDL reduction or might be related to other mechanisms is currently
      subject of investigation. Although LDL reduction with statin therapies has been associated
      with reduction in platelet reactivity, to date the effects on platelet aggregation of
      adjunctive lipid lowering with evolocumab has not been explored.

      The aim of the present study is to investigate the effects of evolocumab in addition to
      statin therapy on HPR rates and platelet reactivity in patients with atherosclerotic
      cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) and HPR while on clopidogrel treatment.
    
  