
    
      Several epidemiological studies indicates that diet and physical activity are two pivotal
      pillars for the maintenance the of the health status and for longevity. These two last
      factors seem to be strictly linked between them, as demonstrated by some studies on the so
      called "Blue zones", particular lands in the planet where longevity rate - in terms of
      nonagenarians and centenarians - is particularly high. In these studies, it has been pointed
      out that, other than genetics, individuals following dietary regimens with lower consumption
      of available carbohydrates and processed foods, higher consumption of fruit, vegetables,
      cereals and pulses and moderate intake of meat, fish and dairy foods live longer and in a
      healthier status.

      The Abruzzo region is characterized by a great gastronomical variability, due also to the
      particular geographical characterization, with a few kilometer distance between sea and
      mountains. However, most of these dietary habits tend to stick in a valuable way to
      Mediterranean Diet, a dietary regimen listed in 2010 in the Representative List of the
      Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity by UNESCO. Intriguingly, the Mediterranean Diet is
      based on the intake of the above mentioned food groups, plus a recognized key role of the
      physical activity and conviviality in the meal consumption.

      Particularly, in the internal and mountainous part of the Abruzzo region, it has been found
      that the local citizens followed/follows a typical "dietary practice" called "sdijuno", which
      in local dialect means "to break the fasting of the night". In fact, "sdijuno" was the first
      abundant meal of the day - usually at mid-morning, based on the local vegetable-based foods -
      following the previous frugal dinner and breakfast meals. Thus, it can be hypothesized of
      14-16 hours of almost fasting period. This evidence falls into the most recent findings
      showing the importance to consume meals in the middle part of the day and limiting the
      caloric intake during evening time, when metabolism tends to decrease according to body
      circadian rhythm.

      Based on these premises, the aim of the present study is to survey the dietary habits of
      nonagenarians and centenarians of the Abruzzo region - particularly focusing on their
      adherence to "sdijuno" practice - as well as physical activity and to collect personal data
      and health status information. Then, it will be investigated whether the adherence to the
      "sdijuno" dietary practice is relevant among the nonagenarians and centenarians and there is
      a link between this practice and the longevity of the volunteers. To do this, an ad hoc
      questionnaire has been set-up and will be administered to register food frequency and meal
      time, main recipes, physical activity habits, health status.
    
  