
    
      Chronic heart failure (CHF) is final phase of a variety of cardiovascular diseases.
      Epidemiological data revealed that the morbidity of CHF is 0.9% in China, and there are
      300,000 new CHF patients are diagnosed each year. Moreover, the total number of CHF patients
      exceeded 5.5 million throughout the country. Therefore, CHF has become a seriously social and
      public health problem in China.

      Although medical treatment for CHF has achieved considerable progress, prognosis is still
      poor and mortality is high among end-stage HF patients. Since the 1990s, cardiac
      resynchronization therapy(CRT) has been applied to treat CHF, a large number of
      evidence-based medicine has shown that CRT brings great clinical effects; CRT mainly aims at
      delayed activation of left ventricular(LV) and stimulates LV in advance to restore the inter-
      and intra-ventricular synchrony. As a result, cardiac function, symptoms and quality of life
      in CHF patients improved, meanwhile mortality rate also decreases. At present, CRT is
      recommended in quite a number of CHF patients as class I indication. And yet, approximately
      30%-40% of patients did not show response to CRT. Non-response to CRT has become a
      significant problem that must be solved. In recent years, researchers have tried LV
      multipoint pacing (MPP), transseptal left ventricular endocardial pacing and MitraClip to get
      some achievements. But these new techniques and CRT itself have two main failings:(1) Up to
      now, there is no specific suggestions about whether the patient's myocardium has too severe
      myocardial fibrosis and scar burden to be fit for CRT.(2)The LV mechanical dysynchronization
      will influence CRT effects. So far, screening CRT indications is primarily based on QRS
      morphology and duration on surface electrocardiogram.QRS duration≥120ms represents the
      presence of electrical dysynchronization, however, electrical dysynchronization is not equal
      to mechanical dysynchronization. The key point of CRT is to solve the mechanical
      dysynchronization, so estimating cardiac mechanical dysynchrony is important for predicting
      the CRT response; In addition, LV lead implantation site also exerts an effect on CRT
      response. The standard-of-care of LV lead implantation technique now just relays on coronary
      vein angiography showing the appropriate branch vein. This approach cannot guarantee LV lead
      is implanted in the latest activation site and the non-scar segment. Therefore, the following
      two issues are very important: how to evaluate the myocardiac scar and LV mechanical
      dyssynchronization using an objective, accurate, simple and economic method? and how to
      explore a new image which can guide LV lead to position at the latest activation and non-scar
      segment conveniently and accurately during procedure for improving CRT response rate?
      Myocardial perfusion image-phase analysis technique(MPI-PA) is a new non-invasive method to
      evaluate LV desynchronization,the latest activation site and myocardial scar burden. In
      recent years,Henneman MM and Adelstein EC reported PA technique detecting LV systolic
      desynchronization and LV scar burden influencing on CRT response respectively. Their study
      showed that the low CRT response is associated with the mild LV dyssynchrony and severe scar
      burden.The past five years,our center has completed a prospective, randomized, multi-center
      study of"SPECT guided LV Lead Placement for Incremental Benefits to CRT
      Efficacy"(GUIDE-CRT).We found that the CRT efficacy in SPECT-Guided group at 6 months after
      CRT implantation was better than that in standard-of-care implantation group(control
      group):the reduction in LVESV at 6 months in guided group is much more than that in control
      group(control 28.2ml vs guided group 48.2ml,P=0.029). The CRT response rate, defined as
      reduction in LVESV more than 15%, in guided group was 55.8% is higher than 47.8% in control
      group,but there was no statistic difference between two groups.The guiding mothodology of
      implanting LV lead in our previous study (GUIDE-CRT) was as following: implanter chose the
      branch vein to implant LV lead based on the recommended site by MPI-PA. Under this guidance,
      still much percentage of LV lead did not located in the recommended site. Therefore, in order
      to further improve the accuracy of SPECT guiding LV lead placement, our present study will
      use automatic fusion of coronary venogram with SPECT images to guide the implantation of LV
      lead precisely, and bringing incremental benefits to CRT efficacy.

      This new study(GUIDE-CRT II) is a prospective, randomized, multi-center trial. Applying the
      new image fusion of SPECT MPI and coronary venogram to guide LV lead placement at the
      recommended optimal position, to achieve the precise localization, to avoid blindness of
      standard of care implantation methods and to improve response to CRT.
    
  