
    
      Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia (CIN) is the premalignant condition of cervical cancer.
      The standard treatment of histologically confirmed CIN2-3 is surgical excision by large loop
      excision of the transformation zone (LLETZ). This procedure has potential complications, such
      as hemorrhage, infection and preterm birth in subsequent pregnancies. For this reason,
      non-invasive therapies are needed. Imiquimod cream has been studied as a non-invasive
      treatment alternative in high-grade CIN, but evidence on treatment efficacy is limited and
      evidence on disease recurrence and quality of life during and after treatment is lacking. One
      RCT has been performed and shows that treatment of high-grade CIN with vaginal imiquimod
      cream leads to disease regression in 73%. Side-effects were generally mild, but common. A
      recent survey among gynecologists and a patient preference study indicate that imiquimod
      treatment of high-grade CIN is mainly preferred by a selected population of women with a
      future pregnancy wish. These women accept a lower treatment efficacy and higher rates of
      side-effects from imiquimod treatment in order to prevent future preterm birth caused by
      LLETZ treatment. Ideally, those women with a high probability of successful treatment would
      be selected.

      The objective of this study is to investigate the treatment efficacy, side-effects and
      quality of life associated with imiquimod treatment of high-grade CIN lesions in a selected
      population of patients who prefer imiquimod treatment instead of LLETZ. The study also aims
      to identify predictive biomarkers clinical response to imiquimod treatment, in order to
      select patients in which good treatment response is expected.

      The study design is a multicenter, open-label, non-randomized controlled intervention study.
      120 women with a histological diagnosis of CIN2 or CIN3 will be included and allocated to one
      of two treatment arms according to their preference:

        1. Imiquimod treatment arm(60 patients). Patients in this group are treated with vaginal
           imiquimod 5% cream during 16 weeks.

        2. Standard treatment arm (60 patients). Patients in this group will undergo LLETZ
           treatment.

      A control colposcopy will be performed after 10 weeks for the imiquimod group. In case of
      progressive disease, the treatment will be ended and LLETZ will be performed as treatment.
      For patients in which the treatment is continued, treatment efficacy will be evaluated after
      20 weeks, by colposcopy with diagnostic biopsies. Statistical analysis will be performed
      based on an intention-to-treat analysis.

      The primary study endpoints are:

        -  Treatment efficacy of imiquimod and LLETZ treatment, defined as regression to CIN1 or
           less after 20 weeks for imiquimod and no need for additional therapy within 6 months for
           LLETZ treatment.

        -  Identification of predictive biomarkers for the efficacy of imiquimod treatment in the
           individual patient, based on biomarkers reflecting host, virus and cellular factors.

      Secondary study endpoints are:

        -  Side effects of imiquimod therapy and LLETZ therapy.

        -  Disease recurrence at 6, 12 and 24 months follow-up.

        -  Quality of life (QoL) before, during and after treatment.
    
  