
    
      Chronic heart failure (CHF), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and interstitial
      lung disease (i.e., pulmonary fibrosis) have commonalities that make them ideal for early
      palliative care provided alongside disease-specific treatments. Quality of life is reduced in
      these illnesses because, despite disease-specific treatments, the same symptoms (e.g.,
      shortness of breath, fatigue) often persist in these illnesses. Quality of life is also
      reduced because between 50-60% of people with either illness have clinically significant
      depressive symptoms. Finally, while CHF, COPD, and interstitial lung disease are leading
      causes of hospitalization and mortality, few people with these illnesses engage in advance
      care planning. Providing palliative care concomitantly with other medical care offers an
      important opportunity to improve quality of life and advance care planning for people with
      CHF, COPD, or interstitial lung disease. For other conditions such as lung cancer, when
      provided early, prior to the end of life, palliative care improves quality of life,
      depressive symptoms, and survival while reducing health care utilization. While palliative
      care has been well-studied in patients with advanced cancer, it has not been adequately
      studied in CHF, COPD, or interstitial lung disease. The goal of this project is to determine
      whether the benefits of early palliative care extend to CHF, COPD or interstitial lung
      disease.

      The investigators developed and demonstrated early success with a patient-centered palliative
      care intervention to improve quality of life (i.e., symptoms, function) and advance care
      planning in CHF and COPD. The intervention consists of the following components: (1)
      algorithm-guided management of breathlessness, fatigue, and pain, provided by a nurse; the
      algorithms supplement disease-focused treatments with palliative and behavioral treatments;
      (2) a 6-session psychosocial care program targeting adjustment to illness and depression,
      provided by a social worker; and (3) engagement of patients and providers in advance care
      planning. The nurse and social worker are teamed with a palliative care specialist and
      representative primary care provider in brief weekly meetings. The team is integrated into
      primary care through nurse interaction with primary care providers and through electronic
      medical record communication.

      The investigators will conduct a hybrid effectiveness and implementation study.
      Population-based sampling methods will be used to enroll 300 Veterans with CHF, COPD, or
      interstitial lung disease who have poor quality of life and are at high risk for
      hospitalization or death. The primary aim is to test the effectiveness of the intervention in
      a randomized controlled trial (intervention vs. enhanced usual care) in two VA health care
      systems. In a secondary aim, the investigators will examine the implementation of the
      intervention to guide future implementation and dissemination, increase the relevance to
      operational partners, and maximize the effectiveness of subsequent palliative care and
      team-based interventions.

      Aim 1: Determine the effect of the intervention on (a) quality of life as a primary outcome,
      and (b) depression, symptom burden, advance care planning communication and documentation,
      disease-specific health status, emergency department visits, hospitalizations, and mortality
      as secondary outcomes.

      Aim 2: Examine the implementation of the intervention.

      Aim 2a: Assess the degree, barriers, and facilitators of implementation of various
      components. Identify which intervention components and processes are most critical from the
      perspectives of patients, intervention team members, and primary care providers whose
      patients received the intervention.

      Aim 2b. Evaluate the resources (e.g., personnel time and other costs) associated with the
      intervention, and estimate the resources needed for implementation and maintenance in other
      VA settings.

      The proposed study is significant because it addresses patient-centered needs in illnesses
      that are major sources of disability. The study is innovative because it tests the
      effectiveness of palliative care in CHF, COPD, and interstitial lung disease, leading causes
      of death among Veterans. In addition, the intervention is integrated into primary care, and
      the intervention components are structured to ease replication, implementation, and
      dissemination.
    
  