
    
      Massive epidemics of meningococcal disease continue to occur every few years in countries of
      the African Sahel and sub-Sahel - the African meningitis belt. In 2009 there were more than
      50,000 reported cases in Nigeria alone. Most of these epidemics are caused by meningococci
      belonging to capsular polysaccharide serogroup A. African epidemics can be contained by
      existing meningococcal polysaccharide vaccines, saving many lives, but epidemics are not
      prevented by use of these vaccines. Recently, a new serogroup A meningococcal
      polysaccharide/protein conjugate vaccine (MenAfriVac), which may be able to prevent
      epidemics, was prequalified by the World Health Organization. This vaccine was developed by
      the Meningitis Vaccine Project (MVP) and is being produced at a cost ($0.40 per dose) that is
      affordable by countries of the African meningitis belt. Mass vaccination campaigns started in
      Burkina Faso, Mali and Niger at the end of 2010. Full coverage will be achieved in 2011 with
      progressive deployment to other countries in the meningitis belt.

      The safety and immunogenicity of MenAfriVac have been established through phase 1 and phase 2
      trials conducted in India and Africa but no efficacy trials have been undertaken.
      Prequalification was granted on the assumption that the high level of immunogenicity
      demonstrated in African populations would be reflected by a similar degree of efficacy. This
      is likely, but it is important that the efficacy of this vaccine is established definitively
      before large sums are spent on deploying the vaccine across the African meningitis belt.
      Therefore, a case control study to determine the efficacy of MenAfriVac in preventing
      serogroup A meningococcal meningitis in Mali and Niger is proposed.

      A case-control study will be conducted in Mali and in Niger during the 2011, 2012 and 2013
      meningitis seasons. Cases of meningitis will be detected through existing routine
      surveillance systems and their etiology established using standard microbiology or rapid
      diagnostic tests. Cases of proven serogroup A meningococcal meningitis (culture, antigen or
      PCR positive) will be matched with two hospital and two community controls who will, in turn,
      be matched with the cases for age and place of residence. A questionnaire will be
      administered to cases and controls which asks about previous meningococcal vaccination and
      other risk factors for meningococcal disease which might confound or modify assessment of the
      impact of vaccination with MenAfriVac. A blood sample will be collected for measurement of
      serogroup A meningococcal bactericidal and tetanus antibodies, as well as total
      immunoglobulin levels. Determination of vaccination status will be facilitated by the fact
      that vaccination cards will be issued to all recipients at the time of vaccination by the
      mass vaccination teams. Vaccine efficacy will be determined by comparing the odds of exposure
      to MenAfriVac in cases and controls.
    
  