
    
      Low back pain is defined as the pain that can occur in the region between the lower border of
      the scapula and the hip, sometimes spreading to the lower extremities, which causes activity
      limitation and is one of the most common health problems in the society. Appropriate use of
      assessment questionnaires is one of the most important steps in the evaluation of the
      functional level of the patient and in deciding on an effective treatment protocol. The
      purpose of our study is to determine the Turkish version, validity and reliability of Back
      Pain Function Scale. 180 patients with chronic low back pain were included in the study.
      Test-retest and internal consistency analysis were conducted to determine the reliability of
      the questionnaire. Test-retest results were evaluated using the Intraclass Correlation
      Coefficient method. Intraclass Correlation Coefficient results vary between 0.857 and 0.951,
      and the total Intraclass Correlation Coefficient value is found to be 0.961. These results
      indicate that the test-retest responses have a high degree of correlation. For internal
      consistency analysis, the Cronbach Alpha score was fou nd to be 0.910, indicating that the
      survey has high internal consistency. The total score obtained from the Back Pain Function
      Scale was assessed using the Pearson correlation analysis with the total scores obtained from
      the Roland Morris Disability Scale , Oswestry Disability Scale. Pearson's correlation
      coefficient was -0.840 with Oswestry Disability Scale of Back Pain Function Scale, Pearson's
      correlation coefficient was -0.803 with Roland Morris Disability Scale. The results show that
      the Back Pain Function Scale correlates perfectly with the Oswestry Disability Scale and the
      Roland Morris Disability Scale. In conclusion, Turkish version of Bac Pain Function Scale is
      valid and reliable.
    
  