
    
      In 2016, nearly 30% hospital discharges in the United States (US) had a major diagnostic
      category for a substance-use related condition. Substance misuse ranks second among principal
      diagnoses for unplanned 7-day hospital readmission rates. Despite the availability of
      Screening, Brief Intervention, and Referral to Treatment (SBIRT) interventions, substance
      misuse is not part of the admission routine and only a minority of patients are screened for
      substance misuse in the hospital setting. This is particularly problematic, since among
      hospitalized inpatients, the prevalence of substance misuse is estimated to be as high as
      25%, greater than either the general population or outpatient setting. Practical screening
      methods tailored for the hospital setting are needed.

      In the advent of Meaningful Use in the electronic health record (EHR), efficiency for alcohol
      detection may be improved by leveraging data collected during usual care. Documentation of
      substance use is common and occurs in over 96% of provider admission notes, but their free
      text format renders them difficult to mine and analyze. Natural Language Processing (NLP) and
      machine learning are subfields of artificial intelligence (AI) that provide a solution to
      analyze text data in the EHR to identify substance misuse. Modern NLP has fused with machine
      learning, another sub-field of artificial intelligence focused on learning from data. In
      particular, the most powerful NLP methods rely on supervised learning, a type of machine
      learning that takes advantage of current reference standards to make predictions about unseen
      cases

      In the earlier version of an NLP and machine learning tool, the investigators successfully
      used data from clinical notes collected in the first 24 hours of hospital admission to reach
      a sensitivity and specificity above 70% for identifying alcohol misuse. With nearly 36
      million hospital admissions in 2016, a substance misuse classifier has potential to impact
      millions.

      In this study, the aim is to prospectively implement a substance misuse classifier to examine
      its effectiveness against current practice of all hospitalized adult patients at a tertiary
      health system. The health system has a mature screening system to examine substance misuse
      classifier performance against current practice of questionnaire screening.

      The hypothesis is that the substance misuse classifier may provide a standardized,
      interoperable, and accurate approach to screen hospitalized patients. Successful
      implementation of the classifier in hospitalized patients is a step towards an automated and
      comprehensive universal screening system for substance misuse.
    
  