
    
      Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) are a large and increasingly costly problem for India.
      Recent research estimates that NCDs could cost the Indian economy US$6.2 trillion from
      2012-2030 if left unaddressed. For some NCDs, new solutions will need to be developed for
      diagnosis and treatment, while, for others, the necessary interventions exist but are not
      readily available to all who need them. Visual impairment is one area of health in which
      limited access to diagnostic and treatment technologies jeopardizes the health and economic
      well-being of the population. This is particularly true in India, where the population is
      rapidly aging and, despite the presence of some high-quality medical facilities, there
      remains a large burden of unaddressed visual impairment.

      Loss of visual acuity can negatively impact individual and household income by reducing
      productivity or hours worked among the visually impaired; it can also affect economic
      wellbeing via the need for caretakers. There are two key tests that determine visual acuity
      and measure vision loss:

        1. Basic visual acuity (BVA), which is assessed using the naked eye or, when applicable,
           eyeglasses, and

        2. Best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), which uses refraction to determine eyeglass/contact
           lens prescription.

      In addition, diagnosing vision-hindering eye conditions requires specific medications or
      surgical procedures. Diagnosis of glaucoma, cataracts, or diabetic retinopathy typically
      requires a physician to examine a patient's retinas, corneas, and/or pupils at close range
      using specialized equipment, in conjunction with the visual acuity tests described above.

      BCVA tests typically require heavy, cumbersome, and expensive equipment such as phoropters
      (instruments that measure the refractive state of the eye). Likewise, eye diseases typically
      require the use of specialized equipment such as slit lamp microscopes, ophthalmoscopes, and
      tonometers.

      However, the recent and anticipated availability of affordable and lightweight portable
      technologies which can be used both by medical professionals and by trained laypeople has
      made eye testing easier and faster. This study will validate a number of new handheld devices
      developed for visual acuity measurement and retinal imaging.

      This study explores testing for visual acuity and other impairments like diabetic
      retinopathy, glaucoma, age-related macular degeneration (AMD), and cataract without the use
      of traditional stationery and expensive instruments such as phoropters and conventional
      autorefractors and at a comparatively low cost. If the devices are proven able to accurately
      evaluate visual acuity and produce high-quality retinal images that can be used to aid
      diagnosis, it will be a breakthrough in reducing barriers of access to eye care facilities
      encountered by the majority of the rural population in India and other developing countries.

      Also, since these devices are convenient and relatively easy to use, they can be easily used
      in household/community surveys involving vision measurement; the investigators are proposing
      to perform data collection for this study in India partially in order to investigate the
      potential for use of one or more of handheld devices in upcoming waves of the Longitudinal
      Aging Study in India (Protocol Number 16715), a nationally-representative aging and
      retirement study that collects data on multiple dimensions of aging, including socioeconomic,
      cognitive, and health indicators with the aim of informing national policy and practice
      relating to older adults. Specifically, the study involves an extensive biomarkers module
      which includes direct measurement of multiple medical and anthropometric indicators, such as
      blood pressure, grip strength, lung function, height, and weight. The current version of the
      biomarkers module calls for the use of a traditional eye chart to measure BVA; however,
      future versions of the study would greatly benefit from the use, if feasible, of portable and
      inexpensive devices which would allow researchers to collect richer and more accurate data on
      visual acuity and/or eye conditions and therefore provide a more detailed picture on older
      adults' eye health, as well as the predictors and correlates of eye health, on a national
      level.

      Through the data gained from this study, the investigators hope to be able to develop useful
      recommendations for researchers, community health organizations, and health care
      professionals whose studies and patients would benefit from access to relatively low-cost
      portable vision measurement and retinal imaging devices. In particular, Indian consumers will
      have access to all devices pending market approval.
    
  