
    
      The study is a single-site randomized controlled trial (RCT) focused on a high-risk ED
      population with evidence of moderately elevated BP (≥140/90 mmHg) at discharge. ED patients
      will be recruited and randomized into two arms: 1) usual care (preprinted discharge
      instructions and 48-72 hour referral to a federally qualified health center (FQHC) or
      assigned provider as appropriate); 2) ED-initiated E2 intervention program followed by 48-72
      hour referral to a FQHC (or assigned health center). Based on the ED population demographics
      (70% ethnic minorities), the majority of participants will be underrepresented minorities
      (NHB and Hispanic) and low-income individuals. The investigators propose the following
      specific aims and hypotheses:

      Aim 1: Evaluate the effectiveness of an ED-based E2 + PACHT-c intervention (arm 2) on the
      primary outcome of mean SBP difference at 6-months post-intervention compared to usual care
      (arm 1).

      H1: The mean SBP difference (from baseline) will be significantly greater in the E2+ PACHT-c
      group (arm 2) compared to the usual care group (arm 1) at 6- months post-randomization, i.e.,
      SBP change in arm 2 > arm 1 at 6-months post-randomization.

      Aim 2: Evaluate the effectiveness of an ED-based E2 intervention with PACHT-c on the
      secondary outcome of mean SBP and DBP differences at 3-months, and mean DBP differences at 6
      months post-intervention compared to usual care.

      H2: The mean SBP and DBP differences from baseline to 3- months post-intervention and mean
      DBP at 6-months post intervention will be significantly greater in the ED-based E2
      intervention compared to the usual care group, i.e., SBP and DBP change in arm 2 > arm 1 at 3
      -months post-intervention and DBP change in arm 2 > arm 1 at 6 -months post-intervention.

      Aim 3: Examine if the E2 intervention reduces racial disparities. Specifically, if the
      intervention is as effective in racial minorities as non-minorities. This will be an
      exploratory analysis and will primarily focus on changes in cardiovascular risk
      score/profile. Also included will be an assessment of intervention mediators: primary care
      engagement, medication adherence, and HTN knowledge in these same patients at 3 and 6-months
      post randomization-intervention.
    
  