
    
      This study is an extension of a pilot study that was conducted investigating an online
      acceptance-based behavioural therapy (ABBT) for chronic pain. The online treatment runs for a
      total of 8 weeks and includes interactive content to promote the participant's engagement
      with the treatment material. The treatment has been specifically tailored for military,
      police and veteran populations as it uses language and audio vignettes to which military,
      police and veteran individuals can easily relate. Based on promising results from a pilot
      study conducted using the online ABBT program, the investigators conducted a randomized
      control trial (RCT) of the treatment by randomly allocating participants into either a
      treatment group, or a wait-list control group. Clients who are new to the participating
      clinic participate in an intake appointment with the clinic's intake nurse, and during this
      appointment are informed about the different research projects currently being run at the
      clinic. Participants interested in the study were screened for inclusion and exclusion
      criteria during their intake appointment. For this study, all eligible participants were
      asked to complete an informed consent form prior to being issued a unique password and user
      ID for access to the online portion of the treatment. A treatment fidelity plan and data
      safety monitoring plan have been established to ensure treatment procedures remain consistent
      across groups, and that data integrity is monitored over the duration of the study. The
      treatment program is an eight module (8-week) ABBT for chronic pain. The online treatment
      material is administered via the WebCAPSI Therapy program. This is an online
      password-protected program which allows participants to progress through the treatment
      modules at their own pace. Each module is designed to cover a specific component of ABBT and
      facilitated understanding of the components through audio files, veteran, military and
      RCMP-specific vignettes, text-based material, and homework exercises/assignments. Each module
      is designed to be completed in 60 minutes or less and participants have the option to return
      to the program and the modules as often as they like during the course of the treatment
      period. On the completion of each module, and facilitated through the WebCAPSI Therapy
      program, the participants are asked to complete a homework exercise to which they answer
      questions previously encountered throughout the module. The principle therapist responds to
      each homework exercise within 24-hours of its online submission, with feedback and
      encouragement. The participants completed a battery of measures at the outset of the
      randomization process (both treatment and wait-list control conditions), and again at the end
      of the 8-weeks. A 3-month follow-up assessment was conducted to evaluate the maintenance of
      treatment gains. Only participants who complete at least 5 out of the 8 modules were
      considered to have "completed" the treatment, and therefore included in the analyses. The
      interactions from the mixed model ANOVA analyses were statistically significant for changes
      in pain interference, kinesiophobia, and pain acceptance. Regarding the main effects of Time,
      only change in pain acceptance was found to be significant, whereas no main effect of
      Condition was found to be statistically significant. For the treatment condition, dependent
      t-tests were conducted to further assess mean differences between the pre-treatment,
      post-treatment, and follow-up scores on each of the four dependent variables. The results for
      the pre- to-post-test dependent t-tests revealed statistically significant differences for
      all of the dependent variables except for pain interference, although even this measurement
      was close to statistical significance with t(13) = 2.07, p = .059. As expected, there were no
      statistically significant differences between post-treatment and follow-up for each of the
      dependent variables. Only change in pain acceptance scores was significantly predicted by
      participants scores on both measures of PTSD and depression symptoms. The results from this
      study provide further empirical support for the use of acceptance-based behavioural
      interventions for treating various chronic pain conditions, and thus add to the recent
      growing body of literature for acceptance-based treatments for chronic pain. These results
      also highlight how this acceptance-based behavioural treatment helps to significantly
      decrease pain interference and kinesiophobia, as well as increase pain acceptance. This study
      adds a unique contribution to the understanding of how depression and PTSD symptoms influence
      treatment gains for pain acceptance, when utilizing an acceptance-based behavioural
      intervention for chronic pain. These positive findings provide further support for the use of
      this acceptance-based behavioural treatment for chronic pain within police and military
      populations.
    
  