
    
      There is a well established link between physical inactivity and increased mortality in the
      general population and patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) have low fitness levels
      when compared to their healthy counterparts (50% of expected norm when commencing dialysis
      therapy). Trials have shown that physical activity confers many physical and mental health
      benefits in this patient population, with improvements in fitness, walking capacity, health
      of the heart and quality of life; indeed, national guidelines now consider physical activity
      to be a cornerstone of disease management (Cochrane Collaboration 2006; Workgroup KD 2005).
      CKD patients have lower levels of physical activity than age-matched controls; this is
      particularly marked for older patients and those on dialysis. The Department of Health
      recommends ≥150 mins/ week of moderate intensity PA (accumulated in bouts of at least 10
      minutes) for the general population (DoH UK Physical Activity Guidelines 2011). Many studies
      have sought to characterise the most effective forms of exercise for CKD patients. Recent
      attention has focussed on intradialytic cycling, with studies showing benefits not only for
      fitness and endurance but also muscle strength, power, and physical function. However,
      translating research guided physical activity programmes into routine clinical practice is
      challenging, requiring consideration of patients' physical and psychological barriers to
      exercise.

      Assessing the impact of any activity programme requires comparison of health and exercise
      behaviours pre and post intervention. Several self-report physical activity questionnaires
      are available but the Human Activity Profile has been validated in CKD patients (Johansen et
      al. 2001). However, information obtained from patient self-reporting is subjective and prone
      to bias. Objective measurement devices such as accelerometers are more accurate.

      Feasibility of an effective intervention to increase physical activity requires understanding
      of perceptions of exercise in the population of interest. In this way, the intervention can
      be specifically targeted to take account of perceived benefits and barriers towards physical
      activity and thereby increase compliance. This study will provide: 1)feasibility and
      acceptability of an instructor led chair based exercise programme and educational package
      (booklet); 2) both self-report and objective measurements of physical activity levels in a
      sample of haemodialysis patients. This key information will later be used to assess whether a
      informed large scale PA intervention study in haemodialysis patients is feasible.
    
  