
    
      Breast cancer is the most common cancer to affect women in Europe, having a lifetime risk of
      1 in 9. It is an increasingly treatable disease, and 10-year survival now exceeds 80%. The
      primary treatment for breast cancer is surgery, which may be used in conjunction with
      adjuvant therapies, such as chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Given the high breast cancer
      survival rate, many women will live for many years with the potentially disfiguring aesthetic
      consequences of their surgical and therapeutic treatment. A good aesthetic outcome is an
      important endpoint for breast cancer treatment and is closely related to psychosocial
      recovery and quality of life.

      When a woman faces a breast cancer diagnosis, and surgery is proposed, several options are
      available. The decision as to which type of surgery to offer patients is largely subjective
      and based almost exclusively on the judgment and experience of the clinician. The cosmetic
      outcome of surgery is a function of many factors including tumour size and location, the
      volume of the breast, its density, and the dose and distribution of radiotherapy. In
      breast-conserving surgery, there is evidence that approximately 30% of women receive a
      suboptimal or poor aesthetic outcome; however there is currently no standardised method of
      identifying these women.

      The PICTURE project aims to address these issues by providing objective tools, tailored to
      the individual patient, to predict the aesthetic outcome of local treatment. Using a
      combination of 3D photography and routinely acquired radiological images (i.e. mammography,
      ultrasound and MRI, when available), together with information about the tumour (size,
      location, shape etc.) we will develop techniques to biomechanically model the anatomy of the
      breast and the effect of surgical removal of cancerous tissue. This digital patient
      representation and associated predictive tools will enable alternative surgical strategies to
      be explored and the consequences of the available options, with respect to the appearance of
      the breast, to be visualised. This will aid communication with the patient of the type of
      breast surgery recommended by the surgeon, and will empower patients to take an active role
      in a shared decision making process.

      The study will develop tools to enable the patient's aesthetic appearance after treatment to
      be objectively evaluated. Current techniques use subjective methods, such as assessment by an
      expert panel, or computer analysis of 2-dimensional photography to estimate, for instance,
      breast asymmetry. By adopting recent developments in low cost 3D photography and depth
      sensing technology, we will develop a standardised, reproducible analysis tool which will
      base the aesthetic outcome evaluation on both the 3-dimensional shape of the reconstructed
      breast and its volume. This will establish standardised quality assurance and evaluation
      procedures, enabling institutions across Europe to be compared and factors that have a
      positive or negative impact on surgical outcome identified.

      In summary, the demonstrator created by the PICTURE project will integrate models of surgical
      techniques and treatment schemes, clinical patient data, multi-modal imaging and
      individualised models of patient anatomy to build a personalised, digital representation of
      the patient. The aim is for this to be used as an aid to surgical planning, via simulation of
      the cosmetic effects of breast conserving surgery, as a decision support tool to communicate
      the available options to the patient and to enable standardised evaluation and a safe outcome
      of the procedure. The demonstrator aims to empower patients and will have a direct impact on
      their care and quality of life.
    
  