
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the feasibility and activity of intensive therapy with 3 noncross
      resistant chemotherapeutic regimens (cyclophosphamide, etoposide, cisplatin, cytarabine, and
      tandem courses of high dose melphalan with stem cell rescue) in patients with chemotherapy
      sensitive multiple myeloma. II. Determine the incidence of hematologic and nonhematologic
      toxicities of this regimen in this patient population. III. Determine the time to hematologic
      recovery after high dose melphalan in these patients. IV. Determine the response rate after
      each course of therapy in these patients. V. Determine the disease free, relapse free, and
      overall survival of these patients treated on this regimen. VI. Determine the incidence of
      toxicities attributable to interferon alfa and the ability to continue interferon alfa
      therapy as maintenance in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to the number of prior treatments (1 vs 2).
      Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour every 3 hours for 5 doses. Filgrastim
      (G-CSF) is administered subcutaneously daily beginning 3 days after cyclophosphamide and
      continuing through apheresis. Upon hematologic recovery, peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC)
      are collected over several days. After completion of the autologous stem cell harvest and
      hematologic recovery, patients receive etoposide IV and cisplatin IV continuously over 4
      days, followed by cytarabine IV over 2 hours. Beginning 4-6 weeks later, patients receive
      melphalan IV over 15 minutes on 2 consecutive days. At least 48 hours after the second dose
      of melphalan, PBSC are reinfused. G-CSF is administered subcutaneously daily beginning 5 days
      after PBSC reinfusion until hematologic recovery. Patients remaining in remission after the
      first course of high dose melphalan receive a second course of melphalan 4 to 6 months after
      the first course. Melphalan IV is administered as above with reinfusion of the remainder of
      PBSC. After hematologic recovery from the second transplant, patients receive interferon alfa
      subcutaneously 3 days weekly until relapse. Patients are followed every 2 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 28 patients will be accrued for this study within 3 years.
    
  