
    
      Purpose:

      To investigate 3 different side-effects after DSAEK, DMEK, and cataract extraction (CE) in a
      randomized controlled trial with 12 months follow-up with CE as an additional control group.

        1. To investigate the extend of subclinical cystoid macular edema CME and epiretinal
           membrane (ERM) after DSAEK, DMEK, and CE.

        2. To investigate IOP-related changes after DSAEK, DMEK, and CE in means of pupil diameter
           and cpRNFLT. Further, to describe iris alterations including Urrets-Zavalia Syndrome
           (UZS).

        3. To compare the difference in forward scatter, visual acuity (VA), and low-contrast VA
           after DSAEK, DMEK, and CE and relate this to the best corrected visual acuity (BCVA).
           Further, to investigate changes in higher-order aberrations, patient reported outcome
           measures (PROM), and total corneal refraction after the procedures.

      Hypotheses:

        1. Subclinical CME and ERM are adverse effects that occur equally often following DSAEK,
           DMEK, and CE.

        2. Following DSAEK, DMEK, and CE, there are no differences in the amount of IOP-related
           changes in means of pupil diameter,cpRNFLT thinning or iris alterations.

        3. Changes in OSI, HOA, PROM, VA, contrast sensitivity, and total corneal refraction occur
           to the same extend after DSAEK, DMEK, and CE.

      Materials and Methods:

      Patients referred to the Department of Ophthalmology at Aarhus University Hospital (AUH) for
      EK or CE will be assessed in order to identify suitable study subjects.

      Only patients with primary endothelial failure (Fuchs endothelial dystrophy) and a
      concomitant need for CE will be considered eligible for randomization to either the DSAEK or
      the DMEK study groups. Patients included in the study will be randomized 1:1 to the DSAEK or
      DMEK study groups. Patients referred for CE will be offered to participate in the project and
      will be included in the CE group. Based on power calculations, it is planned to include 40
      patients in each of the 3 groups.

      Subject and donor characteristics will be gathered. Subjects with prior uveitis, severe
      vitreous opacities, diabetes, retinal vein occlusion, glaucoma, AMD, macular atrophy, trauma
      or corneal grafting will be excluded from the study. Data collection will be conducted at AUH
      before the interventions and in the follow-up period.

      Donor tissue will be prepared in the Danish Cornea Bank, either pre-pealed for DMEK or
      pre-cut for DSAEK.

      Measurements as described below will be conducted both prior to the surgical intervention and
      3, 6, and 12 months after this.

      Patients lost to follow-up during the project will only be used for analysis at the
      time-point they have attended. Therefore, for all time-points after the loss to follow-up
      these subjects will be excluded from our investigation.

      In case of capsule rupture where the intraocular lens still is positioned into the lens bag
      during CE or if rebubbling is needed after DSAEK or DMEK, the subjects will still be eligible
      for further participation in the project. Adverse events such as primary graft failure or
      rejection is considered to be rare events for both DSAEK and DMEK and subjects with these
      will be excluded from our final estimates.
    
  