
    
      Clinical monitoring. MGI (0: no bleeding when a periodontal tube is passed along the mucosal
      margin adjacent to the implant; 1: visible isolated bleeding points; 2: blood forms a
      confluent red line at the mucosal margin and 3: profuse bleeding) and the MPI (0: no plaque;
      1: plaque recognized only by probing through the smooth marginal surface of the implant; 2:
      plaque can be seen with the naked eye; 3: abundance of alba matter). PD was determined using
      a soft plastic periodontal probe for torque-controlled implants at 0.15 N / cm. Three buccal
      and three lingual reference points for each implant were used to calculate the mean probing
      depth in millimeters for each implant. PB was dichotomously evaluated: the presence of
      bleeding was considered positive when it occurred within 20 seconds after insertion of the
      probe to measure PD. The height of the keratinized mucosa present around each implant was
      also measured.

      All clinical parameters described above were recorded at baseline (pre-intervention period)
      as well as at 12 and 24 weeks after study initiation.

      Treatment of peri-implant mucositis and maintenance care. Prior to the beginning of the
      intervention, all patients received oral hygiene instruction. Mechanical debridements were
      performed with titanium curves and polishing using a rubber bowl and polishing paste. In the
      Test Group the treatment session was completed by a professional topical application around
      the carboxymethylcellulose gel implants containing 109 colony (CFU) forming units of B.
      lactis HN019. The gel was applied sub and supragingivally. The patients then received
      commercial capsules containing the same bacteria and were instructed to dissolve the capsule
      contents in 20 mL of water and rinse for 30 to 60 seconds, followed by swallowing twice a day
      for 12 weeks. The control group received the same oral hygiene instructions, mechanical
      debridement and was treated with gel and placebo tablets. At 3 months postoperatively, the
      same local mechanical and chemical treatment was repeated for the Test and Control groups.
    
  