
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the proportion of patients who are not smoking (successful quitters) at 12
      months post-radiation therapy (RT)/chemotherapy and radiation therapy (CRT) and compare
      proportions between the two study arms.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the proportion of patients who are not smoking at 6 months post-RT/CRT between
      the two study arms.

      II. Among patients who quit smoking, determine the proportion of patients who experience
      smoking relapse at 12 months post-RT/CRT and compare between the two study arms.

      III. To compare the maximum degree of mucositis and mucositis-related pain during radiation
      treatment and the following week post-treatment between the two study arms.

      IV. Determine the impact of study treatment on anxiety, depression and quality of life (QOL)
      and compare between two study arms.

      V. Collect descriptive data assessing smoking status among caregivers and corresponding data
      concerning whether smoking relapse occurs in our patient population.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive bupropion hydrochloride orally (PO) for 3 days and then twice daily
      (BID) for up to 1 year post RT/CRT.

      ARM B: Patients receive smoking cessation treatment tailored to individual smokers based on
      preference, smoking history and contra-indications. Patients are given the choice of one of
      the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN)-recommended first-line pharmacotherapy
      options for smoking cessation comprised of varenicline PO daily for 1 week and then BID for
      12 weeks or combination of nicotine patch and acute nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) for 12
      weeks. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Treatment with varenicline or NRT can be extended up to 6 months to 1 year as needed.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up for 30 days.
    
  