
    
      Tics are defined as repetitive non-voluntary contractions of functionally related groups of
      skeletal muscles in one or more parts of the body. Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome (TS)
      forms a separate diagnostic category with multiple tics including vocal (phonic) tics
      occurring several times per day, for at least 1 year with onset before age 18. Persistent
      (chronic) tic disorder (TD) may involve a single motor or vocal tic. Tics peak around age 11
      but can persist into adulthood with a prevalence of 1% and if untreated cause significant
      impairment. The current treatment guidelines for managing the tics recommend a Behavioural
      treatment, "habit reversal", which focuses on reversing the tic habit, now developed as a
      Comprehensive Behavioural Intervention for Tics (CBIT). CBIT involves multiple stages
      including awareness, relaxation, contingency training, positive reinforcement for not do the
      tic and the practice of a competing response antagonistic to the tic. A recent large scale
      multisite study compared CBIT with supportive therapy and found a significantly greater
      decrease in adults and children tics treated with CBIT. However, in both adult and child
      studies, 48-62% of samples were classified as non-responders. Effect sizes were medium
      (Cohen's d´= 0.55 - 0.68) compared to supportive therapy with mean tic decrease of 25-30% and
      samples remained symptomatic at follow-up. Research over the last 10 years (funded by the
      CIHR) have led to elaboration of a cognitive behavioural psychophysiological model of
      treatment (CoPs) of tic disorders. The CoPs is multi-modal and targets cognitive, behavioural
      and physiological processes characteristic of tic disorders rather than focusing on reversing
      the actual tic at onset. In the last funding period 2009-2013 the investigators have
      successfully applied the program to all subtypes and severity of adults with TS/TD both with
      and without comorbidity and compared outcome with a natural waitlist control. Results showed
      a clinically significant reduction of tic frequency following CoPs (Cohen's d- 1.43-2.34),
      maintained at 6-month follow-up. Validity of the CoPs model was supported by a change in
      behavioural and psychosocial as well as tic symptom measures post-treatment and at 6-month
      follow-up, and a post-treatment normalization of participants' performance on
      neuropsychological and electrophysiological measures.
    
  