
    
      Objective The primary objective with this study is to investigate the feasibility of an
      internet-delivered psychological intervention provided soon after trauma (within 2 months).
      The secondary objective is to investigate the effects of the internet-delivered CBT
      intervention on intrusive memories compared to no treatment.

      Trial design We will first pre-pilot test the intervention- and assessment procedures in five
      participants (no randomization) which will be followed by a randomized controlled trial with
      waitlist control. The wait list control group will also receive treatment after the first
      group has finished.

      SAMPLE SIZE 5 plus 30 participants.

      ENDPOINTS Self-report assessment of daily intrusions at baseline and post-treatment

      SECONDARY ENDPOINTS The Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Checklist for DSM-5 (PCL-5) at baseline
      (and post-treatment Montgomery Åsberg Depression Rating Scale - Self-report (MADRS-S) at
      baseline and post-treatment.

      Euroqol, EQ-5D at baseline and post-treatment.

      Recruitment Self-referral. Advertising will be made through national newspapers, social
      media, patient organisations' and ads directed to health care units, such as emergency
      departments, in Sweden.

      Safety parameters Participants will have the opportunity to report any adverse events during
      treatment at posttreatment and follow-up measurements.

      Data collection: Data will be collected electronically via the treatment platform and a safe
      app.

      Main statistical analysis:

      Between-group estimates on outcome are done using a mixed-effects regression model with a
      Poisson distribution. All analyses will be done according to intention to treat and post hoc
      per protocol analyses will also be conducted. The primary criterion is the estimated
      regression slope of daily intrusive memories between day 0-7 and day 28-35.
    
  