
    
      In the present trial patients with a) typical angina pectoris (AP) combined with b1) rise in
      biomarkers on POC testing (prehospital/immediately inhospital) and/or b2) ST-segment
      depression of more than 0.2 mV in two contiguous leads or more than 0.1 mV in four contiguous
      leads are randomized to I) PPCI (same protocol as in STEMI patients) or II) medical therapy
      and angiography/angioplasty within 72 hours (todays routine practice).

      The primary purposes of the present trial is threefold:

        1. To evaluate if it is possible to diagnose patients with NONSTEMI in the prehospital
           phase or immediately on arrival at the hospital (N=250 patients)

        2. To compare a combined endpoint of mortality, re-infarction (during index admission or
           readmitted), or readmission with Congestive Heart Failure (CHF) between group I (PPCI
           strategy) and group II (routine strategy) (N=2500 patients).

        3. To compare mortality between group I and II (N=4500 patients).

      Secondary purposes of the present trial is:

        1. To evaluate whether there is difference in the primary endpoints in patients randomized
           within or after 12 hours of symptom onset.

        2. To evaluate whether there is difference in the primary endpoints in patients randomized
           in the prehospital phase and on admission to the hospital, respectively.

        3. To evaluate whether there is difference in the primary endpoints in patients with a
           final diagnosis of AMI, as adjudicated by a clinical event committee.

        4. To evaluate whether there is difference in the primary endpoints in patients with or
           without diabetes, respectively.

        5. To compare a combined endpoint of mortality, readmission with AMI, readmission with CHF,
           readmission with AP, revascularization (not planned on index admission).

        6. To compare a combined safety endpoint of stroke or serious bleeding between group I and
           II.

        7. To evaluate if there is difference in the frequency of PCI and CABG in group I versus
           II.

        8. To compare total admission time between group I and II.

        9. To compare total cost between group I and II.

       10. To compare total duration where the patient is on sick leave between group I and II
    
  