
    
      Autism is a behaviorally defined complex neurodevelopmental syndrome characterized by
      impairments in social communication, by the presence of restricted and repetitive behaviors,
      interests and activities, and by abnormalities in sensory reactivity.

      Autism is a severe, life-long developmental disorder that compromises functioning across
      multiple domains including social behavior, language, sensory function, and
      ritualistic/repetitive behaviors and interests. While the etiology of autism is complex and
      not fully understood, strong evidence from twin and family studies suggests a large genetic
      contribution .

      Autism is caused by a combination of genetic and environment factors. Risk factors include
      certain infections during pregnancy such as rubella as well as valproic acid, alcohol or
      cocaine use during pregnancy.

      The number of children known to have autism has increased dramatically since the 1980's.The
      reviews of epidemiology in estimating the global prevalence is that one to two cases of
      autism exist per 2,000 people, and about six per 1,000 people have Autistic Spectrum
      Disorders (ASD) .

      According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5), a guide
      created by the American Psychiatric Association used to diagnose mental disorders, people
      with Autism have:

        -  Difficulty with communication and interaction with other people

        -  Restricted interests and repetitive behaviors

        -  Symptoms that hurt the person's ability to function properly in school, work, and other
           areas of life.

      Iron deficiency (ID) is the most common and persevering nutritional disorder and continues to
      be an important public health problem worldwide. Specifically in children in the first years
      of life, hemoglobin (HGB) levels below 11 g/dL have been related to negative cognitive,
      social, and emotional effects that may lead to irreversible behavioral squeals, even after
      appropriate treatment.

      A reduction of iron levels in the brain may be accompanied by changes in serotonergic and
      dopaminergic systems, cortical networks, and myelination.

      Iron deficiency (ID) cause negative outcomes on psychomotor and behavioral development of
      infants and young children. Children with autism are under risk for ID and this condition may
      increase the severity of psychomotor and behavioral problems,The association between iron
      deficiency and developmental problems such as global developmental delay is thought to be
      bidirectional. Iron deficiency impairs the processes of neurotransmitter metabolism and
      myelin formation, as well as altering energy metabolism in the brain - effects that have been
      theorised to cause behavioural and cognitive developmental delays in children.

      Thus, it can be considered that ID/IDA (iron deficiency anemia) may increase the severity of
      autistic symptoms in children with ASD.
    
  