
    
      Chronic hemodialysis patients should have arterial stiffness evaluated monthly using Pulse
      Pressure as suggested by KDOQI guidelines [1]. This recommendation pursues a dual goal since
      it outlines the importance of monitoring vascular stiffness in hemodialysis patients [2-4]
      and, at the same time, emphasizes the fact that Pulse Pressure provides valuable information
      on tissue perfusion characteristics [5]. Arterial stiffening in dialysis patients is the
      result of aging, non-specific and End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) related risk factors, such
      as medial calcification, volume overload, uraemia-related endothelial dysfunction, increased
      extracellular matrix and intimal fibroelastic thickening [6]. Arterial stiffness of the aorta
      and its major branches can be evaluated by measuring Pulse Wave Velocity (PWV) - e.g.
      carotid-femoral Pulse Wave Velocity ("gold standard") [7] - or, alternatively, it can be
      estimated by Pulse Wave Analysis (PWA) at a peripheral site, usually the brachial artery
      [8-11]. In the first case, a doppler ultrasound detector is used together with a software
      tool for data analysis. The second approach requires the use of a sphygmomanometer, such as
      the Mobil-O-Graph, capable of analysing the pulse wave morphology and of calculating PWV
      [9-14]. The first methodology is complex, operator-dependent and not routinely applicable,
      whereas the second one is potentially usable in clinical practice [9].

      The increase in PWV related to the above-mentioned risk factors also accelerates with age
      [7].

      Both PWV and PP correlate to mortality in the dialysis population [15-17]: for each PWV
      increase of 1 m/s Blacher et al. found an all-cause mortality-adjusted OR of 1.39 (95% CI,
      1.19 to 1.62) [16] while for each 10 mmHg increase in PP, Tozawa et al. found an increase in
      all-cause mortality relative risk of 8% [17].

      Risk factors such as age, hypertension, previous history of heart diseases and diabetes
      influence the evolution of Pulse Wave Velocity before dialysis initiation whereas their
      impact during the course of dialysis has not yet been demonstrated [18]. In this regard, a
      study published in 2013 by Utescu et al. indicated that the only risk factor significantly
      associated with PWV progression was the level of an advanced glycation end-product known as
      pentosidine [18]. The results of this study confirmed that specific uraemia-related risk
      factors can be identified and possibly quantified.

      In the above-mentioned study, the rate of PWV progression (+0.84 m/s per year) was
      surprisingly high, especially when projected over time as a function of the average life span
      of ESRD patients on dialysis. Another critical data point outlined in the study was the
      discrepancy in the annual rate of change in carotid-femoral compared to carotid-radial Pulse
      Wave Velocity, which was +0.84 m/s per year and -0.66 m/s per year, respectively. The authors
      of the study postulate that this discrepancy may be due to anatomical differences between
      central (elastic) and peripheral (muscular) arteries and that the latter could deploy an
      adaptive response to central aortic stiffening. Although interesting, these data raise some
      concerns about the promising possibility of using the brachial artery as a site for PWV
      estimation, even if based on a non-operator dependent method.

      Furthermore, another limitation identified in the literature currently available on
      prospective longitudinal studies analysing the PWV behaviour on dialysis patients, is the
      lack of a control group made up of patients with similar characteristics and co-morbidities
      but without kidney failure [2,16,18].

      In the light of this, we decided to test a Mobil-O-Graph, a simple device estimating PWV
      (MogPWV) through a modified sphygmomanometer on the brachial artery and to analyse the
      baseline and follow-up MogPWV values in a cohort of dialysis patients and in a control group
      with the same risk factors but without kidney failure.

      The aim of the study was answering the following 4 questions, which also reflect both the
      primary and the secondary endpoints of the trial: 1. Does PWV estimated by Mobil-O-Graph on
      the brachial artery, be more sensitive for vascular aging and better discriminate the
      dialysis population from the control group than pulse pressure? (primary endpoint); 2. Is
      MogPWV progression faster during dialysis than in the pre-dialysis setting? (secondary
      endpoint); 3. Are there specific risk factors that correlate to MogPWV progression?
      (secondary endpoint); 4. Does mortality correlate to MogPWV? (secondary endpoint).
    
  