
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Both epidemiologic and clinical research in coronary heart disease have increased our
      awareness that some risk factors for disease such as obesity, hypertension, and
      hypercholesterolemia may be partially determined by genetic factors or habits which are
      formed in infancy, childhood, and adolescence. Studies to date also suggest that some of the
      coronary heart disease risk factors do not change dramatically before the late teenage years
      and that differences in characteristics by sex or race are most pronounced after this time.
      However, relatively little work has been done to identify the characteristics of young adult
      life which may be precursors to or coincident with the increase in risk factors prior to
      middle age. While major increases in certain risk factors occur in young adulthood in
      conjunction with significant changes in life style, the interrelationships among these risk
      factors and changes have not been rigorously investigated.

      Cross-sectional data, for example, suggest that weight gain is pronounced during the late
      teens through age 30, particularly in males, and that a linear relationship exists between
      weight and lipoprotein fractions at these ages. The reasons for and consequences of this
      increase in adiposity need further investigation. The interaction of life events, behavior,
      and changes in physical activity and dietary intake that may influence weight gain and
      lipoprotein levels should be determined, as well as the importance of weight gain in
      relationship to risk factor changes during this age span.

      Investigators have examined the consistency of blood pressure levels in children to determine
      whether "tracking" occurs into the teenage years. The results of these studies have raised
      other interesting and important questions. Is there evidence for "tracking" of other coronary
      risk factors? Does "tracking" persist into young adult life, a time during which dramatic
      changes in life style are often taking place? The study will contribute to our understanding
      of the development of atherosclerosis and will help to determine an optimal strategy for
      prevention before individual life style patterns become well established. The Working Group
      on Heart Disease Epidemiology in 1978 recommended the study with highest priority. The study
      was approved by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Advisory Council in November 1982. The
      Request for Proposals was released in December 1982.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      CARDIA, which began recruitment in 1985, has completed 7 examinations over 20 years in a
      cohort of 5,115 men and women aged 18-30 years in four communities. Participants were
      initially sampled from the total population, selected census tracts or, in the case of one
      center, the membership of a large health plan. The original cohort had approximately equal
      representation by blacks and whites, men and women, those aged 18-24 and 25-30, and those
      with no more than a high school education and more than a high school education. The baseline
      examination (Year 0) was conducted over a 14-month period during 1985-86. The examination
      consisted of questionnaires on sociodemographic characteristics, health behaviors, and
      psychological factors; an exercise treadmill test; resting electrocardiography; a diet
      history assessment; anthropometry; pulmonary function testing; and resting blood pressure.
      Fasting blood measurements included total cholesterol and its subfractions, insulin, glucose,
      liver enzymes and other serum chemistry measurements, and hematology.

      Six additional examinations have been completed every 2-5 years, including a Year 20
      examination completed in 2006. Repeat measurements on traditional risk factors, including
      plasma lipids, blood pressure, anthropometry, smoking behavior, physical activity, and
      pulmonary function testing (except Years 7 and 15) have used the same methods at each
      examination to assess age and secular trends in these factors during young adulthood. In
      selected years, additional measurements have been made, including a treadmill exercise test
      at baseline and Year 7; diet history at baseline, Year 7, and Year 20; cardiovascular
      reactivity measurements in Year 2; echocardiography and ambulatory blood pressure monitoring
      (in a subset) at Year 5; skin reflectance and assessment of the experience of discrimination
      and other psychosocial measures and urine sodium and creatinine in Year 7; echocardiography
      (in a subset) in Year 10, glucose tolerance testing, and microalbuminuria in Year 10 and Year
      20; coronary CT scan in Year 15 and Year 20; and carotid intima media thickness in Year 20.

      Retention of the surviving cohort was 90, 86, 81, 79, 74, and 72 percent at each of the
      respective follow-up examinations. Cohort members are contacted every six month to obtain
      information on vital status and current residence. Every other six-month contact also
      includes speaking with the participant to ascertain information on current smoking status,
      major illness or injury, and hospitalizations.

      The Year 25 examination began June, 2010 and will continue through May, 2011. There will be
      an estimated 3,525 participants from four field centers that will participate in the five
      hour examination. The study ends in 2013.
    
  