
    
      Pulmonary hypertension patients who choose to participate:

      Written informed consent will be obtained for the study. Patients must sign the informed
      consent before participating in any study related procedures.

        -  All inclusion and exclusion criteria will be reviewed.

        -  Demographic history will be recorded.

        -  Vital signs will be performed.

        -  A medication history will be taken.

        -  A smoking history will be recorded.

        -  BNP levels will be measured as a part of usual care at PH visits.

        -  Ultrasonographic measurements will be performed at the clinic visit.

        -  Ultrasonographic measurements:

      IVC Measurements

        -  Performed in the subcostal view in supine position.

        -  Images will be captured in a video format.

        -  Maximal IVC diameter 1 to 2 cm from the junction of the right atrium and the IVC at
           end-expiration just proximal to the junction of the hepatic veins. The IVC
           collapsibility index to give an estimate of RAP.

        -  Inspiratory collapse of > 50% or < 50% will be ascertained based on the measurements.

      Jugular Vein Measurements

        -  Patient will be placed in 45° position

        -  Longitudinal images will be obtained of the right jugular vein.

        -  Location of tapering of the jugular vein is measured, and distance from the sternal
           angle is recorded as ultrasound-measured jugular venous pressure (JVP).

      Clinical Worsening Outcomes

      • At each visit during year 1, and then every 6 months for years 2-3, clinical worsening
      events will be captured. These events are defined as:

        -  Death

        -  PH-related hospitalization

        -  Lung transplant

        -  Atrial septostomy

        -  Functional Class worsening and step up in therapy

      Study Timing

        -  Enrollment of patients for a period of 1 year. Subsequently, no more patients will be
           enrolled. Patients who are enrolled will be followed clinically without further
           study-related testing at their regular clinic visits after completion of year 1.

        -  All patients enrolled will have ultrasonographic measurements of IVC and jugular veins
           at each clinic visit for 1 year.

        -  Data collection regarding meeting clinical worsening end points and BNP levels will be
           collected at the regular clinic visits at year 2 and 3 of the study.

        -  If patients are lost to follow up at clinics (including year-1), telephone
           correspondence, social security database review or chart review at 6-month intervals
           will be performed to determine vital status and see if they have met any clinical
           worsening endpoints.

        -  Study will close after the final patient has completed 3-years of follow up.
    
  