
    
      In the past two decades, rigid internal fixation with miniplate has become the standard
      treatment modality in the management of mandibular fracture.

      The optimal management of mandibular angle fractures remains controversial, thus continuous
      experimental & clinical studies are being conducted to determine the best miniplate design
      which will provide the best postoperative stability & resistance to mechanical function.

      Since Michelet et al.& Champy et al. recommended the use of a single (4-6 holes) monocortical
      plate , it become an acceptable method for angle fractures fixation.

      Several surgeons have documented low complication rates with (Champy technique).But,
      according to the most recent experimental & clinical studies, the stability provided by the
      miniplate fixation has become a point of debate among surgeons.Many researchers have argued
      that internal fixation with a passive miniplate along the external oblique line, following
      Champy's ideal osteosynthesis line principle, produces a tension effect that may yield a
      failure of osteosynthesis & gap at inferior border of the mandible.And that pushed researches
      to conduct more studies to evaluate many plate & screw systems and even suggest new designs
      for better stable postoperative results.

      In 2014, B.T.Suer et al, designed a new noncompression 3D miniplates , basically it has one
      straight section and two lateral extensions. The straight section of this new design, which
      has four holes, was adapted to the superior border of the external oblique ridge & provides
      similar advantages to the Champy technique (an intraoral approach, a single miniplate, & the
      use of monocortical screws) .And the two lateral extensions, with one hole each, were then
      bent over to adapt to the buccal cortex of the ascending ramus along the external oblique
      ridge to resist lateral & torsional forces.

      Fresh, frozen cadavers of 15 healthy sheep were obtained for this study, sheep were used in
      this study owing to the similarities in size & thickness to the human mandible. All of the
      mandibles were stripped of their soft tissues & sectioned through the midline, between the
      central incisors. 30 hemimandibles were randomly divided into two groups , these groups were
      then fixed with two different plating techniques (the new design & one conventional
      miniplates). And they were all examined for stability and resistance to mechanical forces
      (vertical, lateral, or tensile).

      The driving force behind this study was to design a new plate that would overcome the
      disadvantages of the other plating techniques but has the advantages & simplicity of the
      Champy technique (simple intraoral approach and few major complications). This new miniplate
      gives more biomechanical stability than the conventional Champy plate. These findings are
      correlated to those of in vitro biomechanical study done by Alkan et al. that showed that
      Champy technique has less favourable biomechanical behaviour than biplanar fixation and 3D
      strut plate. In addition the new plate provide greater stability when subjected to lateral
      displacing forces.

      More over the placement of a 3D miniplate or two separate miniplates for fixing angle
      fractures is more difficult and mostly will require a transbuccal approach , with increased
      surgical trauma, longer operation time unlike the new plate that could provide the clinician
      with a simple and reliable solution.
    
  