
    
      This is an open-label, multi-centre, randomised, phase III trial comparing standard
      fluoropyrimidine based adjuvant chemotherapy followed by Avelumab (experimental arm) with
      standard fluoropyrimidine-based adjuvant chemotherapy alone (control arm) in patients who
      have undergone radical surgical resection for stage III dMMR or POLE exonuclease domain
      mutant colon cancer. Patients will be stratified in a 1:1 ratio for dMMR status, POLE
      mutation and type of adjuvant chemotherapy (i.e., 24 weeks of single agent capecitabine
      chemotherapy versus 12 weeks of CAPOX chemotherapy).

      According to the statistical design, 402 patients (201 per arm) are to be randomised. It is
      expected that approximately 4000 participants will need to be screened in order to recruit
      402 patients to the study, assuming an incidence of dMMR of 10-15% and an incidence of POLE
      mutations of 7% in under 50s (unpublished data from Tomlinson group). Considering the time
      required to obtain local approval and to initiate all participating centres, the study is
      expected to take up to 36 months to complete accrual.

      There are no proscriptive criteria for surgical resection of the primary tumour in this
      trial. It is however expected that resection of the tumour will be undertaken in the elective
      setting by a colorectal specialist surgeon.

      Tumour MMR status will be routinely tested locally as per NICE guidelines (either in the
      pre-operative biopsy or resection specimen). Subjects whose tumours are dMMR can sign the
      main study consent and undergo the study screening procedures. If they are found to fulfil
      all eligibility criteria, then they will be randomised. Subjects who are below 50 and whose
      tumours are pMMR, will be asked to sign a prescreening consent for the centralised analysis
      of POLE exonuclease domain mutations. This will be done at Oxford Molecular Diagnostics
      Centre, John Radcliffe Hospital, Headington, Oxford. Those who have tumours harbouring these
      mutations can sign the main study consent and undergo the study screening procedures. If they
      are found to fulfil all eligibility criteria, then they will be randomised.

      All eligible patients who are randomised will receive standard fluoropyrimidine-based
      adjuvant chemotherapy for 12 or 24 weeks depending on the decision of the local investigator.
      The choice of adjuvant chemotherapy (i.e., 24 weeks of single agent fluoropyrimidine
      chemotherapy or 12 weeks of doublet, oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy) must be declared by the
      investigator at study entry before randomisation. Type of adjuvant chemotherapy (i.e., 24
      weeks of single agent capecitabine or 12 weeks of capecitabine plus oxaliplatin). will be
      used as stratification factor alongside MMR status and POLE mutation.

      At the end of adjuvant chemotherapy, patients who are randomised to the investigational arm,
      will receive additional 24 weeks of treatment with Avelumab.

      After completion of treatment, all subjects will be followed up for up to 7 years from the
      start of adjuvant chemotherapy.

      Correlative biomarker analyses will be conducted as part of the translational study in tumour
      tissue samples from the resection specimens, tumour tissue samples from the relapsed tumour
      (if applicable, feasible and upon patient consent) and serial blood samples collected at
      study entry, during adjuvant treatment and follow-up.
    
  