
    
      Rationale: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a disease characterized by the accumulation
      of mature lymphocytes. These CLL lymphocytes are blocked from undergoing terminal
      differentiation and apoptosis. Patients with CLL have limited options for therapy, especially
      after the failure of standard chemotherapy regimens. Histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACs)
      comprise a new class of drugs being evaluated in the treatment of various malignancies. In
      vitro data suggest that HDAC inhibition leads to terminal B-cell differentiation and may
      therefore play a therapeutic role in the treatment of CLL. Pivanex (pivaloyloxymethyl
      butyrate) is an HDAC inhibitor that has been shown to induce apoptosis of CLL lymphocytes in
      vitro. In previous clinical trials, Pivanex has been well tolerated. The goal of this
      protocol is to determine the effects of Pivanex in patients with CLL.

      Purpose: This open-label trial will determine the response rate of Pivanex in patients with
      CLL.

      Objectives: (1) Determine the response rate of Pivanex in patients with relapsed CLL; (2)
      Determine time to disease progression in patients with relapsed CLL treated with Pivanex; and
      (3) Determine the safety profile of Pivanex in CLL.

      Design: This is an open label, single arm, multiple dose, pilot study of patients with
      relapsed CLL. Patients will be treated with 2.5 g/m2 of Pivanex administered intravenously
      over 6 hours daily on Days 1 - 3. Treatment will be repeated every 21 days until disease
      progression or the patient is withdrawn from treatment for protocol-specified reasons.

      Disease status will be assessed prior to every odd-numbered treatment cycle using response
      criteria based upon the Revised National Cancer Institute-sponsored Working Group Guidelines
      for CLL. Patients withdrawn due to disease progression will be followed for survival.
      Patients withdrawn from study for reasons other than disease progression will be followed for
      disease progression and survival.
    
  