
    
      Introduction: Recent studies have shown positive results from the application of phototherapy
      for the improvement of performance and acceleration of the recovery process both in the
      application before and after exercise. However, the effects of phototherapy during combined
      training and after a primary adaptation process remain unclear.

      Research objectives: The primary objective of the study is to analyze and compare the effects
      of phototherapy using different light sources (laser and LEDs) interacting with combined
      training on clinical, functional, and psychological outcomes and vascular endothelial growth
      factor. The secondary objective is to compare the benefits provided by phototherapy in
      participants with different levels of training adaptation.

      Design: A controlled trial, double-blind, placebo-controlled will be conducted with
      stratified randomization and concealed allocation.

      Participants and Setting: After fulfilling the eligibility criteria, forty-five male
      participants will participate in the study. The inclusion criteria include: healthy male,
      aged between 18-30 years who agree to participate in the study. Participants with the
      following will be excluded from the study: presence of anemia, inflammation, diabetes,
      history of metastasis or muscle injury in the lower limbs or spine in the previous six
      months, and occurrence of musculoskeletal injury during the study.

      Procedure: In phase 1, the participants will perform six-weeks of combined training (sprints
      and squats). In phase 2, participants will be allocated, through stratified randomization
      (based on adaptation capacity to training), into three groups: active phototherapy group
      (AG), placebo phototherapy group (PG), and control group (CG). A new six-week training period
      will then start. In this phase the participants will carry out training normally with the
      adjusted loads and between sprints and squats will receive the recovery strategy related to
      the group to which they belong.

      Intervention: Active and placebo phototherapy will be applied by a trained therapist, between
      sprints and squats, bilaterally to six sites of the quadriceps in direct contact with the
      skin. The dosage applied will be 30J per site. The same procedures as the AG will be applied
      to the PG, however the emitter will be disabled. During the period of recovery strategies for
      the AG and PG, the CG participants will remain seated for passive recovery, supervised by an
      independent therapist.

      Measurements: The measurements include clinical (muscle soreness, pain threshold, perception
      of exertion, and perception of recovery), functional (squat strength and power, maximal
      voluntary isometric contraction, maximal incremental test, squat jump, and sprint test), and
      psychological (self-assessments of readiness for exercise, fatigue, vigor, pain, and belief
      of intervention effectiveness) outcomes and vascular endothelial growth factor.

      Analysis: For analysis of functional outcomes, data normality will be checked by the
      Kolmogorov-Smirnov test with changes from baseline followed by the Student T test for
      comparisons. For other outcomes, sphericity of the data will be tested by the Mauchly's test.
      In case of violation of the sphericity assumption, Greenhouse-Geisser corrections will be
      used. Data will be analyzed using repeated-measures analysis of variance (Bonferroni's test
      will be performed when required), which provide information on time, group, and interaction
      effects. A significance level of 5% will be assumed for all statistical analysis.
    
  