
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Coronary heart disease is the leading cause of death in both men and women 65 years of age
      and older, and in 1982, it was estimated that it accounted for about 32.4 percent of all
      deaths in this age group and may have contributed to death in an additional 12.1 percent.
      Coronary heart disease mortality rates increase steeply with age, even in those over 65 years
      of age. Death rates for males continue to be higher than females although the sex ratio
      declined sharply with age. Data from Framingham suggest that although the incidence of
      coronary heart disease rises with age in both males and females, the incidence rate rises
      more steeply in elderly females compared with elderly males. Despite the magnitude of this
      problem, in 1988 the majority of the knowledge on coronary heart disease and its risk factors
      related to the disease in middle-aged persons--primarily males. More information was needed
      about coronary heart disease and its risk factors in elderly women. Also, the atherosclerotic
      process develops over many years and the risk factors which relate to the evolution of
      atherosclerosis are highly correlated within an individual. Therefore, it is likely that risk
      factors, such as lipoproteins and apoproteins will be important determinants of coronary
      heart disease in older persons primarily because of this observed correlation within
      individuals over time, and their long-term association with the development and progression
      of atherosclerosis. In addition, identification of the high risk individual is a goal of many
      epidemiologic investigations. It is possible that qualitative examination of the
      polymorphisms of the apoproteins could in fact assist in the identification of women at high
      risk of coronary heart disease who are in need of aggressive prophylaxis. These genetic
      markers represent a second generation of risk factors for coronary heart disease.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study was ancillary to the multicenter Study of Osteoporotic Fractures (SOF), a
      prospective study on risk factors for hip and wrist fractures supported by the National
      Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases. The cross-sectional study
      involved a sample of subjects at the Pittsburgh Center. The distribution and
      interrelationships of lipoproteins and apoproteins were described as were their relationships
      to age, years since menopause, type of menopause, and lifestyle factors such as physical
      activity, alcohol consumption, cigarette smoking, obesity, and use of estrogens/progestins.
      The frequency of phenotypes of the polymorphisms of apoprotein A-IV and E were examined to
      determine whether these phenotypes were associated with specific patterns of lipo- and
      apoproteins. The hypothesis was tested that the degree to which lifestyle characteristics
      explain the variability in lipoproteins and apoproteins depended on the genetic makeup of the
      individual.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  