
    
      Specific Aims:

        1. Demonstrate feasibility to ensure adequate patient enrollment and symptomatic follow-up
           of patients with Lyme arthritis.

        2. Develop pilot data necessary for sample size and power calculations:

      The purpose of the research study is to evaluate whether there is symptomatic benefit of
      schedule NSAID therapy in patients with Lyme arthritis diagnosis.

        1. Quantification of antibiotic-refractory Lyme arthritis in our population

        2. Symptomatic outcomes of patients with Lyme arthritis on scheduled NSAIDs versus those
           not placed on scheduled NSAIDs (duration to resolution and number of patients with
           resistant arthritis)

        3. Assess side effects of patients with Lyme arthritis placed on scheduled NSAIDs versus
           those not placed on scheduled NSAIDs

        4. Assess changes in resources (follow-up visits, further prescriptions) required for
           patients taking scheduled NSAIDs versus not taking scheduled NSAIDs

      Background:

      Lyme disease is the systemic tick-borne disease caused by Borrelia burgdorferi infection, and
      is endemic to an expanding portion of the United States. Lyme arthritis is a common
      presentation of Lyme disease. While Lyme arthritis resolves with appropriate antimicrobial
      treatment in a majority of patients, 10-20% of patients develop antibiotic-refractory Lyme
      arthritis with prolonged inflammatory arthritis. Research suggests excessive up-regulation of
      the inflammatory process in patients with prolonged symptoms. The over-expressed pro-
      inflammatory cell mediators are downstream of NSAID inhibition, which would suggest NSAIDs
      may be beneficial in these patients. In fact, there is data that NSAIDs and/or
      disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) may be beneficial in refractory Lyme
      arthritis cases, once diagnosed as refractory.

      The hypothesis of the study is that prescribing scheduled NSAIDs at the time of diagnosis can
      prevent the development of the excessive inflammatory phase and decrease the number of
      patients with antibiotic-refractory Lyme arthritis, or at least decrease the duration of
      persistent Lyme arthritis symptoms. There are no known methods to identify patients who will
      develop antibiotic-refractory Lyme arthritis. This work is important to delineate optimal
      timing and duration of NSAIDs given the research that shows the anti- inflammatory effects
      during healing can potentially delay recovery.

      Significance:

      While antibiotic-refractory Lyme arthritis has been studied at a microbiologic/cytokine level
      as well as evaluated in terms of treatment once patients have been deemed antibiotic
      refractory, to our knowledge there are no published studies evaluating prevention.

      With no literature looking at the question of NSAIDs for the prevention of antibiotic-
      refractory Lyme arthritis, this pilot study is needed to adequately calculate sample size and
      power calculations for a large-scale multicenter study. There is anecdotal data from the
      Rheumatology and Infectious Disease departments at the UPMC Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh
      that early scheduled NSAIDs may decrease refractory cases, but there has been no formal
      evaluation into this question. Retrospective evaluation is challenging since the medications
      in question (NSAIDs) are over the counter, and clinicians may recommend scheduled or
      intermittent NSAID therapy without documentation, and certainly without prescriptions in the
      medical record. Many patients with refractory Lyme arthritis are placed on NSAIDs, but given
      the question of delayed healing with inhibition of prostaglandins during the healing phase of
      inflammation, the question of whether NSAIDs are beneficial in patients to prevent refractory
      arthritis is worthwhile rather than the current process of variable NSAID prescription.
    
  