
    
      Gestational diabetes Insulin is produced by pancreatic beta cells and is needed for optimal
      glucose homeostasis. In healthy individuals, the mass and function of beta cells changes to
      adapt to variations in insulin demand in the body. For example, adaptive beta cell
      hyperplasia, hypertrophy and hyperfunction occur in situations of increased metabolic demand,
      like pregnancy.

      In rodents a 2-3 fold increase in beta cell mass is observed at the end of gestation. By the
      time of delivery, beta cell function as well as beta cell mass return to normal levels.
      Although to a lesser extent than in rodents, also in humans there have been studies
      indicating that the beta cell mass may increase during pregnancy and return to normal in the
      postpartum stage.

      When there is no sufficient compensation during pregnancy due to failure in beta cell
      expansion or function, gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) occurs.

      GDM complicates 2-5% of pregnancies in Caucasian women and is characterized by glucose
      intolerance with the onset or first diagnosis during pregnancy. GDM can have serious
      consequences for both the child as well as the mother. Risks to the child include fetal
      macrosomia as well as long-term health consequences like obesity, hypertension, dyslipidemia,
      glucose intolerance and type 2 diabetes (T2D). Maternal risks include an increased
      probability of caesarean delivery accompanied by an increased risk of maternal morbidity.

      In women with GDM, glucose homeostasis is returned to normal levels shortly after delivery.
      However, women with a single gestational diabetes pregnancy present with faster deterioration
      in insulin sensitivity and beta cell compensation compared to women without a history of
      gestational diabetes. These women therefore have a 7-fold increased risk of developing T2D in
      the future. Furthermore, women with a history of GDM have a 10-fold increased risk of
      developing GDM in future pregnancies.

      GDM and T2D The prevalence of T2D in the Netherlands is 600.000-800.000 and each year ~70.000
      new patients are diagnosed. Patients with T2D have a 2-4 times increased risk of developing
      cardiovascular disease. These complications seriously decrease the quality of life and life
      expectancy of T2D patients. The burden of this disease not only affects these patients but
      our society as well. Health care costs with respect to diabetes amounted to 814 million euro
      in 2005 in the Netherlands and indirect costs because of absence of work are unknown but
      thought to be substantial.

      T2D is mainly characterized by defective insulin secretion and peripheral insulin resistance.
      It develops chronically over years to decades before it becomes apparent. Early in the
      disease progression, pancreatic beta cells respond to initial insulin resistance by
      increasing insulin secretion to preserve a near-normal glucose level. Over time the beta cell
      mass reduces gradually, leading to a decline in insulin secretion causing hyperglycemia. Beta
      cell failure is dependent on several factors like genetic predisposition, poor dietary
      control, glucotoxicity and lipotoxicity, liver steatosis and therapy itself.

      In the process of development of disease many secondary changes in metabolism, hormonal
      signaling and body composition occur which are difficult to discriminate from those that
      initially started the pathophysiological process. Therefore, the early pathogenesis of T2D is
      still not completely understood. Risk factors for the development of T2D overlap with the
      risk factors for GDM. These common risk factors suggest an overlapping cause of the disease.

      In patients with GDM glucose homeostasis cannot be maintained under conditions of increased
      metabolic demand. This fact, together with the increased risk of developing T2D in the future
      suggests a specific predisposition for beta cell dysfunction in these patients.

      Beta cell mass in T2D Besides the well-known role of peripheral insulin resistance in the
      early pathogenesis of T2D, there is also evidence suggesting the importance of beta cell
      mass. Studies performed on autopsy material of T2D patients in various populations show a
      significantly reduced beta cell mass. This reduction could be explained by accelerated beta
      cell death in these patients. A genetic difference in beta cell mass could however also play
      a role. Large variations in fractional beta cell area have been shown between individuals in
      the pre- and postnatal growth period. Furthermore, a recent study by Brom et al. suggests
      that there is a large variation in beta cell mass between individuals. In this study beta
      cell mass was measured non-invasively in healthy subjects as well as type 1 diabetic patients
      by 111In-exendin-4 SPECT/CT. While the beta cell mass in these diabetic patients was found to
      be significantly lower than in healthy subjects, a wide range in beta cell mass was found in
      both groups. These results are in line with an earlier study where wide ranges in beta cell
      mass were found in pancreas obtained at autopsy of diabetic and non-diabetic subjects.

      An initial deficit in beta cell mass could thus play a key role in the development of T2D.
      Patients with a history of GDM have a significantly increased risk of developing T2D. While
      an increase in beta cell mass has been found in healthy women during pregnancy, it is not yet
      known whether patients with GDM have a deficit in beta cell mass. While little is known about
      beta cell mass in women with a history of GDM, it is well recognized that these women have a
      chronic defect in beta cell function that progressively worsens in the years after the
      pregnancy and mediates their high risk of progression to T2D. This deterioration of beta cell
      function begins as early as the first year after delivery, is partly driven by hepatic
      insulin resistance, takes place in the presence of initial normal glucose tolerance, and
      precedes the development of abnormal glucose tolerance. Accordingly, women with a recent
      history of GDM represent a patient population in which there is beta cell dysfunction without
      the potential confounding effect of hyperglycemia (and resultant glucotoxicity).

      Evaluation of beta cell mass in women with a history of GDM could thus be very beneficial for
      our understanding of the role of beta cell mass in the development of T2D. It would be of
      great interest to examine whether the population of women with a history of gestational
      diabetes, who have a significantly increased risk of developing T2D, have a lower mean beta
      cell mass compared to the population of women without a history of gestational diabetes.

      Also for the development of new treatment options for T2D, more knowledge on the role of beta
      cell loss in the development of T2D would be beneficial. While current and new anti-diabetic
      drugs are mainly targeting insulin secretion and action or glucose uptake, evidence from
      animal experiments suggests the feasibility of regulating beta cell mass.

      Imaging of beta cells in vivo Reliable, sensitive and specific visualization of living
      pancreatic beta cells in vivo is important to broaden the understanding of the role of beta
      cell mass in the onset and development of T2D. This could benefit further research in the
      causes of beta cell failure in T2D and therapeutic options to delay progressive loss of beta
      cells. Because of the multifactorial nature of T2D disease, defining a study population for
      assessment of beta cell mass is difficult. Patients with a history of GDM would be a very
      attractive population to study in this context as an at-risk cohort for T2D. These patients
      have a clear predisposition for development of T2D evidenced by their increased risk for
      developing this disease and the faster deterioration of insulin sensitivity and beta cell
      compensation.

      GLP-1 receptor imaging by PET For specific non-invasive imaging of beta cells, investigators
      have developed a highly beta cell-specific radiolabeled exendin-based GLP-1 (glucagon-like
      peptide-1) analog which, after radiolabeling, can non-invasively be detected in the human
      body. GLP-1 is an incretin hormone that specifically binds to beta cells and is responsible
      for post-prandial insulin-secretion. Its specificity for beta cells has been shown and a
      linear correlation of the beta cell mass and the signal obtained with this tracer has been
      established in rats.

      GLP-1R imaging has been shown to be suitable for imaging of insulin producing pancreatic
      neuroendocrine tumours (IPPNET). Furthermore, the feasibility of visualization of
      transplanted beta cells with GLP-1R imaging has been shown by imaging of autologous islets
      transplanted into muscle.
    
  