
    
      Pitch perception is a fundamental component of how humans process sound. Individuals who use
      cochlear implants (CIs), surgically implanted devices which are able to restore a limited
      range of hearing, struggle with pitch perception for a variety of reasons. Although CIs can
      often restore the ability to hear speech from a single talker in quiet, perception of more
      complex auditory stimuli like music is severely limited. CI users often report music as being
      difficult, even displeasing, to listen to. These experiences can be immensely frustrating,
      especially for people who experience deafness later in life and have built strong emotional
      attachments to music, such as musicians or audiophiles.

      Cochlear implant programming (also called "mapping") is done using a set of
      generally-accepted default settings without taking into account individual differences of
      precisely where CI electrodes are physically located in the cochlea. For this reason, CI
      users commonly experience a place-pitch mismatch between the stimulation by an electrode in
      response to a given frequency and the actual frequency specified by the original cochlear
      location. CI users vary widely in their ability to adapt to place-pitch mismatch; some adapt
      completely, others partially, and others not at all. The length of time in which an
      individual takes to adapt is also highly variable. Bilateral CI users may have differing
      adaptation between ears, leading to distortion of sound localization and speech in noise
      perception abilities.

      Flat Panel Computed Tomography (FPCT) is an imaging technique that consistently produces high
      quality images with identification of the delicate cochlear structures and the cochlear
      implant (CI) electrode contacts. FPCT imaging of the cochlea, combined with 3D curved
      multiplanar reconstruction (MPR) software, has been shown to yield reliable cochlear duct
      length measurements. With these resources, measurements of cochlear length and determination
      of intracochlear electrode location relative to standardized cochlear landmarks can be
      produced. These data are then utilized to create individualized frequency allocation tables
      relevant to the actual physical location of CI electrode contacts.

      In this study, FPCT imaging, 3D curved MPR, and applied mathematics are used to quantify the
      difference between theoretical and actual electrode contact placement with respect to
      pitch-place mapping. Previous results have revealed significant deviations between predicted
      and programmed characteristic frequencies, which are relevant for accurate speech, pitch, and
      music perception. The goal of the study is to gather FPCT scans on a cohort of 20 new CI
      recipients, and characterize the impact of long-term (1 year) personalized pitch-place maps
      on a battery of speech and music metrics. The performance with the FPCT-based programs will
      then be compared to performance using the manufacturer default settings.

      The novel aspect of this study involves working with newly implanted CI recipients and
      programming these patients with custom CT-based programs. More specifically, CT-based
      programs will be given to new CI recipients before any acclimation or programming of clinical
      default maps occur. This differentiates the study from prior ones, as CT-based programming
      has only been investigated in populations who have already used clinical default maps for
      some substantial period of time (e.g. for 3 months, 5 years, etc.). Participants will
      participate in a series of testing sessions to evaluate their speech and music perception
      abilities over the course of the study. At the end of the study, participants will be allowed
      to keep their preferred listening programs (i.e., experimental and/or default program).

      The researcher team hypothesizes that bypassing the use of a clinical-based map is imperative
      to fully understanding the effects of CT-based programming, as those who have already used
      clinical default programs demonstrate much higher degrees of place-pitch mismatch at
      baseline. By providing a new CI recipient with a custom CT-based program on their very first
      day of electrical hearing (CI activation), there is a unique and novel opportunity to
      minimize pitch-place mismatch from the outset, and to bypass the period of time that the vast
      majority of CI recipients have when first adapting to a clinical default program.
    
  