
    
      Rationale: Linked Color Imaging is a push-button endoscopic imaging technique developed to
      enhance the visibility of the vasculature and architecture of the mucosal surface by
      narrowing the spectrum of absorbed light. Compared to High-Definition White Light Endoscopy,
      mucosal surface patterns are better visualized and this could potentially increase the
      detection of polyps by improving the visibility of colorectal polyps. Patients with Lynch
      syndrome have accelerated carcinogenesis and even the smallest polyps have malignant
      potential. Increasing polyp detection rates with new imaging techniques is therefore of
      importance.

      Objective: To compare polyp detection rates of Linked Color Imaging with High-Definition
      White Light Endoscopy during surveillance colonoscopy in Lynch patients Study design:
      international, multicentre, parallel, randomized controlled trial Inclusion criteria:
      Patients diagnosed with Lynch syndrome (proven germline mutation in one of the following MMR
      genes: MLH1, MSH2, MSH6 or PMS2) aged ≥ 18 years old undergoing surveillance colonoscopy
      Exclusion criteria: Patients who underwent recent surveillance colonoscopy within 1 year from
      current exam (e.g. after piecemeal EMR) or patients referred for endoscopic evaluation of
      known colorectal neoplasia. Patients in whom the colonoscopy is planned for the evaluation of
      symptoms like rectal blood loss, recent change in bowel habits, weight loss or anemia.
      Patients with a concurrent diagnosis of (serrated) polyposis syndrome or inflammatory bowel
      disease. Patients who are unwilling or unable to give informed consent.

      Intervention: Included patients will undergo surveillance colonoscopy with either Linked
      Color Imaging colonoscopy or High-Definition White Light Endoscopy after 1:1 randomization.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Polyp detection rate of Linked Color Imaging versus
      High-Definition White Light Endoscopy Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated
      with participation, benefit and group relatedness: Each colonoscopy is associated with a
      small, but not negligible risk of bleeding (~1.5%) or perforation (~0.1%). The use of LCI
      does not increase the risk of endoscopy.
    
  