
    
      This is an adaptive dose-escalation clinical trial using trūFreeze™ spray cryotherapy for the
      treatment of dysplastic Barrett's Esophagus in a clinical setting.

      Participants will be enrolled in cohorts of up to 15. Each cohort will receive a similarly
      dosed spray cryotherapy treatment, based on outcomes from the previous cohort. Participants
      will receive one treatment with spray cryotherapy per the protocol and will then be followed
      clinically. During the next scheduled clinical endoscopy, participants will be assessed for
      percent regression of disease following the spray cryotherapy treatment. A determination will
      be made regarding effectiveness of each dose based on the number of subjects that achieve the
      primary outcome criterion (>= 50 percent BE segment regression).

      The first cohort of up to 15 participants will receive an upper endoscopy in which systematic
      images of the esophagus will be taken for the research study and will then receive a
      treatment with spray cryotherapy using the trūFreeze™ system. These participants will have a
      clinical follow-up endoscopy scheduled approximately 2 months after the initial spray
      cryotherapy procedure. During the follow-up endoscopy, physicians will be asked to provide an
      estimate of the percent regression of disease as well as systematic images of the esophagus.
      These images will be sent to a central panel of masked experts who will assess percent
      regression of disease compared to images taken prior to the first ablation procedure.

      Interim reviews of potential dose effectiveness will occur when 7 and 11 participants have
      completed the follow-up visit. If during an interim review at least 5 participants experience
      a sub-therapeutic response, the dose will be considered sub-therapeutic as not meeting the
      definition of "fully effective," the cohort will be closed to new enrollment, and enrollment
      on a new cohort at the next higher dose will begin. If during an interim review less than 5
      participants experience a sub-therapeutic response, enrollment on that cohort will continue.

      If/when enrollment on a cohort reaches 15 participants a decision will be made regarding the
      effectiveness of the dose. If a dose is found to be "ineffective" or "partially effective,"
      then a new cohort of individuals will be enrolled at a prescribed higher starting dose. If a
      dose is found to be "fully effective," then a confirmatory cohort will be enrolled at the
      same dose to confirm results. Enrollment will continue until a "fully effective" therapeutic
      dose of spray cryotherapy is identified and confirmed in two cohorts of 15 participants each.
    
  