
    
      PROTOCOL SYNOPSIS

      Couples will be invited to take part in the study by their healthcare provider (HCP). The
      couple will enrol via an online portal, complete an education module, provide consent and
      complete a questionnaire. Those who consent to carrier screening will be sent mouth swab kits
      with samples returned by mail.The carrier screening performed will be done via accredited
      testing laboratories in partnership with clinical genetics services. Genetic counselling will
      be available to study participants throughout the process. Couples at increased risk will be
      offered a genetic counselling consultation and offered support to access reproductive options
      (i.e. prenatal diagnosis, preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) which will be funded by the
      study for one cycle of IVF with PGD). All participants will be asked to complete an initial
      survey at study enrolment and invited to complete optional surveys at the time of screening,
      after return of screening results, and approximately 13 to 19 months after results. Subsets
      of participants will also be invited to take part in interviews.

      GENE LIST FOR CARRIER SCREENING

      The approximately 1300 genes tested in the Mackenzie's Mission carrier screening panel meet
      the following criteria:

        1. The associated condition is one where an 'average' couple would take steps to prevent
           the birth of a child with that condition.

           - This includes conditions with significant negative impact on quality of life for the
           child, the condition being lethal in childhood, and a significant impact on the family.

        2. AND/OR: There is a potential benefit for knowing about the condition to inform
           management in the neonatal period. This criterion was particularly important if the
           condition was either not included on a newborn screening panel, and/or intervention
           would be required prior to results from newborn screening being known.

        3. AND there is strong evidence for mutations in the gene being causative of the condition
           in question, with enough variants reported to allow confidence in informing couples of
           their chance of having a child with the condition in question.
    
  