
    
      Preterm birth (<37 weeks gestation) occurs in 10% of all pregnancies worldwide and the
      optimal way to feed a newborn preterm infant, when breast-feeding is impossible, is not
      clear. Excessive enteral feeding predisposes to various complications and necrotizing
      enterocolitis (NEC) that occur in 7% of preterm infants born with less than 1500 g body
      weight. Early feeding with small volumes of milk is applied to promote GIT maturation and add
      some nutrients and energy. It is assumed that early feeding allows more rapid advancement to
      full enteral feeding (EN, e.g 120-160 ml/kg/d) and weaning from parenteral nutrition (PN).
      This is important to reduce PN-related complications (e.g. sepsis) and to better stimulate
      body and organ (e.g. gut, brain) development. However, it remains unclear what is the best
      milk diet when mother's own milk (MM) is not available. Infant formula (IF) and banked human
      donor milk (DM) are the most frequently used alternatives to MM. MM is superior to IF in
      promoting feeding tolerance, intestinal function, and NEC resistance in preterm infants.
      Feeding with DM is also believed to be beneficial, relative to IF, although this pasteurized
      milk obtained from mothers later in lactation may be less beneficial, relative to the first
      milk, colostrum. There are differences in the amount and composition between human colostrum
      and bovine colostrum (BC), but relative to mature human milk, BC contains higher amounts of
      protein, growth factors and immuno-regulatory components (e.g. immunoglobulins). Large amount
      of protein in BC provides higher enteral protein intake and may enable a reduction in the use
      of PN and central venous catheters, and hereby reduced risk of infection. Also this may lead
      to reduced weight loss and improved growth of the brain and the body. In addition,
      maturational and NEC-protective effects of BC have repeatedly been documented in preterm pigs
      when BC is used as the first diet after birth. The investigators therefore plan to
      investigate whether using BC as nutrition for preterm infants in the first weeks of life is
      safe, tolerable, and helps to provide nutrients and gut maturation , when MM is not in
      sufficient amounts or not available.
    
  