
    
      Previous research, including our prior studies using the alcohol clamp, has shown substantial
      genetic influences on alcohol pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics. While the influence of
      several individual genes on alcohol pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics has been examined,
      there has not been a comprehensive evaluation of genetic influences on the pharmacokinetics
      and pharmacodynamics of alcohol in humans.

      Objectives: To evaluate the genetic underpinnings of the pharmacodynamics of alcohol using
      candidate gene analysis of measures of the initial and adaptive acute response to alcohol in
      humans.

      Study Population: Subjects will be 21-30 year-old non-smoking, male and female non-dependent
      drinkers in good health, as determined by medical history, physical exam, and ECG and lab
      tests. Subjects with Axis-I psychiatric diagnoses, including alcohol or substance dependence,
      will be excluded.

      Design: The study will be conducted in two phases. In phase I, 40 subjects (20 with positive
      family history of alcoholism (FHP) and 20 with no family history of alcoholism (FHN)) will
      undergo two ethanol infusion sessions to compare different breath alcohol concentration
      exposures. In one session (Clamp session), participants will be infused with 6% ethanol in
      saline using an individualized infusion profile to achieve and clamp breath alcohol
      concentrations (BrAC) at 60 mg% for 2 hours. In the other session (Oral-mimic session),
      participants will be infused with 6% ethanol and saline using another individualized infusion
      profile to achieve a BrAC-time profile that would be typically obtained after oral
      administration (ascending limb to peak BrAC followed by descending limb). During each
      session, serial BrACs will be obtained, and heart-rate and skin blood flow will be
      continuously recorded. A battery of subjective (self-rating questionnaires) and objective
      measures (psychomotor performance, behavioral disinhibition tasks) will be obtained at
      baseline and two points during the infusion to assess the initial response and adaptive
      response to alcohol. The measures of initial response and adaptive response will be compared
      between sessions to determine which provides greater sensitivity (higher effect size) for
      detecting family history differences.

      In phase II, 160 participants will undergo a one session study. Participants will receive an
      ethanol infusion to achieve the BrAC-time profile (Clamp or Oral-mimic) that provides the
      greater sensitivity to family history of alcoholism in phase I of the study. The same battery
      of subjective and objective measures will be obtained to assess the initial response and
      adaptive response to alcohol. These response measures will be used as endophenotypes for
      examination of genetic association with a set of candidate genes, based on previous clinical
      and pre-clinical studies.

      Outcome measures: Initial response to alcohol and adaptive response to alcohol measures will
      be obtained for a battery of assessments, including subjective ratings of alcohol effects,
      psychomotor performance, behavioral disinhibition tasks and autonomic measures.
    
  