
    
      The use of antibiotics is known to have significant effects on the intestinal microbiota.
      Studies have linked this alteration with the risk of colonization and / or infection by
      Carbapenem resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE) and / or Clostridium difficile (Cd). The impact
      of these microorganisms has been demonstrated, with mortality rates in inpatients of around
      30-50% for patients infected with CRE and 10% in Cd. It is necessary to implement mechanisms
      to contain dissemination and decrease colonization, in order to prevent infections caused by
      such agents.

      Probiotics are foods consisting of live microorganisms and could restore the balance of the
      microbiota and avoid colonization by multi-resistant germs. Systematic reviews have shown a
      protective effect of probiotics for Cd. Studies on the effect on CRE are scarce and have been
      related mostly to prevention of colonization. Among the probiotics obtained by bacterial
      fermentation technology and already available in pharmacopoeia we have Bioflora ®. The
      objective of this trial is to explore the effect of probiotic consumption to decrease the
      duration of the colonization by CRE by comparing the percentage of patients colonized with
      CRE after the administration of probiotics and in the untreated group.

      Methodology: Randomized clinical trial, single center. Known CRE colonized patients will be
      randomized to consume probiotics for 14 days or placebo. Then the colonization will be
      evaluated by means of anal swabs as indicated by the hospital standards with a follow up of
      12 weeks from the initial intervention.

      If the patient is discharged, home follow-up will be scheduled to supervise the intake of the
      dietary supplement and the control swabs.

      The expected impact is to accelerate the process of decolonization of multi-resistant germs
      through the administration of probiotics leading to a shorter contact isolation time in and
      reducing the risk of complications in CRE colonized patients.
    
  