
    
      The treatment in this study is one of the standard treatments suggested by the NCCN
      guidelines. The patients received operation after neoadjuvant concurrent chemoradiotherapy
      and pathologic tumor response is evaluated. Before neoadjuvant treatment, the following are
      obtained; Medical history and physical examination, Tissue acquisition through colonoscopy,
      Blood Test (CBC), Chemistry Test (SMA), staging through pelvic CT or MRI, PET-CT or chest CT.

      Either 5-FU/leucovorin and Capecitabine based concurrent chemoradiotherapy is conducted. The
      target delineation is performed in 3mm simulation CT for radiotherapy. GTV includes primary
      lesions ,lymph nodes and mesorectum based on diagnostic CT, MRI, and PET-CT. CTV covers the
      perirectal and internal pelvic lymph node with microscopic margin of GTV. PTV1 is defined as
      extending 0.3cm from the GTV. PTV2 is defined as extending 0.5 from CTV. Radiotherapy is
      performed using 3D conformal radiotherapy, intensity-modulated radiotherapy, volumetric
      modulated Arc therapy. Radiotherapy is administered daily, five times a week according to the
      NCCN guidelines. Each treatment is performed with full bladder and prone positioning.
      Radiotherapy is performed 25 fractions with simultaneous integrated boost method. 2.00Gy is
      administered for PTV1 while 1.8 Gy is administered for PTV2.

      The operation is performed 5-12 weeks after CCRT. If the patients refuse, physicians do not
      perform surgery and undergo wait-and-see. The treatment response is evaluated based on
      standard treatment process. During the treatment, the regular check up is conducted to
      evaluate the acute toxicity regarding treatment.

      The acquired specimens are used for RNA sequencing and organoid construction. The RNA
      sequencing is used to analyze the differentially expressed based on treatment response to
      neoadjuvant concurrent chemoradiotherapy.
    
  