
    
      PET imaging has advantages over gamma imaging, including better resolution, faster and easier
      testing, and the ability to quantify the absorption intensity. These PET capabilities,
      potentially, detect subtle differences in disease burden between different heart segments
      and, subsequently, track response to treatment.

      Research Duration:

      The entire duration of the study will take about one year (or until all participants in the
      study complete the tests), As part of the study, tests will be conducted for 20 subjects.

      Program details and research steps:

        -  The study is a prospective study.

        -  The research was done in collaboration with Prof. Eyal Masheni, Director of the
           Cyclotron and Radiochemistry Unit at Hadassah Hospital, which will provide twenty doses
           of 18F-NaF.

        -  For the Cyclotron and Radiochemistry Unit in Hadassah Hospital, a license to operate as
           a radiopharmaceutical pharmacy on behalf of the Ministry of Health, and thus valid, a
           blanket approval by the Ministry of Health to use the materials manufactured therein.

      Research phases:

        1. Patients will undergo clinical and laboratory evaluation, as well as imaging tests, at
           the discretion of the treating cardiologist, even before being referred for examination
           within the study. At this stage, patients will be recruited for the study and given an
           explanation of the tests that will be passed. If necessary, patients will be referred to
           the Institute of Nuclear Medicine for more information.

        2. The test will be performed on the Discovery 690 Nuclear Medicine Camera.

        3. On the day of the examination, the examiner will be admitted to the Office of the
           Institute of Nuclear Medicine and will be admitted to administrative. Prior to the test,
           the subject will undergo a brief interview by a physician or nurse and a 22 G Prefill
           will be installed on him, through which a 5 millikiric (mCi) of 18 F-NaF will be
           injected.

        4. An hour after the injection, the PET / CT test, which will last for about 10 minutes,
           will be performed during which the patient is required to rest comfortably and breathe
           normally.

        5. Upon completion of the mapped examination, the home will be released without any
           restrictions.

        6. Continued clinical follow-up will be done by the attending cardiologist.
    
  