
    
      Bone marrow stem cell transplant studies carried out by the National Heart Lung & Blood
      Institute (NHLBI) Bone Marrow Transplantation (BMT) Unit have focused on approaches to
      optimize the stem cell and lymphocyte dose in order to improve transplant survival and
      increase the graft-versus-leukemia effect. The aim is to create the transplant conditions
      that permit rapid donor immune recovery without causing graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) by
      using reduced post-transplant immunosuppression in conjunction with a transplant depleted of
      T cells to a fixed low dose, below the threshold known to be associated with GVHD.

      We have found that the outcome from transplant is improved by controlling the stem cell
      (CD34+ cell) and T lymphocyte (CD3+ cell) dose. We use the "Nexell Isolex 300i" system to
      obtain high CD34+ doses depleted of lymphocytes to a fixed CD3+ T cell dose of 2 x 104/kg.
      The use of the cell separator and the monoclonal antibodies is covered by an Investigational
      Device Exemption. A persisting problem with these T cell depleted transplants has been the
      slow acquisition of full donor T cell engraftment (T cell chimerism). Two previous protocols
      have failed to increase the speed of donor T cell chimerism. Patients with mixed
      donor-recipient T cell populations are known to be at higher risk for late graft rejection
      and leukemic relapse after transplant. Therefore, the achievement of full donor chimerism
      remains an important therapeutic goal. In this study we will test whether cyclosporine given
      between day -6 and +21 after transplant can significantly improve day 30 T cell chimerism
      (the principle end-point). The study also will measure the incidence of acute and chronic
      GVHD, day 100 transplant related mortality, cytomegalovirus reactivation, relapse, and
      disease-free survival with appropriate safety stopping rules.

      This protocol follows closely previous studies in this series. Three additional modifications
      will be made however: 1) The first T cell add-back will be delayed until day 60 (instead of
      day 45) so as to continue to allow a 45 day period without cyclosporine immunosuppression. 2)
      No day 100 T cell add-back will be given. (In previous studies many patients have, for
      protocol-defined reasons, not received the second transfusion and there is no evidence that
      it is required). 3) Patients with high-risk leukemias with a high relapse probability will
      receive an additional chemotherapy agent prior to transplant using etoposide (VP16) 60mg/kg
      to improve the chance of remaining in remission.
    
  