
    
      Optimizing the second stage of labor is important for positive maternal and neonatal
      outcomes. Dystocia of labor refers to a lack of progress of labor for any reason, and it is
      the most common indication for cesarean delivery in nulliparous women and the second most
      common indication for cesarean delivery in multiparous women. In 2014, a large US multicenter
      cohort study showed increases in maternal and neonatal morbidities when the second stage was
      prolonged, including chorioamnionitis, postpartum hemorrhage, 3rd and 4th degree perineal
      laceration, shoulder dystocia, 5 minute Apgar score less than 4, neonatal admission to NICU
      and neonatal sepsis. Therefore, clinicians are challenged to consider alternative practices
      in order to maximize a mother's chance of a normal delivery and minimize these associated
      risks to both mother and baby.

      Mouth guards are used primarily in contact sports, and have been demonstrated to reduce or
      prevent injury to the teeth. Most commonly made of synthetic polymers, mouth guards function
      as a shock-absorber. Even among sports medicine literature, there is a call for more research
      into use and education about protective gear. Previous studies have shown that wearing a
      mouth guard increases the isometric strength of different muscle groups. Recent studies have
      begun to explore whether wearing a similar style mouth guard will shorten the duration of the
      second stage of labor. A recent randomized controlled pilot study including nulliparous women
      using a dental support device (DSD) during the second stage evaluated the length of the
      second stage and outcome thereof. They defined the second stage of labor as the time between
      complete cervical dilation and fetal expulsion. They found a significant decrease of 38% in
      the length of the second stage in the group that used a DSD. Additionally, there was a
      decreased rate of cesarean section in this group, however a p-value was not reported. This
      study only included 64 patients. A second, larger trial also looking at nulliparous women did
      not find a significant difference in length of second stage of labor however the rate of
      obstetrical interventions such as operative vaginal delivery and cesarean section were much
      higher in the control group due to prolonged second stage of labor. Though the results of the
      second study are contradictory in nature, the researchers do not provide hypotheses into why
      this may be.

      Our hypothesis is that using such a device would help women to push more effectively during
      the second stage of labor thus shortening the second stage and increasing the rate of
      spontaneous vaginal deliveries that do not require operative intervention. Developing a way
      to shorten the second stage of labor and reduce the number of cesarean sections or
      instrumental deliveries could reduce the morbidity of mothers and their infants and decrease
      health care spending.
    
  