
    
      The major goals of K-ADNI are to:

        1. Establish a registry for Alzheimer's disease (AD) and subcortical ischemic vascular
           dementia (SIVD)

             -  Collect longitudinal clinical, imaging, genetic, and biochemical biomarker data for
                clinical and neuroscience studies on 500 subjects in five diagnostic categories:
                cognitively normal control (NC), mild cognitive impairment (MCI), mild AD, vascular
                MCI (vMCI), and SIVD.

             -  The following measurements known as representative parameters of dementia progress
                will be included. 1) clinical characteristics, 2) neuropsychological test, 3)
                structural and functional magnetic resonance image (MRI), 4) Fludeoxyglucose
                (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET), 5) amyloid PET (18F-flutemetamol), 6)
                cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and blood sample, 7) genetic analysis.

        2. Determination of factors that are crucial in the aggravation or deterrence of progress
           of dementia syndrome, so that these factors can be used as predictors and outcome
           measures of AD and SIVD

             -  Determine the relationships among clinical, imaging, genetic, and biochemical
                biomarker characteristics of the entire spectrum of AD, as the pathology evolves
                from normal aging through very mild symptoms, to MCI, and finally to dementia.

             -  Also, determine the relationship among clinical, imaging, genetic, and biochemical
                biomarker characteristics of the vascular MCI (vMCI) and SIVD, which is an
                important sub-population of dementia syndrome especially in Asian population.

        3. Identification of surrogate markers for new drug development in patients with AD and
           SIVD

           - Identify prognostic markers of AD and SIVD, identify outcome measures that can be used
           in clinical trials, and help develop the most effective clinical trial scenarios for new
           drugs.

        4. Development of the standard model for acquiring multi-site neuroimaging study data -
           Develop improved methods which will lead to uniform standards for acquiring longitudinal
           multi-site clinical, MRI, PET, and other biological markers (blood, CSF, gene) data on
           patients with AD, MCI, vMCI, SIVD, and elderly controls.
    
  