
    
      Project out line

      The main project consists of:

        1. A descriptive study of the occurrence and type of naming difficulties in people with
           stroke, Parkinson's disease or Multiple sclerosis (MS) where quantitative data is
           compared at group level, (study 1).

        2. A descriptive study in which word search strategies are investigated with both
           quantitative and qualitative methods (study 2).

        3. A series of three intervention studies examining the effect of treatment of anomia
           (studies 3-5).

      Study 1: The relation between type of injury and ability to name objects and actions and
      complex semantic-pragmatic word fluency

      Participants The project includes a total of 90 people with anomia: 50 subjects with anomia
      after stroke, 20 individuals with Parkinson's disease and 20 individuals with MS are
      recruited are recruited through patient associations and health care facilities in Västra
      Götaland and included consecutively.

      In the study confrontation naming ability, and word fluency is explored. In addition, the
      type of naming difficulties and consequences of anomia in everyday communication are examined
      with a questionnaire and communication analysis.

      1) Confrontation naming ability is examined with a material consisting of 42 images
      representing 21 nouns and 21 verbs. The selection of images comes from The Object & Action
      Naming Battery and is adapted to Swedish linguistic and cultural conditions. The images
      consist of simple black and white drawings. There is a 20-second time limit for response for
      each image. In addition to scoring, an analysis and categorization of the response according
      to the coding scheme is performed; 2) Word fluency is examined with semantic (animals and
      activities) and phonological (F, A and S) word fluency tests where the participant will
      produce as many words as possible for each category during one minute. The results are
      compared with reference data for healthy participants and the use of strategies is analyzed
      by calculating cluster size and number of switches between different categories; a more
      complex semantic-pragmatic word fluency task is also administrated.

      Participants' experience of their communication skills in everyday life and quality of life
      is gathered in a questionnaire with image support: The Communication Outcome After Stroke
      (COAST) scale. COAST consists of 20 questions where participants estimate themselves on a
      5-degree likert scale. Stroke and Aphasia Quality of Life Scale (SAQOL-39) and Communicative
      Participation Item Bank (CPIB) are also administrated as well as a formalized interview.

      Study 2: Word search strategies in naming difficulties in people with different types of
      neurogenic communication disorders

      Participants In this descriptive study fifteen participants with Parkinson's disease and
      fifteen participants with MS are included.

      Material and methods Word search strategies in ten-twenty minutes of naturally occurring
      conversations are assessed through communication analysis. Sequences where participants are
      involved in repair due to difficulties to express themselves are analyzed with the
      qualitative method Conversation Analysis in combination med Aktivity based communication
      analysis.

      Studies 3-4: Training with semantic feature analysis to improve naming

      Participants Six participants with MS and six participants with Parkinson's disease and 40
      participants with anomia due to stroke will be included.

      Intervention Participants receive training in semantic feature analysis (SFA) for naming of
      objects and activities. The training is administered by presenting an image representing
      either an object or an activity are presented to the participant. The participant is
      encouraged to try to produce the target word as well as a number of words semantically
      related to the target word. The related words are listed in a certain order and describe
      different semantic aspects of the target word. The participants get to choose a number of
      words which they want to practice.

      The participants receive training at 20 occasions, three times a week. The training is
      delivered during one hour each session in individual training for the participants with MS
      and in a group setting for two hours, including 30 minutes pause for participants with stroke

      Study 3-4 - training anomia due to Parkinson's disease and MS Since semantic feature analysis
      has not previously been used as treatment for people with Parkinson's disease or MS, the
      effect is evaluated in using time series design with multiple baselines. Three-five baseline
      measures of the dependent variable is collected before start of training and then every
      fourth training session.

      Study 5 - training anomia due to stroke In study 5 the effect of intervention for
      participants with anomia due to stroke is assessed in a randomized group study with a control
      group. The control group receives training in comprehension. The groups are matched in terms
      of age, severity of anomia time since onset and level of education. Before and after the
      intervention, as well as at a twelve week follow up, the effects are assessed in both groups.
    
  