
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic systemic inflammatory disease that affects the joints
      as the main target of the inflammation. Patients with RA require chronic treatment with
      disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) including methotrexate (MTX), which
      constitutes the mainstay of treatment.

      Underlying immune dysfunction and the additional immune suppression associated with treatment
      render patients with RA more susceptible to infection. Thus, vaccination against preventable
      diseases including influenza, pneumococcal pneumonia and hepatitis B is recommended for all
      RA patients who are subject to treatment with immunesupprssive drugs, unless there is a
      contraindication to the use of vaccination. However, low dose of glucocorticoids,
      conventional DMARDs and biological DMARDs including tumor necrosis factor inhibitors have
      been reported to substantially decrease vaccine response (4); MTX has been reported to be
      associated with a decreased response to seasonal influenza vaccination by up to 15%.

      To optimize a vaccine response, vaccination should be administrated before the treatment with
      immunesuppressive medications is initiated. However, most patients with RA are already on
      stable dose of DMARDs at the time of when vaccinations, especially vaccine against seasonal
      influenza that needs annual administration, are considered. Alternatively, temporarily
      discontinuation of DMARDs might restore normal immune response to and so improve the efficacy
      of vaccination.

      Although a short term discontinuation of DMARDs during perioperative period has not been
      associated with increased disease activity the longer discontinuation of DMARDs might lead to
      a significant aggravation of RA disease activity. To optimize the vaccine response, a short
      term discontinuation of DMARDs could be considered if this approach proves to be safe and
      effective.
    
  