
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the progression-free survival (PFS) of patients receiving high-dose
      cholecalciferol (vitamin D3) in combination with standard chemotherapy (leucovorin calcium,
      fluorouracil, and oxaliplatin [FOLFOX] or leucovorin calcium, fluorouracil, and irinotecan
      hydrochloride [FOLFIRI]) and bevacizumab versus those receiving standard-dose vitamin D3 in
      combination with standard chemotherapy and bevacizumab.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the objective response rate (ORR) of patients receiving high-dose vitamin D3 in
      combination with standard chemotherapy + bevacizumab versus those receiving standard-dose
      vitamin D3 in combination with standard chemotherapy + bevacizumab.

      II. To compare the overall survival (OS) of patients receiving high-dose vitamin D3 in
      combination with standard chemotherapy + bevacizumab versus those receiving standard-dose
      vitamin D3 in combination with standard chemotherapy + bevacizumab.

      III. To evaluate and compare the toxicity of adding high-dose vitamin D3 versus standard-dose
      vitamin D3 to chemotherapy + bevacizumab.

      IV. To assess the influence of diet, body mass index, physical activity, and other lifestyle
      habits on PFS among patients with locally advanced/metastatic colorectal cancer.

      V. To evaluate the incidence of vitamin D3 deficiency in participants with previously
      untreated metastatic colorectal cancer.

      VI. To compare the efficacy of high-dose vitamin D3 versus standard-dose vitamin D3 in
      subgroups of patients defined by baseline plasma calcifediol (25[OH]D) levels.

      VII. To evaluate the prognostic effect of highest-achieved 25(OH)D levels with PFS.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive bevacizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on day 1 and
      oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1, and
      fluorouracil IV on days 1-3 or irinotecan hydrochloride IV on day 1, leucovorin calcium IV
      over 90 minutes on day 1, and fluorouracil IV on days 1-3. Patients also receive high-dose
      cholecalciferol orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-14. Cycles repeat every 14 days for 5
      years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive bevacizumab and chemotherapy as in Arm I. Patients also receive
      standard-dose cholecalciferol PO QD on days 1-14. Cycles repeat every 14 days for 5 years in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 5 years.
    
  