
    
      Older adult patients in the Emergency Department frequently experience poor outcomes due to
      lack of recognition of underlying syndromes, such as delirium, polypharmacy, falls, and
      social needs. This study uses rigorous implementation science processes to implement and
      investigate an ED protocol to screen older adults for these syndromes and address them with
      multidisciplinary geriatric assessments in an ED Observation Unit. Using an Observation Unit
      to evaluate older adult patients at risk is a novel strategy developed to address the current
      barriers of sustainability, cost, and timeliness that arose in prior studies of geriatric
      assessments in an ED setting.

      Specific Aim 1: Implementation: Develop, implement, and sustain a two-step intervention
      providing ED geriatric assessments by combining 1) ED nurse-based screening for geriatric
      syndromes of all older ED patients with 2) multidisciplinary geriatric assessment in an ED
      Obs Unit. Mixed-methods approaches and the Consolidated Framework for Implementation (CFIR)
      will be used to identify resource, organizational, patient, staff, and administrative factors
      that affect protocol adherence. Lean Six Sigma processes will be used to overcome barriers.
      The effects of the protocol in reference to ED quality metrics, staff work flow, and work
      culture will be tracked.

      Hypothesis 1a: Implementation: Lean Six Sigma processes will i) increase ED nurse-based
      screening rates to >80% older adults in the ED and ii) increase protocol fidelity in the Obs
      Unit to >80%.

      Hypothesis 1b: Sustainability: After 6 months of >80% screening, the investigators will
      characterize the necessary elements for sustainability by systematically withdrawing
      implementation support strategies. Hypothesis: Attention to CFIR elements during
      implementation will result in routinization and institutionalization that does not
      significantly decrease with withdrawal or time, as assessed by sustainability surveys.37

      Specific Aim 2: Effectiveness: The investigators will describe the effect of this protocol on
      reducing the decline in functional status and reducing other patient and systems outcomes
      (e.g. health related quality of life (HRQoL)) commonly seen after an ED visit.38-40 To obtain
      patient-centered outcomes, two patient cohorts (pre and post implementation) will be
      recruited.

      Hypothesis 2a: The intervention will reduce the decline in functional status seen after ED
      visits. Secondary outcomes include health-related quality of life, ED revisits, and results
      of the multidisciplinary assessments.

      Hypothesis 2b: Patients will be satisfied with the protocol as assessed by thematic analysis
      of qualitative subject interviews of post intervention patients.
    
  