
    
      Obesity is one of the major public health problems globally, affecting an ever-increasing
      proportion of working age adults. In addition of increasing the risk of many
      obesity-associated diseases, obesity is associated to impaired ability to work, making it a
      relevant occupational health concern. Treatment of obesity requires long-term interventions,
      but nevertheless, it is challenging to provide long-term treatment when resources in
      real-life health care systems are limited. To that need, new cost-effective and accessible
      intervention methods are created. One of these is the a real-life web-based obesity
      management program HealthyWeightCoaching (HWC).

      HWC has shown promising results in obesity management, but alike in other fully virtual
      interventions, one of the challenges has been adherence. Creating hybrid-models by addition
      of face-to-face contacts to the web-based structure, has been shown to improve adherence and
      therefore the effectiveness of the intervention. However, data on hybrid interventions for
      weight management is still scarce and calls for further research.

      In the current setting, the investigators study how minimal added support will affect the
      effectiveness and adherence of the web-based program. The patients are randomized into three
      groups all of which include the HWC platform. In addition, group 1 will be offered three
      individual face-to-face sessions via video and group 2 three group face-to-face sessions via
      video. Group 3 acts as the control group offering the basic HWC protocol.

      Data on health and lifestyle are collected at 0, 6, 12 month time points. The 12-month
      intervention is followed by a 5 year monitoring period. The data collection includes
      questionnaires, measurements and laboratory tests.

      The patients (target n=120) are enrolled from the occupational health of the city of
      Helsinki. The participation is free for the patient.
    
  