
    
      Your doctor has found that you have a brain tumor that needs to be surgically removed. Your
      doctor has explained the risks and benefits of the surgery. After the brain tumor is
      surgically removed, some tumor may be left. A treatment that sends additional radiation right
      to the place around where the tumor was located, may help kill any tumor cells left after the
      surgery. This treatment is called brachytherapy. Your doctor has explained the risks and
      benefits of brachytherapy. Researchers in this study would like to evaluate a radiation
      delivery system, GliaSite RTS, that provides brachytherapy targeted to a specific site in the
      brain, to see its effects to the surrounding area where the tumor was located.

      The GliaSite RTS is a balloon attached to the end of a tube with an access port. The balloon
      will be put in the space left behind after your tumor is taken out. The end of the tube with
      its access port will be on the outside of your skull, underneath the skin, at the top of your
      head. The balloon is filled with radiation therapy solution to provide radiation therapy to
      any remaining tumor cells next to the space where the tumor was removed.

      Before your already scheduled surgery, a series of tests will be performed to find out if you
      qualify for participation in this study. You will have a complete medical history and your
      temperature, blood pressure, and pulse will be measured. A standard neurological exam will be
      performed, in which your mental status, vision, sensory functions, speech, motor skills, and
      functioning will be evaluated. Women who are able to have children must have a negative urine
      or blood pregnancy test. A MRI/CT scan will be taken of your head. As part of this MRI/CT,
      you will get an injection of a contrast solution into your vein. The MRI/CT images will show
      if there is brain swelling or bleeding. It will also show the edges of the tumor area and
      will be used to confirm that you should receive radiation therapy with the GliaSite RTS.

      If you qualify for the study, you will have a small balloon (GliaSite) placed in the space
      where the tumor was removed during your surgery. The balloon will be filled with an x-ray dye
      and normal saline (sterile water with salt) to make sure that the balloon properly fills the
      space where the tumor was removed. Your surgeon will then stitch your head closed. It is
      possible that your surgeon may decide not to place the GliaSite device in the space where the
      tumor was. If your surgeon chooses not to place the GliaSite device, you will be offered
      alternative treatments, once you recover from surgery.

      The balloon will be filled with an x-ray dye solution once it has been placed in the surgical
      cavity and will be kept filled until it is replaced by the radioactive solution. You will
      then have an MRI/CT of the head. Following this MRI/CT exam, you will get an injection of a
      contrast solution into your vein. You will then have a second MRI/CT exam of the head, which
      will show this contrast solution. The MRI/CT images will show if there is brain swelling or
      bleeding. It will also show the edges of the tumor area and where the balloon is located.
      These images will be used to confirm that you should receive radiation therapy with the
      GliaSite RTS device. You may also have x-ray films of the brain to confirm balloon placement.
      You may be able to leave the hospital after surgery.

      You may be readmitted to the hospital for radiation therapy about one to two weeks after
      surgery. Twenty-four hours before starting radiation therapy, you will begin taking a
      medication and continue taking it for 24 hours after your radiation therapy is finished. This
      medication, an iodine-potassium iodide solution, keeps your thyroid gland from gathering too
      much radiation in the event that the balloon leaks.

      Before the radiation therapy is begun, x-ray films of the brain may be taken to show the
      location of the balloon and verify the balloon is still properly placed. Once the placement
      of the balloon is confirmed, the x-ray dye and saline are removed from the catheter. The
      balloon will then be filled with radiation therapy solution and normal saline.

      You may be able to go home once the material has been put into the balloon. If this is done,
      special instructions will be given to you that you must follow if you are sent home. You must
      then return to the hospital at the appropriate time for removal of the radioactive material.
      Otherwise, you will be in the hospital the entire time you are getting radiation therapy.

      When the radiation therapy is completed after about 3 to 7 days, the radiation therapy
      solution will be removed from the balloon. The GliaSite device will be rinsed with normal
      saline. This rinsing helps lessen any radioactivity remaining in the device. After completion
      of brachytherapy, the balloon will be completely emptied and the GliaSite device will be
      surgically removed. When your doctor feels that you are ready, you will be discharged from
      the hospital.

      Following the completion of brachytherapy, you may receive other forms of radiation therapy
      as prescribed by your physician. This is usually done as an outpatient.

      You will be asked to follow up with your doctor at certain time points after you receive the
      brachytherapy treatment. The time points are 1 month and 3 months after brachytherapy and
      then every 3 months after that (for example, 1, 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21 and 24 months).

      During these follow up visits, you will be asked to complete a mini-mental status examination
      referred to as a MMSE. You will be asked to complete a quality of life questionnaire. Your
      physician may take an MRI or CT image of your brain if he/she thinks it is necessary.If you
      have undergone a second operation for your brain cancer, you will be asked about this
      surgery. You will be asked about any steroid medication you are taking and if the dose has
      changed since your last visit. Your doctor will also ask you about any other cancer
      medications or treatments you have received since your last visit.You and your doctor may
      discuss any serious events that have happened to you since your last visit.

      This is an investigational study. The device is FDA approved. About 300 patients will take
      part in this multicenter study. Up to 20 will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  