
    
      Critical illness and the presence of a central venous catheter (CVC) are the most important
      risk factors for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) in children. Catheter-associated thrombosis
      (CADVT) is highly prevalent and associated with poor outcomes in critically ill children.
      Yet, based on underpowered pediatric trials, prophylaxis against CADVT is not recommended in
      children. The recommendation to provide prophylaxis against thrombosis in critically ill
      adults should not be applied to children because the hemostatic system and co-morbidities
      vastly differ between age groups. Pivotal trials are urgently needed to determine whether
      prophylaxis can prevent CADVT and its complications in critically ill children. However, the
      timing and extent of reduction in thrombin generation, the biochemical goal of prophylaxis,
      needed to prevent CADVT in children are unclear. The goal of this application is to explore
      the efficacy of early prophylaxis against CADVT in critically ill children. Aim 1 is to
      obtain preliminary evidence on the effect of early prophylaxis on the incidence of CADVT in
      critically ill children. Based on the natural history of CADVT, we hypothesize that among
      critically ill children, prophylaxis administered <24 hours after catheter insertion
      decreases the incidence of ultrasound-diagnosed CADVT compared with no prophylaxis. In this
      phase 2a trial, children admitted to the intensive care unit with a newly inserted central
      venous catheter will receive enoxaparin adjusted according to anti-Xa activity, a control
      group will not receive enoxaparin adjusted according to anti-Xa activity. Enoxaparin has
      become the "standard" pediatric anticoagulant for prophylaxis despite the absence of
      conclusive data. We will use Bayesian approach to determine whether further trials are
      warranted. Aim 2 is to evaluate the effect of an anti-Xa activity-directed prophylactic
      strategy on thrombin generation in critically ill children. We hypothesize that among
      critically ill children, standard prophylactic dose of enoxaparin adjusted by anti-Xa
      activity reduces thrombin generation to <700 nanomolar-minute (nM.min), as measured by
      endogenous thrombin potential (ETP). In non-critically ill adults, prophylactic dose of
      enoxaparin proven to prevent DVT reduces ETP to <700 nM.min. Endogenous thrombin potential is
      the best available measure of thrombin generation. We will measure endogenous thrombin
      potential and anti-Xa activity at multiple time points then examine their relationship in all
      children enrolled in the phase 2a trial. The proposed research challenges the current
      paradigm on prophylaxis against CADVT in children. High quality evidence is needed to prevent
      CADVT and its complications in this vulnerable population.
    
  