
    
      Rationale and objective: Two techniques for exposing palatally impacted canines are routinely
      used, the closed window technique (CWT) and the open window technique (OWT). To our
      knowledge, there is no evidence-based information that would suggest, which of the two
      techniques results in a better outcome. Our null hypothesis is that there is no difference in
      the outcome of exposed impacted maxillary canines after CWT or OWT.

      Study design: A randomized clinical multicentre trial with a two-group design. The
      randomization is by canine, not by patient.

      Study population: The case group consists of healthy persons of 11-17 years old who have
      unilateral palatally impacted canines.

      Intervention: One group will be treated with the CWT and the other group with the OWT.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The main outcome measure will be the total duration of
      treatment (including also orthodontic treatment) with two techniques of management of
      impacted canines. The secondary outcome measures will be: (1) duration of surgical procedure,
      (2) patients perception of pain and recovery after surgery, (3) burden of care, (4)
      cost-effectiveness, (5) quality of life and satisfaction with treatment, (6) degree of root
      resorption of the lateral incisor, (7) periodontal status of impacted canine and adjacent
      teeth, (8) esthetic outcome, (9) need for endodontic treatment of the impacted canine or
      adjacent lateral incisor, (10) occlusal outcome (evaluated with PAR index).

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: The CWT and OWT are current treatment techniques. To our knowledge, there is no
      sound scientific information available on which to base a treatment decision. The burden of
      each treatment is for the patient the same. Routine pre- and post-treatment records will be
      taken. The extra burden for the patients participating in the trial will be records and
      questionnaires during treatment and long-term
    
  