
    
      Total joint arthroplasty is a definitive treatment for end-stage osteoarthritis of the hip
      and knee, which is increased as the world goes into the aging society. It was reported that
      0.33 million total hip arthroplasty (THA) and 0.7 million total knee arthroplasty (TKA) were
      performed in the United States annually, and the demand for the procedures were estimated to
      0.57 million and 3.48 million per year in 2030, respectively. It's important to find
      strategies to improve the quality of healthcare and get earlier recovery and better outcome
      for patients undergoing THA and TKA, so as to slow the growth of the heavy economic burden
      associated with the increase of the procedures.

      Enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS) is proposed as a series of evidence-based
      perioperative optimization with multidisciplinary treatment to reduce surgical stress and
      accelerate postoperative recovery. Under this general guidelines, different ERAS pathways
      have been reported to decrease morbidity, save costs, promote faster recovery, and achieve
      the clinical and economic gain in colorectal, thoracic, and orthopedic surgery. Regional
      anesthesia was recommended for ERAS because it provides reliable analgesia and little
      disturbance on hemodynamics in previous literatures. But for patients undergoing THA and TKA,
      epidural or spinal anesthesia is always associated with indwelling urinary catheter even in
      surgery with short duration and small amount of blood loss, and femoral or sciatic nerve
      block decreases muscle strength, leading to postponed mobilization. Nowadays, anesthetic
      agents with rapid onsetting and clearance make ERAS be applied under general anesthesia. For
      example, desflurane, a volatile anesthetic with a low blood/gas distribution coefficient, has
      been reported to metabolized quickly with minor dependence on liver and kidney function, and
      provide rapid awakening from anesthetic state. Based on its characteristics, we hypothesized
      that ERAS could be achieved by general anesthesia with the use of short-acting anesthetic
      agents with the combination of short-acting opioids and muscle relaxant.

      In this trial, we'll develop ERAS pathway in patients undergoing primary THA and TKA, and
      compare with the conventional treatment in length of stay (LOS) in hospital, postoperative
      complications, as well as the hospitalization costs. The aim of this trial is to verify our
      hypothesis that ERAS could provide reduced LOS while not increase complications and
      in-hospital cost when compared with the current clinical practice.
    
  