
    
      Heart failure (HF) is becoming increasingly recognized with an estimated worldwide prevalence
      of >37.7 million individuals. In the United States alone, there are over 5 million patients
      with HF which is expected to increase to over 8 million by 2030. Despite advances in medical
      therapies and technology, HF remains the leading cause of hospitalization among adults and
      the elderly. By 2030, the medical costs of HF are expected to rise from $20.9 billion to
      $53.1 billion, with nearly 80% of the projected increased expenses attributes to
      hospitalization costs. As such, it is imperative to develop new technologies and treatment
      options to impact the HF epidemic.

      The majority of HF hospital admissions are due to volume overload. Stiffened and/or weakened
      myocardium predisposes patients to the accumulation of extracellular fluid resulting in
      increased intracardiac filling pressures and symptoms of congestion (edema, dyspnea and
      orthopnea). Accurate assessment of a patient's volume status remains clinically challenging
      at times. While there have been technological advances in the outpatient monitoring of volume
      status through thoracic impedance and pulmonary artery pressure monitoring, there are no
      validated, non-implantable options for monitoring volume status outside of the physical exam.

      Aidar Health's MouthLab device is a non-invasive, hand-held, home monitoring tool that
      measures multiple medical parameters such as - Temperature, Blood Pressure, Heart Rate, Heart
      Rate Variability, Pulse Rate, SpO2, single-lead ECG, Respiratory Rate, Breathing
      Pattern/Respiratory Flow Cycle Morphology, and basic lung functions (FEV1, FVC, FEV1/FVC,
      PEF) in 30 seconds.

      The investigators believe that the MouthLab device holds the potential to identify changes in
      volume status through measurements such as pulse rate, oxygen saturation, respiratory flow
      and lung function and accurately predict decompensation in patients with chronic HF. The
      investigators propose the following outline of clinical studies to evaluate the utility of
      the MouthLab device in HF.
    
  