
    
      Subjects with reported high-risk behavior (and anticipated future high-risk behavior) but no
      exposure in the immediate past will be the focus of this study.

      Participants will be prescribed raltegravir 400 mg BID + Truvada once daily. All study
      participants will receive a 4-days starter pack. Study participants will be instructed to
      start study drugs if they expect or experience an exposure of any mucous membrane (oral,
      urethral, anal) to semen. Subjects who expect or experience these exposures will be
      instructed to take 1 pill of Raltegravir 400mg and one pill of truvada, followed by a second
      dose of Raltegravir 12 hours later. From the second day onward, participants will be
      instructed to take Raltegravir 400 mg BID + Truvada once daily. The first dose should be
      taken no more than 6 hours before or 6 hours after the expected or actual exposure and
      continued for 28 days.

      Enrolled subjects will also be instructed to report to the study site within 4 days of
      beginning study drugs to respond to a CASI questionnaire and to have blood taken. They will
      be instructed to return at the end of the 4-week chemoprophylaxis course for reevaluation and
      to be given another 4-day supply of medication. Under no circumstances will any participant
      be given a greater than 4 week supply of medication; all will be evaluated for toxicity and
      adherence following each course of chemoprophylaxis.

      The study participants will be monitored closely for safety after each course of
      chemoprophylaxis and at the end of the trial. In addition, subjects will be instructed to
      immediately contact the site if they experience certain symptoms consistent with severe
      toxicity. At each evaluation a careful clinical history, physical examination, and laboratory
      assessment, including HIV serology, will be completed. Adherence will be estimated based on
      self-report and the use of pill counts. During each visit, subjects will be reminded of the
      need to not increase high-risk sexual behavior. HIV serology and response to a CASI
      questionnaire will be conducted monthly.
    
  