
    
      Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is a chronic neurological disease of the Central Nervous System (CNS)
      that affects both the brain and the spinal cord by destroying the myelin sheath that protects
      the nerve fibers, leaving plaques or scars on the damaged sites. MS shows a wide range of
      psychological and psychological-related symptoms, including psychiatric aspects, fatigue and
      cognitive deficits. In particular, there is a strong evidence of psychiatric disorders
      associated with MS, the most common being depression, adjustment disorder and anxiety. These
      occur more frequently at the time of diagnosis communication, during the earlier phases of
      development of the disease and during relapse episodes. Some studies report a significant
      association between stressful life-events and relapses, in some cases pointing to frequency
      and number of stressors as an enhancing factor that can predict a relapsing episode.

      The patients may experience distress not only in association with external stressors, but
      also in relation to the onset or the progression of the disease itself. Diagnosis, relapsing
      episodes and a worsening of physical functioning may be perceived as traumatic events and may
      give rise to physiological and emotional posttraumatic symptoms and, in some cases, to Post
      Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). According to the DSM IV-TR, PTSD is a clinical condition
      characterised by "the development of characteristic symptoms following exposure to an extreme
      traumatic stressor involving direct personal experience of an event that involves actual or
      threatened death or serious injury or other threat to physical integrity. The person's
      response to the event must involve intense fear, helplessness. The characteristic symptoms
      resulting from the exposure to the extreme trauma include persistent re-experiencing of the
      traumatic event, persistent avoidance of stimuli associated with the trauma and numbing of
      general responsiveness and persistent symptoms of increased arousal. The full symptom picture
      must be present for more than one month and the disturbance must cause clinically significant
      distress or impairment in social, occupational or other important areas of functioning" [DSM
      IV]. Many psychological treatments are available for PTSD, ranging from individual therapy to
      family therapy and support groups together with interpersonal, relational and psychodynamic
      psychotherapies; their focus is to desensitise the trauma memory and the meaning of the
      trauma as well as its power to affect relationships. Among these therapies, the two elective
      treatments according to international guidelines are the Trauma-focused Cognitive-Behavioural
      Therapy(CBT-TF) and Eye Movement Desensitisation and Reprocessing (EMDR). CBT-TF focuses on
      thoughts and beliefs helping people to overcome fear about their painful memories by talking
      about the trauma repeatedly or by imagining the situation that is realistically safe although
      still frightening. EMDR is based on the accelerated information processing model integrating
      elements of different psychotherapies and it is applied through an eight-phase approach. In
      the EMDR, the patient is induced to focus on his/her negative thoughts, image and body
      sensation while receiving an "alternate stimulus" (such as eye movements, hand taps or
      sounds). This procedure leads to desensitisation and emotional reprocessing.

      The aims of the study are aim to evaluate whether a treatment based on the EMDR protocol can
      resolve PTSD or reduce PTS symptoms, also improving the PTS-associated symptoms, such as
      anxiety and depression. Primary objective : to evaluate the efficacy of the treatment with
      EMDR on the PTSD in MS. Secondary objectives : To evaluate whether after treatment with EMDR
      there is an improvement in PTS-associated symptoms of anxiety and depression and an
      improvement in quality of life.

      The recruitment of the patients proceed with a two-step screening: 1) the Impact of Event
      Scale Revised (IES-R) will be administered to consecutive patients corresponding to the
      neurological inclusion and exclusion criteria, specifying in the instructions that they
      consider only the illness as the traumatic event. 2) Patients with scores above the cut off
      of 33 will be assessed with the SCID in order to confirm diagnosis of PTSD. The research
      protocol will be proposed to patients with PTSD who meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria,
      with an explanation of the aims of the study, its relevance for MS patients and the
      possibility that they may be included, by random assignment, in the treatment or control
      group for the period of the study, with the same timing and assessment tools. If they agree,
      they sign the informed consent. Patients will be randomised to the intervention (A) or
      control (B) group using a block-wise randomisation sequence (block size of 10). Assessment
      Measures: All patients are evaluated by neurologists with the Expanded Disability Status
      Scale (EDSS).

      The psychological assessment of the patients entering the study will be performed at T0
      (baseline evaluation), at T1 (post-treatment evaluation after 12 weeks) and at T2 (follow up
      evaluation six months later) to determine the reliability of the results.

      Measures:

        -  CLINICIAN ADMINISTERED PTSD SCALE (CAPS): the CAPS is a clinical semi-structured
           interview based on the DSM IV-TR, which is the gold standard to assess PTSD. It is a
           30-item structured interview that meets the DSM IV criteria for PTSD. It assesses 4
           dimensions of the PTSD: avoidance, reexperiencing the traumatic event, hyperarousal and
           numbing. Dissociative symptoms are measured by the three CAPS dissociation items
           (depersonalization, derealization, and reduction in awareness of one's surroundings). It
           can be used to make a current (past month) or life-time diagnosis of PTSD or to assess
           symptoms over the past week.

        -  TRAUMA ANTECEDENT QUESTIONNAIRE (TAQ): an interview based questionnaire to assess the
           trauma load due to previous traumas. The TAQ asks for the frequency (never, rarely,
           commonly) of experiences assigned to 11 domains (ranging from positive experiences like
           competence and safety, to negative experiences such as neglect, physical, emotional,
           sexual abuse, and witnessing trauma), separately assess four developmental periods
           including early childhood (0-6), middle childhood, (7-12), adolescence (13 18), and
           adults (19+).

        -  CHICAGO MULTISCALE DEPRESSION INVENTORY (CMDI): the CMDI is a 42-item, self-reporting
           questionnaire and was developed to assess depression in MS and other chronic diseases.
           It has three subscales designed to be used either separately or in combination. The mood
           subscale provides a more conservative indication of depression than total CMDI score and
           other depression tools.

        -  HOSPITAL ANXIETY AND DEPRESSION SCALE (HADS): the HADS was developed to identify
           caseness (possible and probable) of anxiety disorders and depression among patients in
           non-psychiatric hospital clinics. It is divided into an Anxiety subscale (HADS-A) and a
           Depression subscale (HADS-D) both containing seven intermingled items . The tool has
           long been used in studies that involve patients with MS.

        -  FAMS: Quality of life. The FAMS is a factorially derived self-report scale designed to
           assess six primary aspects of QOL of patients with MS: Mobility, Symptoms, Emotional
           Well-Being, General Contentment Thinking and Fatigue, and Family/Social Well- Being.

      Treatment: The experimental group will undergo 10 sessions of 60 minutes each of treatment
      with the EMDR protocol. The EMDR treatment will be conducted by 3 expert psychotherapists
      with more than 6 years experience in the liaison setting, in possession of II level training
      degree in EMDR. Relaxation techniques (RT) will be performed by three psychotherapists
      working in the same facility. Treatments will be independent and blinded from the clinical
      psychologists conducting the clinical assessments.

      The EMDR protocol follows procedures and phases described by Shapiro (1996). This is a
      complex treatment that incorporates many different interventions in order to recall
      trauma-related memories and to subdue them. EMDR processing consists of attending to
      oscillatory stimulation presented in a visual, auditory or tactile modalities, such as moving
      the finger from side to side across the patient's visual field or presenting an alternating
      tapping on the hands alternatively. Eye movements are the most commonly used external
      stimulus, but if the patient has problems with this kind of stimulation, such as headaches or
      sensomotor deficits, the therapist chooses tapping as an alternative form of oscillatory
      stimulation with equivalent therapeutic efficacy. Relaxation sessions will follow the same
      structure as the EMDR sessions, including diaphragmatic breathing, progressive muscle
      relaxation, visualisation, cue-controlled relaxation, and rapid relaxation.

      The efficacy of the EMDR treatment will be evaluated by comparing the results of the tools
      (CAPS, CMDI, HADS, FAMS) administered to the treated group at T0, T1 and T2 and by comparing
      the scores of the experimental group with those of the control group. Primary outcome
      measures will include 1) Proportion of participants at T1 and T2 no longer meeting the DSM
      IV-TR diagnostic criteria for PTSD (SCID) among patients of the experimental group in
      comparison with those of the control group; 2) the reduction of CAPS scores for the four PTSD
      dimensions from pre-treatment to follow-up in both groups (avoidance, re-experiencing the
      traumatic event, hyperarousal and numbing).

      3) Reduction in the IES scores. Scores for anxiety, depression and quality of life will be
      included as secondary outcome. Dissociative symptoms will be evaluated through the three CAPS
      dissociation items (Taylor et al., 2003).

      Additional expected results: the large number of patients assessed for post traumatic
      symptoms might improve knowledge both of their prevalence and also of the trauma underlying
      MS. Even if it is not the primary aim of the study, assessment of the trauma load through the
      interview-based TAQ will lead to life-trauma evaluation which may be studied for their
      correlation with the onset of the disease and its emotional correlates. Moreover, in EMDR,
      associated traumas are defined and treated: given that sessions are video-recorded, their
      analysis (beyond the three sessions that will be reviewed for treatment fidelity) may add
      knowledge to the role of the trauma load in MS.
    
  