
    
      MejoraCare-Paraguay main objective is to test an mHealth solution (MejoraCare app) to be used
      for the education and empowerment of chronic patients (COPD, cancer, diabetes, heart disease.
      hypertension, etc.), and for supporting healthcare professionals to monitor and better
      understand patients' evolution during the COVID-19 outbreak (MejoraCare dashboard).

      This mHealth solution is built upon the Adhera platform developed by Salumedia Labs, which
      has already been validated in other therapeutic areas such as smoking cessation.

      Its objective is two-fold: on the one hand, MejoraCare will provide the target population
      with an educational resource to improve their self-efficacy and knowledge about the disease
      and, on the other hand, to provide them with tools for the regulation of stress, anxiety and
      negative emotions generated in this high-risk population due to the COVID-19 outbreak
      situation.

      MejoraCare is expected to raise awareness, educate and empower chronic patients, promoting
      behavioral changes towards adhering to healthier lifestyles thus reducing the risk of
      COVID-19 infection, while providing emotional regulation support aiming at improving their
      mental health, quality of life, and emotional well-being.

      Personalized health education embedded into MejoraCare app covers the following topics:

        -  Prevention of COVID-19

        -  Reinforcement of self-management behaviors for chronic conditions (e.g., physical
           activity).

        -  Modules for improving resilience and coping skills related to stress and negative
           emotions related to the COVID-19 outbreak (e.g., isolation at home).

      For health care providers, MejoraCare dashboard provides the following functionalities:

        -  Segmentation, monitoring, and follow-up of potential positive cases of COVID19 patients
           and people at special risk

        -  Support to patients undergoing quarantine at home recovery phase, including remote
           monitoring of symptoms and a means to contact them in the cases that are deemed
           necessary by the healthcare professionals.

      The specific objectives of MejoraCare-Paraguay are:

        1. To analyze the impact of the MejoraCare mHealth solution in terms of mental health,
           quality of life, and emotional well-being in chronic patients at risk of COVID-19
           infection.

        2. To analyze the acceptance of the technology by patients and professionals.

      This study expects to demonstrate the benefits that an mHealth intervention may have on
      supporting mental health, quality of life, and emotional well-being for vulnerable patients
      during the COVID-19 outbreak.

      The "info-demia" of constant news about the virus, along with the restrictive/lockdown
      measures that are being enforced by the governments to reduce the pandemic progression pose a
      great challenge for the emotional stress for people in general, and with a higher impact on a
      vulnerable population, especially for those living with chronic conditions that seem to
      worsen the prognostic in case of infection. Besides, as the pandemic continues its spread,
      health services are being challenged due to the lack of resources to cope with such a high
      demand for potential positive cases. In some cases, this affects the quality of care of
      chronic patients, who also refrain from attending their routine appointments due to the fear
      of infection. Therefore, reinforcement and behavioral guidance are needed to allow people
      living with chronic conditions to know and understand which are the measures they need to
      take to prevent the infection, or how to act in the event that they are infected. Besides, it
      is necessary to provide this population with tools to support the prevention of psychological
      and emotional problems that can worsen their health status and, therefore, their quality of
      life.

      mHealth solutions rely on a technology (smartphones) which already has a high level of
      penetration in the population, makes their widespread highly scalable, and can be released
      with relatively low costs. If developed under strong quality and safety requirements, they
      can be a perfect fit for building public health strategies on top of them. On the other hand,
      the lack of specific digital solutions to educate and empower chronic patients in disease
      prevention techniques for COVID-19 and other infectious diseases with a relatively high
      mortality rate among the vulnerable population like the seasonal flu puts them in an even
      more risky situation to get infected.
    
  