
    
      Background and rationale:

      Suicidal behavior (SB) is a major health problem in France, with more than 10,000 suicides
      (6th UE28) and 220 000 suicide attempts (SA) per year. A large percentage of men (6%) and
      women (9%) in France have made at least one SA. Moreover, suicide is the second leading cause
      of death among the youngest (15-44 years). The clinical model currently admitted for
      understanding SB is a stress vulnerability model. But to date, scientists have not (yet) a
      clinical application for the research on SB. The management of psychiatric patients,
      including depressed subjects, faces the impossibility of detecting those at high risk of
      occurrence of SB. Indeed, although many risk factors for SB are known, their predictive value
      is very low. In addition, these risk factors are primarily derived from cross-sectional
      studies. The identification of predictors, using a standardized evaluation would allow
      clinicians to identify the subject at high risk of SB for which therapeutic interventions and
      the organization of care should be particularly aggressive and intensive.

      Objectives:

      Main objective: To identify predictors (clinical, biological, environmental) of the
      occurrence of SB during 12 months in a population of depressed suicide attempters and
      lifetime non attempters to optimize a short standardized evaluation applicable to emergency
      settings.

      Secondary objectives: 1) To build a multidimensional score for predicting the risk of
      recurrence of suicide attempt among suicide attempters ; 2) To evaluate the prospective
      performance of this score to predict emergence of suicide attempt among depressed patients
      without history of suicide attempt; 3) To identify predictors of suicidal spectrum (suicidal
      thoughts, suicidal planification, suicide attempt and completed suicide) in depressed
      subjects ; 4) To evaluate the feasibility of a multicenter network that will use standardized
      assessments to evaluate suicidal risk through a secured website.

      Methods:

      2000 patients with major depressive episode will be recruited in the emergency departments
      and post-acute care units of 14 French hospitals, and then will be followed for 12 months.
      For every depressed patient admitted within 48 hours of a suicide attempt (case), a depressed
      patient without lifetime personal history of SB (psychiatric control) will be included. Cases
      will be mainly recruited in emergency settings; psychiatric controls will be mainly recruited
      from the inpatient units (hospital stay <7 days) and outpatient units to limit selection
      bias.

      At inclusion, at 3, 6 and 12 months, clinical and biological assessments will ne realized.

      Statistical analyses:

      1) Kaplan-Meier and Cox models adjusted for potential confounding factors, 2) Univariate and
      multivariate analysis, 3) Establishment of a predictive score from multivariate analyses.

      Short-term perspectives:

      1) Optimization of standardized assessment of suicidal risk in depressed patients applicable
      in daily practice, and 2) Development of a network of clinical centers involved in
      suicidology field to promote specific care and research.

      Long-term perspectives:

      1) Access to a computerized assessment tool via the Internet to improve the management of
      depressed patients all over France 2) Understanding of the psychological and biological
      factors underlying SB in the context of mood disorders, and 3) Development of preventive and
      therapeutic approaches.
    
  