
    
      The proposed prospective tofacitinib registry is a prospective patient cohort with the goal
      of evaluating the efficacy and safety of this drug in "real life". All patients starting
      tofacitinib for ulcerative colitis in the setting of standard of care therapy will be
      eligible within of 4 weeks of start of therapy. Preferentially, patients will be enrolled at
      the visit where therapy is initiated. At baseline patient characteristics including extent of
      disease, previous therapies (including number of previously failed biologics) and
      pro-inflammatory laboratory markers (CRP, if available calprotectin) will be captured in a
      prospective web-based database. Additionally, each consented study participant will be
      enrolled in a web-based prospective patient powered registry (PPR) to evaluate patient report
      outcomes (PRO's) (such as validated measures for depression, social satisfaction, pain,
      fatigue) and safety events (e.g. hospitalizations; herpes zoster, complications requiring
      discontinuation of tofacitinib).

      The following outcomes will be assessed: Response and remission as assessed by the Simple
      Clinical Colitis Activity Index (SCCAI) (primary endpoint), in addition secondary outcomes
      will include: the partial Mayo score, the 6-point subscore of the Mayo score, and the
      Manitoba index, need for steroids, need for surgery or hospitalization, need for dosing
      intensification or reduction of dosing as well as persistence of tofacitinib therapy.
      Endoscopy information will be collected if done as part of routine care, but the study will
      not have an endoscopic requirement. Sites will be encouraged to report a Mayo endoscopic
      score if done as part of routine care as a secondary endpoint. The outcomes will be
      determined in the setting of standard of care visits, which normally are scheduled at the end
      of induction (approx. 6-12 weeks after start of tofacitinib) and during maintenance therapy
      after 4-6 and 9-12 months. PRO's and safety will be assessed with the PPR instrument at
      baseline, daily in the first 2 weeks to better understand rapidity of onset, and after
      6,10,14,22,30,38,46 and 54 weeks. The analyses of these data will facilitate UC patient care
      and improve the overall quality of IBD therapy in the US and world-wide. This study is to be
      conducted according to US and international standards of Good Clinical Practice (FDA Title 21
      part 312 and International Conference on Harmonization guidelines), applicable government
      regulations and Institutional research policies and procedures.
    
  