
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the effect of mindfulness relaxation vs relaxing music vs standard symptom
           management education on conditioned and nonconditioned nausea and vomiting in patients
           with newly diagnosed solid tumors undergoing chemotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  Compare mental health (anxiety, depression, and distress), quality of life
           (cancer-related symptoms, fatigue, sleep, and pain), and immune function in patients
           receiving these interventions.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study comprising a pilot phase followed by a randomized phase.
      (Pilot phase completed as of 3/10/2012.)

        -  Pilot phase: Patients undergo mindfulness relaxation (MR) therapy comprising listening
           to instructions on breathing techniques and other mind and body relaxation practices on
           compact disc for 30 minutes before and during each chemotherapy session AND at least
           once daily for the entire duration of chemotherapy treatment. (Pilot phase completed as
           of 3/10/2012.)

        -  Randomized phase: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients undergo MR therapy as in the pilot phase.

             -  Arm II: Patients listen to relaxing music (with no instructions on relaxation
                techniques) for 30 minutes before and during each chemotherapy session AND at least
                once daily for the entire duration of chemotherapy treatment.

             -  Arm III: Patients receive standard symptom management education. In both phases,
                nausea and vomiting, mental health (anxiety, depression, and distress), and quality
                of life (cancer-related symptoms, fatigue, sleep, and pain) are assessed at
                baseline, periodically during treatment, and then at 3 months.

      Patients are followed annually for up to 5 years for survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 474 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  