
    
      Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is defined as carbohydrate intolerance that begins or is
      first recognized during pregnancy (1). It is characterized by an increase of physiological
      insulin resistance and it is associated with an increased risk of perinatal and maternal
      morbidity (2,3).

      Inositol is a six-carbon polyol, normally present in a variety of foods, which has been
      classified as an insulin sensitizing agent. It exists as nine different isomers including
      myo-inositol (MI) and D-chiro-inositol (DCI) that are the most represented in human body.
      Myo-inositol and D-chiro-inositol glycans administration has been reported to exert
      beneficial effects at metabolic, hormonal and ovarian levels (4-5).

      Recently has been demonstrated that Myo-inositol supplementation improves insulin resistance
      in patients with GDM (6), whereas there aren't data about the use of D-chiro-inositol or
      Myo-inositol plus D-chiro-inositol in women affected by GDM.

      In this proposed study, the investigators aim to compare the effect of different inositol
      stereoisomers supplementation (Myo-inositol, D-chiro-inositol or Myo-inositol plus
      D-chiro-inositol ) in lowering insulin resistance levels after 8 weeks of treatment in
      pregnant women with GDM and in preventing adverse obstetric outcomes. All the available
      inositol formulations also contain folic acid (200 mcg).

      The study population includes 80 women with GDM, randomly allocated to subgroup A (folic acid
      400 mcg/day), subgroup B (myo-inositol 2000 mg twice a day), subgroup C (D-chiro-inositol 250
      mg twice a day), and subgroup D (Myo-inositol plus D-chiro-inositol 550mg/13,8 mg twice a
      day).

      Dietary control, folic acid or inositol stereoisomers will be administered starting at the
      enrolling time (24-28 week gestation, after GDM diagnosis) till the delivery.

      The homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) and the sensitivity index
      (QUICKI) will be checked at the moment of the diagnostic oral glucose tolerance test (24-28
      weeks) and after 8 weeks of treatment. Obstetric outcomes, the rate of women needed insulin
      therapy and insulin dosage will be registered.
    
  