
    
      Imaging of the retina using OCT is the commonest ophthalmic imaging procedure worldwide - in
      2011, it is estimated that more than 20 million retinal OCT images were obtained, more than
      the sum of all other ophthalmic imaging procedures combined).4 OCT is also used to image the
      anterior segment, particularly to measure corneal thickness, in glaucoma to measure the
      irido-corneal angle, 5 and more recently to measure cells in ocular inflammatory conditions.
      In addition, vitreous imaging may be useful to measure cells in the posterior chamber.

      Most OCT systems are dedicated to retinal imaging or anterior segment imaging. Some
      commercial retinal scanners are capable of switching between anterior and posterior imaging
      modes with additional optical attachments, however anterior segment imaging performance is
      typically suboptimal in these instruments. A key feature of the Binocular OCT is that it can
      perform 'whole-eye' OCT imaging spanning from the eyelids to the posterior pole in a single
      instrument without the requirement of additional attachments, and in an automated way.

      This study will determine whether the instrument can be used for patients with different eye
      diseases. The investigators anticipate recruiting approximately 100 participants with
      anterior eye conditions such as keratoconus, acute anterior uveitis, and pigment dispersion
      syndrome, in addition to approximately 100 participants with posterior segment eye conditions
      such as diabetic retinopathy, age-related macular degeneration, and glaucoma.

      As this device can image many structures of the eye and with a greater depth range than most
      commercial OCT devices, it may be possible to visualise features not previously imaged with
      other devices such as vitreous imaging, or imaging of cells in the ocular inflammatory
      conditions. In this study, the prototype binocular OCT system will be used to describe novel
      features across a range of ocular diseases. Qualitative analyses of raw binocular OCT images
      will be performed (including assessments of retinal pathological features, corneal and
      anterior chamber morphology, lens status, iris dynamics, and ocular inflammatory cells).
      These parameters will be correlated with findings from other non-invasive ocular imaging
      previously obtained during routine clinical care. Although raw OCT images can be useful for
      diagnosis, quantitative data from the images are useful to monitor eye disease. Commercial
      OCT devices have built-in software packages to analyse OCT images to provide the clinician
      with parameters for detecting and monitoring eye disease. Quantitative analysis of binocular
      OCT images will be performed using MATLAB (The MathWorks, Inc., Natick, Massachusetts, United
      States).

      In addition, the ability to combine structural and functional assessments in the same
      instrument may permit better examinations of ophthalmic disease compared to separate clinical
      tests. This study will also permit future studies to be correctly powered.
    
  