
    
      Liver cirrhosis often represents the end of many different liver diseases. A progress of
      liver cirrhosis with development of bleeding and infection complications represents a
      significant burden on the health system. It is therefore more important that the molecular
      basis leading to progress of liver cirrhosis is studied. In the last few years it has been
      demonstrated in various animal models as well as in human studies that the liver via the
      portal vein circuit is constantly under the influence of macronutrients, toxins, microbial
      products and microorganisms from the gastrointestinal tract. Patients with hepatic cirrhosis
      suffer from increased intestinal permeability so that bacterial components, endotoxins and
      pathogens enter the portal vein circuit via mesenteric lymph nodes. Bacterial translocations
      were found in patients with advanced liver cirrhosis and restricted organ function. This
      translocation causes a local as well as systemic inflammation with an increase in portal
      hypertension and further deterioration of the hepatic function, as well as a hyperdynamic
      circulatory situation which in many cases can lead to the death of the patient. These
      findings on the pathogenesis of portal hypertension and complications of cirrhosis of the
      liver have already led to the first therapeutic approaches where the occurrence of hepatic
      encephalopathy could be reduced by a purely intestinal reduction of the bacterial load by the
      antibiotic rifaxamine.

      The intestinal barrier describes a functional and physical unit that ensures regulated
      intraluminal transport and protects against microorganisms and other pathogenic molecules. In
      addition to the intestinal epithelium with superposed mucus, intercellular proteins
      constitute an essential component. These paracellular proteins include tight junctions,
      anchoring junctions and GAP junctions, which are also responsible for controlled paracellular
      transport.

      The cause of increased intestinal permeability in patients with liver cirrhosis are manifold.
      In addition to altered microbial colonization and slowed intestinal transit time, structural
      changes in the intestinal wall and altered expression of the tight junctions.

      Due to the increasing insight into the molecular pathogenesis of intestinal permeability
      including portal hypertension, it is necessary to quantify these parameters more precisely in
      the clinical routine and to develop possible therapeutic interventions therefrom. An
      endoscopic procedure is provided by confocal endoscopy, with the aid of which portal
      hypertension and intestinal permeability can be diagnosed and estimated. With the help of
      this clinical study, this procedure is to be established.
    
  