
    
      Gastric and gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) cancers are a leading cause of cancer mortality.
      Despite the development of newer chemotherapies, the response rates and median survival in
      patients with these tumors has remained essentially stagnant. Defining host and
      molecular/biologic tumor characteristics to customize treatment may lead to improved survival
      outcomes. Retrospective studies have identified genetic markers that predict treatment
      outcome. However, there have been no prospective studies in gastric and GEJ cancer evaluating
      the clinical utility of these genetic factors. We hypothesize that genomically based
      treatment will improve the expected response rate in patients with gastric and GEJ cancers.
      We propose a prospective, multi-institutional Phase II clinical trial testing a germline
      polymorphism in the thymidylate synthase (TS) gene, the number of tandem repeats in the TS
      enhancer region (TSER) as a treatment selection marker. The polymorphic variant conferring
      three tandem repeats (TSER*3) has been associated with 5-FU resistance due to high tumor TS
      expression in comparison to the TSER*2 variant (two tandem repeats). The TSER*3 polymorphism
      is common (allelic frequency of 0.5-0.8). In the proposed study, we will prospectively
      genotype patients with gastric and GEJ cancers. Patients who are expected to be 5-FU
      sensitive (carrying a TSER*2 allele) will receive a 5-FU containing regimen (5-FU,
      leucovorin, oxaliplatin). Patients who are expected to be 5-FU resistant (homozygous for
      TSER*3) will not be included in the study. In completing this study, we will determine
      whether treatment selection based on germline TSER polymorphism status improves the response
      rate in patients with metastatic gastric and GEJ tumors. Additional correlative studies are
      proposed to identify confounding factors that may alter the expected outcomes of this
      treatment approach.
    
  