
    
      This study will be a prospective, randomised, placebo-controlled, double masked study
      conducted over a 3-month period. One hundred and thirty-eight (138) participants who meet the
      inclusion / exclusion criteria and give informed consent will be randomised to either the
      test capsules containing a combination of flaxseed oil, borage oil and fish oil omega-3 fatty
      acids or placebo capsules, identical in appearance, containing polyethylene glycol, oleic
      acid and propylene glycol (found in many pharmaceutical products and considered to be
      biologically inert and safe) to be taken by mouth three times daily for 40 days, and then
      twice daily thereafter for approximately 50 days. Every effort will be made to stratify
      enrolment by disease severity to ensure participants with mild, moderate and severe dry eye
      are represented in the study population. Stratification will be in a 2:2:1 fashion i.e. OSDI
      score >12 (55 participants), OSDI score >20 (55 participants) and OSDI score >45 (28
      participants). Participants will be stratified according to dry eye severity prior to
      randomisation. There will be a total of 3 scheduled study visits over a period of
      approximately 3 months - Day 1, 1 month and 3 months. Ocular comfort and symptoms of dry eye
      will be assessed via questionnaires. The tear film and ocular surface will be assessed using
      specialised instruments including the slit lamp biomicroscope, Lipiview Ocular Surface
      Interferometer, Vapometer and Oculus Keratograph 5M, and stains. Safety will be assessed
      through measurement of vision, ocular redness and evaluation of the ocular surface using the
      slit lamp biomicroscope. Those participants who meet the eligibility criteria will be
      randomly allocated to either the test or control capsules. An adequate supply of capsules
      will be dispensed to last until the next Participants will be instructed to ingest one
      capsule three times daily with meals for 40 days, and then two times daily until their final
      3 month study visit.
    
  