
    
      CD19 is an Immunoglobulin-like 95kDa glycoprotein that is expressed on all B lymphocytes
      until differentiation into terminal effector cells (Tedder and Isaacs 1989). It plays an
      important role in regulating cell signalling thresholds and also as a costimulatory molecule
      for B cell receptor signalling (Tedder, et al 1997). CD19 is present on the majority of
      B-CLL, B-ALL, and both low and high grade non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL). It is rarely lost
      during the process of neoplastic transformation and is not expressed on haematopoetic stem
      cells. B cell malignancies are often highly responsive to chemotherapy, with cures possible
      in significant numbers of those with high grade tumours. However, improved treatments are
      needed for those with low grade tumours and those with high grade tumours who relapse after
      conventional therapy.

      In recent years the introduction of Rituximab, a CD20 monoclonal antibody, into clinical
      practice has increased the options available for the treatment of NHL (Maloney, et al 1994).
      The success of Rituximab and other monoclonal antibodies has demonstrated that B cell
      malignancies may be particularly suitable as a target for immunotherapy. However, there are
      number of potential advantages of T cells engineered to express a CIR over monoclonal
      antibody therapies. Firstly, the possibility of in vivo T cell persistence and expansion may
      enable stable expression of the CIR over a prolonged period of time (Walker, et al 2000).
      Secondly, homing to the tumour site may mean that T cells need not rely on diffusion to
      achieve localisation (Balkwill 2004, Mitsuyasu, et al 2000) and thirdly following tumour
      recognition T cells can produce cytokines that may recruit and activate other effector cells.
      An alternative to CIR engineered T cells is the generation of peptide specific T cells.
      Lymphoma models suggest these can be effective (Armstrong, et al 2002, Armstrong, et al
      2004), but to produce clinically applicable numbers of T cells is technically demanding and
      there is a lack of generic peptide target antigens in lymphoma.

      One potential problem in the use of CIR engineered T cells in general is that tumour
      associated antigens are frequently expressed at low levels on normal tissues, thus providing
      the potential for autoimmunity. Targeting B cell malignancies with CD19 specific T cells is
      attractive because whilst CD19 is expressed on B cells and the majority of B cell
      malignancies it is not expressed on any other cell type. It is clear from clinical use of
      anti-CD20 antibodies that prolonged depletion of B cells (>6 months) is safe (Plosker and
      Figgitt 2003) and that even in patients with hereditary B cell deficiency immunoglobulin
      infusion restores normal health in most patients (Ochs and Smith 1996).

      The Investigators have therefore propose a clinical trial using T cells expressing a CD19
      targeting CIR by retroviral transduction of the CIR into activated T cells in order to target
      B cell malignancies.
    
  