
    
      Point of care (POC) ultrasound has become an invaluable tool for critically ill children.
      Several studies have been completed detailing its use for central line access and determining
      the location of the tip of umbilical venous lines. There are no current studies on monitoring
      PICC line tip placement using POC ultrasound. There have been studies showing ultrasound can
      be used to locate PICC line tip location, but none for monitoring. A previous study found
      that the sensitivity and specificity of US in identifying the location of PICC line tip were
      86% and 75% respectively.

      Review of the literature notes that Costa et al also found a high rate of PICC line
      complications. Costa et al and the investigators local experience also highlight the rare but
      potentially fatal complication of pericardial effusion from PICC lines that are too deep in
      the heart. One way the investigators could improve the safety of neonatal PICC lines is
      monitor them more closely. Current standard of care is to monitor PICC line tips on chest
      x-ray. Unfortunately, there is strong evidence that chest x-ray does not accurately identify
      the PICC line tip location. Another way would be to use POC ultrasound. A literature review
      on POC ultrasound to determine the location of a PICC line tip revealed that no such study
      has been done. Several studies have been completed demonstrating POC ultrasound both improved
      success rate and time to confirmation of placement of PICC lines.3 Pulickal et al published
      data on teaching pediatric residents to do point of care ultrasound to determine the location
      of the UVC tip. The investigators in that study found the residents were not only better at
      determining the correct location than chest x-ray, but the procedure was well tolerated. The
      investigators for this study feel further evaluation of POC ultrasound for PICC line tip
      monitoring to determine feasibility and accuracy is needed.

      Eligible patients will be identified by the NICU care team. Participants will then be
      consented for the study by the study team. Trained Neonatology Fellows/Attendings will
      perform POC ultrasound to identify and document the PICC tip location and will be blinded to
      the PICC line tip location on x-ray. Ultrasounds will only be performed during patient's care
      times and be limited to 15 minutes.
    
  