
    
      The objective of the US COVID-19 CHAMPS Study is to assess the short- and long-term physical,
      social and behavioral health of all who were involved in supporting or delivering care for
      COVID-19 patients. Included are first responders, maintenance and support staff as well as
      healthcare professionals of all specialties and services. Initially the study will obtain
      data on the working environment and emotional and physical health. Additional data will be
      obtained on self-management, response strategies, effects on family, social and personal life
      and careers. This well-characterized cohort of workers will enable characterization of the
      health and social effects of their service, and prospective research on their future physical
      and mental health. It will also serve as a registry for future, hypothesis-driven sub-studies
      of behavioral and biological coping mechanisms and allostatic load, as well as randomized
      clinical trials. Participants will be recruited throughout the United States and its
      territories (Puerto Rico, Guam, the US Virgin Islands) with outcomes followed longitudinally
      for twenty years.

      Initial analysis will be descriptive and include computation of frequency distributions,
      adjusted odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals. Multiple logistic regression methods will
      be used to assess association of health symptoms or conditions with estimates of exposure to
      COVID-19. Psychological distress will be estimated from self-reported responses to validated
      psychological instruments and survey items created to capture the unique aspects of exposure
      to COVID-19 in workplace settings. Odds rations will be adjusted for sex, age, race/ethnicity
      and job classification. The logistic regression model(s) will include self-reported baseline
      health status and other variables. Preliminary explorations of variable associations will be
      performed to aid with the development of sub-studies from the registry.

      No direct health benefits are anticipated for participating in the study, but participants
      may learn about their health. Participation in the study provides the participants the
      opportunity to express the impact of responding to the COVID-19 pandemic on their health,
      which may be a source of relief. Participants may feel satisfaction about sharing information
      about their experiences that may help healthcare systems to plan for future health-related
      emergencies.
    
  