
    
      The study population of this proposed study is Hong Kong preschool children. Children
      attending grade 1 or 2 in nine selected kindergartens were invited to join this study. An
      invitation letter with information on the purpose and procedures of the study was sent to the
      parents of the children through the kindergarten. The parents were asked to give written
      consent for allowing their child to receive a free oral examination and ART restorations, if
      indicated for treating the decayed primary teeth in their child's mouth, provided by dentists
      in the kindergarten. Parental consent were obtained before inclusion of a child in this
      study.

      Cavitated caries lesions in the primary teeth of the study children were restored following
      the ART procedures (Holmgren et al., 2013). The instruments used were LED illuminated dental
      mirror, sickle probe, tweezers, hatchet, excavators and flat plastic. The dental restorative
      material used was a high-strength chemical-cured glass ionomer (Ketac-molar, 3M ESPE,
      Germany).

      At the baseline, all children with parental consent were clinically examined in the
      kindergarten. Disposable dental mirror attached to a handle with an intra-oral LED light and
      a ball-ended probe was used. The status of each tooth was recorded. Children who had at least
      one decayed primary tooth with a cavity into dentine were included into the study. All
      decayed teeth in the children were restored, except those with inadequate access and those
      with signs of pulpal pathology. The decayed teeth in half of the children received topical
      application of a SDF solution (Saforide, Toyo Chemical, Japan), through simple random
      allocation on a child basis using random numbers, around 10 weeks before receiving the
      restoration. The time used for placement of each restoration was recorded to the nearest
      minute.

      The children were examined at 6 and will be examined at 12, 18 and 24 months after placement
      of ART restorations by calibrated examiners who were not involved in the placement of the
      restorations. The same instruments used in the baseline examination were used in the
      follow-up examinations. The status of the restorations and restored teeth were assessed and
      recorded using codes and criteria commonly adopted in previous clinical studies of ART
      restorations (Lo et al., 2007).

      At baseline, information on the children's oral hygiene practice, snacking habit, oral health
      related quality of life, and parental satisfaction with the appearance of their child's teeth
      was collected by a self-completed questionnaire. A validated tool for measuring oral health
      related quality of life of preschool children in Hong Kong, Chinese version of Early
      Childhood Oral Health Impact Scale (ECOHIS), was used (Lee et al., 2009). The same
      measurement tool was used at the 6-month and will be used at 24-month follow-up.
    
  