
    
      All experiments and data analysis will be performed in the Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)
      and Radiotherapy departments respectively, at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital.

      Five volunteers will be recruited to this study. They will each be required to follow a
      documented drinking protocol prior to each of three scan sessions. The drinking protocol is
      specific to this study and will not be intended for use with patients. To address the primary
      endpoint of the study (i.e. the precision of the ultrasound probe for measurement of bladder
      volume), measurement of a wide range of bladder volumes is required. In order to address this
      aim while making efficient use of the limited available MRI scanner time, the drinking
      protocol has been designed such that the volunteer will begin each scan session with an empty
      bladder and finish it with a full bladder. To this end, each volunteer will be required to
      void their bladder upon arrival and then consume 500ml of water immediately prior to the
      start of the scan session.

      Each volunteer will then be positioned on the scanner couch according to the same protocol
      used for patients and alternate MRI and ultrasound scans will then be acquired. Given the
      time required for each scan it is anticipated that five MRI scans and fifteen ultrasound
      scans (three scans at a time to reduce the noise on the results, i.e. ultimately giving five
      ultrasound bladder volume measurements) will be acquired in each session. Each volunteer will
      be asked to attend for three sessions over the course of a number of weeks so that the
      repeatability of bladder filling patterns can be determined.

      Data processing and analysis

      The volume measurements from the ultrasound probe will be recorded and each of the MRI images
      will be exported to the Radiotherapy department where the bladder volume will be determined.
      The precise timings of all scan acquisitions will be recorded during the imaging session.
      Bladder volumes measured by the ultrasound probe, which can be read instantly, will be
      recorded during the session. To evaluate the primary endpoint, the precision and accuracy of
      the ultrasound probe will be quantified by comparing the measured values to those expected
      from the MRI volumes. Each volume measurement from the MRI scans will be checked by a second
      observer to minimise any associated researcher error.

      To evaluate the secondary endpoint, the imaging protocol described above will provide up to
      15 MRI images for each volunteer that can be used to inform a comparison of the different
      adaptive strategies. However, since patients are always asked to empty their bladder prior to
      radiotherapy treatment (in order to minimise the volume that receives radiation), the
      deliberately wide-ranging bladder volumes that will have been measured in this study will not
      be representative of those that would be observed in clinical practice. To address this
      problem, a suitable dataset that quantifies the distribution of bladder volumes encountered
      in a typical patient cohort will be used (Christie dataset, permission obtained.Software will
      be written to randomly assign a bladder volume to each day of each volunteer's 'treatment'.
      The MRI scan from that volunteer that most closely corresponds to the selected volume will
      then be assigned for that day's treatment. This will be repeated for the full 20 days of
      treatment and the importance of each MRI scan can then be factored into the results analysis
      accordingly.

      The treatment planning system within the Radiotherapy department will then be used with the
      MRI scans to simulate a range of different 'treatments' according to each of the different
      adaptive bladder radiotherapy strategies to be compared. The different strategies are
      summarised here:

        -  Conventional strategy: This is the current standard treatment, in which the patient plan
           is prepared based on an initial CT scan of the patient with an empty bladder and no
           account is made of subsequent daily variations in bladder shape and volume.

        -  Plan-of-the-day strategy: Based on an initial CT scan of the patient with an empty
           bladder, three different treatment plans are created based on an assumption of how the
           bladder might expand. These are intended to simulate empty, partially full and full
           bladders. The patient is scanned before treatment each day and the most appropriate plan
           is selected for treatment.

        -  Dynamic strategy: Three different treatment plans are created based on a series of
           initial CT scans of the patient with empty, partially full and full bladder. These would
           be expected to directly represent the empty, partially full and full bladders for the
           individual patient. The patient is scanned before treatment each day and the most
           appropriate plan is selected for treatment.

        -  Composite strategy: The patient is CT scanned with an empty bladder and treated
           according to the Conventional strategy for the first 7 days of treatment with daily
           imaging. The first 5 daily scans of the patient are used to generate plans based on
           small, partially full and full bladder. From the 8th day of treatment the daily image is
           used to select which of these plans is appropriate for treatment.

      Data processing of the MRI scans will be carried out retrospectively. The MRI scans will be
      anonymised and exported to the Radiotherapy department. The data will then be used to (i)
      acquire bladder volume information to compare with that acquired from the ultrasound probe
      and (ii) prepare and evaluate radiotherapy treatment simulations to investigate the benefits
      of different adaptive bladder radiotherapy strategies

      Comparison of different adaptive techniques will focus on how much radiation is received by
      the bowel and the extent to which the radiation misses the disease on any day of treatment.
    
  