
    
      HYPOTHESIS Early administration of human erythropoietin (EPO) in very preterm infants reduces
      perinatal injury to the brain (retina), lung and gut and improves neurodevelopmental outcome
      at 24 months corrected age.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE To determine whether cerebral outcome is improved if infants born between
      26 0/7 and 31 6/7 gestational weeks at birth receive erythropoietin in high dose in the first
      three days after birth.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES To determine whether early administration of EPO alters the incidence of
      complications typically associated with preterm birth, i.e. mortality, septicaemia,
      necrotising enterocolitis, bronchopulmonary dysplasia (oxygen dependency at 36 weeks
      postmenstrual age), retinopathy, intracranial haemorrhage, white matter disease
      (periventricular leucomalacia), growth failure, cerebral palsy and handicap at 5 years.

      Biomarkers of encephalopathy of prematurity assessed on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at
      term equivalent age.

      RATIONALE EPO has been shown to be protective against hypoxic-ischaemic and inflammatory
      injuries in a broad range of tissues and organs besides promoting red cell formation. It has
      been shown to have neuroprotective and neurotrophic activity in animals after acute brain
      damage as well as in adult stroke patients. Several mechanisms explaining this activity have
      been recognized: EPO inhibits glutamate release in the brain, modulates intracellular calcium
      metabolism, induces the generation of anti-apoptotic factors, reduces inflammation, decreases
      nitric oxide-mediated injury, and has direct antioxidant effects.

      Very preterm infants have significant delay in mental and physical development assessed at 24
      months corrected age. The most critical period are the first days after preterm birth where
      the oxygenation of the brain may be impaired by respiratory, circulatory and nutritional
      insufficiency. Although there are probably several mechanisms involved in permanent brain
      damage, it is most likely that EPO with its multiple action may reduce this damage.

      EPO has been studied in several trials in preterm infants to prevent anaemia and is now
      widely used for this indication.

      STUDY DESIGN Randomized, double-masked, placebo-controlled multicenter clinical trial.
      Research plan 420 infants will be randomized during the first three hours of life to receive
      EPO (3000 U/kg body weight) or placebo intravenously at 3, 12-18 and 36-42 hours after birth.
      Standardized evaluation including cerebral sonography at day 1 and 7 and at 36 0/7
      gestational weeks (or at discharge home if discharged before) will determine the presence or
      absence of complications. Cerebral volume and white matter volume will be assessed at 40
      postmenstrual weeks with MRI (only if available).

      Experienced examiners will assess developmental function at 24 months corrected age using the
      reliable and validly revised Bayley Scales II of Infant Development and determine the
      presence or absence of impairment of motor function (cerebral palsy) and neurosensory
      function (blindness or deafness).

      CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE At least 1 of every 100 live born infants is born very preterm. 90% of
      these infants survive but >50% have a delay in mental and physical development assessed at 24
      months corrected age. More subtle problems affecting cognition, vision and hearing are common
      at the age of five years and have an impact on school performance and quality of life of the
      infants and their families. The aim of this trial is to examine whether a short, easily
      applicable and well tolerated pharmacological intervention can improve neurodevelopmental
      outcome.
    
  