
    
      A recent survey of clinical genetic testing laboratories for cancer diagnostics by the
      Molecular Oncology Advisory Committee for Cancer Care Ontario identified disparities in
      access and use patterns for next generation sequencing (NGS) across the province of Ontario.
      All fourteen responding laboratories indicated that NGS instruments were either currently
      being used for clinical testing, were in the validation stage, or that they were planning to
      purchase NGS instruments within the near future. Respondents were uncertain about what tests
      should be performed, how costing and reimbursement would be addressed by the provincial
      funding agency (e.g. individual tests vs. panels), and how to deal with informatics issues
      from NGS testing, such as storage, variant interpretation, and utilization over the long
      term.

      Given the increasing use of multi-gene somatic mutation testing in routine clinical cancer
      care (e.g. KRAS, NRAS, BRAF mutations in colorectal cancer, EGFR mutation and ALK
      translocation in non-small cell lung cancer, and BRAF, NRAS, and cKIT mutations in malignant
      melanoma), there is a need to expand the infrastructure for NGS panel testing in clinical
      laboratories. With a single payer provincial health care system, there is also an opportunity
      to develop a provincial-wide registry of NGS panel-based testing results and repository of
      genomically-characterized and clinically-annotated tumor tissues and blood samples to
      accelerate the development of additional "omic"-based tests for clinical use.

      This study will enroll patients with advanced, incurable solid tumors at selected Ontario
      hospitals receiving standard palliative treatment(s). Archival formalin-fixed paraffin
      embedded (FFPE) tumor tissue will be requested and undergo targeted panel sequencing. An
      additional FFPE tissue sample will be requested at the same time for future research
      purposes. Patients will also be asked to provide blood samples for future research. A
      selected number of genes will be annotated in a research report provided to their treating
      oncologist. In addition to the clinically reported variants, targeted NGS testing results for
      all tested genes will be captured in a clinical research database that can be accessed by the
      treating oncologist in a secure web-based portal.

      Following the reporting of targeted DNA sequencing results into the web-portal, remaining
      tumor DNA will be stored in the clinical testing laboratories. Blood samples collected at the
      time of consent and additional FFPE research blocks or slides collected for research will be
      transferred to a centralized biorepository maintained by the Ontario Tumour Bank (OTB) for
      more comprehensive analysis at the Princess Margaret (PM)-Ontario Institute for Cancer
      Research (OICR) Translational Genomics Laboratory (TGL). Blood will undergo standard germline
      DNA extraction and plasma processing for future circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) and RNA (ctRNA)
      isolation at the PM-OICR TGL. Selected patient samples will be further characterized at the
      PM-OICR TGL for test development, additional sequencing, or discovery research.

      All patients will be asked to provide permission for data-sharing with other cancer
      researchers. The consent will also include a provision for review of patient health records
      through review of patient charts or administrative databases (i.e. Cancer Care Ontario New
      Drug Funding Program, Provincial Cancer Registry, etc.) to obtain addition information about
      time on drug treatments and survival.
    
  