
    
      Acute respiratory failure is a dreadful complication in cancer patients. Indeed, about 20% of
      the patients will present with pulmonary infiltrates, but Intensive Care Unit (ICU) admission
      and mechanical ventilation will be needed in half of them resulting in mortality for most of
      the patients. Managing cancer patients with respiratory failure implicates three mandatory
      tasks: 1) early antibiotics administration covering suspected pathogens; 2) search for the
      actual aetiology; and 3) adequate supportive care with access to invasive or non invasive
      respiratory support. Performing the etiological diagnosis is crucial. Fiberoptic bronchoscopy
      and bronchoalveolar lavage (FO-BAL) remains the cornerstone of the management of pulmonary
      infiltrates in cancer patients. However, non-invasive diagnostic tools have been validated in
      the recent years. Diagnostic and therapeutic impacts of FO-BAL are only of 30% to 60% and 15%
      to 60% respectively. In neutropenic patients and recipients of bone marrow or stem cell
      transplantation, this impact is significantly altered. Moreover, reports have highlighted
      significant rates of complications such as haemorrhage (5%), respiratory deterioration (11%
      to 40%), possibly heading to intubation and subsequent death. Therefore, balancing advantages
      to risks of FO-BAL is in order. The MiniMax® study is a multicenter randomized controlled
      study aimed at demonstrating that a combination of non-invasive diagnostic tools are as
      effective as FO-BAL in performing the etiological diagnosis of acute respiratory failure in
      cancer patients. In addition, these non-invasive tests might not lead to deterioration of the
      respiratory status and corresponding requirement to intubation and mechanical ventilation.
      The group of investigators is used to manage cancer patients with pulmonary involvement. In
      the 21 centres, patients will be randomized to be managed either with FO-BAL or with only
      non-invasive tools. In each case, patients will be managed with the best supportive care
      including adequate antibiotics, respiratory support and all needed life sustaining therapies.
      Our hypothesis is to reduce intubation rate using a non-invasive approach (without FO-LBA).
      Surrogate markers will be hospital mortality and the number of diagnostic procedures in each
      group of patients.
    
  