
    
      Aims The research aims to assess the relationship between treatments for various
      uro-gynaecological problems (pelvic floor dysfunction, and cancer) and both: (i) objective
      physical outcomes, and (ii) self reported outcomes in terms of general health, and quality of
      life, at a number of time points post treatment (4 week, 3months, 1year, and yearly,
      thereafter).

      In addition, the research aims to assess the relationship between psychological factors
      (depression, anxiety, and values) prior to treatment, and treatment outcomes (specific
      outcome, self reported general health, and quality of life), at time points post treatment (4
      week, 3months, 1year, and yearly, thereafter), for patients with various gynaecological
      problems (pelvic floor dysfunction, and cancers).

      Participants and Recruitment Consecutive patients referred for treatments (physiotherapy,
      surgery) for uro-gynaecological problems (pelvic floor dysfunction, cancer) will be asked if
      they would like to participate in this evaluative study. The initial approach will be made
      through a letter sent out with their appointment details, which will give information about
      the study. This will make clear that their treatment will not depend on their participation
      in the study. The patients also will be given the chance to discuss their participation with
      the specialist nurse at the time of their pre-treatment assessment, and will give their
      consent (by completing and signing a Consent Form) on the day of their taking part in the
      research study, after they have had time to think about their participation and ask any
      questions that they may have.

      Design and Methodology Following their consent, at the initial consultation prior to
      treatment (about 4 weeks prior to treatment), baseline measures will be taken from the
      patients. These measures will be the routinely collected physical data, obtained by the
      medical staff, plus a series of patient-reported measures, concerned with the patients'
      general health (GHQ28), depression and anxiety (HADS), values (PVQII), and quality of life
      (EQ5D, WHOQoL-BREF, and QLQC30). These questionnaires should take about 30 minutes to
      complete, in total. The patients will then undergo their treatment (the type of treatment
      decided upon forms no part of this study). About four weeks post-treatment, the patients will
      receive their usual physical screening by medical staff, and will, again, complete the same
      forms as described above. The patients will then be asked if they would complete the same
      questionnaires at a series of subsequent time points (approximately after 3 months post
      treatment, and then yearly for five years). The changes across the objectively- and
      subjectively-reported health status, and in the patient-reported quality of life, and
      psychological functioning will be measured. Additionally, the relationship between the
      baseline patient-reported psychological states (depression and anxiety) and values, and the
      objective (physical measures), and subjectively-reported (general health and quality of life)
      outcomes, will be assessed.
    
  