
    
      Due to the advances in being able to detect early stage prostate cancer better than before,
      more men diagnosed with the disease are able to be cured. Methods of prostate cancer
      treatment include having laparoscopic surgery, having open surgery to remove the prostate,
      receiving radiation therapy, or brachytherapy (placing high energy x-rays to destroy the
      cancer cells). Although these treatment options have the potential to cure patients, these
      treatments have their drawbacks. The healing time following the removal of the prostate can
      be substantial and local treatments from standard radiation and brachytherapy have
      potentially negative long term effects. The CyberKnife system is a new type of radiation
      machine that uses a special system to precisely focus large doses of x-rays on the tumor. The
      device is designed to concentrate large doses of radiation using robotic image guidance onto
      the tumor specifically so that injury from radiation to the nearby normal tissue would be
      minimal. The high doses of radiation directly to the tumor would provide a shorter series of
      treatments and a faster recovery time. The purpose of this study is to determine the effects
      of CyberKnife radiosurgery in patients with prostate cancer. The purpose of this evaluation
      is to see if this treatment will help patients with low to intermediate risk prostate cancer
      and to evaluate the effect of this treatment on the patient's quality of life over time.

      Prior to entrance on this study patients will already have had your prostate specific antigen
      (PSA) checked and a prostate biopsy within the last 12 months. The results of the biopsy
      showed that the patient has prostate cancer. In addition, patients will have had a digital
      rectal exam (DRE) to determine if the cancer can be felt. Based on the results of these tests
      and examination it has been determined that the patient's prostate cancer is in an early
      stage and has not likely spread outside the prostate or anywhere else in his body. If the
      patient agrees to be in this study, he will be asked to read and sign this consent form
      before having any procedure that is required for participation. The patients will be asked to
      complete some short questionnaires before his CyberKnife treatment. These questionnaires will
      ask multiple choice questions about the patient's bowel, bladder and sexual function. They
      will also ask the patient some general questions about his mood, activity and energy levels,
      and general health. The patient will also have a physical examination and a procedure to
      place 3 to 5 small gold seeds into the prostate. This procedure is commonly done in patients
      receiving standard external beam radiation (a type radiation treatment) for prostate cancer
      and is not an experimental procedure. These gold markers will be used to determine the
      location of the prostate during the CyberKnife treatment. An ultrasound probe is placed into
      the rectum and needles containing the gold seeds are guided into the prostate and then the
      seeds are deposited. The patient will need to clean out his rectum and take antibiotics the
      day of the seed placement. Within 5-10 days after placement of the gold seeds, the patient
      will be asked to return to the hospital to have a planning CT scan (a procedure that takes
      3-D images) of the pelvis. This is a regular CT scan and is standard procedure for patients
      receiving external beam irradiation. The images obtained during the scan will be used to plan
      the CyberKnife treatments. The patient will also have an MRI scan of the pelvis, unless
      medically contraindicated (for example if he has a pacemaker) which will be used for
      treatment planning purposes. The patient may be asked to undergo these scans with a urethral
      catheter in place. The CyberKnife treatment will usually be started after the CT scan of the
      pelvis. The patient's course of radiation will consist of five separate CyberKnife treatments
      usually delivered over 5 week days (maximum 14 days), with no less than 12 hours between any
      two fractions. Each treatment session will take approximately 1.5-2.5 hours. Depending on the
      risk level of your prostate cancer, the physician may also ask you to have a five week course
      of external beam radiation therapy prior to the CyberKnife patients and some patients will be
      asked to go on hormonal therapy. The patient will lie on the treatment table and breathe
      normally while you receive your radiation treatment. On the last day of treatment a research
      team member will ask the patient questions about possible side effects. After CyberKnife
      treatment the patient will need follow-up visits to determine how effective the treatment was
      and if he is having any treatment related side effects. At 1-2 weeks after treatment is
      completed, a member of the research team will call you and discuss how you are doing. At 1
      month after completion of the CyberKnife treatment, the patient will be asked to return to
      the hospital for a follow-up examination to check for any side effects. The patient will also
      be asked to complete the same questionnaires you completed prior to CyberKnife treatment.
      These questionnaires will ask about hid bowel, bladder and sexual functioning, as well as
      mood, activity and energy levels, and general health. At 3 and 6 months after completion of
      the CyberKnife treatment, the patient will be asked to return to your physician for an
      examination and a blood test to measure your PSA level. This is the standard procedure for
      follow-up visits and will occur every 6 months thereafter for 5 years. At some of these
      visits, you also will be asked to complete questionnaires about your bowel, bladder and
      sexual functioning and your quality of life. If it is suspected that your tumor is growing or
      if there are concerns about disease progression on the patient's PSA exams, a prostate needle
      biopsy of the tumor may be performed.

      Primary Objective: The primary safety goal of this study is to estimate, in both low-risk and
      high-risk cohorts, the rates of acute and late grade 3-5 gastrointestinal and genitourinary
      toxicity observed following CyberKnife SABR for prostate cancer. The primary efficacy goal is
      to document the rate of biochemical Disease-Free Survival (bDFS) using the Phoenix and
      American Society of Therapeutic Radiation and Oncology definitions, at 5 years.

      Secondary Objective: To measure the following in the study population: Rates of local
      failure, distant failure, disease-free survival, disease-specific survival, and overall
      survival; quality of life (QOL) in generic and organ-specific domains;
    
  