
    
      Background. Until recently, functional disability and chronic pain and following
      uncomplicated rib fractures have been scarcely studied. Studies described persistent pain and
      disability in, respectively, 59% and 76% of patients at two months, and in 22% and 53% of
      patients at 6 months. In a retrospective study including 216 patients with an isolated
      thoracic injury, only 34.2% of patients had a good recovery at one year and the six-month
      return to work rate is of 63%. Persistent pain and disability following rib fractures
      therefore result in a large psycho-socio-economic impact for health-care system. The only
      predictive factor for persistent pain and disability is the pain intensity within the first
      few days after injury. Similarly, the intensity of pain within the first days after
      thoracotomy predicts long-term post-thoracotomy pain. In a recent meta-analysis, epidural
      analgesia provides better acute pain relief than intravenous, paravertebral, and intercostal
      interventions. While meta-analyses conclude that operative fixation of complicated flail
      chest provide better outcome, the impact of surgery on pain in uncomplicated rib fracture is
      seldom studied. Some retrospective studies showed promising results of rib fixation with
      surgery in patients with uncomplicated rib fractures: A study showed that rib fixation
      reduced postoperative analgesic requirements. Similarly, another study showed that pain was
      significantly reduced one month after surgery as compared to a non-surgical approach.
      Finally, it has been recently observed a decreased mortality and respiratory complications
      after surgery in patients over 65 years old as well as a better functional status at two
      weeks, two months, and four months.

      Trial objectives. No previous studies have provided definitive evidence for recommending rib
      fixation over simple pain medication to control pain. Our hypothesis is that a surgical
      approach may have further benefits as compared to a conservative treatment. The primary
      objective of the study is to compare pain two months after injury between two groups: group
      1) patients who are treated with surgery and analgesic treatment; and group 2) patients who
      are treated with analgesic treatment alone. The secondary objective is to perform a
      longitudinal analysis over one year of the following parameters: amount of pain medication,
      quality of life, anxiety and depression, pulmonary capacity, return to work, and adverse
      events. Financial aspects are also investigated.
    
  