
    
      Cardiac pacing is the only effective treatment for symptomatic sinus node dysfunction. Most
      patients with preserved left ventricular function receive dual chamber pacemakers; however,
      right ventricular pacing can have detrimental effects on left ventricular function due to the
      abnormal electrical and mechanical activation pattern of the ventricles.

      Many patients receiving dual chamber pacemakers for symptomatic bradycardia have prolonged
      intrinsic AV conduction (first degree AV block), and as a result, will receive a significant
      amount of ventricular pacing if programmed at physiologic AV intervals. As an alternative,
      many pacemakers can be programmed to minimize ventricular pacing at the expense of allowing
      longer AV delays. However, these long AV delays may not be physiologic and may also lead to
      reduced cardiac output. At present the standard of care is either to program the pacemaker at
      an physiologic "natural" AV delay of about 160 msec or to program the pacemaker with a long
      AV delay to minimize ventricular pacing.

      The main scientific questions being addressed in this study are to evaluate the acute and
      chronic effects on cardiac output, functional status, sense of well-being, and cardiac
      remodeling of a long AV delay allowing for intrinsic conduction as compared to an
      echocardiographically optimized AV delay during dual chamber pacing.

      Patients enrolled in the trial will complete a run-in period of two weeks prior to
      randomization in which pacemakers will be programmed with a long-fixed AV delay to allow
      intrinsic conduction and minimize ventricular pacing (standard). At two weeks, patients will
      receive a baseline echocardiogram. To determine optimal AV delay, all patients will undergo
      echocardiographic analysis at varying AV delays. Optimal AV delay will be defined as the AV
      delay associated with the largest average aortic Doppler velocity time integral (VTI). Then,
      patients will be randomized to either the short, optimized (experimental) or long, fixed
      (standard) AV delay groups. To assess functional status and sense of well-being, patients
      will complete a six minute walk test and Short Form-36 Medical Outcomes Study Questionnaire.
      Patients return to clinic for another study visit at 6 months and repeat research procedures,
      including baseline echocardiogram, questionnaire, and 6 minute walk test.
    
  