
    
      Removable partial dentures (RPD) have an essential role in treating partly edentulous.
      patients with large toothless spaces, or without posterior dental support (Kennedy Class I).

      Rehabilitation with Distal-Extension Removable Partial Denture (DERPD) deserves special
      attention because of the difference in resilience between the remaining mucosa of the
      edentulous area and the periodontal ligament of the abutment tooth. When occlusal forces
      affect the bases, the difference in resilience between the mucosa of the edentulous area and
      the periodontal ligament of the abutment teeth creates a rotating movement whose axis is
      located on the occlusal rests on the abutment teeth. This may induce horizontal forces and
      mainly lateral forces upon them, causing inflammation, gingival retraction, increase in
      dental mobility and distal residual ridge resorption. This movement may cause a reduction in
      function, discomfort and trauma to the RPD supporting tissues.

      MATERIAL AND METHODS:

      Patients will be recruited from the Department of Prosthodontics at the University of
      Damascus Dental School. Thirty patients will be randomly divided into three groups (A, B, and
      C). A mandibular bilateral distal-extension removable partial denture will be used for
      patients in all groups. But every group will have its own specific method of distributing
      loading forces.

      In Group A: A Removable partial dentures will be made by using altered-cast technique for
      free saddle.The investigators will make a primary impression using stock tray. This will be
      followed by a final impression by individual tray. After metal framework try-in, ridge
      regions are removed from uncorrected master cast with saw. Then, corrective impression of
      ridges will be obtained with soft ZOE impression paste. Therefore, a metal framework with
      associated corrective impression will be repositioned on tooth portion of master cast prior
      to altering distal-extension bases.

      In Group B: Removable partial dentures will be made by using precision attachments which will
      be located on the last abutment tooth. At first, crowns will be prepared to receive the
      precision attachment, then these are cemented to their respective abutment teeth. So that a
      mean of interposing a flexible connection between the tooth-borne retainer portion of a
      removable partial denture and its distally extended tissue-borne base will be provided.

      In Group C: Removable partial dentures will be made by using resilient-layer in the distal
      extension of the removable partial denture.
    
  