
    
      Introduction Worldwide, colorectal cancer (CRC) is the 4th most frequent cancer and the 3rd
      cause of cancer-related death. In Portugal, CRC is the 3rd most common cause and the 2nd
      leading cause of cancer-related mortality. In colorectal carcinogenesis, colorectal polyps
      (adenomatous or serrated polyps) are considered premalignant lesions. The detection of
      colorectal polyps and subsequent resection is effective in reducing CRC incidence and
      mortality and the risk of interval CRC, and is the crucial aspect of CRC prevention.
      Considering the detection of colorectal polyps, there is a wide variation among endoscopists
      in terms of skills for the detection of adenomas, the major premalignant lesions of CRC,
      translated into the detection rate of adenomas (ADR). ADR is considered a marker of careful
      inspection of colorectal mucosa, translating quality in colonoscopy, which is inversely
      associated with the risk of interval CRC or cancer-related death. In the context of screening
      colonoscopy, the minimum ADR is 25% to reduce the risk of interval CRC and death, being
      predictably higher if a positive fecal occult blood test is found, although the exact value
      still remains to be elucidated. The detection rate of serrated polyps has been strongly
      correlated with ADR.

      About 50% of small polyps are non-adenomatous and these polyps have no malignancy potential,
      especially for small polyps, whose cancer risk is extremely low (0-0.6%). The resection of
      these non-adenomatous polyps may increase medical costs and risks related to post-polypectomy
      complications (bleeding, perforation).

      Real time optical diagnosis by artificial intelligence can improve the cost-benefit and
      efficiency of colonoscopy as an auxiliary tool in the decision making of which polyps should
      be resected and which polyps should be recovered for histological characterization. However,
      its practical application implies a negative predictive value ≥ 90% in optical diagnosis in
      order to don´t have implications in terms of interval CRC and medico-legal issues.

      CAD EYE® (Fujifilm, Europe, Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung, Dusseldorf, Germany) is a
      fully-automated computer program, which allows the detection of colorectal polyps as well as
      their histological classification using the artificial intelligence technology using deep
      learning, so-called REilI. When applied in a high-quality colonoscopy, it seems to improve
      the detection rate of polyps and the ADR in real time, during colonoscopy course. In fact,
      the detection of difficult lesions remains one of the major challenges in the endoscopy field
      in last years, particularly for flat lesions, multiple polyps and polyps located at the image
      periphery. The detection of colorectal polyps is shown by 3 simultaneous identifiers, 2
      visual and 1 auditory. The visual identifiers correspond to a detection box in the area of
      suspected polyps and a semicircle at the periphery of the image, corresponding to the
      quadrant where the suspect polyps are located. The auditory stimulus corresponds to a volume
      adjustable sound signal emitted when a suspect polyps is detected. Regarding the optical
      characterization of histopathology, colo-rectal polyps are classified into 2 types,
      hyperplastic (green colour), which include hyperplastic and serrated polyps, and neoplastic
      (yellow colour), for adenomas and adenocarcinomas. In addition, it allows to perform this
      characterization in 3 confidence levels and the mapping of the position of the suspected
      area.

      This system allows the storage of videos related to both detection and characterization of
      colorectal polyps, one of the recognized quality tools in colonoscopy.

      The detection mode of colorectal polyps is performed in white light imaging (WLI) or Linked
      Colour Imaging (LCI), while the optical characterization is performed in Blue Light Imaging
      (BLI) mode, without the need to fix or zoom the image. This tool is user-friendly, simple,
      intuitive and does not interfere with colonoscopy images.

      Objectives

      Primary objectives

        -  To evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of computer-aided diagnosis using CAD EYE® system in
           real-time optical characterization of colorectal polyps compared to digital
           chromoendoscopy;

        -  To evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of computer-aided diagnosis using CAD EYE® system in
           real-time optical characterization of colorectal polyps by comparison with
           histopathological analysis.

      Secondary objectives

        -  To evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of computer-aided diagnosis using CAD EYE® system in
           real-time optical characterization of colorectal polyps in terms of dimension (≤5, 6-9mm
           and ≥10mm), location and histological type (hyperplastic, serrated sessile lesion,
           adenoma, adenocarcinoma);

        -  To evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of computer-aided diagnosis using CAD EYE® system in
           real-time optical characterization of colorectal polyps according to the experience of
           the endoscopist.

      Population and methodology

      Type of study Prospective observational cohort study

      Type of sample The total number of consecutive patients who underwent elective colonoscopy
      with high quality of bowel preparation (at least two points per segment and at least of six
      points at the total score of Boston Bowel Preparation), performed at the Gastroenterology
      Department of the Centro Hospitalar e Universitário de Coimbra, E.P.E., Coimbra, Portugal,
      with at least one identified colorectal polyp, regardless the indication for its performance.

      Study design All colonoscopies will be performed by the endoscopist (trainee and experienced
      endoscopist) using CAD EYE® in detection mode (WLI or LCI), during colonoscopy retrieval.
      When a suspected polyp is identified by the endoscopist, optical characterization is
      performed by the endoscopist in WLI and BLI modes, in a first phase and by the CAD EYE® with
      BLI, in a second phase.

      Methods plan Phase 1. Brief virtual chromoendoscopy training on the characterization of
      colorectal polyps (WLI, LCI and BLI)

      Phase 2. CAD EYE® system applied during colonoscopy retrieval:

      2.1. CAD EYE® system OFF: Virtual chromoendoscopy (BLI) - independently characterization of a
      suspected polyp in WLI and BLI by the first endoscopist and by the second endoscopist
      (iconographic record) 2.2. CAD EYE® system ON: Characterization mode (BLI): Characterization
      of a suspected polyp by CAD EYE® and respectively level of characterization (1 to 3)
      (iconographic record) Phase 3. Histopathological evaluation (pathologist with
      gastrointestinal expertise): Resection and recovery of a suspected polyp for
      anatomopathological characterization

      Detailed explanation of Methods phases Phase 1. Brief virtual chromoendoscopy training on the
      characterization of colorectal polyps (WLI, LCI and BLI) Virtual chromoendoscopy training
      should be performed online through the BASIC e-learning platform
      (bli.eu/category/e-learning/). This training should be carried out by all participants
      enrolled in the project (trainees and experienced endoscopists) before its practical
      application, which will allow skills acquisition on the characterization of virtual
      chromoendoscopy of colorectal polyps using BLI. Additionally, a brief review of the Kudo
      classification of pit pattern of colorectal polyps should be carried out.

      Phase 2. Evaluation of colorectal polyps in real-time - Optical characterization of
      colorectal polyps The first approach on optical characterization of an identified polyp
      consists in the evaluation of the polyp, first in WLI mode and then in BLI mode, with CAD
      EYE® OFF. This evaluation should be systematically performed by two independent endoscopists
      in the exam room, and the evaluation of both should be recorded on a separate record sheet by
      the endoscopist who is not performing the examination. The two endoscopists should preferably
      (but not necessarily) be an experienced endoscopist and a trainee from the last few years,
      and the presence of at least one experienced endoscopist is mandatory. The independent
      evaluation is guaranteed by a phased and recorded approach: 1st step - The 1st endoscopist
      (endoscopist performing colonoscopy) request the polyp evaluation and written record by the
      2nd endoscopist (the one who is not performing the colonoscopy) - blinded evaluation because
      the 1st endoscopist doesn't verbalize his evaluation); 2nd moment - when the 2nd endoscopist
      signals that he has completed his record, the 1st endoscopist verbally explicit his
      classification, which is recorded by the 2nd endoscopist. This evaluation should include the
      histopathological type of polyp (hyperplastic, adenoma, sessile serrated lesion or other
      type) and the level of confidence of the evaluation performed (high or low). Kudo
      classification of pit pattern can also be recorded (optional).

      Afterwards, optical characterization mode of CAD EYE® (CAD EYE® ON) in BLI mode should be
      activated for the evaluation of CAD EYE® optical characterization, in hyperplastic or
      neoplastic polyps, as well as the level of characterization (graduated from 1 to 3). The
      evaluation of the CAD EYE® should also be recorded by the endoscopist in the exam room who is
      not performing the colonoscopy, on its own record sheet.

      The iconographic record of evaluated polyps in WLI and BLI modes and the evaluation video
      using CAD EYE® in BLI characterization mode should be done.

      Phase 3. Histopathological evaluation (by pathologist with gastrointestinal expertise) After
      detection and optical characterization of identified colorectal polyps, their resection
      should be performed by the most appropriate technique according to the size and type of polyp
      (cold forceps polypectomy if dimensions <3mm), cold snare polypectomy if dimension between
      3-10mm and diathermic snare polypectomy/endoscopic mucosal resection if lesions >10mm) and
      recovery of colorectal polyp for anatomopathological characterization. Each colorectal polyp
      should be recovered to a separate vial. Unrecovered polyps will not be counted for
      comparative evaluation of optical characterization.

      Statistical analysis The diagnostic performance of CAD EYE® will be evaluated by comparison
      with the gold standard (histological characterization in the optical characterization phase),
      in terms of diagnostic accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and
      negative predictive value. Sub-analysis can be performed regarding the size, location and
      histological type of polyp, as well as the expertise of the endoscopist.

      Sample size calculation For an alpha risk of 0.05 and beta risk of 0.2 for a bilateral test,
      it will be necessary to include 197 colorectal polyps assuming the initial pre-intervention
      diagnostic ratio is 0.7 and the final after-intervention ratio is 0.82.

      Expected Results It is expected that the new CAD EYE® system will have a diagnostic accuracy
      in the optical characterization of colorectal polyps around 78.4%, comparable to experienced
      endoscopists (78.4% vs 79.6%) and superior to less experienced endoscopists (70.7% vs
      79.6%).(14) Thus, the new CAD EYE® system will allow optical characterization with high
      accuracy impacting as a decision making tool for the endoscopist in strategies based on
      optical diagnosis such as "diagnosis and leave behind" for diminutive polyps from sigmoid
      colon and rectum with high degree of confidence in hyperplastic histology and "predict,
      resect and discard" for diminutive polyps.
    
  