
    
      Follicular thyroid cancers are excellent prognoses (> 90% survival at all stages at 10
      years). They occur preferentially in women where they represent the 5th cause of cancer and
      less than 0.5% of the causes of cancer mortality. However, there is a very clear negative
      impact of the diagnosis on patients' quality of life, partly because of initial care. The
      therapeutic sequence is often the following: surgery and complementary administration of
      radioactive iodine 131. This treatment will destroy all thyroid cells (normal or cancerous)
      remaining and thus minimize the risk of recurrence and facilitate future controls (the blood
      test of thyroglobulin produced only by the thyroid cells can be used as a marker of
      persistence / recurrence of the disease).

      Radioactive iodine uptake is optimized by stimulating thyroid cells that fix iodine better
      when the level of TSH is high. For this purpose, hypothyroidism is induced by weaning in
      hormone replacement therapy or injected with recombinant TSH.

      Approximately one week after iodine-131, a full-body scintigraphy extension is performed
      followed by a medical consultation. This scintigraphy shows the tissues that fixed the iodine
      131, the residual tissues after surgery and / or possible distant metastases.

      It is recognized that when a patient learns that he has thyroid cancer, he is subject to
      increasing anxiety between the time of diagnosis and post-treatment scintigraphy. These
      patients and their loved ones are often distraught and anticipate their future in a negative
      way, while long-term survival is excellent. How to get these patients to consider their
      pathology more objectively and thus reduce their anxiety?

      Sophrology is a psychocorporal method aimed at balancing our emotions, thoughts and
      behaviors. We suppose that if these patients could benefit from a sophrological accompaniment
      between the announcement of the diagnosis and the scintigraphy, they could apprehend their
      pathology with more serenity and reality.

      Previous work has already demonstrated the interest of sophrology in different situations
      such as the management of cancer patients, before performing a bronchial fibroscopy, a
      ventilation session as part of the management of cancer. neuropathic pain, but also in the
      elderly and finally in people cared for infertility.

      No studies providing sophrological support to patients with thyroid cancer have been
      performed. The anxiety of these patients being largely linked to a feeling of isolation and
      excessive danger, we think that this care will have an immediate favorable effect on their
      anxiety, or even in the longer term on their quality of life.

      The aim is to offer patients a sophrological support provided by each of the 3 participating
      centers (CHU Marseille, Institut Claudius Regaud Toulouse, Center Jean Perrin
      Clermont-Ferrand). These group sessions will allow them to understand the place of their
      future hospitalization, to share with other patients, to obtain answers to their questions,
      to be listened to with neutrality and empathy, and to learn management techniques. their
      anxiety in order to reproduce them at home. They will be followed and will not feel abandoned
      in the face of their distress.
    
  