
    
      Rationale: The current treatment for locally advanced rectal cancer consists of pre-operative
      chemoradiation treatment (CRT) (50 Gray (Gy) in 25 fractions) followed by surgical resection,
      according to T-/N-stage, circumferential resection margin (CRM) and tumor localization (see
      table 1). After this neo-adjuvant treatment approximately 15% of patients show pathological
      complete response (pCR), i.e.no residual tumor in the resected specimen on pathologic
      examination. Patients with pCR have a lower risk of local and distant recurrences and
      significantly longer disease-free and overall survival. Furthermore, in these patients
      surgery could possibly have been omitted. Selected patients with a clinical complete response
      (cCR), defined prior to surgery by rectoscopy, rectal examination and magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI), may opt for an organ-preserving therapy, a so called wait and see approach.

      Response to chemoradiation occurs in a dose dependent fashion. Therefore, recent trials aimed
      to improve prognosis by radiation dose-escalation that resulted in improved pCR rates.
      Toxicity rates associated with radiation doses above 60 Gy are manageable and differ between
      studies; from increased to comparable or even lower toxicity. Moreover, dose escalation may
      increase the proportion of patients eligible for organ-preserving therapy.

      Objective: We study whether addition of a radiation boost to standard chemoradiation in
      patients with locally advanced rectal cancer increases the complete response rate defined as
      pathological complete response, in those who undergo surgery, or 2-years local
      recurrence-free survival (2y-LRFS), in those who opted for a wait and see approach. Secondary
      objectives are adverse events due to chemoradiation (acute, perioperative and late toxicity),
      tumor response assessed with MRI, the impact of the boost on local and distant recurrence and
      survival as well as patient-reported quality of life and workability. The need for this
      comprehensive study is emphasized by the sub-optimal (radiation-) methods, heterogeneity
      between and poor reporting in the few previous trials in this field.

      Study design: Multicentre Randomized Controlled Trial, nested within a prospective cohort
      according to the 'cohort multiple randomized controlled trial' (cmRCT) design.

      Study population: Rectal cancer patients participating in a prospective cohort (the PLCRC
      project) and diagnosed with adenocarcinoma of the rectum whom will undergo chemoradiation
      based on clinical criteria (see table 1 section 1.2.1).

      Intervention: An irradiation boost of 15 Gy delivered to the gross tumor volume (GTV) in 5
      fractions in addition to the standard chemoradiation treatment of 50 Gy. Thereby increasing
      the total GTV dose to 65 Gy.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The primary endpoint is complete response either defined as
      pathological complete response (pCR) in patients who undergo surgery, assessed by
      standardized pathologic examination of the surgical specimen, or 2-years local
      recurrence-free survival (LRFS) after chemoradiation in patients who opted for a wait and see
      approach. Secondary outcomes are treatment acute, perioperative and late toxicity, tumor
      response assessed with MRI, patient-reported quality of life and workability, local
      recurrence and (disease-specific) survival.
    
  