
    
      In the Netherlands almost 15.000 women each year develop hypertensive complications like
      preeclampsia during their first pregnancy. In the western world these complications account
      for the most substantial attribution to neonatal and maternal morbidity and mortality. The
      exact etiology of this disease cascade is still unknown. There is accumulating evidence that
      subclinical abnormalities and preexistent haemodynamic, haemostatic and endothelial factors
      are involved, and thought to have negative impact on placental and endothelial functioning.
      The same factors are found to be risk factors for cardiovascular incidents and therefore it
      is not surprising that remotely these women are more at risk for hypertension, cardiovascular
      disease and stroke. Plasma volume has possibly a central role in the disease cascade,
      resulting in decreased cardiovascular reserve capacity. Furthermore a low plasma volume is
      found to be a strong predictor for recurrence of hypertensive complicated pregnancy.
      Adaptation, like in pregnancy, is for a large extent depending on the functioning of the
      venous compartment. In formerly preeclamptic women with low plasma volume is the venous
      compliance and capacitance decreased, furthermore there is sympathic hyperactivity. This
      combination reflects a decreased cardiovascular reserve capacity. These women with low plasma
      volume show a reduced ability to adapt their cardiovascular system to a new pregnancy.

      It is known that physical exercise increases plasma volume in healthy adults, also arterial
      and both venous compliance and capacitance is improved by exercise. Since abnormal
      circulatory functions are common in formerly preeclamptic women, we want to study the effects
      of exercise in this specific group, and compare these results with women after an uneventful
      pregnancy. In preventive perspective it would be beneficial that also formerly preeclamptic
      women show a circulatory adaption to aerobic exercise, possibly they could improve their
      haemodynamic profile prior to their pregnancy
    
  