
    
      Many patients with metastatic melanoma have in transit and other cutaneous metastases.
      Untreated, these lesions become eroded, haemorrhagic and symptomatic. When systemic therapy
      is not warranted, has failed or is not tolerated for in transit disease, and when surgery is
      not feasible or appropriate, other local treatments are needed. Current options include
      isolated limb infusion for bulky limb disease, topical immunotherapy with contact sensitisers
      and imiqiuimod for superficial, nonbulky disease or radiation therapy. Intralesional (IL)
      agents such as Rose Bengal (PV-10, Provectus) and Talimogene laherparepvec (T-Vec, Amgen)
      have been used for patients with limited numbers of cutaneous metastases with reported
      overall response rates of 51% and 26% respectively. It is thought that these IL agents can
      incite regional or even systemic anti-tumour immune responses, thus providing benefit beyond
      the individual injected lesions. Use of PV-10, which is not an intrinsic immune modulator,
      was associated with regression of untreated bystander lesions in 27% of patients.

      T-Vec is not currently available as a subsidised product in Australia and PV-10 is not
      currently accessible outside of dual-agent systemic/IL clinical trials. Intralesional
      injection of the antimetabolites 5-fluorouracil and methotrexate has been used successfully
      for the treatment of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma, but the efficacy of these agents in
      melanoma is unknown. Importantly, the investigator's in transit melanoma patients usually
      have multiple, often very numerous lesions, making IL injection with adequate volumes of
      antimetabolites difficult without significant risk of systemic haematologic, hepatic and
      renal side effects.

      Hence there is currently an urgent need for tolerable, low cost and accessible intralesional
      therapies for in transit and cutaneous melanoma metastases.

      This study aims to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of intralesional therapy with the
      sclerosant polidocanol for treatment of in transit and cutaneously metastatic melanoma
      unsuitable for other therapies.

      Intravascularly injected sclerosants have a long history of safe and effective use in the
      treatment of varicose veins. Sclerosants have also been used intralesionally for the
      treatment of cutaneous lesions such as squamous cell carcinoma, pyogenic granulomas, Kaposi
      sarcoma and angiomas. They are inexpensive, readily accessible and can be easily administered
      in the clinic to multiple metastases. By inciting cell death within melanoma metastases in
      the skin, they may also incite anti-tumour immune responses in untreated bystander lesions,
      as is observed with IL PV-10 therapy.
    
  