
    
      The major obstacle to a functional cure of HIV infection is the persistence of the latent HIV
      reservoir.

      Several arguments suggest the persistence of a residual viral replication in different
      compartments, despite an effective antiretroviral treatment. This residual viral replication
      partially comes from pharmacological sanctuaries where the drugs do not largely penetrate. In
      such sanctuaries a recent report published in Nature has shown that the virus can replicate
      with less antiviral pressure contributing to continuously replenish the reservoirs.
      Nevertheless, this study concerned a limited number of patients and only blood and lymph-node
      samples were collected for viral analysis. Moreover, the drug distribution was estimated
      based on mathematical hypotheses without drug measure concentration.

      The International AIDS Society recommend for most patients an optimal initial regimen
      containing 2 nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) plus an integrase strand
      transfer inhibitor (InSTI)2. The new integrase inhibitor dolutegravir is more and more widely
      used in combination with nucleoside/nucleotide reverse transcriptase. Indeed, this drug shows
      a good tolerance and demonstrates a particularly fast inhibition of the viral replication.
      Moreover, dolutegravir is active against HIV strains that are resistant to the first
      generation of integrase inhibitors, raltegravir and elvitegravir. However the penetration of
      dolutegravir in deep compartments has not been fully characterized: the studies comprised a
      small number of patients and were not able to estimate the distribution in several
      compartments at the same time for each patient. Moreover the levels of residual viral
      replication in those compartments during treatment are unknown, making it difficult to
      evaluate the capacity of this drug and associated backbone to efficiently act against viral
      reservoirs maintenance.

      The aim of the study is to measure simultaneously dolutegravir and nucleoside/nucleotide
      reverse transcriptase inhibitors in different compartments to obtain cartography of
      dolutegravir and associated backbone distribution and the spatial dynamics of virus in each
      patient.

      The decision to study dolutegravir and the two associated backbones (abacavir / lamivudine or
      tenofovir /emtricitabine) was decided as:

        -  The International AIDS Society recommend for most patients an optimal initial regimen
           containing 2 nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) plus an integrase
           strand transfer inhibitor (InSTI)2.

        -  Dolutegravir viral power is established for high levels of viral load 90 and this drug
           is widely used.

        -  This study is very complementary of studies ANRS SIVART and ANRS 169 OPTIPRIM 2.

        -  Dolutegravir is combined with abacavir + lamivudine in a single-tablet and is largely
           prescribed.

        -  Raltegravir and elvitegravir will not be analysed because the number of recruited
           patients should be more important to obtain sufficient data and the feasibility would
           not be sure.
    
  