
    
      This trial studies how well cognitive rehabilitation therapy works in improving cognitive
      function in patients with lower grade gliomas. Patients with low grade gliomas frequently
      have symptoms of cognitive impairment, such as difficulty with short term memory and
      processing information, that impacts their daily lives. The ReMind application (app) is an
      iPad app developed for cognitive rehabilitation for patients. The healthy texting platform
      was developed to help patients with depression and cognitive difficulty to provide education
      and track their mood. Methods of cognitive rehabilitation therapy such as in person cognitive
      rehabilitation, computerized cognitive rehabilitation, and healthy text messaging may help
      improve cognition and quality of life in patient with low grade gliomas.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  Assess feasibility of each interventional arm independently (Arm 1)

        -  Detect a decline of >= 1.5 standard deviation (SD) from baseline on the Wechsler Adult
           Intelligence Scale (WAIS)- IV Working Memory Score or Hopkins Verbal Learning Test
           (HVLT) during the 36 month follow-up after surgery. (Arm 2)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  Measure changes in cognition at post-intervention and follow-up for each cohort - cohort
           1 in-person; cohort 1A telehealth; cohort 2 ReMind; and cohort 3 short message service
           (SMS) texting - at 3 months and 6 months post-intervention. (Arm 1)

        -  Measure changes in health related quality of life (HRQOL) at post-intervention and
           follow-up for each cohort - cohort 1 in-person; cohort 2 ReMind; and cohort 3 SMS
           texting - as captured by Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information
           System-quality of life (PROMIS-QOL) - at 3 months and 6 months post-intervention. (Arm
           1)

        -  Assess relationships between cognitive changes and clinical factors (molecular subtype,
           age, tumor location, treatment, and radiation fields when appropriate). (Arm 2)

        -  Assess relationships between cognitive changes and serial magnetic resonance (MR)
           imaging (T2 and contrast-enhancing tumor volume, diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) scalar
           quantification, structural connectivity, resting-state functional magnetic resonance
           imaging (fMRI) connectivity). (Arm 2)

        -  Assess relationships between HRQOL and cognitive changes. (Arm 2)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

        -  Assess relationships between cognitive and HRQOL. (Arm 1)

        -  Assess relationships between cognitive changes and clinical factors (molecular subtype,
           age, tumor location, and radiation fields when appropriate). (Arm 1)

        -  Assess relationships between HRQOL changes and clinical factors (molecular subtype, age,
           tumor location, and radiation fields when appropriate). (Arm 1)

        -  Assess relationships between cognitive changes and serial MR imaging (T2 and
           contrast-enhancing tumor volume, DTI scalar quantification, structural connectivity,
           resting-state fMRI connectivity). (Arm 1)

        -  Identify predictive power of tumor characteristics (tumor volume, location, molecular
           characteristics), patient characteristics (extent of resection, treatment, and radiation
           fields when appropriate), imaging characteristics (e.g. fMRI, DTI changes), and decline
           in cognition or HRQOL. (Arm 2)

      OUTLINE:

      Patients are invited to participant in Cohort 1A. Patients unable to participant in Cohort 1A
      are randomized to Cohort 2 or Cohort 3.

      ARM 1:

        -  COHORT 1 (CLOSED): Patients receive standard in-person cognitive rehabilitation sessions
           with a neuropsychologist every 2 weeks over 1 hour each for 12 weeks.

        -  COHORT 1A: Patients receive telehealth cognitive rehabilitation with University of
           California, San Francisco (UCSF) Zoom visits with a neuropsychologist who specializes in
           brain tumors over 60 minutes every 2 weeks for 3 months.

        -  COHORT 2: Patients receive computerized cognitive rehabilitation using the ReMind app
           over 3 hours per week for 12 weeks.

        -  COHORT 3: Patients receive healthy text messages daily at random points during the week
           (Monday - Friday) for 12 weeks.

      ARM 2:

        -  COHORT 4: Patients who receive radiation after surgery, undergo longitudinal cognitive
           and health related quality of life assessments prior to surgery, prior to start of
           radiation, at 4-6 week after radiation, 6 and 12 months after surgery, and then every 6
           months for 36 months after surgery.

        -  COHORT 5: Patients who do not receive radiation after surgery, undergo longitudinal
           cognitive and health related quality of life assessments prior to surgery, within 1
           month after surgery, 2-4 months after surgery, 6 and 12 months after surgery, and then
           every 6 months for 36 months after surgery.

      After completion of study, patients in cohorts 1-3 are followed up at 3 and 9 months.
    
  