
    
      Intervention

      The patients with uncomplicated acute appendicitis will be divided into three groups
      randomly: ERAT group, antibiotic therapy group and appendectomy group.

      1) ERAT group: In preparation for ERAT, low-pressure cleansing enemas (500 mL normal saline
      solution per enema) will be administered for three times before the procedures for bowel
      preparation. Antibiotic therapy (levofloxacin + metronidazole) will be intravenously
      administrated to the patients in the perioperative period.

      The procedures of ERAT will be performed as below：

        1. Cannulation of the appendiceal lumen: Colonoscopic examination under direct vision of
           the whole colon, ileocecal junction and terminal ileum will be performed to exclude
           other abnormalities first, and focus on the appendiceal orifice and the surrounding
           mucosa. Colonoscope attached by a transparent cap will be positioned close to the
           appendiceal oriﬁce. Gerlach's valve will be pushed aside using the transparent cap, a
           standard catheter loaded with a 0.035-inch guidewire (loop-tip or hydrophilic-tip) will
           be placed in the appendiceal oriﬁce. The guidewire will be probed gently to insert into
           the appendiceal lumen. The catheter will be then subsequently moved forward after the
           guidewire inserting deeply into the lumen under fluoroscopic guidance.

        2. Endoscopic retrograde appendicography (ERA): After cannulation of the appendiceal lumen,
           decompression of lumen will be achieved by suction using a 5-mL syringe attached to the
           catheter. A soluble contrast agent (iobitridol) will be then used to fill the appendix
           while being monitored by fluoroscopy to check the radiographic features of the appendix
           (including position, length, contour, mobility, intraluminal content and inner diameter
           of appendiceal lumen).

        3. Irrigation and appendicolith removal: The appendiceal lumen will be irrigated with
           normal saline solution to clear away the pus and the sand-like appendicoliths, while the
           large appendicoliths will be extracted using a balloon catheter or an extraction basket.

        4. Stenting for drainage: If the pus is massive or the lumen is stenosis, a plastic
           straight stent (8.5F) will be placed into the lumen over the guidewire for luminal
           decompression with the plan to retrieve the stent after about one week.

      2) Antibiotic therapy group: The patients will be treated with intravenous broad-spectrum
      antibiotics (Carbapenems) for 3 days and oral antibiotics (Levofloxacin and Metronidazole)
      for 7 days. If patients in the antibiotic group deteriorate during the hospital stay
      (suspicious perforation or any symptoms of peritonitis) patients will be operated.

      3) Appendectomy group: The patients will undergo laparoscopic appendectomy according to
      standard routines.

      Follow-up and outcome measures

      Follow-up will be performed until the end of the study period. The primary outcome is
      duration of abdominal pain. The secondary outcomes include mean hospital stay, mean operative
      time, duration of fever, duration of leukocytosis, bed time, rate of complication, rate of
      recurrence and rate of appendectomy during follow-up period of 1 year.
    
  