
    
      In oculofacial surgery, full thickness skin grafts are a fundamental tool used to restore
      function to the eyelid. This can be required after removal of skin cancer, correction of
      eyelid malposition such as cicatricial eyelid ectropion (the eyelid edge is pulled away from
      the eye), retraction (the eyelid is pulled lower than normal, exposing more of the eye to the
      air), scar formation (such as a medial pulling or web), or trauma with loss of tissue. These
      conditions affect patients of all ages, ranging from newborns to nonagenarians. Skin grafting
      in the periorbital area is relatively safe, although complications may arise. The most common
      and challenging complication scarring and graft shrinkage. This can lead to requiring
      additional surgery to add additional skin or to improve the appearance of the graft. In
      addition to the morbidity of another surgery, some patients have limited or no additional
      skin available (e.g. young patients, burn patients). The eyelid skin is the thinnest of the
      body, so only thin skin can be used as donor material. However, the amount of skin available
      for this purpose is very little.

      There are limited options for preventing graft shrinkage and scarring in this situation. The
      oldest and most commonly used technique is injection of steroid medication. Steroids decrease
      proliferation of a fibroblast cells, which create collagen and glycosaminoglycan, two
      proteins created by the body that contract and cause graft shrinkage. Data in literature
      shows that one form of steroid, triamcinolone, is effective for this purpose. However, there
      is a risk of embolization of this solid steroid material that care rarely cause blindness. In
      addition, in the periocular area, steroids can elevate eye (intraocular) pressure (that can
      cause glaucoma in some cases) and accelerate the formation of cataracts.

      Another medication used for this purpose is 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). This is an antimetabolite
      (a drug that inhibits another chemical that is part of normal processes) that works by
      irreversibly inhibiting the enzyme thymidylate synthetase resulting in impaired DNA
      synthesis. This reduces fibroblast proliferation and inhibits collagen type 1 production
      which is a key protein in scar formation. This medication is commonly used in ophthalmology
      after glaucoma filtration surgery. In this usage, it is injected under the conjunctiva to
      prevent scarring around the surgical site.

      There have been two retrospective studies that have investigated the safety and efficacy of
      5-FU injected in periorbital skin grafts with or without Kenalog. The first (Massry 2011)
      used post-operative injections of a 50:50 mixture of 5-FU and triamcinolone for correction of
      medial canthal webs. In 2 patients, they found it to be safe and effective. The author noted
      he has used it previously for other scar management cases and was "very pleased with the
      results and [had] negligible side-effect[s]." The same author performed another study using
      5-FU for skin grafts. This study evaluated 19 patients who had skin grafts for various
      purposes and were injected following surgery (similar to our protocol). This study
      demonstrated safety of the injection, with no cases of complication. The author concluded
      that the 5-FU is effective with "minimal scarring, high patient and surgeon satisfaction, and
      few complications." However, there was no comparison group to truly evaluate the effect. With
      only two retrospective studies by the same author, there is no strong evidence that it is
      effective, although safety has been demonstrated.

      The investigators therefore propose a randomized controlled prospective study to evaluate the
      outcomes of periocular skin grafts with or without the use of 5-FU injected in the
      post-operative period. Patients will be recruited from the investigators' practices who need
      full thickness skin grafts for reconstruction after cancer removal, pre-existing scarring,
      eyelid malposition, or trauma. Patients will be introduced to the study, and will come back
      for detailed explanation and consent. The injection medication will be prepared by the Mass
      Eye and Ear Research Pharmacy and labeled for this double-blinded study. Injections will be
      given 2-3 weeks after surgery and up to 4 times (also every 2-3 weeks). Measurements and
      photographs of the skin graft will be taken at each visit (following injections, at 3, 6, and
      12 months) to monitor for complications. Patients will be followed for at least 12 months.

      If effective, this medication could change the post-operative management of skin grafts,
      reduce complications and reoperations.
    
  