
    
      Rationale: Recent development in computed tomography (CT) hardware have fulfilled the
      prerequisites for clinical CT myocardial perfusion imaging (CTP). Cardiac CT, has by means of
      coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) and novel techniques such as CTP the unique
      ability to provide information on both the anatomical and functional severity of coronary
      artery disease (CAD). However, diagnostic performance of these novel techniques when
      referenced by the clinical diagnostic standard, invasive fractional flow reserve (FFR)
      measurements, has scarcely been investigated in patients with a prior PCI.

      Objective: To determine the diagnostic performance of CCTA and dynamic CTP for the diagnosis
      of myocardial ischemia using invasive coronary indices as the reference standard.

      Study design: The study is a single-center prospective comparative trial in which all
      patients will undergo CCTA and dynamic CTP before invasive coronary angiography (ICA) in
      conjunction with invasive flow/pressure measurements.

      Study population: Patients referred for a diagnostic ICA with a prior of PCI for stable CAD
      will be evaluated for inclusion in the study.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Hemodynamic significant CAD as defined by an FFR ≤0.80 / iFR
      < 0.90. Sensitivity, specificity, negative predictive value, positive predictive value and
      accuracy will be assessed for CCTA and dynamic CTP. In addition, this study will assess the
      prognostic value of CCTA and dynamic CTP in patients with a prior cardiac revascularization.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: A two day protocol will be completed after referral ensuring the diagnostic
      work-up of patients is not delayed. On day 1 patients will undergo CCTA and CTP. Then, on day
      2, irrespective of CT results, patients will undergo ICA with invasive pressure measurements.
      The risks of CT are considered to be low. Patients are referred for a clinically indicated
      ICA and as such risks of the ICA are not deemed study-related. Future patients might benefit
      from the present study as combined anatomical information (CCTA) and functional information
      (dynamic CTP) might lead to a more judicious referral for ICA which leads to a reduction of
      exposure to invasive procedures such as ICA in combination with invasive pressure
      measurements.
    
  