
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Classify patients with renal tumors by histological categorization, surgico-pathological
      stage, presence of metastases, age at diagnosis, tumor weight, and loss of heterozygosity for
      chromosomes 1p and 16q, to define eligibility for a series of therapeutic studies. (Loss of
      heterozygosity [LOH] testing discontinued as of April 2014) II. Maintain a biological samples
      bank to make specimens available to scientists to evaluate additional potential biological
      prognostic variables and for the conduct of other research by scientists.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Monitor outcome for those patients who are not eligible for a subsequent therapeutic
      study.

      II. Describe whether the pulmonary tumor burden correlates with outcome in stage IV patients.
      (Completed as of Amendment 7) III. Describe the sensitivity and specificity of abdominal
      computed tomography (CT) by comparison with surgical and pathologic findings for
      identification of local tumor spread beyond the renal capsule to adjacent muscle and organs,
      lymph node involvement at the renal hilum and in the retroperitoneum, preoperative tumor
      rupture, and metastases to the liver. (Completed as of Amendment 7) IV. Compare the
      sensitivity and specificity of pre-operative abdominal CT scan and magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI) for the identification and differentiation of nephrogenic rests and Wilms' tumor in
      children with multiple renal lesions. (Completed as of Amendment 7) V. Correlate the method
      of conception (natural vs assisted reproductive technology) with the development of Wilms'
      tumor. (Completed as of Amendment 7) VI. To evaluate the frequency of integrase interactor 1
      (INI1) mutations in renal and extrarenal malignant rhabdoid tumor of the kidney and to
      determine the incidence of germline and inherited versus somatic mutations to facilitate
      clinical correlations on the companion study AREN0321. (INI1 testing discontinued as of April
      2014) (Completed as of Amendment 7)

      OUTLINE:

      Tumor tissue, blood, and urine samples are collected for research studies, including
      immunohistochemistry. CT scans and MRIs are also performed. Loss of heterozygosity analyses
      (chromosome 1p and 16q) are performed by extraction of DNA. DNA polymorphisms are assayed by
      polymerase chain reaction using standard methodology. Leftover specimens are archived for
      future studies. (LOH and INI1 testing discontinued as of April 2014)

      Patients are followed up periodically for 5 years.
    
  