
    
      Our objective is to determine whether 15-degree RTP during FESS will influence
      intra-operative blood loss and surgical field scores when compared to patients in a supine
      position.

      Our hypothesis is that the 15-degree RTP position is not inferior to the supine position in
      reducing intra-operative blood loss and improving surgical field view during FESS.

      Specific Aims

      Aim 1: To determine the effect of 15-degree RTP on total blood loss, time of surgery and
      endoscopic surgical view, when compared with patients in the supine position, during FESS.

      Participants will have their sinus cavities assessed by rigid endoscopy during surgery. The
      Boezaart scaling system will be used as our primary endoscopic surgical field measure. Total
      Blood Loss (TBL), Mean Arterial Pressure (MAP), pulse rate and Time of Surgery (TOS) will be
      recorded intra-operatively by the anesthesiologist and supporting nurse staff. The results of
      this experiment will determine whether utilizing the 15-degree RTP is effective to reduce
      blood loss during ESS.

      Background and significance:

      Chronic Rhinosinusitis (CRS) is associated with nasal obstruction, discolored nasal
      discharge, facial congestion or pressure that lasts at least twelve weeks (1,2). Nasal
      polyposis may also be present with CRS (1,2). Corticosteroids and medicated nasal irrigations
      are recommended as preliminary treatment options3. Sinus surgery is recommended for patients
      whose symptoms are refractory to maximal medical management. FESS has evolved to become the
      preferred surgical method for treating CRS and other sinus related diseases4. When compared
      to the previous open craniofacial approach, this technique has been found to be less
      invasive, low-risk and reduces operating time with improved post-operative outcomes4. FESS
      performed in the supine position has been the standard at the St. Paul's Sinus Centre.
      Surgeon experience has indicated that patients in a 0-degree operating position, allows for
      consistent orientation of the sinus anatomy. However, bleeding within the surgical area can
      obscure endoscopic field of view, increasing risk for surgical complications which may
      include cerebrospinal fluid leak, hemorrhage, infection and damage to the optic nerve and
      internal carotid artery (4,6). There are several factors available to control hypotension
      during surgery such as the use of total intravenous anesthesia (TIVA), pre-operative topical
      treatment with steroids, local vasoconstrictors and patient position4.

      TIVA has been observed to reduce intra-operative hemorrhage by lowering mean arterial
      pressure (MAP) when compared to inhalational anesthesia during ESS5. The use of
      corticosteroids prior to surgery has been found to reduce peri-operative blood loss (6).
      Results indicate that TIVA and pre-operative steroid treatment can significantly lower
      surgical grade scores by improving endoscopic visualization (5,6). However, altering patient
      position during the operation may provide a simple option to further reduce the presence of
      blood within the surgical field.

      The Reverse Trendelenburg Position (RTP) is a head-up, feet-down tilt varying from 10 to 30
      degrees (7). When used in surgery, RTP has been found to reduce hydrostatic forces and venous
      congestion (6,7). In morbidly obese patients where anesthesia can alter respiratory function
      RTP has been identified as a safe intra-operative procedure, improving oxygenation with
      minimal MAP changes (9). This position has been found to reduce intra-cranial pressure during
      craniotomy and thereby, decreasing surgical risks for cerebral swelling and herniation (8).

      The role of RTP and other factors related to intra-operative blood loss during FESS has
      recently been examined. Ko et al. (2008) equally randomized 60 CRS patients to receive FESS
      while in the 10-degree RTP or complete supine position. Patients with CRS with or without
      nasal polyposis, mild or moderate hypertension, diabetes, chronic renal disease, and other
      uncritical medical conditions were included in the study (10). Patients were excluded if they
      had severe or uncontrolled cases of hypertension, cardiovascular disease and preoperative use
      of anticoagulant medication (10). All patients received a combination of intravenous and
      inhaled anesthesia. This was induced with fentanyl, xylocaine, propofol and cisatracurim.
      Desflurane or sevoflurane were used intra-operatively to maintain anesthesia (10). In
      addition, a 1% solution of lidocaine hydrochloride, a local anesthetic, and adrenaline at a
      dilution of 1:80,000 was injected into the surgical field and pterygopalatine fossa. Total
      blood loss (TBL) was measured from the suction bottle during the surgery by an OR nurse.
      Blood loss per minute (BL/Min) was calculated from dividing the TBL by the total time of the
      surgery. The Boezaart grading system was used to evaluate the effect of bleeding within the
      surgical field (SF). The inverse trendelenburg position was found to significantly reduce TBL
      (P < 0.001), BL/Min (P < 0.001) and SF score (P < 0.004).

      Due to the highly vascularized nature of the paranasal sinuses, small amounts of blood can
      cause substantial impairment to endoscopic view. The RTP reduces venous return and cardiac
      output by retaining blood in the lower parts of the body (10,11). As a result, reduced
      intraoperative blood loss has been reported in previous studies employing this operating
      position during surgery (10,11,12). Although RTP has been utilized in Otorhinolaryngology,
      the previously mentioned study used a combination of total intravenous and inhaled anesthesia
      for study subjects (10). Previous literature has shown that TIVA can reduce intra-operative
      blood loss when compared to inhaled anesthesia5. We aim to evaluate if 15-degree RTP with
      patients receiving TIVA and preoperative steroid treatment can reduce endoscopic visual
      impairment.

      Experimental Design and Methods:

      Research Method:

      Randomized unblinded, prospective study

      Recruitment of CRS patients

      Patients requiring endoscopic sinus surgery will be approached to partake in this study.
      These patients are individuals who have failed conventional medical therapy and require the
      expertise of a tertiary rhinologist in treating their sinus disease. This tertiary based
      rhinology centre averages 6000 outpatient visits and >400 FESS cases a year. This is the
      busiest rhinology centre in Western Canada. The site coordinator or one of the Principal
      Investigator's designates will describe the study design to the patients. Patients will have
      up to one month prior to surgery to sign the consent form if they plan to partake in the
      study. Patients placed in the study will be provided with the direct line to the St. Paul's
      Sinus Centre and therefore can talk to any of the co-investigators if they have any questions
      or concerns.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Patients 19 years of age or older

        -  Patients who will undergo primary or revision functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS)

        -  Patients with CRS with or without polyposis

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  Patients under the age of 19

        -  Patients with a history of coagulation disorders

        -  Patients with severe or uncontrolled cases of hypertension and cardiovascular disease

        -  Patients undergoing sinonasal tumor resection

      Experimental and Control Arm All patients are treated with a one-week course of prednisone
      20mg once a day and oral antibiotics (clavulin or clindamycin if penicillin allergic) prior
      to surgical intervention. Patients will be randomized to the experimental (15-degree RTP) or
      control (supine) arm based on a closed envelope system.

      Procedure

      Pre-Operative:

        -  Obtain informed consent of 64 patients prior to surgery

        -  Randomize patients to the experimental (15-degree RTP) arm or the control (supine
           position) arm.

        -  32 patients will receive FESS while in the 15-degree RTP position

        -  32 patients will receive FESS while in the standard supine (0-degree) position

        -  Pre-existing health conditions, current medication and patient demographics (age, sex)
           will be recorded

        -  Patients will be instructed to take the standard pre-operative medications used at St.
           Paul's Hospital (prednisone and antibiotics for 1 week).

      Intra-operative:

        -  Patients will initially be placed in a 0-degree supine position, where blood pressure
           and pulse rate will be recorded.

        -  All patients will undergo total intravenous anesthesia, with a prescribed infusion
           administered by the residing anesthetist. Anesthesia infusions will be documented and
           recorded.

        -  The Principal Investigator or one of his designates will electronically calibrate the
           operating table to bring patients in the experimental arm of the study to the 15-degree
           RTP. Those in the control arm will remain in the supine position.

        -  Primary Outcome Measures:

             -  MAP, pulse rate and endoscopic field view will be recorded every 15 minutes
                intra-operatively.

             -  Once the procedure is complete, total time of surgery and total estimated blood
                loss will be recorded.

             -  Blood loss per minute will be calculated using total blood loss divided by total
                operating time.

      Aim 1: To determine the effect of 15-degree RTP on total blood loss, time of surgery and
      endoscopic surgical field view when compared with patients in the supine position, during
      FESS.

      Primary outcome measures will be documented at periodic intervals intra-operatively and at
      the completion of surgery. The Principal Investigator or one of his designates will record
      MAP, pulse rate and endoscopic surgical field score every 15 minutes from the start of
      surgery. Documentation of MAP, pulse rate, and endoscopic surgical field score at periodic
      intervals is not standard practice during surgery and it will only be done on study patient
      cases. Once the procedure is completed, total blood loss and time of surgery will be
      recorded. The total amount of blood lost will be calculated from the suction bottle and
      measured in milliliters after surgery. This will be confirmed by the circulating nurse and
      the anesthetist. Total time of surgery will be recorded in minutes, by the circulating nurse
      and the anesthetist. In certain circumstances the operation may be extended due to unexpected
      complications, therefore total blood loss may increase due to prolonged surgery. To determine
      blood loss per minute (mL/min), total estimated blood loss will be divided by time of
      surgery. Ko et al (2008) previously calculated blood loss per minute with the above formula
      in their analysis of the role of RTP during endoscopic sinus surgery.

      The Boezaart intra-operative surgical field scale will be used to grade the level of bleeding
      during surgery. This 0 to 5-point scale will be used to outline the amount of suction
      required to rid the area of blood disrupting vision. A score of 0 is given for an area with
      no bleeding, 1 for slight bleeding with no suction required, 2 for slight bleeding requiring
      suction, 3 for moderate bleeding which improves for several seconds once suction has
      occurred, 4 for moderate bleeding which restarts directly after suctioning and 5 for severe
      bleeding which occurs faster then can be removed (12).

      Data Collection and Statistical Analysis

      Discussion with a statistician indicated that based on a previous study10, a population size
      of 64 patients would be needed to achieve a power rating of 80%. Both the experimental and
      control arms each will have 32 patients enrolled. To determine the sample size, a confidence
      interval of 95% was utilized to create a responsive range of double the standard deviation.
      In consideration of the location and vascularity of the paranasal sinuses, a Boezaart score
      of 3 is expected during surgery. Clinically significant change in intra-operative bleeding
      will be defined as a change in Boezaart scoring by 20%, or one point in relation to the
      scale. All data collected for this study will be gathered in a password protected Microsoft
      Excel spreadsheet file. Each patient will be assigned unique identification allowing for no
      patient data to be recorded. The Microsoft Excel database will include:

        -  Age

        -  Sex

        -  Pre-existing health conditions

        -  Current medications

        -  Lund-Kennedy CT score

        -  CRS with or without polyposis

        -  Primary or revision surgery

        -  Anesthesia infusion

        -  Surgical position (15-degree RTP or Supine)

        -  MAP (15 minute intervals)

        -  Pulse rate (15 minute intervals)

        -  Endoscopic surgical field scores (15 minute intervals)

        -  Intra-operative complications

        -  Microdebrider usage

        -  Total blood loss

        -  Total time of surgery

      Risks No adverse risks are expected from placing patients in the experimental 15-degree
      reverse trendelenburg position. Patient care will not be compromised at any time during
      surgery. Patients will be able to withdraw from the study at any stage without affecting the
      quality of the medical care they receive.

      Difficulties and Limitations

      Aim 1: No difficulties are expected. Standard practice during FESS at the St. Paul's Sinus
      Centre is to document total time of surgery and blood loss on anesthetist and nurse progress
      notes, and post-operative surgical reports. For best results, we have included periodic
      measurement of MAP, pulse rate and endoscopic surgical field view at 15-minute intervals
      intra-operatively. Unexpected or sudden adverse events during surgery may hinder periodic
      assessment of our primary outcome measures, as priority will be given to patient safety.
    
  