
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the dose-limiting toxicity of arsenic trioxide when given in combination with
           ascorbic acid, bortezomib, thalidomide, and dexamethasone, particularly in terms of
           sensory neuropathy, in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma or plasma
           cell leukemia.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the overall response rate, complete response rate, and response duration in
           patients treated with the maximum tolerated dose of this regimen.

        -  Determine whether the addition of arsenic trioxide and ascorbic acid to the treatment
           regimen (beginning in course 2) increases NFKB inhibition in these patients during
           courses 2 and 3 compared to course 1.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of arsenic trioxide.

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds and dexamethasone IV
           or orally on days 1, 4, 8, and 11 and oral thalidomide once daily on days 1-21 (course
           1). For course 2 and all subsequent courses, patients receive arsenic trioxide IV over
           1-2 hours, ascorbic acid IV over 15 minutes, bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds, and
           dexamethasone IV or orally on days 1, 4, 8, and 11 and thalidomide once daily on days
           1-21. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity. Patients who achieve a plateau in response proceed to maintenance therapy.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Patients receive oral dexamethasone every other day and oral
           thalidomide once daily in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of arsenic trioxide until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2
      of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 24 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  