
    
      Introduction The kneecap can dislocate due to an accident or also only due to an interior
      turn in the stretched knee joint out of its sliding bearing. E. Arendt (Arendt 2002) wrote an
      overview work, in which possible causes and working methods to the patella dislocation are
      discussed. Despite almost one hundred quotations the authors are not able find the causes and
      the possible treatment concepts. The study will examined healthy adults (25 female and 25
      men) and 25 patients with patella dislocation by a routine applied clinical gait analysis and
      surface EMG (after the European SENIAM guidelines) in the Laboratory for Gait Analysis Basel
      of the Children's University Hospital Basel. The combination of gait analysis and the surface
      EMG with Wavelet analysis may objectify possible reasons for a patella dislocation and
      compare the intensity pattern of the EMG between the groups.

      Method All subjects (healthy and patients with a patella dislocation) will be prior to the
      study informed about the study and sign the consent from

      The investigation will include the following tasks:

        -  Preparation of the subject for a clinical gait analysis with placing reflecting marker
           on the lower body according to the maker setup of Davis et al. (Davis III et al., 1991.

        -  Preparation of the subject for a surface EMG of the muscles: gastrocnemius medialis,
           tibialis anterior, vastus medialis, vastus lateralis, rectus femoris, biceps femoris,
           semitendinosus according to the SENIAM-Standard.

        -  Measurements: 10 trials of level walking in self selected speed and 3 times 5 single leg
           quads on the force plate.

        -  System: VICON 460 (6 Cameras, 120 Hz, Oxford Metrics Ltd., UK).

        -  EMG-System: Zebris, Tuebingen, Germany; Amplifiers: Biovision, Wehrheim, Germany,
           EMG-Electrodes: Bipolar Ag/AgCl Surface Electrodes Noraxon, Sampling rate: 2520 Hz

        -  Data analysis: Kinetic-and kinematic data with the Vicon-Software, EMG-Data with Wavelet
           Package (Biomechanigg, Calgary, Canada)

        -  Statistical Analysis: ANVOA
    
  