
    
      Introduction After spinal and knee pain, shoulder pain is estimated to be the third most
      common type of musculoskeletal pain, causing considerable psychosocial impact if progressing
      to the chronic phase. While majority of patients with shoulder pain recover within few
      months, over 40% of patients have persisting symptoms after 12 months. Establishing a
      treatment strategy for shoulder pain can be challenging, as the effectiveness of many
      treatment options is unclear. Non-surgical strategies are preferred in the first-line
      management, with physiotherapy being of the treatment of choice in the majority of cases.
      Physiotherapy, pain medication and corticosteroid injections (CSI) are used but the
      effectiveness of these interventions may be insufficient. Corticosteroid injections are often
      used in treatment of shoulder pain, though there is no clear evidence of long-term benefit.
      It has been reported that CSI might lead to adverse events such as tendon degeneration,
      cutaneous atrophy or infection. In addition, CSI can cause systemic side effects including
      changes in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis function and elevated blood glucose
      levels. Therefore, safer pain management options with more long-lasting pain relief are
      sought. The suprascapular nerve derives from the ventral rami of cervical spinal nerves C4,
      C5, and C6 and arises from the upper trunk of the brachial plexus, contributes approximately
      70% of the sensory innervation to the shoulder joint. Suprascapular nerve blocks have been
      used to manage acute and chronic shoulder pain, although the efficacy of treatment alters in
      different studies and when compared to other treatment options. The short duration of action
      of local anesthetics raises the question of their efficacy in the management of chronic
      shoulder conditions. In addition to SSNB, pulsed radiofrequency stimulation (pRF) has also
      been researched for its potentially greater and longer-lasting outcomes when comparing to
      local anesthetics. There has been limited numbers of reviews specifically investigating the
      usefulness of SSNB for the treatment of chronic shoulder pain. Liu et al. concluded in their
      review pRF treatment to result in good efficiency in shoulder patients with no significant
      complications reported. The pain relief could last several months. Only few case reports have
      been made on pRF treatment of the glenohumeral joint. Considering the adverse effects of
      corticosteroids, SSNB with local anesthetics could be regarded as a potential alternative for
      pain relief in patients who have adhesive capsulitis. Our earlier results suggested
      additional therapeutic benefit obtained when pRF for both suprascapular nerve and shoulder
      joint was performed in addition to physiotherapy.

      The aim of this study was to compare whether pRF treatment of both glenohumeral joint and
      suprascapular nerve provided additional clinical benefits compared to suprascapular nerve
      block or pRF treatment of suprascapular nerve only. The rehabilitation included also
      individual functional training and treatment as recommended by the national task group.

      Method This randomized controlled trial will follow the Consolidated Standards of Reporting
      Trials Statement; it will be performed at Central Hospital in Satakunta, Pori, Finland. The
      study has been approved by the local Research Ethics Committee (SS/1184/13.01/2018). The
      sample size estimate was obtained to detect differences between the treatment groups in
      relation to the primary outcome of the study after the intervention. Kukkonen's et al. study
      estimated the clinically important minimal difference in CM score in 10.4 points in patients
      with rotator cuff rupture after 3 months of surgical treatment by the arthroscopic method.
      The estimated sample size of 45 patients per group, total of 135patients, would reach 90%
      power to detect a 10.4 difference between the groups in the SPADI instrument follow-up score
      with a standard deviation of up to 15 points with a significance level of 5% using a
      t-Student test. Predicting a loss of around 10% at 6 months follow-up, we aim to recruit 50
      patients per group. The placebo response is usually estimated as high as 30%. Using
      calculation of difference between proportions, the sample size was estimated as 50 patients
      total. Randomization 1:1:1 is performed. Patients will be consecutively allocated to one of
      three proposed treatment methods. The software R was used to generate a randomization list,
      considering 150 patients included in the study and the same probability of allocation for
      methods of pain treatment intervention. Patients with shoulder pain > 3 months duration,
      clinical and imaging confirmation of adhesive capsulitis, tendinosis, arthritis, rotator cuff
      or capsular tears are eligible for participation. Failure of conservative medical therapy is
      documented. Exclusion criteria comprised refusal to participate, extrinsic source of shoulder
      pain (e.g., cervical radiculopathy) and pain related to bony fracture. All patients are at
      first evaluated by specialist in physical medicine and rehabilitation who use ultrasound and
      clinical examination to estimate shoulder function. Patients who have more specific shoulder
      dysfunction based on subjective symptoms and clinical evaluation are asked to participate
      this intervention study. Of totally around 300 consecutive patients who receive pRF on the
      suprascapular nerve and shoulder joint, 150 consecutive patients are estimated voluntarily
      participate the study. Primary outcomes, such as Shoulder Pain and Disability Index ,15D
      self-administered measure of health-related quality of life and working ability are measured.
      This study is also part of the quality register study of the unit. Our standardized patient
      surveys cover demographic data, level of education, work status and future outlook, pain
      intensity, psychological factors, measurements of activity/participation and health-related
      quality of life (MPI, HAD SF-36, EQ-5D,CPAQ;Tampa,ISI). Those patients, who report no pain
      relief at 2-month follow-up and are dissatisfied, have an option to undergo pRF procedure any
      time after the first follow-up visit. Patients are able to dropout from the study any time.
      The randomization will be carried out by assisting nurse and delivered in sealed envelopes
      marked SSPS "subscapularis" (suprascapular nerve block), " pRF suprascapular" (pRF
      stimulation of suprascapular nerve) or "suprascapualar + joint" (pRF stimulation both
      suprascapular nerve and shoulder joint). Patient will be blinded. Two operators to minimize
      individual technical differences perform all procedures. Physician who did not treat the
      patient primarily and did not know which treatment patient received will conduct follow up
      estimation (pretreatment, 10 and 30 weeks after intervention). The groups will be compared
      according to the presence of categorical clinical outcomes by Chi-square or Fisher's exact
      tests, depending on the distribution observed after data collection. The analyzes will be
      performed with the aid of the SPSS program, considering a significance level of 5%.
      Demographic variables will be compared using a t-test or chi-squared test for continuous and
      categorical variables, respectively. Repeated measures ANOVA will be utilized for the primary
      outcome of Pain NRS and the secondary outcomes of the SPADI and AROM. Planned contrasts
      examining the linear trend effect of each group's scores over time were also included in the
      analysis. For the HRQoL scale, paired-sample t-tests will be conducted to compare groups, at
      each time.

      Interventions All patients will be offered conservative treatment including pharmacotherapy
      (opioid analgesics, NSAIDs, paracetamol, adjuvant medication) and physiotherapy.
      Physiotherapy program based on manual therapy intervention focus on increasing function and
      pain control. Physical training is largely based on specific movements supervised by
      qualified physiotherapists. The emphasis is on individual training program, and on learning a
      functional use of the arm. PRF treatment and nerve block will be performed under ultrasound
      guidance. First, the suprascapular notch is identified using ultrasound with the patient in
      the sitting position, shoulders relaxed and forearms placed on the thighs. The puncture site
      is located on the line dividing the upper-outer quadrant of the scapula approximately 2.5 cm
      from the top. Following the puncture, an isolated radiofrequency 23-G 60 mm needle with a 5
      mm active tip (Top Neuropole needle XE 60 mm 23G) is introduced perpendicularly to the skin
      in all planes. Selective stimulation of motor fibers (50 Hz) commenced after the needle tip
      had penetrated into the suprascapular notch. Motoric response or paresthesia at a voltage
      between 0.3 and 0.5 V is sought.

      Envelopes marked SSPS "supraspinatus" will result in injection of 1 ml Lidocaine (10%) and
      "pRF suprascapularis" or "suprascapualris+joint" result in pRF stimulation, a 4-minute cycle
      of pRF with STP (Sluijter Teixeira Pulsed Poisson) program (TOP Lesion Generator TLG-10,
      Equip Medikey BV, The Netherlands) will be performed. One ml Lidocaine (10%) will be injected
      at the end of therapy since irritation of nerve fibers by the electrical field (without
      thermolesion) has been described as occurring frequently. Shoulder joint RF stimulation
      procedure use posterior approach. The sulcus between the head of the humerus and acromion is
      identified by ultrasound. The needle is inserted 2-3cm inferior and medial to the
      posterolateral corner of the acromion and directed anteriorly towards the coracoid process.
      An isolated radiofrequency 23-G 60 mm needle with a 5 mm active tip (Top Neuropole needle XE
      60 mm 23G) will be introduced perpendicularly to the skin in all planes completely into the
      joint. First, 0,1-0,2 ml Lidocaine (10%) will be injected after puncture of skin and after
      pRF treatment 0,8 ml in the shoulder joint. Joint capsule stimulation, a 4 minute cycle of
      pRF with STP program is performed. Pain VAS, glenohumeral joint active range of motion and
      any complications will be recorded before discharge. The patients receive contact details of
      an available nurse prior to discharge. Next week after the RF-stimulation, we recommend
      restart of physiotherapy intervention focused on increasing function and pain control.
      Average rehabilitation time is calculated to be three months and on average patients have six
      consultations (1-12) in 6 months.

      MEASUREMENTS Prior to the first MD appointment, participants are asked to compleat
      questionnaire. At the first appointment, using standardized clinical data forms; MD record
      the history of the participant's shoulder problem and clinical examination findings. In
      addition to active and passive ranges of motion, Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) and Shoulder
      Pain and Disability Index (SPADI), are recorded to assess shoulder function. The SPADI is a
      patient administered questionnaire consisting of 13 items divided into two subscales: pain (5
      questions) and disability (8 questions). The pain and disability subscales are scored
      separately and then calculated into a total SPADI score, with higher scores demonstrating
      increased pain and disability. We also included 15D self-administered measure of
      health-related quality of life (HRQoL). 15D is a generic, comprehensive, 15-dimensional,
      standardized, self-administered measure of health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and it can
      be used as a profile and single index score measure. The single index score (15D score) on a
      0-1 scale, representing the overall HRQoL, is calculated. Participants will be followed
      during 6 months, and subjective and objective outcome variables will be recorded for primary
      outcome instruments at 2 and 6 months and secondary outcome instruments at 6 months
      follow-up.
    
  