
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The Evans County Studies were initiated as a result of a request from the National Heart
      Institute in the late 1950's to develop epidemiological studies in areas where significant
      racial or ethnic differences in cardiovascular disease rates had been observed and where a
      stable population was available for long-term follow-up. Evans County was in a region of the
      United States known, at the time, to have the highest total death rates for all causes, of
      which coronary heart disease and hypertension were major contributors. At that time, Black
      males and females were known to have four times less coronary heart disease than white males,
      showed no sex differences for coronary heart disease mortality, and consumed more animal fat
      and had 50 percent more hypertension.

      In 1960, the original Evans County Study cohort was formed when 92 percent of all residents,
      Black and white, aged 40-74 years and a 50 percent sample of residents aged 15-39 years were
      given a complete physical examination and a variety of laboratory tests. The major purpose of
      the original study was to determine factors associated with coronary and related
      cardiovascular diseases and to explain the low frequency of coronary heart disease in Blacks.
      Of the initial cohort of 3,102 individuals in 1960, approximately 2,500 were re-examined from
      1967 to 1969. Variables studied included serum lipid levels, blood pressure, blood clotting
      factors, catecholamine levels, physical activity, and social, psychological, and economic
      factors. Necropsy data were also collected. Follow-up continued on the remaining cohort of
      approximately 1,900.

      Over the years many additional studies were added. The Lipoprotein Phenotyping Study examined
      which fraction or fractions of high density lipoproteins or low density lipoproteins were
      related to increased risk for coronary heart disease. The Black-White Neonatal Blood Pressure
      Study related blood pressure levels during the first year of life to the subsequent
      development of hypertension and comparing similar groups in other geographical areas to the
      Evans County group. The Contraceptive Steroids on Blood Pressure Study, funded by the
      National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, related antecedent characteristics
      to the development of hypertension or thrombotic disease in the first time oral contraceptive
      user. The Evans County Health Department also participated Hypertension Detection and
      Followup Program clinical trial and continued surveillance of the cohort.

      Other studies included: the use of defined biracial pedigree cohorts as genetic models to
      define the possible inheritance of hypertension, hyperlipidemias, coronary heart disease, and
      thrombosis; maintenance of a collection of frozen sera and food; evaluating new tests to
      indicate differences in intravascular coagulation between racial and social class groups as
      related to physical activity, social mobility, and dietary deficiency; studies of the
      possible relationship to hypertension of dietary sodium-potassium and calcium and selenium
      intake.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Follow-up of the original Evans County Study cohort was achieved by contacting each member
      annually by mail, telephone, or personal visit, weekly surveys of all admissions at the Evans
      Memorial Hospital and Statesboro Hospital; survey of daily obituaries in the local
      newspapers. In the event of a death, autopsy reports and hospital records were obtained.
      Twice a year teams of consulting neurologists and cardiologists visited Evans County to
      examine all suspected surviving cases of stroke, transient ischemic attack, myocardial
      infarction, and angina pectoris. Home visits were conducted for patients who did not visit
      the medical facility.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  