
    
      People experiencing mild cognitive changes represent an epidemiologically major segment of
      the geriatric patient population. In the present proposal, we aim to measure how knowledge of
      cerebral metabolic information 1) influences working diagnoses and management of patients
      being evaluated for symptoms of early cognitive decline, and 2) impacts upon long-term
      clinical outcomes, particularly of subjects having metabolic patterns consistent with
      presence of Alzheimer's disease (AD)-like changes in their brains. A total of 710 patients
      suffering from documentable decline of cognitive function in the absence of overt dementia
      will be studied at nine U.S. institutions with extensive experience and infrastructure in
      place for the evaluation of Alzheimer's disease and related disorders, and for neuroimaging.
      In this prospective, investigation, subjects will undergo baseline neuropsychologic testing
      and neuroimaging with MRI and FDGPET. PET scan reports will be sealed and randomized with
      respect to whether they are released to patients' managing physicians at the time of
      interpretation, or two years after the time that scanning is performed.

      Working diagnoses of managing physicians will be recorded, as will the treatment decisions
      made by the managing physicians and their patients. Cognitive abilities, functional status,
      utilization of healthcare resources, and other clinical and social contact parameters will be
      assessed every six months. Our major hypotheses are that among patients whose PET results are
      immediately conveyed to their referring physicians, diagnoses and management plans will be
      positively affected, leading to more effective utilization of healthcare resources and to
      maintenance of cognitive and functional abilities at a higher level. This project will also
      provide a rich source of data that can be used to address questions outside of its major
      focus (e.g., prognostic accuracy of volumetric MRI data used instead of, or in conjunction
      with, FDG-PET data; incremental predictive value of applying statistically parameterizing
      and/or quantifying software tools to imaging data).
    
  