
    
      Background Improvements in cancer treatment have led to an increasing number of patients
      being cured or in remission, but they are followed up to detect recurrence, manage persistent
      symptoms and late treatment effects. With growing survivors, traditional hospital follow-up
      is not sustainable. New models of follow-up care are needed.

      Aim To develop and establish the feasibility of introducing a new electronic care
      pathway/system for remote monitoring ovarian cancer patients in remission.

      Methods An existing online patient symptom reporting system will be extended for use in
      remote follow-up. A tracking program will be developed and IT systems integrated in the local
      hospitals.

      Development Phase:

      a) Scoping literature review of existing validated symptom measures. b) Consultation with
      expert groups to establish choice of questions, relevant symptoms, timing/frequency for
      monitoring. c) Interviews with patients and clinicians to explore current pathway and
      redesign.

      Audit of usual care phase In this phase consecutive eligible ovarian, fallopian tube, primary
      peritoneal, endometrial or female genital (not otherwise specified) cancer patients (on
      completion of their first/second line of treatment) will be approached and data on clinical
      outcomes collected at the routine 3 monthly outpatient appointments for 12 months and PROMs
      collected 6 monthly. We aim to recruit around 60 patients.

      Pilot Intervention phase In the intervention group the feasibility of the re-designed care
      pathway (intervention) will be piloted in a separate group of eligible ovarian, fallopian
      tube, primary peritoneal, endometrial or female genital (not otherwise specified) cancer
      patients. The patients approached will be a mixture of those who are entering follow-up after
      recently completing their first/second line treatment, and those who have already been
      attending for some time (months/years) for routine follow-up after their first/second line
      treatment. We aim to recruit around 60 patients. Consenting patients will be reminded to use
      the online system every 3 months and have a mandatory blood test by their GP/local hospital.
      Information will be available for the clinical teams to access electronically. Patients will
      always have the option to choose to speak or see their 'key clinician'. Virtual clinics will
      be held for key clinicians to review and respond to remote monitoring data. Clinical and
      patient outcomes will be collected for a 6-12 month period (this timeframe is dependent on
      the date of study entry and the funding period remaining). Following the pilot intervention
      period, 10 patients (or more if deemed necessary) and 6 clinicians will also be interviewed.

      Outcomes

        -  Develop a new electronic care pathway/system for remote monitoring patients in remission

        -  Obtain initial data on clinical and patient feasibility.
    
  