
    
      Objectives:

      To examine the effects of glucagon on hepatic glucose and fat metabolism in vivo, this study
      will apply a novel Positional Isotopomer NMR Tracer Analysis (PINTA) method to quantify rates
      of hepatic mitochondrial oxidation and pyruvate carboxylase flux, which has been
      cross-validated in awake rodents and humans (Perry et al. Nature Communications 2017).
      Preliminary rodent studies have found that glucagon stimulates intrahepatic lipolysis through
      an InsP3R-I-dependent process, leading to increases in hepatic acetyl-CoA content, which
      allosterically activates pyruvate carboxylase activity and flux, and that this phenomenon
      explains its acute, transcription-independent effect to acutely stimulate hepatic
      gluconeogenesis in vivo (unpublished results). In addition, using PINTA analysis it has been
      shown that glucagon stimulates hepatic mitochondrial oxidation through calcium signaling in
      awake mice, and that this process can be exploited by short-term continuous glucagon
      treatment leading to two-fold increases in hepatic mitochondrial fat oxidation, which in turn
      results in large reductions in hepatic steatosis and marked improvements in glucose tolerance
      through reversal of hepatic insulin resistance in a high fat fed rat model of non alcoholic
      fatty liver.

      Hypothesis:

        1. A physiological increase in plasma glucagon concentrations will promote a significant
           increase in rates of hepatic mitochondrial oxidation in healthy humans.

        2. A physiological increase in plasma glucagon concentrations will promote a significant
           increase in rates of hepatic pyruvate carboxylase flux in healthy humans.

        3. A physiological increase in plasma glucagon concentrations will promote a significant
           increase in rates of 13C4 β-hydroxybutyrate turnover (hepatic ketogenesis) in healthy
           humans.

      Study Design - Clinical Plan:

      The effects of a physiological increase in plasma glucagon on rates of hepatic mitochondrial
      oxidation and pyruvate carboxylase flux will be examined in 12 healthy participants (ages
      21-65) using Positional Isotopomer NMR Tracer Analysis (PINTA) (Perry et al. Nature
      Communication 2017). Briefly rates of hepatic mitochondrial oxidation and hepatic pyruvate
      carboxylase flux will be assessed in 12 healthy overnight fasted participants by PINTA after
      a three-hour infusion of glucagon or saline. The glucagon infusion will be designed to
      increase peripheral and portal vein plasma glucagon concentrations 3-4 fold. The effects of a
      physiological increase in plasma glucagon on rates of hepatic ketogenesis will also be
      assessed using an infusion of 13C4 β-betahydroxybutyrate (Perry et al. Cell Metabolism 2017).

      Rates of hepatic pyruvate carboxylase flux /citrate synthase flux by PINTA: Participants
      (n=12) will be studied by PINTA under 2 conditions: 1) following an overnight fast and a 3
      hour saline infusion (Control), 2) following an overnight fast and a 3 hour glucagon
      infusion. Briefly, after collection of baseline blood samples a 3 hour infusion of tracers as
      described below will be started. Relative rates of pyruvate carboxylase to citrate synthesis
      flux will be assessed using a constant infusion of [3-13C] lactate and rates of glucose
      production will be measured using an infusion of [2H7]glucose (Perry et al. Nature
      Communication 2017). Rates of hepatic ketogenesis will be measured using a constant infusion
      of [3C β-hydroxybutyrate as previously described (Perry et al. Cell Metabolism 2017).

      Whole body energy expenditure and the respiratory quotient will be assessed by indirect
      calorimetry.
    
  