
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate failure-free survival of patients with newly diagnosed peripheral T-cell
           non-Hodgkin lymphoma treated with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride,
           vincristine, prednisone (CHOP), and denileukin diftitox (Ontak®) alternating with
           high-dose methotrexate, leucovorin calcium, cytarabine, and Ontak® (CHOP-MONTAK
           regimen).

      Secondary

        -  To determine the response rate (CR, CRu, and PR) in these patients.

        -  To determine the overall survival of these patients.

        -  To determine the toxicity profile of this regimen.

        -  To correlate response with CD25 expression in these patients.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Courses 1, 3, and 5: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 30 minutes, doxorubicin
           hydrochloride IV, and vincristine IV on day 1; oral prednisone once daily on days 1-5;
           and denileukin diftitox IV over 60 minutes on days 1 and 2. Treatment repeats every 21
           days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Courses 2, 4, and 6: Patients receive high-dose methotrexate (MTX) IV over 24 hours on
           day 1; cytarabine IV over 2 hours every 12 hours on days 2 and 3; and leucovorin calcium
           IV over 15 minutes every 6 hours for 8 doses beginning 12 hours after the last dose of
           each MTX infusion. Patients also receive denileukin diftitox IV over 60 minutes for 2
           doses once MTX blood levels have cleared. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 courses
           in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo tumor tissue and blood sample collection periodically for correlative
      studies. Samples are analyzed for CD25-positive or -negative expression and response rate via
      flow cytometry.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every
      4 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  