
    
      Although stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) has proven to be highly effective in the management
      of brain metastases, it is not without risk. Despite selective targeting of lesions and the
      sharp dose fall-off associated with radiosurgical treatments, adverse radiation effects
      (AREs) can occur in 10-15% of patients. Adverse radiation effects (AREs) can be defined as
      unexpected or undesirable post-radiosurgery imaging change regardless of whether it is
      clinically symptomatic. Patients showing ARE have limited therapeutic options with
      corticosteroids being the main treatment modality. This single arm clinical trial, will
      evaluate the safety and feasibility of minocycline in improving AREs. Brain metastases
      patients with documented AREs will be treated with minocycline (100 mg twice a day) for 3
      months in addition to the standard treatment with oral corticosteroids. The investigators
      anticipate recruiting a total of 15 patients over 12 months.

      Primary aim:

      The primary aim is of this study to evaluate safety and feasibility of minocycline therapy in
      patients with ARE after radiosurgery. The investigators' hypothesis is that minocycline will
      be safe in this patient population. Safety will be assessed by monitoring blood levels of
      drug, liver enzymes, renal function tests, and monitoring for major and minor side-effects.

      Research Strategy The investigators plan to conduct a single arm observational study to
      evaluate safety and feasibility of minocycline in patients diagnosed with radiosurgery
      associated adverse radiation effects. In addition to clinical and biochemical monitoring for
      safety, the investigators will also employ neuroimaging techniques to investigate whether
      minocycline reduces enhancement at lesion in post contrast T1 weighted MRI and reduces hyper
      intensity surrounding the tumor as detected by T2 MRI radiosurgery.

      Primary Outcomes: 1) The primary clinical outcome will be safety of minocycline use in this
      patient population.

      Secondary outcomes: 1) The investigators will also review brain images in detail to find any
      evidence of benefit from Minocycline therapy such as reduction or resolution of volume of T2
      hyper intensity and contrast enhancement at the lesion (radiation necrosis) at 4-6 weeks and
      3 month follow-up. 2) Overall neurological status 3) Change in neurocognitive status, 4)
      Reduction in the number of patients needing resection 5) Changes in plasma biomarkers, and
      plasma drug levels.

      Target Population: Recruitment will take place at Center of Image-guided Neurosurgery of
      UPMC. All patients with AREs after brain metastases radiosurgery will be potentially eligible
      for the study. The investigators anticipate enrolling 15 patients. Patients will be diagnosed
      based on MRI findings. The investigators will evaluate T1 pre and post contrast, T2, FLAIR
      and Perfusion MR in order to diagnose ARE. MR spectroscopy or CT Pet will be obtained when
      clinically indicated. The investigators will use T1/T2 matching and proportion of edema
      versus lesion volume as a guide for diagnosing ARE.
    
  