
    
      There is growing concern about adverse developmental effects in infants and young children
      from prenatal exposure to environmental air pollutants, including polycyclic aromatic
      hydrocarbons (PAH), particulate matter (PM2.5), and environmental tobacco smoke (ETS). The
      proposed study combines expertise in molecular epidemiology and biomarkers, state-of- the-art
      pollutant monitoring techniques, and a strong theoretical framework to guide assessment of
      the impacts of these pollutants on fetal and child growth and development. The specific aims
      are: 1. To test the hypothesis that prenatal exposure to airborne polycyclic aromatic
      hydrocarbons (PAH) adversely affects fetal growth and early childhood growth and development,
      after controlling for non-PAH components of PM2.5, ETS, nutritional status (essential fatty
      acids and antioxidants) and other potential confounders; 2. To explore whether non-PAH
      components of PM2.5, and ETS have an independent effect on birth outcomes and childhood
      growth and development, after controlling for PAH, and to explore possible interactions
      between PAH, PM2.5 and ETS; and 3. To estimate the relative contribution of ambient PAH
      pollution vs. ETS and other indoor PAH sources to a) personal PAH exposure and PAH-DNA
      adducts and b) impairment of fetal growth and early child development. To achieve these aims,
      the international team of researchers will carry out a prospective cohort study of 400
      nonsmoking pregnant women living in Krakow, Poland, and will follow their newborns for 12
      months postnatally. Fetal growth will be assessed at birth by weight, length, head
      circumference, and size for gestational age. Childhood growth and developmental outcomes will
      be measured using the Fagan Test and the Bayley Scales. Strengths of the research include the
      combination of personal inhalation monitoring of PAH and PM2.5 with biomarkers (umbilical
      cord blood levels of PAH-DNA adducts, cotinine, essential fatty acids, antioxidants and lead)
      to estimate in utero exposure to the pollutants of interest and potential confounders. The
      Polish cohort provides a valuable model for study since emissions from coal burning and
      traffic are relatively high. However, the results will be broadly applicable since exposures
      to PAH, ETS and PM2.5 during pregnancy are common in virtually all industrialized regions of
      the world. It is anticipated that this research will provide relevant data to policymakers
      concerned with protecting the health of young children.
    
  