
    
      Scientific background

      An increasing degree of automation and informatisation of dynamical processes enables higher
      quality of achieved goals, lower costs and lower eventual impact on humans and nature alike.
      Automatic control is an infrastructural field that comprises mathematical modelling,
      simulation of dynamical systems and automatic control methods. The systematic approach
      enables the use of control methods in various technical and nontechnical fields, therefore,
      the advances in automatic control are very useful in interdisciplinary projects.

      Likewise, there are many processes in medicine that can be improved by automatic control. In
      the literature, there have been some approaches to closed-loop control of depth of
      anaesthesia, but none seem to have influenced clinical practice. Within the project the
      investigators will develop a system for closed-loop control of depth of anaesthesia using BIS
      index, which will be based on a predictive model and will consider individual properties of
      each patient that are obtained from the measurements.

      Problem identification

      To perform a general anaesthesia, it is necessary to use substances, which enable deep
      unconsciousness, analgesia, amnesia and muscle relaxation, all required for performing a
      surgery or a diagnostic procedure. General anaesthesia and related dynamic activities in the
      human body is a complicated process, which includes pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic
      mechanisms, which have not been fully studied yet.

      During the general anaesthesia the anaesthesiologist needs to monitor the patient's vital
      functions and maintain the functions of vital organs. To achieve anaesthesia, substances are
      introduced in different manners into the patient's body. In clinical practice, the most
      commonly used methods are the intravenous induction of an anaesthetic agent, i.e., injection
      of the anaesthetic into a vein, and inhalation induction of anaesthesia, whereby the patient
      inhales the substance from the breathing mixture. Total intravenous anaesthesia (TIVA) is an
      anaesthesiologic technique, where substances are injected intravenously.

      The anaesthesiologist needs to adjust the dosage of anaesthetic to maintain the appropriate
      depth of general anaesthesia according to pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of the
      anaesthetic agent and considering the type of procedure. Inadequate depth of anaesthesia is
      manifested with the activation of sympathetic nerves or in the most unlikely event with the
      patient awakening. Too deep anaesthesia is manifested with a drop in blood pressure level and
      heart rate frequency as well as slow post-operative awakening of the patient from general
      anaesthesia. In modern clinical practice, the depth of anaesthesia is determined by assessing
      the relevant clinical signs (iris, sweating, movements), by interpreting hemodynamic
      measurements and by estimating the depth of anaesthesia from EEG signals, for which several
      established measurement systems already exist, e.g. BIS index, Narcotrend, Scale Entropy and
      Response Entropy. BIS index measurement is a non-invasive method, where a BIS monitor is
      connected to electrodes on the patient's head. By measuring the EEG signals the bispectral
      index is defined, representing the depth of anaesthesia. The BIS monitor provides a single
      dimensionless number, which ranges from 0 (equivalent to EEG silence) to 100. A BIS value
      between 40 and 60 indicates an appropriate level for general anaesthesia, whereas for
      long-term sedation due to head injuries a value below 40 is appropriate. The reference can
      thus be set to the applicable value; the manner and speed of approaching the reference value
      depend on the specific characteristics of the procedure and the pharmacokinetics and
      pharmacodynamics of the substance in the patient's body.

      Objective of the proposed research with particular emphasis on the originality of the
      proposed research and its potential impact for the development of new research directions

      The anaesthesiologist adjusts the injection of intravenous anaesthetic agents regarding the
      depth of anaesthesia. The closed-loop system for administration of intravenous anaesthetic
      agent will enable immediate reaction and adjustment of the intravenous anaesthetic flow. In
      this project the investigators will focus on the closed-loop control of flow in intravenous
      administration of propofol . Induction of propofol affects the BIS index and an adequate
      controller sets the infusion pump so that the BIS index follows as closely as possible the
      trajectory, prescribed by the anaesthesiologist.

      The proposed research project is divided in two parts:

        -  the development of a mathematical model describing the impact of anaesthetic-agent
           administration on the depth of anaesthesia (BIS);

        -  the development of a closed-loop control system for depth of anaesthesia.

      The first phase will begin with the modelling of dynamics of anaesthetic-agent administration
      impacting the anaesthetic depth. The advantages of developing a mathematical dynamical model
      are as follows: better comprehension of the process and its dynamics; the model presents the
      basis for developing a simulator and for running simulation experiments that are useful in
      the closed-loop control-system design phase; the dynamical mathematical model can be employed
      in the control algorithm, especially for predictive control approaches.

      The input of the controller is represented by two signals: the reference value of BIS index
      and the actual value of BIS index. The controller uses these two signals to calculate the
      suitable input signal of the infusion pump, which administers propofol with a flow set by the
      controller. Once the propofol is administered into the body, its level in blood increases and
      consequently the concentration at the effect site, i.e. central nervous system, increases,
      too. Changing of the propofol concentration is a dynamic process, which depends on the
      pharmacokinetic system of the patient. The concentration level of propofol at the effect site
      represents the input of pharmacodynamic system, describing the depth of anaesthesia, which
      could be treated as the output of pharmacodynamic system. The depth of anaesthesia affects
      the brain waves, measured by electrodes for measuring EEG signals. The BIS monitor measures
      the EEG signals and uses these measurements to establish the BIS index. The induction of
      other anaesthetic agents (e.g. remifentanil analgesic), which also partially impacts the BIS
      index, is considered as a disturbance.

      The originality of the expected results

      In this project, the depth of anaesthesia will be treated from 3 perspectives: modelling,
      simulation, and control.

      The problem of modelling the effect of propofol is described in literature in various ways.
      Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic models, such as Marsh, Schneider, Kataria, Schüttler,
      White-Kenny have been developed for such purposes. The models typically define the basic
      structure of the dynamic operating system of propofol and the parameters depend on individual
      patients. The values of model's parameters are affected by the patient and his
      characteristics (weight, height, age, sex etc.) as well as individual sensitivity to propofol
      and the ability to excrete propofol.

      A mathematical model of propofol affecting the dynamics of depth of anaesthesia will be
      developed based on the existing models in literature. The investigators will develop the
      model using classic modelling approaches, such as differential equations with the
      Laplace-domain and state-space representations, as well as advanced approaches: nonlinear
      dynamics will be treated using fuzzy logic, namely Takagi-Sugeno models. An appropriately
      validated dynamical model for propofol activity will be the basis for developing a simulator
      assisting the anaesthesiologist in safe study of anesthesiologic procedures. It will simplify
      the understanding of the operating mechanism of propofol and enable testing of different
      scenarios of administering propofol.

      Several developed pharmacokinetic models are used in certain infusion pumps for target
      controlled infusion (TCI), where the pump sets the proper flow of the medication with regard
      to the model. The problem with these models is that they often do not reflect the real
      dynamics, which also depends on individual sensitivity of the patients to the substance,
      therefore such approaches, based on open-loop induction, often do not yield the best
      performance.

      The algorithm for closed-loop control of anaesthetic depth will be based on 2-DOF control,
      which means that it can be functionally divided into two parts: the feedforward and the
      feedback part. Hence, the algorithm merges the advantages of both open-loop and closed-loop
      control. The feedforward part will use the model of propofol to calculate the flow according
      to BIS index reference trajectory. On the other hand, the feedback part will provide the
      appropriate flow corrections based on BIS index measurements. The advantage of the proposed
      approach is that the feedforward part of the control algorithm can bring the actual BIS index
      value close to the reference trajectory, whereas the feedback part compensates the control
      error, which occurs due to inaccurate modelling, noise and eventual disturbances on the real
      system, such as for instance the induction of remifentanil.

      The control algorithm will be based on the developed dynamic model of propofol that will be
      used for predicting the depth of anaesthesia. By online adaptation of the parameters of the
      internal dynamic model, the algorithm will consider the individual patient's response to
      propofol, estimated from the measurements during the procedure.

      Working methods

      The project work will begin with modelling and simulation studies of propofol effects. The
      modelling procedure will involve theoretical and experimental approaches. Within the
      theoretical modelling framework, the investigators will use the knowledge on pharmacokinetic
      and pharmacodynamic mechanisms, whereas the experimental approach will complement the
      theoretical one by using the appropriate measurements for identifying the structure and the
      parameters of the model. Mathematical modelling of complex systems is an iterative procedure,
      requiring verification and validation of the developed model in every consecutive step. The
      quality of the data, obtained from suitably designed experiments, is of utmost importance.
      The measured signals must be properly synchronized, appropriately filtered, sampled and
      informationally-adequate segments have to be selected for identification.

      The developed model will be tested in the Matlab-Simulink environment. The virtual simulation
      environment will enable various experiments for validation of the model behaviour and
      comparison to the measured dynamics of depth of anaesthesia. The investigators will develop a
      user interface that will facilitate the conduction of simulation experiments. The developed
      system for closed-loop control of depth of anaesthesia will be first tested in a virtual
      environment. Finally, the investigators will also test it - under anaesthesiological
      supervision - in clinical practice.

      The anaesthesiological protocol with detailed descriptions of the course of operation and
      induction of particular agents is described in the application that is being considered at
      the National Medical Ethics Committee of Slovenia. Due to space restrictions the
      aforementioned details are not stated here.

      Relevance and potential impact of the results

      Despite the obvious advantages of closed-loop control of anaesthetic depth, such approaches
      are not yet used in clinical practice. Hence, the main result of this project will be the
      development and the study of implementation potential of closed-loop control system for depth
      of anaesthesia, based on BIS index measurements. In the first part of the project the
      investigators will develop dynamical model dealing with the effects of anaesthesiological
      agents on the depth of anaesthesia, whereas the second part will be devoted to the
      development of a system for closed-loop control of depth of anaesthesia. The developed model
      will be validated by comparing its outputs it to the measurements of dynamical processes on
      real patients. Finally, the performance of the closed-loop control system will be assessed in
      clinical practice.

      We expect that by using the proposed concept of closed-loop control of depth of anaesthesia,
      which is measured by BIS index and controlled by propofol administration, a better course of
      depth anaesthesia than in manual operation will be achieved. The control system will avoid
      excessive overshoots of BIS index trajectory, react instantly to unexpected dynamic
      behaviour, effectively compensate disturbances and consider a priori unknown pharmacokinetic
      and pharmacodynamic properties of a particular patient. On the other hand, the
      anaesthesiologist will be notified only in cases of unpredicted value of BIS index or
      propofol flow outside the prescribed constraints. In such a manner, the anaesthesiologist
      will be able to devote his attention to other critical aspects of anaesthesia. Although the
      anaesthesiologist will not have to continuously monitor the BIS index value, the automatic
      system will decrease the deviation of depth of anaesthesia from the desired value. Improved
      tracking of the reference trajectory will certainly be beneficial for the patients as it will
      decrease the possibility of being awake during the procedure and at the same time prevent
      excessive administration of propofol, which will ease the postoperative recovery and adverse
      events of propofol. It will also decrease the amount of propofol used during the procedure.

      Exceptional socio-economic or culturally relevant achievements of the project leader

      The main field of research of the project leader Assist. Prof. Dr. Gorazd Karer are
      modelling, simulation and control of dynamical systems. Since his PhD defence in 2009 he has
      been intensively working especially on advanced approaches to mathematical modelling and on
      control of dynamical processes. He is the author or co-author of 16 scientific papers, 28
      conference papers, 1 scientific monograph, 1 chapter in a scientific monograph, 1
      terminological dictionary, 3 studies and the supervisor of 14 successfully defended bachelor
      theses.

      He is involved in several courses in the field of modelling, system theory and automatic
      control at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, University of Ljubljana. The courses
      Automatic Control Systems and Automatic Control are the basic courses in the Control
      Engineering study programme. The courses Control Systems Instrumentation and Control
      Technology Instrumentation deal with technological aspects and sensors. The courses Modelling
      and Signal Processing and Modelling Methods treat modelling of dynamical systems. The
      approaches from the latter will be useful especially for the first stage of the research
      project.

      In 2013, he published a scientific monograph with Springer Verlag titled Predictive
      Approaches to Control of Complex Systems with his co-author Prof. Dr. Igor Škrjanc. The
      monograph has been favourably accepted in the scientific community as it has been downloaded
      in electronic form more than 11.000 times since it had been made available online at
      Springer. The monograph deals with advanced control algorithms for systems with complex
      dynamics, which also include the dynamic processes during anaesthesia. Therefore, the
      approaches described in the monograph represent an excellent basis for the development of a
      system for closed-loop control of depth of anaesthesia proposed in this project.

      He was the initiator and one of the authors of the Dictionary of automatic control, systems
      and robotics, published in 2014. In the preparation phase, the Terminological Section of the
      Fran Ramovš Institute of the Slovenian Language at the Research Centre of the Slovenian
      Academy of Sciences and Arts (ZRC SAZU) was involved. During the project he was intensively
      working on the terminological definitions of concepts from his research field. Such a
      terminological experience facilitates the communication in interdisciplinary teams,
      especially with co-workers that are not familiar with the field of automatic control.
      Therefore, it will also benefit the cooperation with anaesthesiologist involved in the
      proposed project.

      He was the secretary of the Automatic Control Society of Slovenia from 2010 to 2014 and has
      been a member of the Executive Committee since 2014. The contacts within the society enable
      connections to the experts working in the field of automatic control both in academia and in
      industry, which provides a good overview of the state of automatic control in Slovenia.

      He was involved in the Competence Centre for Advanced Control Technologies, where a control
      approach, based on key performance indicators (KPI) and dynamic model identification was
      developed. The approach is conceptually related to the proposed closed-loop control system
      for depth of anaesthesia. The methods for acquiring knowledge from the history of KPI will
      also be useful for developing the proposed control system, of course by considering the
      anaesthesia-related particularities and by involving the knowledge of the collaborating
      anaesthesiologists.

      Organisational structure and feasibility of the project

      The project will be realized in collaboration with a research group at the Department of
      Anaesthesiology and Surgical Intensive Therapy (KOAIT) at the University Medical Centre (UKC)
      Ljubljana, led by As. Dr. Iztok Potočnik. The group consists of anaesthesiologists that have
      access to the equipment needed for the theoretical results of the project and the simulation
      studies to be clinically validated. The clinical part of the research will be carried out at
      the Department of Ophthalmology UKC Ljubljana for vitroretinal surgeries, at the
      Neurosurgical Department UKC Ljubljana for patients undergoing surgery due to expansive
      processes in the head, and at the Intensive Care Unit KOAIT UKC Ljubljana for patients
      needing long-term sedation due to head injuries. For establishing the plasmatic
      concentrations of anaesthetic agents the investigators will cooperate with the Institute of
      Clinical Chemistry and Biochemistry UKC Ljubljana. The first measurements will be conducted
      after obtaining the approval from the National Medical Ethics Committee of Slovenia.
    
  