
    
      There is a high level of evidence for improved disease control in head and neck cancer (HNC)
      using regimens with accelerated radiotherapy and concomitant chemotherapy. These intense
      regimens can result in severe acute and late side effect. The standard approach for
      documenting symptomatic adverse events (AEs) in cancer clinical trials involves investigator
      reporting using the National Cancer Institute's (NCI's) Common Terminology Criteria for
      Adverse Events (CTCAE). In Denmark, the Danish Head and Neck Cancer Group (DAHANCA) toxicity
      score has been used as an instrument in assessing objective treatment induced toxicity. New
      research in other cancer treatments indicate, that systematic patient assessment of side
      effects may improve treatment outcome. Patient Reported Outcomes (PROs) can be used for
      symptom monitoring. Interactive use of PRO may secure early recognition of specific symptoms
      in the individual patient and timely management of side effects.

      This trial it is a prospective nationwide, single armed sequential cohort study will
      investigate the effects of active use of PROs in clinical counselling and decision making
      during primary or post-operative curative radiotherapy for squamous-cell carcinoma of the
      head and neck (HNSCC). It will investigate quality of life and the management of side effects
      in standard clinical counselling (control group) versus standard clinical counselling plus
      the PRO (PRO group). The EORTC QLQ-C30 (quality of life questionnaire) and EQ-D5-L5 will be
      answered in both groups. In the PRO group the participants will be asked to complete the
      electronic PRO (PRO CTCAE™ HNC relevant items supplemented by HNC specific items fra the
      EORTC library) weekly. The electronic PRO questionnaire is designed to give feedback to
      treating physician and nurses at visits during and shortly after radiotherapy.
    
  