
    
      Local or regional recurrence of breast cancer after mastectomy or lumpectomy indicates a poor
      prognosis, and accompanies or precedes distant metastasis in a high proportion of patients.
      Patients with isolated locoregional recurrences (ILRR), without evidence of distant
      metastasis hold a substantial risk of developing subsequent distant metastasis, with 5-year
      survival probabilities ranging between 45% and 80% after locoregional recurrence. These
      outcomes show the powerful negative prognostic importance of ILRR events and the need for
      treatments beyond surgical removal of the ILRR.

      Adjuvant chemotherapy and endocrine therapies reduce the risk of relapse and death in
      patients with primary breast cancer. However, few data are available to inform the
      recommendation of systemic treatment for locoregional recurrence.

      The International Breast Cancer Studies Group carried out the CALOR trial, Chemotherapy as
      Adjuvant for Locally Recurrent breast cancer (IBCSG 27-02 / BIG 1-02 / NSABP B-37), in
      collaboration with the Breast International Group (BIG) and the National Surgical Adjuvant
      Breast and Bowel Project (NSABP), to establish whether chemotherapy improves the outcome of
      patients with ILRR. An updated, final analysis of CALOR after median follow-up of about 9
      years was published in the Journal of Clinical Oncology in April 2018, which confirmed
      chemotherapy benefitted patients with resected ER-negative ILRR and did not support the use
      of chemotherapy for ER-positive ILRR.

      CALOR results strongly suggest that tailoring treatment according to the disease
      characteristics of the recurrent lesion, in this case ILRR, provides a better indication of
      the possible responsiveness to treatment than relying on the characteristics of the primary
      tumor.

      Palbociclib has been granted FDA approval in the U.S. for the treatment of
      HR-positive/HER2-negative advanced breast cancer in combination with the hormonal treatments
      letrozole and fulvestrant given the unprecedented results in terms of efficacy of two pivotal
      clinical trials (PALOMA-2 and PALOMA-3). Palbociclib and other CDK4/6 inhibitors have also
      shown a good toxicity profile and therefore are ideal candidates for combination with
      hormonal therapy. CDK4/6 pathway activation is a well-known mechanism of resistance to
      endocrine therapy, indeed CDK4/6 inhibitors have shown activity in cellular models of
      acquired resistance to endocrine therapies.

      The reason for prolonged duration of palbociclib in the adjuvant setting (2 years) comes from
      the evidence of preclinical studies where cell senescence was investigated as an appealing
      mechanism of cell death and was indeed observed in vitro after exposure of breast cancer
      cells and tumors to a combination of endocrine therapy and palbociclib. It is therefore
      hypothesized that the longer patients receive combined treatment with palbociclib and an
      antiestrogen, the more likely they may derive prolonged clinical benefit.

      Based on the results of the CALOR trial and on strong evidence of activity of the combination
      of CDK4/6 inhibitors and endocrine therapy, the hypothesis of the POLAR trial is that the
      CDK4/6 inhibitor palbociclib in combination with endocrine therapy may be active as adjuvant
      therapy in patients with HR-positive/HER2-negative resected isolated locoregional recurrence
      of breast cancer.
    
  