
    
      South Africa is home to the world's largest antiretroviral therapy (ART) program, but
      sustaining high retention along the HIV care continuum has proven challenging in the country
      and throughout the wider region. Population mobility is common in South Africa, but important
      research gaps exist describing this mobility and its impact on engagement in HIV care.
      Postpartum women and their infants in South Africa are known to be at high risk of dropping
      out of HIV care after delivery and are frequently mobile. The investigators recently
      developed a beta version of a smartphone application (app) - CareConekta - that detects a
      user's smartphone location to allow for prospective characterization of mobility. Through
      this three-year study, the investigators propose to test CareConekta to conduct essential
      formative work on mobility and evaluate an intervention - the CareConekta app plus text
      notifications and optional staff phone calls and/or WhatsApp messages - to facilitate
      engagement in HIV care during times of mobility. After first adapting CareConekta to use
      appropriate smartphone technology for the local population, the investigators will
      characterize mobility among South African women during the peripartum period and its impact
      on engagement in HIV care. The investigators also will evaluate the acceptability,
      feasibility, and initial efficacy of using CareConekta as an intervention to improve
      engagement in HIV care. The investigators will work with a South African technology company
      with a strong connection to the South African Department of Health to adapt the app prior to
      enrolling study participants. The study will observe mobility within an observational cohort
      and will then assess the impact of the intervention among participants who travel during the
      study period. This work is critical to adapting an existing app for widespread use, providing
      critical information about mobility during the peripartum period and the impact on engagement
      in HIV care, and piloting an intervention to improve engagement. This study will lay the
      necessary groundwork for a larger efficacy trial of the intervention within different
      geographic settings.
    
  