
    
      Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) mainly manifests as three types, erosive esophagitis
      (EE), non-erosive reflux disease (NERD) and Barrett's esophagus. EE is characterized by
      damaged distal esophageal mucosa which is visible by endoscope, and also referred to as
      "endoscopically positive gastroesophageal reflux disease". NERD is defined as discomfort
      related to reflux without any obvious mucosal damage by endoscope, and is also known as
      "endoscopically negative gastroesophageal reflux disease".

      At present the diagnosis of GERD uses syndrome-based diagnosis, proton pump inhibitor (PPI)
      test, 24-hour esophageal pH monitoring, endoscopy, etc. However, some of the above methods
      lack specificity and some may bring great suffering to patients due to being invasive (e.g.,
      24-hour esophagus pH monitoring). The disadvantage of endoscopy lies in its low detection
      rate, only 2.95% to 4.1% as NERD is the most frequent diagnosis. Therefore, diagnosis based
      on GERD syndromes still remains one of the most common diagnostic methods. In recent years,
      questionnaire surveys about GERD have been carried out at abroad, aiming at finding a simple
      and feasible diagnostic method. As one of the worlds's most recognized and commonly used
      diagnostic scale for the diagnosis of GERD, reflux disease questionnaire (RDQ) is a survey of
      medical history mainly based on symptom score. Studies at both home and abroad have confirmed
      its validity and reliability in the diagnosis of GERD. The reflux symptom index (RSI) is a
      validated questionnaire used to confirm the presence (or absence) of extra-esophageal reflux
      that are atypical symptoms of reflux that control subjects may overlook.

      Peptest (Human Pepsin lateral flow in vitro diagnostic medical device) can be used in clinic
      for fast and convenient pepsin detection in patients' saliva. Pepsin, detected from saliva
      samples, can be regarded as a marker of a reflux event for the diagnosis of gastroesophageal
      reflux disease.

      The primary objective of this study is to determine whether Peptest (Human Pepsin lateral
      flow in vitro diagnostic medical device) produced by RD Biomed Limited is equivalent to other
      GERD diagnostic methods commonly applied in clinical practice by testing a large number of
      clinical samples.

      GERD patients and controls will provide saliva samples and these will be tested for the
      presence of pepsin using Peptest. Peptest results (positive or negative) will be evaluated in
      GERD patients (Erosive esophagitis or NERD) defined using standard clinical diagnostic tools
      and compared to controls (confirmed to not have reflux using two validated questionnaires).
    
  