
    
      Six TFT practitioners from the USA, Great Britain, and Norway will train 36 community leaders
      during a two-day trauma-relief training programme. These newly-trained practitioners will
      then treat 256 volunteers who feel that they are suffering from psychological trauma. The six
      visiting practitioners, together with two additional TFT practitioners from Rwanda, will
      supervise and support the study following the training.

      A Catholic Priest, Father Peter Mubunga Basaliza, on behalf of the Kasese Diocese, will
      organise the recruitment of the local trainers and volunteer participants, including
      publicising by local radio. All faiths will be welcome, but volunteers must be 18 years of
      age or older. Volunteers will be informed of their allocated date and time to attend for
      inclusion in the study. Any volunteer who cannot be accommodated in the study because the
      pre-requisite number has been met, will be offered TFT by the visiting practitioners and
      trained community leaders.

      Signed consent will be obtained prior to commencing the study. Participants will be provided
      with an information sheet and duplicate consent forms in Lhukonzo (the local language), and
      assistance will be provided by Ugandan therapists for those who have difficulty reading.
      Consent forms will also be available in English for those for whom it is the preferred
      language. Each participant will also complete a demographic questionnaire.

      Participants will be free to withdraw at any time, and any who do so will still be offered
      TFT, if desired.

      Sixty-four participants will be seen each day, 32 in the morning, and 32 in the afternoon,
      for four consecutive days. They will be allocated according to a previously computer
      generated random number sequence, to Group A and provided with a blue folder, or Group B and
      provided with a red folder. Their names will be recorded on a sign-in sheet. They will be
      identified by a number, which will be written on their folder and documents. Both groups will
      initially complete the post-trauma checklist (PCL-C) questionnaire (www.pdhealth.mil)
      available in Lhukonzo, referring to symptoms within the previous week. Therapists, who will
      be unaware of the individual's group allocation, will assist if necessary. The PCL-C has been
      translated from English into Lhukonzo and back into English to ensure that the translation is
      accurate.

      The PCL-C consists of 17 questions, each question scoring from 1 - 5. Thus the minimum score
      is 17 and maximum score 85. A score of 17 has no features of PTSD and 85 the highest score
      for PTSD. When used as a screening tool, a score of more than 50 is considered to be
      diagnostic of PTSD.

      Completed questionnaires and consent forms will be kept in their folders and retained by the
      researchers.

      Following completion of their PCL-C forms, Group A participants will be treated using Thought
      Field Therapy by the newly trained therapists for their traumas, supervised by the
      researchers. The therapists will keep a record for each participant of the problem that was
      treated, algorithms used, the time taken, and the Subjective Units of Distress (SUD) scores
      (0-10).

      Group B will be a control (wait-list group) and will receive no treatment following their
      first visit. This model has been successfully utilised in Rwanda.

      One week later, at the same time and day of the week as they first attended, the participants
      in group A and group B will return and repeat their PCL. On this occasion, testing will be
      followed by treatment for Group B.

      After a further week, Group B only will return for repeat testing using PCL.

      In summary, the protocol to be followed will be:

        -  Two-day training of new therapists

        -  Day one of study: 9am - PCL test of 16 Group A and 16 Group B 11am -Treat the 16 Group A

           1pm - Test a new group of 16 A and 16 B 3pm - Treat the new 16 group A

        -  Days 2-4: Same as for day one, but with new participants. Each therapist will treat the
           same number in each group.

        -  Days 8-11 9am -PCL test of 16 Group A and 16 Group B 11am -Treat the 16 Group B

           1pm - Test another 16 of each Group 3pm -Treat the new Group B

        -  Day 18 Test all Group B, 16 every two hours from 9am

      Mean + SD PCL test scores will be calculated for each group during their four days of each
      week, and of Group B on day 18. That is:

      Group A days 1-4 (A pre-treatment) Group B days 1-4 (B pre-treatment) Group A days 8-11 (A
      post-treatment) Group B days 8-11 (B post-no treatment) Group B day 18 (B post-treatment)

      The statistical significance of differences of mean scores will be analysed by analysis of
      variance and paired samples t tests. Significances of differences in group proportions with
      diagnostic scores for PTSD will be assessed by a non-parametric test.

      Statistically significant differences were found in a similar study in Rwanda, with smaller
      numbers, so the study will be adequately powered.

      A follow-up assessment will be done 19 months later.
    
  