
    
      Objective Primary objective

      : To study diagnostic immunization protocol of rabies vaccine for diagnosis the patients with
      primary immunodeficiency disorders. Secondary objective

        -  To study humoral and cellular immune response to rabies vaccine in patients with primary
           immunodeficiency.

        -  To study anti-rabies immunization protocol in patients with primary immunodeficiency
           disorders.

      Population Case group: Twenty primary immunodeficiency disease patients that are diagnosed,
      treated and followed at Allergy and Immunology unit, Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of
      Medicine, Chulalongkorn University.

      Control group: Twenty healthy subjects who have no underlying disease and age-matched with
      case patients. Inclusion and exclusion criteria

      Vaccine :

        -  Verorab® (PVRV; Purified Vero Cell Vaccine) 0.5 ml intramuscular

        -  Standard intramuscular regimen: ESSEN on days 0, 3, 7, 14, 28 and booster at 1 year
           later on days 360 and 363

      Immunological evaluations :

        1. Humoral immune response :

           on 5 ml blood samples will be collected for antibody determination days 0, 14, 28, 90,
           360, 367 and 374. Neutralizing antibodies will be determined blindly using the rapid
           fluorescent focus inhibition test (RFFIT) at Queen Saovabha Memorial Institute. Rabies
           neutralizing antibody will be reported in IU/ml The protective antibody level are
           defined rabies neutralizing antibody ≥ 0.5 IU/ml .

        2. Cellular mediated immune response :

      On 5 ml blood samples will be collected for antibody determination days 14, 28, 90, 360, 367
      and 374. Lymphocyte proliferation response to rabies antigen will be determined by using
      3H-thymidine incorporation assay.

      The responder criteria are defined as stimulation index (SI index) ≥ 2.0 was considered as
      evidence of antigen-induced lymphocyte proliferation.
    
  