
    
      Led by clinical researchers, HiRO is focused on identifying phenotype-genotype correlations.
      HiRO has defined the investigation pathway for patients with possible genetically mediated
      cardiac arrest, and has had major impact on our understanding of familial sudden death.
      However, because many of the Canadian clinics lack a system of care or embedded research, it
      is difficult to translate novel discoveries to improved care. This current protocol provides
      a system wide mechanism to allow the national investigator group to work together more
      efficiently to ensure the inclusion of all Canadians affected by the inherited causes of SCD
      to help ensure standardized quality care for this population in all provinces with embedded
      opportunity for all individuals to participate in research.

      Background:

      Inherited Heart rhythm disorders include arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy
      (ARVC), Brugada Syndrome, Catecholaminergic Polymorphic Ventricular Tachycardia (CPVT) and
      Long QT Syndrome (LQTS). They affect one in 200 Canadians and can result in tragic sudden
      cardiac death (SCD), reduced quality of life and productivity, and high health care
      expenditure. SCD kills 30,000 Canadians/year. Importantly, clinical screening for at-risk
      individuals has tremendous potential for timely monitoring and treatment. Treatment typically
      involves lifestyle modifications, such as avoidance of strenuous exercise, drugs that may
      worsen the phenotype or medical therapy with beta-blockers or quinidine which can provide
      substantial protection from SCD. Patients who have cardiac events while on medical therapy,
      have suffered an unexplained cardiac arrest (UCA), or are deemed sufficiently high risk are
      offered an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD). ICD therapy provides protection
      however, it is commonly associated with life-long device related complications.

      Patients reviewed in partnering HiRO, Inherited Heart Rhythm Clinics will be invited to
      participate in the registry.

      Optional bio bank participation:

      Participants will be invited to provide a blood sample for storage for future
      research.Central bio banking for all national bio banks will be available at the lead centre
      in Vancouver in the James Hogg lab at St. Paul's Hospital in Vancouver BC

      Data Collection:

      Clinical data will be collected from willing/consented registry participants. Their
      healthcare information will be coded in compliance with Tri Council Policy Statement
      criteria: direct identifiers will be removed and replaced with a unique study code that does
      not use personal information such as the participant's birth day (month and year will be
      included), health number, social insurance number or name/initials. The coded data will be
      transferred into the research database.

      The master list of registry participants with their study identifiers will be kept separately
      from the research database. This master list will be stored in an encrypted file within the
      research office of each site investigators under their supervision. Only the site
      investigators and their local research staff will have access to this list. The inherited
      nature of these conditions makes the master list an important and very sensitive document. It
      will be very important that this list is maintained so that participants may be contacted and
      informed of any new findings the research may reveal that may affect themselves and their
      family members.

      All medical information pertaining to the cardiac history of inherited arrhythmia patients
      will be collected. This may include:

        -  Clinical information

        -  All diagnostic test results Genetic screening results

        -  Pedigree

        -  Medications

        -  Treatments

        -  Race Participants will continue to have their data collected for the research database
           throughout the entirety of the study. Participants will be able to decline further
           participation in the registry at any time.

      Follow-up:

      Participants are reassessed as part of clinical care every 3 years in person, collecting the
      same data as at baseline; this is a repeat phenotyping cycle and reflects standard clinical
      practice in Canada in the adult IHR population.

      Research Data system:

      The data base will be maintained by the HiRO research coordinating centre in Vancouver BC.

      Hearts in Rhythm Organization (HiRO) National Registry and Bio bank:

      Improving Detection and Treatment of Inherited Heart Rhythm Disorders to Prevent Sudden Death
      Page 8 of 15 Version 1, May 2, 2019 UBCrebapproval#H19-01358, Aug27,2019 The database will be
      hosted on the Amazon Virtual Private Network. This network is in compliance with National
      Canadian/Provincial PIPEDA privacy guidelines. Data will be entered directly into the e-CRFs
      for electronic submission to a password protected internet-based server located in Montreal
      Quebec Canada.

      Individual participant medical information obtained as a result of this registry is
      considered confidential and disclosure to third parties is prohibited except for the
      following reason: relevant medical information may be given to the participant's personal
      physician or to other appropriate medical personnel responsible for the participant's
      welfare.

      Bio Bank:

      Biological (blood) samples will be coded in compliance with Tri Council Policy Statement
      criteria: direct identifiers will be removed and replaced with a unique study code that does
      not use personal information such as the participant's birth date, health care number, social
      insurance number or name/initials. The coded samples will be linked to the master list kept
      securely in the research office of the individual investigators. Each sub site investigator
      and their local research staff will have access to the master list of their local patients
      only. These master lists will not be shared amongst the investigators.

      Blood Samples drawn:

      1 X 9 ml EDTA

      1 X 10 ml redtop serum tube Samples for bio banking will be managed by the coordinating
      centre in Vancouver British Columbia stored long-term in the James Hogg Research Centre
      (JHRC) Bio Bank at St. Paul's Hospital in Vancouver for future research.

      Oversight

      HiRO Research Steering Committee (HRSC) for the National HiRO research registry and bio bank:

      The HRSC will be responsible for the design, execution, analysis, and reporting of the study,
      and will assign appropriate responsibilities to the other study committees. The HRSC will
      monitor study progress, execution and management. This committee will be responsible for the
      integrity of the study data and samples. They will also be responsible for reviewing and
      approving sub study proposals, for use of the registry data and bio samples.

      The committee members are:

      Dr. Jason Roberts (London Health Sciences) Dr. Andrew Krahn (University of BC/Vancouver) Dr.
      Rafik Tadros (Montreal Heart Institute) Julia Cadrin -Tourginy (Montreal Heart Institute) Dr.
      Ciorsti MacIntyre (Dalhousie/Halifax) Dr. Christian Steinberg (Laval/Quebec) Dr. Martin
      Gardner (Dalhousie/Halifax) Dr. Martin Green (Ottawa Heart Centre)

      National HiRO Patient/Public Partners when appropriate will review and advise on projects to
      provide the patient perspective of the research questions and will propose patient oriented
      research projects.

      Database/bio bank access and Oversight:

      The HRSC will have ultimate responsibility for the database. All Investigators on the HRSC
      listed in this protocol will have equal access to the de-identified data once they have
      signed the HRSC charter (* see attachment #3*). The HRC investigators will be responsible for
      annual reviews of data collection, to ensure completeness and accuracy

      Proposed sub- studies involve an established proposal submission form, discussion, formal
      presentation to the HRSC for approval, and a robust lab manual that defines sample access,
      handling, analysis and reporting.

      Only aggregate coded data would be released for these purposes. These data/specimens may be
      used by a variety of sources. It is anticipated that there may be requests to pool
      de-identified data/specimens with data/specimens from other international registries/banks in
      order to answer investigator initiated questions about patient selection, rare events, and
      long term outcomes.
    
  