
    
      More than 50% of patients with esophageal cancer have locally advanced or metastatic disease
      at presentation. The use of chemotherapy for this patient group is increasing with the
      intention of local and distant tumor control, improving quality of life and prolongation of
      survival. The most frequently used agents are 5-fluorouracil, cisplatin, with or without
      various anthracyclines. Cisplatin plus continuous 5-fluorouracil are the standard of care
      regimens. Taxanes and anthracyclins are eligible agents for possible future studies, however
      with higher incidences of toxicities and life threatening complications. Response rates for
      single agents range from 15%-30%. Combination regimens usually tend to produce higher
      response rates and occasionally patients achieve complete responses (0%-11%). However, with
      the combination regimens, the median survival time remains clearly less than 10 months,
      mostly between 4-8 months [Homs MY et al]. In comparison of different chemotherapy protocols,
      there was no consistent benefit of any specific chemotherapy regimen. So far, cisplatin
      combined with 5-fluorouracil is one of the approved standard regimens in esophageal cancer
      world wide[Medical Research Council Oesophageal Cancer Group]. This so called three-weekly
      MRC regimen has a better toxicity profile than the four weekly CF regimen given in Central
      Europe with the higher Cisplatin dose[Lorenzen S et al], but less overall chemotherapy given
      per 4 months.

      Advances in molecular biology and new molecular technologies can possibly contribute to
      improvement of response to neoadjuvant or palliative therapy in ESCC patients as well. EGFR1
      blockade with platinum-based chemotherapy already significantly improved response rates as
      well as the progression-free and overall survival compared to chemotherapy alone in patients
      with head and neck tumors, which are also squamous cancers[Vermorken JB et al].

      Even more, the Arbeitsgemeinschaft Internistische Onkologie (AIO) has performed a randomized
      phase II study of the EGFR antibody cetuximab plus cisplatin/5-fluorouracil versus
      cisplatin/5-fluorouracil alone in first-line metastatic ESCC[Lorenzen S et al]. For a maximum
      of six 28-day cycles, patients received cisplatin 100 mg/m(2), day 1, plus 5-FU 1000 mg/m(2)
      days 1-5 (CF), either alone or in combination with cetuximab (CET-CF). The primary endpoint
      was tumor response. From 62 eligible patients included, 32 receiving CET-CF and 30 CF.
      Cetuximab weekly did not exacerbate grade 3/4 toxicity, except for rash (6% vs 0%) and
      diarrhea (16% vs 0%). The overall response rate according to RECIST criteria were 19% and 13%
      and the disease control rates, were 75% and 57% for the CET-CF and CF arms, respectively.
      With a median follow-up of 21.5 months, the median progression-free survival was 5.9 and 3.6
      months and median overall survival 9.5 and 5.5 months for CET-CF and CF, respectively. No
      KRAS codon 12/13 tumor mutations were identified in the 37 evaluated samples.

      Thus, with respect to the AIO data and in concordance with the head and neck data by
      Vermorken, EGFR antibody targeted therapy may not only be safely combined with CF, but may
      also very likely increase the efficacy of standard CF, particularly with regard to a chosen
      primary endpoint of overall survival. Therefore, the aim of this study is to investigate if
      the overall survival of patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus can be
      prolonged if panitumumab is added to the standard CF chemotherapy.
    
  