
    
      This is a prospective single center observational study that will be conducted in adult
      intensive care unit of Ain Shams University After being approved by local institutional ethic
      committee (Ain Shams University, Egypt). Informed consent was obtained from each
      participant's next of kin. The investigator will study mechanically ventilated participants.
      the attending physician's decision is to give IV fluids to participants due to the presence
      of at least one clinical sign of inadequate tissue perfusion due to septic shock : (a)
      systolic arterial pressure <90 mmHg, mean arterial pressure <65 mmHg, or the need for
      vasopressor infusion; (b) skin mottling; (c) lactate level >2 mmo/L; or (d) urinary output
      <0.5 mL/kg/h for ≥2 h. Jugular central venous and arterial catheters will be in place by the
      attending physician. Investigator will confirm the position of the tip of the central venous
      catheter in the superior vena cava or upper part of the right atrium on chest radiograph.
      Participants will be monitored by Flo Trac device as a part of routine management in local
      ICU.

      A first set of measurements will be performed, including hemodynamic and tissue oxygenation
      variables (heart rate, mean arterial pressure, cardiac index (CI), oxygen delivery (DO2),
      oxygen consumption (VO2), Central venous oxygen saturation (ScvO2), arterial lactic acid
      level, central venous to arterial carbon dioxide tension difference (∆PCO2), central venous
      to arterial CO2 content difference (∆ContCO2), arterial-to-central venous oxygen content
      difference (∆ContO2), ∆ContCO2/∆ContO2 ratio and ∆PCO2/∆ContO2 ratio. 500 ml of isotonic
      saline 0.9% will be infused to the participants via a specific venous line over 15 minutes.
      Immediately after volume expansion, a second set of the previous measurements will be
      recorded. Ventilation parameters, Norepinephrine dose and sedation drugs will be kept
      constant during the fluid challenge.

      After fluid challenge, Participants with an increase in cardiac index ≥15% will be defined as
      fluid responders. Fluid responders will be divided into 2 groups based on increase in oxygen
      consumption (VO2) ( < or ≥15%).
    
  