
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the effect of trametinib on enhancing radioiodine (RAI) activity by
      determining the proportion of patients alive at 6 months without disease progression by
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST version [v]1.1) criteria
      following treatment with RAI in co-administration with trametinib. (Cohort A) II. To evaluate
      the effect of trametinib on enhancing RAI activity by determining the objective response rate
      (ORR) at 6 months following treatment with radioiodine (RAI) in co-administration with
      trametinib. (Cohort A) III. To determine the proportion of patients following trametinib
      therapy with increased tumoral iodine incorporation as quantified by iodine iodine-124
      (I-124) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) lesional dosimetry.
      (Cohort B)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the proportion of patients following trametinib therapy with increased
      tumoral iodine incorporation as quantified with I-124 PET/CT lesional dosimetry. (Cohort A)
      II. To evaluate the safety/tolerability of trametinib with or without RAI. (Cohort A) III. To
      evaluate changes in thyroglobulin levels in patients treated with RAI. (Cohort A) IV. To
      explore potential correlations between genomic alterations present in the tumor and/or
      tumoral pharmacodynamic changes induced by trametinib to clinical outcomes. (Exploratory)
      (Cohort A) V. To evaluate the effect of trametinib on enhancing RAI activity by determining
      the ORR at 6 months following treatment with RAI in co-administration with trametinib.
      (Cohort B) VI. To evaluate the effect of trametinib on enhancing RAI activity by determining
      the proportion of patients alive at 6 months without disease progression by RECIST v 1.1
      criteria following treatment with RAI in co-administration with trametinib. (Cohort B) VII.
      To evaluate the safety/tolerability of trametinib with or without RAI. (Cohort B) VIII. To
      evaluate changes in thyroglobulin levels in patients treated with RAI. (Cohort B) IX. To
      explore potential correlations between genomic alterations present in the tumor and/or
      tumoral pharmacodynamic changes induced by trametinib to clinical outcomes. (Exploratory)
      (Cohort B) X. Preliminary evaluation of best objective response (BOR) rate for patients
      treated with trametinib alone. (Exploratory) (Cohort C) XI. Preliminary evaluation of the
      proportion of patients following treatment with trametinib alive at 6 months without disease
      progression by RECIST v 1.1 criteria. (exploratory) (Cohort C) XII. To evaluate the
      safety/tolerability of trametinib. (Cohort C) XIII. To evaluate changes in thyroglobulin
      levels in patients treated with trametinib. (Cohort C) XIV. To explore potential correlations
      between genomic alterations present in the tumor and/or tumoral pharmacodynamic changes
      induced by trametinib to clinical outcomes. (Exploratory) (Cohort C) XV. To explore the
      impact of continued trametinib upon RAI avidity and efficacy. (Exploratory) (Cohort C)

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo iodine I-124 PET/CT on day 5 of week 1. Beginning day 6, patients receive
      trametinib orally (PO) daily for 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo second iodine I-124 PET/CT on week 5. If I-124 PET/CT
      shows enough iodine absorption, patients may receive iodine I-131 PO and continue receiving
      trametinib for another 2 days. If I-124 shows that the thyroid is not absorbing iodine,
      patients may continue trametinib at the doctor's discretion and do not receive iodine I-131.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.
    
  