
    
      Bedaquiline (BDQ) and delamanid (DLM) are two newly approved anti-TB drugs and are both well
      tolerated. However, the combined effect of these two drugs has not been studied. Combining
      these two drugs, together with other anti-TB drugs, may improve outcomes for people with
      MDR-TB or RR-TB. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and
      pharmacokinetics of BDQ and DLM, alone and in combination, among participants (with or
      without HIV co-infection) taking multidrug treatment for MDR-TB or RR-TB, and specifically to
      evaluate the effect of these drugs on the heart.

      Participants were randomly assigned to one of three arms: participants in Arm 1 received BDQ,
      participants in Arm 2 received DLM, and participants in Arm 3 received BDQ and DLM. All
      participants received their assigned study drugs for 24 weeks together with multidrug
      background treatment (MBT) for MDR-TB or RR-TB (not provided by the study). HIV-infected
      participants also received dolutegravir, to be used in combination with two nucleoside
      reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) until study completion. NRTIs were not provided by
      the study. At study entry participants were initially required to be hospitalized for 2
      months, however after an interim analysis, the period of hospitalization was shortened to 2
      weeks.

      Study visits occurred at entry, each week for 8 weeks after study entry, every other week
      until week 24, and at weeks 28, 36, 48, 60, 72, 84, 96 and 128. Visits included physical
      examinations, blood collection, urine collection, sputum sample collection, hair sample
      collection, chest x-rays, pregnancy testing, electrocardiograms (ECGs), and adherence
      questionnaires.

      Participants were also asked to take part in an optional cerebrospinal fluid sampling study
      that entailed a lumbar puncture, to be done at weeks 8 or 24.
    
  