
    
      End-stage renal disease requiring dialysis affects approximately 400,000 patients in the
      United States with 100,000 new patients starting dialysis annually. The vast majority of
      those patients utilize hemodialysis (HD), and of that group, approximately 80% start with a
      tunneled dialysis catheter (TDC). Current guidelines discourage TDC, due to the risk of
      serious complications like bloodstream infections, central venous stenosis, and an associated
      increased mortality risk. The preferred alternative is an arteriovenous (AV) access, either
      native arteriovenous fistulas (AVF) or prosthetic arteriovenous grafts (AVG). AVF are
      considered the ideal long-term vascular access due to longer patency, lower costs, and an
      association with longer survival as compared to AVG when they successfully mature. However,
      AVF frequently require many months to mature after being constructed and have high primary
      failure rates (i.e., inability to be used without revision); AVG typically perform better
      short term, enabling early TDC removal and reduction in catheter related harms, but higher
      rates of failure and complications long term.

      In older populations, multiple studies have suggested that the elderly population may not
      benefit from AVF as opposed to AVG, due to high AVF primary failure rates and overall
      abbreviated life expectancy that minimizes any possible long-term benefit with AVF.

      METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This open-label pilot randomized controlled trial will test the
      feasibility and safety of randomizing patients over 65 years old who start hemodialysis with
      a TDC (the most common initial type of HD access), and are eligible to receive either AVF or
      AVG, to an AVF strategy (comparator) or to an AVG strategy (intervention). We will enroll 50
      patients. Participants will provide informed consent, and they will be assigned to the AVF or
      AVG arms. The primary outcome is feasibility, which we will assess by measuring: (1) the
      annual rate of enrollment in the study, accounting for the number of surgeons who
      participate; and (2) the proportion of randomized participants who receive the assigned AV
      access. Secondary outcomes will include perioperative morbidity and mortality, catheter
      removal rates, additional procedures performed, and the reasons a patient may not receive the
      assigned AV access after randomization.
    
  