
    
      In the last few years, non-invasive brain stimulation techniques such as transcranial
      magnetic stimulation (TMS), transcranial current stimulation, and peripheral multi-modal
      stimulation have shown widespread clinical applications. Transcranial magnetic stimulation
      (TMS) is a noninvasive method of focally stimulating the brain that uses electromagnetic
      induction and does not require surgery. There is optimism that TMS and other forms of NIBS
      will revolutionize how we treat neurological and psychiatric disorders, evidenced by over
      1000 clinical trials registered using TMS. Much of this optimism stems from the successful
      use of TMS as a treatment for depression. Despite the large number of clinical trials using
      NIBS the number of therapeutic indications has been stagnant, limited to major depression and
      more recently obsessive-compulsive disorder. There are fundamental questions about the
      underlying mechanisms of action for NIBS that will be critical to understand in order to
      advance this treatment modality. Here, we propose a unique collaborative project between
      neurology and neurosurgery that will allow an unprecedented window into understanding how
      NIBS impacts the human brain. Specifically, we will perform various forms of targeted NIBS in
      neurosurgical patients with intracranial electroencephalography (iEEG) monitoring to record
      real time effects of NIBS on local and remote brain areas with an unparalleled combination of
      spatial and temporal resolution relative to other human studies. TMS may present the most
      risk for patients with intracranial electrodes and we have already demonstrated the safety of
      this approach using a gel-based phantom brain and have results from seven patients
      demonstrating safety and preliminary results. For the current proposal we aim to: 1)
      characterize the response of NIBS on the human brain as recorded from iEEG between active and
      sham conditions, and 2) relate remote electrophysiological responses from NIBS to measures of
      brain connectivity between the stimulation & recording sites assessed with resting state
      functional connectivity MRI (rs-fcMRI). This will allow us to evaluate the relationship
      between NIBS-evoked iEEG responses and the strength of functional connectivity to the
      stimulation site in a regression model. For the TMS portion of the study we hypothesize that
      1) TMS will have focal effects detected from surface electrodes underlying the stimulation
      site as well as network-level engagement detected at remote sites, 2) Repetitive TMS will
      induce frequency-specific effects that differ between 0.5 and 10 Hz stimulation protocols,
      and 3) the magnitude of repetitive TMS-evoked iEEG responses across electrodes will relate to
      the strength of rs-fcMRI between the stimulation and recording sites. By investigating the
      electrophysiological responses of TMS with high spatiotemporal precision in humans, this
      study will provide new mechanistic insights into the effects of TMS on target engagement and
      relate these findings to imaging methods already in widespread use. Moreover, the TMS will be
      applied in a clinically meaningful way by targeting the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex
      in a protocol used to treat depression. Generating results for these aims will be key to
      advancing our understanding of how TMS and other forms of NIBS engage brain networks, which
      can be leveraged to rationally develop personalized, imaging-guided therapeutic NIBS for
      depression and other disorders.
    
  