
    
      Late onset sepsis (LOS) is defined as infection occurring after 72 hours of life in neonates
      admitted to the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU). LOS can lead to severe complications
      including death, major neurologic sequelae, and contribute to increased length of stay and
      costs of care. These hospital acquired infections are largely preventable. Hand washing prior
      to any patient care is considered the cornerstone of prevention and is the standard of care
      in the NICU. Adherence to hand washing however is difficult to achieve, with estimates of
      compliance among health care workers ranging from 30% to 60%. Observational studies in
      at-risk critically ill children suggest a reduction in hospital acquired infections and
      central line associated bloodstream infections with glove based care in addition to hand
      hygiene. One small single-centre randomized trial of glove based care versus hand hygiene
      alone to assess LOS rates in extremely premature infants in the NICU showed a reduction in
      gram positive infections and central line infections with glove-based care. We propose to
      test the effect of glove based care in an adequately powered, rigorously designed and
      conducted, cluster randomized controlled trial (RCT) after completing a feasibility pilot
      study.

      This pilot study will include all babies in the NICU being randomized to 6 months of glove
      based care or standard of care, and then the following 6 months will be the opposite arm. All
      health care provider contact with the infant will require gloves in the intervention arm, but
      families of infants admitted to the NICU will not be required to wear gloves. The main
      outcome measured will be the number of episodes of infections in the blood, urinary tract,
      and cerebrospinal fluid comparing the glove intervention arm against the control arm.
      Invasive infections are an important challenge for infants admitted to the NICU and reducing
      this risk can improve the quality and quantity of neonatal survivors from the NICU.
    
  