
    
      Purpose: To determine if tonsillectomy eliminates symptoms of obstructive sleep apnea in
      patients with obstructive sleep apnea and marked tonsillar hypertrophy with normal soft
      palate and uvula length.

      Specific Aims: 1. To determine if tonsillectomy eliminates obstructive sleep apnea as
      determined by polysomnography. 2. To determine if tonsillectomy eliminates excessive daytime
      sleepiness and other obstructive sleep apnea symptoms.

      Rationale: Current surgical procedures for obstructive sleep apnea include tonsillectomy with
      soft palate surgery (including uvulopalatopharyngoplasty). Tonsillectomy alone may provide
      sufficient benefit in adults with marked tonsillar hypertrophy and normal soft palate and
      uvula length, avoiding the need for additional soft palate surgery.

      Intervention: Tonsillectomy will be performed as standard of care, in patients who would be
      undergoing said surgery regardless of study. Study intervention includes multiple home sleep
      studies to determine effect of tonsillectomy in impacting symptoms of sleep apnea.

      Study Population: Inclusion criteria: Subjects must be at least 18 years old, have documented
      obstructive sleep apnea; be willing to undergo 3 home sleep studies; and have markedly
      hypertrophic (3+ or 4+) tonsils. Exclusion criteria: Subjects must not have any craniofacial
      abnormality; normal soft palate length (<4 cm) and uvula length ((<2 cm); must have no
      history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, untreated psychological disorder, restless
      leg syndrome, alcohol or drug abuse; must have a body mass index <35; must not plan to use
      continuous positive airway pressure during the study period, and lack significant nasal
      obstruction. The subjects will serve as their own control.

      Methods and Follow Up: This two-center prospective study will include evaluation of
      demographics, clinical symptoms, extent of tonsillar hypertrophy, sleep habits, and home
      sleep studies. All subjects will undergo a 4-8 week period of watchful waiting (standard
      minimum delay for scheduling surgery), followed by tonsillectomy alone, with values at
      baseline compared to a period of watchful waiting and post-tonsillectomy.

      Outcomes: Primary outcome is apnea-hypopnea index (from home sleep study). Exploratory
      outcomes include other sleep study results and subjective assessments (sleep-related quality
      of life with the Functional Outcome of Sleep Questionnaire and daytime sleepiness with the
      Epworth Sleepiness Scale).

      Statistics and Plans for Analysis: The minimum sample size is 44 subjects, with an enrollment
      target of 60 subjects that will accommodate a 25% dropout rate. Standard statistical tests
      (e.g., paired t-tests for continuous measures) will evaluate potential differences between
      outcome measures at baseline vs. post-watchful waiting and baseline vs. post-tonsillectomy.
      Similarly, standard and appropriate statistical tests (e.g, t-tests for continuous measures)
      will compare changes with watchful waiting vs. tonsillectomy (e.g., baseline vs.
      post-watchful against baseline vs. post-tonsillectomy).
    
  