
    
      The goal of this project is to compare a diet and therapeutic lifestyle only treatment usual
      care in the setting of newly diagnosed individuals with RRMS or CIS, which is the precursor
      to the development of MS. The current standard of care typically includes disease-modifying
      drug treatment at the initial diagnosis of RRMS or CIS. Many patients are interested in
      adopting a therapeutic lifestyle as their initial approach to either RRMS or CIS. Some
      patients decline drug therapy due to high costs and or concerns about potential medication
      adverse events. There are no known scientific studies that have prospectively assessed
      outcomes for newly-diagnosed patients who decline disease-modifying drug treatment and
      instead utilized only a therapeutic diet and lifestyle to manage their MS-related symptoms.
      This study will prospectively investigate the effect of a therapeutic diet and lifestyle on
      quality of life, motor, cognitive and visual function, and brain structure in patients who
      have been trained and supported by the study team to utilize therapeutic diet and lifestyle
      to optimize neuronal health and those who are receiving usual care.

      Our initial pilot study in the setting of progressive MS included diet and targeted
      supplements, stress reduction, exercise, and electrical stimulation of muscles and
      demonstrated significant reduction in fatigue, improvement in quality of life and improved
      mood and cognition. Subsequent pilot studies which utilized a diet-only intervention in the
      setting of RRMS demonstrated improved quality of life and improved walking and hand function.

      Intervention arm:

      This study will again utilize a multimodal approach, a low-lectin modified Paleolithic diet,
      stress reduction (breathing meditation exercise) and an exercise (daily walking and three
      times a week body weight strengthening) program in the absence of drug disease modifying
      treatment and targeted supplements in the intervention arm. The control arm will receive
      usual care.

      Supplements (intervention arm only) Participants will be asked to continue taking any dietary
      supplements they report at beginning of study with the exception of supplements that are
      similar to those they will be taking as part of the study which they will be asked to
      discontinue and replace with study-approved brands (2 grams of fish oil, 1000 mcg methylB12 ,
      400 mcg methyl folate, pyridoxine 1.5 mg and N acetylcysteine 500 mg per day, and 2000 IU
      vitamin D3 .

      The study will use videos from a three day seminar that teaches the public how to utilize a
      therapeutic diet and lifestyle to improve cellular physiology which may favorably impact
      disease progression to educate study participants. A registered dietitian with training in
      motivational interviewing and health coaching will call participants to provide coaching and
      support to participants as they adopt the study diet, breathing meditation and exercise
      program and begin the study supplements. The study coordinator and or registered dietitian
      will moderate monthly support group video conference meetings for participants in the
      intervention arm. The control arm will receive a monthly text/ email providing a summary to a
      recently published clinical trial related to multiple sclerosis / clinically isolated
      syndrome patients that is not related to diet quality or use of a therapeutic diet or
      lifestyle.

      AIMS Aim 1: To assess the magnitude of change in perceived quality of life over 12 months in
      newly-diagnosed, disease modifying drug treatment naïve RRMS or CIS patients within and
      between two groups. Group one will receive standard of care. Group two will receive a
      therapeutic diet and lifestyle intervention that is taught and supported virtually.
    
  