
    
      The sample was randomly recruited from the Lauro Wanderley University Hospital and older
      people living together centers located in João Pessoa/PB (Brazil). All subjects were
      submitted to anthropometric assessments (body mass index, neck circumference, hip
      circumference and waist circumference), polysomnography, echocardiography, cardiopulmonary
      exercise test (CPET). Moreover, they were submitted to a sleep quality questionnaire
      (Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index).

      Cardiopulmonary Exercise Test Protocol All subjects performed an incremental cardiopulmonary
      exercise test (CPET) of maximum exercise tolerance. All procedures were performed in
      agreement with the guidelines of the American Thoracic Society/American College of Chest
      Physicians for cycle ergometer tests. The CPET was performed on an Inbrasport CG-04 cycle
      ergometer (Inbrasport, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil) with electromagnetic braking.
      Subjects performed a 5-min warm-up with no resistance (0 W), then the activity rate was
      increased using a ramp protocol (5-10 W.min-1) until maximum exercise tolerance. Verbal
      encouragements were given during the CPET to ensure maximal effort.

      Pulmonary gas exchange variables (VO2, VCO2, minute ventilation [VE], oxygen pulse (O2Pu),
      respiratory quotient (R), ventilatory efficiency index (VE/VCO2slope), cardiovascular
      function index (ΔHR/ΔVO2), deviation from oxygen consumption efficiency (OUES), metabolic
      efficiency index (VO2/ΔWR), blood pressure (BP), heart rate (HR) recovery at first (HRR1) and
      second (HRR2) minutes were measured breath-by-breath with an on-line gas expiration analysis
      system (VO2000, MedGraphics, St. Paul, Minnesota, USA). Peak values were established by the
      highest values achieved during effort.

      Polysomnography Assessment All hypertensive subjects were submitted to a polysomnography exam
      to diagnose OSA. OSA diagnosis was confirmed by the apnea/hypopnea index (AHI) and classified
      as follows: AHI < 5 events/h, absence of OSA; 5 ≤ AHI ≤ 15 events/h, low OSA; 15 ≤ AHI ≤ 30
      events/h, moderate OSA; AHI > 30 events/h, severe OSA.

      The assessment was carried out during an entire night of sleep in the participant's residence
      without the use of sedatives. The variables were monitored by an Embletta portable
      respiratory monitor (Embla, Embletta® Gold, EUA), previously validated and in agreement with
      manufacturer's instructions. The Embletta monitor is capable to continuously monitor pulse
      oximetry, to detect respiratory efforts, to measure the airflow, and to record snoring
      episodes. Additionally, HR was continually measured by the analysis of pulse waves by
      oximetry. Finally, brain and muscle activities were monitored by electrodes, and oxygen
      desaturation (O2D) was defined as the amount of reduction in O2S at 4%/h.

      Echocardiography All subjects performed the two-dimensional color Doppler echocardiogram
      (iE33® - Philips Electronics, Netherlands) before the CPET. Final systolic and diastolic
      diameters of the left ventricle and the diastolic thickness of the posterior wall of the left
      ventricle were measured from the short-axis view, and ejection fraction was obtained from
      these measures. This exam was conducted by an experienced cardiologist, who was blinded to
      group allocation.

      Sleep Quality The subjective sleep quality was assessed by the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality
      Index, which consists of 19 questions grouped into 7 different components (subjective sleep
      quality, sleep latency, sleep duration, sleep efficiency, sleep disorders, use of
      medications, and diurnal dysfunction). The classifications depended upon the scores reached
      in each question (from 0 to 3); ranging from 0 - 4: good subjective sleep quality; 5 - 10:
      bad subjective sleep quality; and 11 or higher: indicates the presence of at least one sleep
      disorder.
    
  