
    
      Before the research starts (screening): The participant will be asked to undergo some
      screening tests or procedures to find out if they can be in the research study. Many of these
      tests and procedures are likely to be part of regular cancer care and may be done even if it
      turns out that the participant does not take part in the research study. If the participant
      has had some of these tests or procedures recently, they may or may not have to be repeated.

        -  A medical history, which includes questions about the participant's health, current
           medications, and any allergies.

        -  Physical exam, including height and weight

        -  An eye exam, by an eye specialist

        -  Performance status, the investigator will ask the participant questions about how they
           are able to carry on with your usual activities.

        -  Vital signs, including blood pressure, pulse, body temperature and respiratory rate

        -  An assessment of the participant's tumor by CT (Computerized Tomography) scan or MRI
           (Magnetic Resonance Imaging), of their chest, stomach area, and pelvis.

        -  Blood tests (approximately 2-3 tablespoons) including hematology, chemistry, liver
           function, kidney function, blood sugar levels, blood clotting levels

        -  Electrocardiogram (EKG), a test to check the participant's heart's rhythm

        -  Echocardiogram (ECHO), a test to check the participant's heart's structure and function.

        -  Serum pregnancy test if the participant are capable of becoming pregnant

      If the results of the above tests show that the participant is eligible to participate in the
      research study, the participant will begin the study treatment. If the participant does not
      meet the eligibility criteria, the participant will not be able to participate in this
      research study.

      If these tests show that the participant is eligible to participate in the research study,
      the participant will begin the study treatment. If the participant does not meet the
      eligibility criteria, the participant will not be able to participate in this research study.

      Additional research procedures to be performed at the time of screening:

      - Archival tumor testing: During this study, additional tests will be performed on a sample
      of the participant's original tumor that has been stored in your institution's tissue banks.
      These tests will be performed on tumor tissue samples from previous biopsies or surgeries for
      the participant's cancer. The research done on these samples will involve looking at DNA and
      proteins in the participant's cancer to see if researchers can learn more about the
      participant's type of cancer and understand how trametinib and GSK2141795 might work on their
      tumor. Testing of this sample will not require the participant to undergo any additional
      procedures.

      TISSUE COLLECTIONS/OWNERSHIP: Participation in this protocol involves providing specimen(s)
      of the participant's tissue. Please know that if the investigator leaves the institution, the
      research and the tissue might remain at the DF/HCC or might be transferred to another
      institution.

        -  Additional Blood tests: Approximately 2 tablespoons of blood will be collected for
           research testing. This testing will involve looking at DNA and proteins in the
           participant's blood to compare them with those seen in their cancer. This will be drawn
           before the participant begin taking the study drug. These research sample collections
           are a required part of this research study. If the participant does not wish to undergo
           these procedures, the participant may not participate in this research study.

        -  Optional pre and post tumor biopsies: Before the participant begin receiving the study
           drug, your doctor will arrange for a procedure where your tumor will be biopsied. Your
           entire tumor or part of your tumor might be removed (excisional biopsy) or a small
           sample of the tumor might be removed using a needle (needle biopsy, fine needle
           aspirate) with guidance under radiographic studies. This will also occur before the
           participant begins treatment and between 2-4 weeks after treatment has started.

      After the screening procedures confirm that the participant is eligible to participate in the
      research study:

      Study Drugs:

      If the participant decides to take part in this research study, the participant will be given
      a study drug diary for each treatment cycle. The participant will be asked to complete a drug
      diary to record when they took each dose or to give a reason if the participant did not take
      the study drugs. At the end of each cycle, the participant should return the pill bottles and
      all of the remaining pills prior to starting the next cycle. The participant will receive a
      new set of pills and new diary if the participant is to continue the next cycle.

      Clinical Exams: During all cycles the participant will have a physical exam, and will be
      asked questions about their general health and specific questions about any problems that
      they might having and any medications the participant may be taking.

      The participant can expect the following while they are a participant on this study.

      At the beginning of each cycle (one cycle equals 28 days):

        -  Recording of any health problems, including side effects of the study drugs

        -  List of medications taken since the last visit

        -  Physical examination (including measurement of vital signs, such as blood pressure,
           breathing rate, heart rate, temperature and weight)

        -  Evaluation of the participant's performance status (the ability to carry on daily
           activities)

        -  Blood samples (approximately 2-3 tablespoons of blood will be taken) to evaluate the
           participant's blood counts, electrolytes, liver function, kidney function and blood
           sugar levels.

        -  EKG, a test to check the participant's heart's rhythm. This will be performed at the
           start on each cycle.

      Once a week during the first cycle:

        -  The participant will be called by a member of the study team to record any health
           problems, including side effects from the study drugs and any changes in medications.

        -  Blood samples (approximately 1 teaspoon of blood will be taken) to evaluate their blood
           sugar levels. This can be done at a lab close to home. If the participant's doctor
           thinks that their blood sugars need further monitoring, the participant may have
           continued blood samples drawn to check their blood sugar weekly or daily past the first
           cycle.

      Every 2 cycles:

        -  Blood samples (approximately 1 teaspoon of blood will be taken) to evaluate the
           participant's HgbA1C, a test that evaluates their blood sugar levels over a period of
           time. This can be done at a lab close to home.

        -  CT scan or MRI of your chest, stomach area, and pelvis to see if the participant's
           cancer is increasing, decreasing, or staying the same size. If the cancer is decreasing,
           the participant's doctor may schedule the participant for another CT scan in about one
           month to check it again.

        -  ECHO, a test to check the participant's heart's structure and function

      At the end of the study:

        -  Recording of any health problems, including any side effects from the study drugs.

        -  List of medications taken since the last visit

        -  Physical examination (including measurement of the participant's vital signs, such as
           blood pressure, breathing rate, heart rate, temperature, and weight.)

        -  Evaluation of the participant's performance status (their ability to carry on daily
           activities).

        -  Blood samples (approximately 2-3 tablespoons of blood will be taken) to evaluate the
           participant's blood counts, electrolytes, liver function, kidney function, blood sugar
           level, and HgbA1C.

      After the final dose of the study drug:

      The investigator would like to keep track of the participant's medical condition for up to 3
      years after the participant completes the study. The investigator would like to do this by
      calling the participant on the telephone or seeing the participant in clinic for evaluation
      of their status, disease and current therapy. Keeping in touch with the participant and
      checking their condition routinely helps us look at the long-term effects of the research
      study.
    
  