
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the recurrence-free and overall survival in patients with transitional cell
           carcinoma of the bladder with p53 gene alterations treated with methotrexate,
           vinblastine, doxorubicin, and cisplatin vs observation alone.

        -  Compare the recurrence-free and overall survival in patients with or without p53 gene
           alterations treated with observation alone.

        -  Examine the expression of p53 and other genes, particularly RB, p21, and p16, involved
           in cell cycle regulation that may be involved in the response to chemotherapy in these
           patients.

        -  Correlate p53 mutational gene status with p53 protein expression by
           immunohistochemistry, outcome (recurrence-free and overall survival), response to
           chemotherapy, and expression of key molecules in the p53-mediated apoptotic pathway in
           patients treated with this regimen vs observation alone.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment
      groups based on the status of the p53 gene in the bladder tumor.

        -  Group A (p53 gene alteration, defined by greater than 10% nuclear reactivity): Patients
           are stratified according to age (under 65 vs 65 and over), stage (P1 vs P2a vs P2b),
           grade (1 or 2 vs 3 or 4), and p21 status. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
           arms within 10 weeks after radical cystectomy and bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy and
           within 2 weeks after registration.

             -  Arm I: Within 2 weeks after randomization, patients receive methotrexate IV on days
                1, 15, and 22; vinblastine IV on days 2, 15, and 22; and doxorubicin IV and
                cisplatin IV on day 2. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 3 courses in the absence
                of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Arm II: Patients undergo observation for recurrence but do not receive adjuvant
                chemotherapy after surgery.

      Patients who are eligible for randomization but decline to be randomized undergo observation
      for recurrence.

        -  Group B (p53 gene normal, defined by less than 10% nuclear reactivity): Patients undergo
           observation for recurrence but do not receive adjuvant chemotherapy after surgery.

      Patients are followed every 6 months for 5 years and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 800 patients will be accrued for this study within 4.75 years.
    
  