
    
      An innovative MSc. course addressing the issue of body image among nutrition students while
      delivering the course "The group- theory and practice". A non-randomized controlled trial was
      conducted between 2014 and 2016 with 135 dietetics' students in Tel Hai Academic College,
      Israel. All stages of the project were compliant with the Declaration of Helsinki. Informed
      written consent was obtained from all participants in the study. Changes in body image and
      eating disorders features were assessed between course conclusion and baseline among
      participants within controlled efficacy study.

      The primary task of the described course is four folded:

        1. Explore the theory and practice of key dimensions of groups and group facilitation.

        2. Active participation in body image group

        3. Develop deep understanding of the dynamics and processes through participants' own
           experience and behavior as it occurs in real time.

        4. Develop ideas about how and what have been learned, that can be applied to their role as
           nutritionists and group facilitators.

      The described course provides an alternative to the traditional psycho-education approach
      using an experiential and analogize approach during the course sessions. The three parts
      session starts with 45 minutes of frontal lecture focused on group theories. In the next 45
      minutes, half of the students participate in a body image group while the other half serve as
      outside observers using structured forms. All participants filled the day before structured
      exercise, which expose them to the main issues that will be discussed and practiced in the
      group session. In the last 45 minutes, the observers report about their observation and the
      whole class discuss the group dynamics observed. The course includes 42 hours, 3 hours in
      each of the 14 sessions.

      This model of learning emphasize deep learning of the "participant role" as well as the
      "facilitator role".
    
  