
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the safety of adoptive NK cell therapy using membrane-bound interleukin-21
      (mbIL21)-expanded, off-the-shelf, third-party donor-derived NK cells in patients with
      relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Estimate the complete response (CR, CR with incomplete hematologic recovery [CRi] &
      morphologic leukemia-free state [MLFS]).

      II. Estimate the median relapse free survival. III. Estimate the median time to neutrophil
      and platelet count recovery. IV. Estimate the median duration of remission. V. Estimate the
      incidence of infectious complications. VI. Estimate percentage of patients receiving this
      regimen who are rendered transplant-eligible.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the persistence of ex-vivo expanded, off-the-shelf, third-party NK cells.

      II. Characterize in vivo expansion of third-party NK cells and if it differs based on the
      conditioning regimen as defined by NK chimerism assay.

      III. Determine the immunophenotype and function of expanded cells. IV. Chimerism analysis in
      patients who have had post-transplant relapses.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of membrane-bound interleukin-21-expanded
      haploidentical natural killer cells.

      INDUCTION: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      COHORT I: Patients who are < 60 years old, are able to tolerate intensive chemotherapy, and
      not insensitive to cytarabine receive fludarabine intravenously (IV) and cytarabine IV on
      days -6 to -2 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      COHORT II: Patients who are >= 60 years old, unable/unwilling to tolerate intensive
      chemotherapy, or disease insensitive to cytarabine (tp53, TET2 mutations) receive fludarabine
      IV on days -5 to -2 and decitabine IV on days -6 to -2 in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      All patients receive membrane-bound interleukin-21-expanded haploidentical natural killer
      cells via infusion on days 0, 2, 4, 7, 9, and 11.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up to day 56.
    
  