
    
      Major cardiac complications are responsible for at least a third of perioperative deaths and
      are associated with significant morbidity, prolonged hospitalization and increased costs.
      This number is expected to rise as more surgeries are undertaken in older and frailer
      patients. The term myocardial injury after noncardiac surgery (MINS) is used to describe all
      myocardial injury due to ischemia occurring in the first 30 days after surgery. MINS
      includes:

        1. myocardial infarction (cardiac troponin I ≥ 0.04 ug/L) with at least one of: symptoms of
           ischemia, new ST segment / T wave changes or new left bundle branch block, pathological
           Q waves, new loss of viable myocardium or regional wall motion abnormality on
           echocardiogram, intracoronary thrombus identified on angiogram.

        2. myocardial injury without MI (elevated troponin without the additional criteria needed
           to diagnose MI).

      The Canadian Cardiovascular Society (CCS) has developed a set of guidelines to help stratify
      which patients are at higher risk for cardiac mortality. In the latest revision of these
      guidelines, preoperative B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) has been identified as a powerful
      independent predictor of perioperative cardiovascular complications. BNP is a protein
      released from ventricular cardiomyocytes. It is released in limited amounts during
      physiological conditions but this is increased significantly in ventricular failure,
      inflammation, fibrosis, ischemia and hypoxia. Rodseth et al. conducted a systematic review of
      the prognostic value of preoperative BNP and postoperative BNP in noncardiac surgery and
      showed that elevated preoperative BNP (i.e. ≥ 92 ng/l) carries a significant risk of 30-day
      mortality or nonfatal MI (21.8%). This is a significantly lower BNP value compared to what is
      typically seen in congestive cardiac failure patients. This study has been used to support
      the most recent CCS guidelines which add preoperative BNP as an important preoperative
      cardiac risk stratification tool. According to the CCS guidelines, patients with an elevated
      preoperative BNP should have daily troponins measured for 48 - 72 hours after surgery.

      Troponins are components of the myocardial cell involved in contractility, specific subtypes
      I and T are expressed almost exclusively in the heart. An elevated troponin reflects necrosis
      of myocardial cells and is extremely useful in the diagnosis of a myocardial infarction. Even
      a slight elevation in postoperative troponins (TnTi ≥ 0.03ng/ml) without ischemic clinical
      symptoms can lead to a higher mortality, nonfatal cardiac arrest, nonfatal congestive heart
      failure, and nonfatal stroke.

      While the value of screening for high risk patients through the use of preoperative BNP been
      demonstrated, the management of postoperative ischemia is less clear. At present, CCS
      guidelines recommend optimizing aspirin and statin therapy in patients with MINS, but no
      clear strategy has been elucidated. Evidence to support the use of aspirin and statins comes
      from the POISE trial. The MANAGE trial recommends starting patients who are not at risk of
      bleeding on the oral anticoagulant dabigatran for two years. Patients with ST-elevation MI
      carry a high mortality risk without reperfusion therapy (percutaneous coronary intervention
      or coronary artery bypass graft) and a high risk of bleeding with it. Patients with non
      ST-elevation MI may also require revascularization and subsequent dual antiplatelet therapy.
      It is evident from this brief overview that management of MINS varies from the non-invasive
      (aspirin and statin administration) to the invasive (PCI or CABG) depending on the extent of
      myocardial injury, hemodynamic stability and risk of bleeding secondary to the primary
      surgical procedure.

      Screening for patients at risk of MINS by measuring BNP may have a significant impact on
      health care resources. 80% of patients with MINS are asymptomatic and go unrecognized.
      Screening for patients who are at risk of postoperative myocardial ischemia will ostensibly
      uncover a new population of patients i.e. those who, prior to BNP screening, experienced
      subclinical postoperative ischemia which went undiagnosed until a later juncture by which
      time potentially worse and irreversible myocardial injury had occurred.

      In this study the objectives are to investigate:

        1. incidence of qualification for BNP measurement as determined by CCS guidelines

        2. incidence of patients with BNP ≥ 92 ng/L

        3. incidence of MINS (myocardial infarction and myocardial injury without MI) at 30 days
           and incidence of myocardial infarction at 1 year after surgery

        4. evaluate the management of patients with positive troponin after surgery

        5. identify a matched cohort group from the SPOR database

        6. compare the incidence and timing of MINS in the BNP group versus that in a matched
           cohort group who qualified for BNP screening but did not have it done

        7. determination of cost of screening, diagnosis and management of MINS and MI for up to 1
           year after surgery when BNP is used as a screening tool

      In this study, elective patients deemed at risk of a postoperative cardiac event will be
      monitored, as determined by preoperative BNP measurement, up to 1 year postoperatively. BNP
      positive patients will be monitored for myocardial injury postoperatively by measuring
      troponin daily for 72 hours. The incidence of MINS (MI and myocardial injury without MI) in
      BNP positive patients will be determined. Patients with troponin I ≥ 0.04 ug/L will be
      referred to the cardiology consult service for further evaluation and management. Subsequent
      management will be categorized as 1) monitor 2) medical management and 3) revascularization.
      A cost analysis of the management of all three groups will be performed.
    
  