
    
      During the course of orthodontic treatment, the practitioner normally faces two common
      iatrogenic treatment side effects: root resorption and enamel decalcification, with the
      latter occurring at a much higher frequency. While the processes that lead to enamel
      demineralization are understood, methods to diminish or perhaps eliminate degradation of
      enamel surfaces are being searched for. Several approaches have been formulated to counteract
      demineralization of tooth structure. One approach involves patient compliance and consists of
      in-depth oral hygiene instructions, in-office fluoride applications, and at-home fluoride
      rinses, gels, and varnishes. An alternative approach, which possesses potential benefit
      regardless of patient compliance, includes the use of fluoride-releasing agents, such as
      composites, glass ionomers, sealants, and elastomeric ties.

      Enamel decalcification or white spot formation, is a phenomenon occurring primarily on smooth
      enamel surfaces of teeth, notably within the gingival third of the crown. Demineralized
      enamel, the precursor to caries formation, can be attributed to fixed orthodontic appliances,
      and prolonged exposure to bacterial plaque. Bacterial plaque promotes the accumulation of
      acidic byproducts and demineralization that leads to successive changes in the optical
      properties of subsurface demineralized enamel. Progression to clinically detectable white
      spot lesions may occur as early as one month following the placement of orthodontic
      appliances.

      Two new anti-cavity toothpastes, Clinpro™ 5000 with 1.1% Sodium Fluoride and Clinpro™ Tooth
      Crème with 0.21% Sodium Fluoride, are currently available and have been shown in some initial
      case reports to be useful in the reduction of white spot lesions. Clinpro™ restores minerals
      and helps you produce saliva. Both the Clinpro™ products are advanced formulas containing an
      innovative tri-calcium phosphate ingredient. They are available exclusively from 3M ESPE.
      Clinpro™ contains fluoride as well as calcium and phosphate, which are components naturally
      found in saliva.

      Thus, this study will compare Clinpro™ 5000 1.1% Sodium Fluoride Anti-Cavity Toothpaste,
      Clinpro™ Tooth Crème, and MI-Paste Plus for the prevention and reduction of white spot
      lesions during orthodontic treatment.
    
  