
    
      The study will be conducted in the Department of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care, Advanced
      Cardiac Centre, Post Graduate Institute Medical Education Research, Chandigarh after
      obtaining institutional ethical committee clearance. Fifty patients scheduled for coronary
      artery bypass grafting (CABG) will be included in the study. An informed written consent will
      be taken from all the patients.

      Anaesthesia technique All patients will be examined a day prior to surgery. Baseline data
      including preoperative physical status, haemogram, biochemistry, preoperative transthoracic
      echocardiography and coronary angiography data will be noted. A standard anaesthesia
      technique will be used for all the patients. Inside the operating room, electrocardiography
      (ECG), pulse oximetry and noninvasive blood pressure (NIBP) will be applied. Anaesthesia will
      be induced with fentanyl 5 - 10 µg/kg/ body weight and propofol titrated to loss of response
      to verbal commands followed by endotracheal intubation facilitated by vecuronium 0.1mg/kg. A
      20 gauge arterial catheter will be inserted in left radial artery and right internal jugular
      vein will be cannulated with triple lumen catheter for central venous access and pulmonary
      artery catheter for haemodynamic assessment. A baseline transthoracic echocardiogram will be
      performed after induction of general anaesthesia. After induction of general anaesthesia , a
      TEE probe (GE Medical Systems, Horten, Norway) will be introduced. Anaesthesia will be
      maintained by isoflurane, intravenous morphine (intermittent boluses; total 0.5 mg/kg during
      surgery) and vecuronium boluses. All patients will undergo CABG under cardiopulmonary bypass
      (CPB) support. Total cardiopulmonary bypass time and Aortic cross clamp time will be noted.
      Patients will be shifted to cardiac surgical intensive care unit (ICU) and electively
      ventilated. Decision on extubation and inotrope support will be left to attending
      intensivist.

      Echocardiography data After induction of general anaesthesia, a comprehensive transesophageal
      echocardiogram will be performed using probe of the GE vivid E9 echocardiography system (GE
      Medical Systems, Hortein, Norway) in all the patients.

      The following parameters will be noted before instituting CPB and after weaning from CPB and
      achievement of stable haemodynamics:

        1. 2 dimensional Left ventricular ejection fraction using Simpson's method from
           midesophageal 4 chamber and midesophageal 2 chamber views.

        2. 3 dimensional Left ventricular ejection fraction from midesophageal 4 chamber and
           midesophageal 2 chamber views.

        3. Doppler tissue imaging derived regional and global longitudinal strain from
           midesophageal 4 chamber, midesophageal 2 chamber and midesophageal long axis views.

        4. Speckle track imaging derived regional and global longitudinal strain from midesophageal
           4 chamber, midesophageal 2 chamber and midesophageal long axis views.

      An average of 3 readings over 3 different cardiac cycles will be used for above parameters.
    
  