
    
      Despite more than a decade of clinical experience and investigation, the optimal approach to
      ablation of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (PAF) still remains controversial. There are
      currently two strategies for ablation of PAF: (1) circumferential pulmonary vein ablation
      (CPVA) and (2) segmental pulmonary vein isolation (SPVI). There are advantages and
      disadvantages associated with each method. In the CPVA method (1), contiguous ablation
      lesions are created to encircle the two left and right pulmonary veins (PVs), guided by a
      three-dimensional (3D) electroanatomic mapping system (Carto, Biosense Webster, Inc. or ESI
      NavX, St. Jude, Inc.) with a 3D left atrial (LA) geometry created either by using the mapping
      catheter or by importing a pre-recorded 3D computed tomography (CT) image. In the SPVI method
      (2), electrical potentials recorded at the PV ostium, that represent myocardial connections
      between the LA and PVs, are ablated at the PV ostium or just proximal to the PV ostium in the
      PV antrum. In this approach, ablation is performed segmentally at multiple sites around the
      PV ostium or antrum, until mapping with a circular catheter demonstrates pulmonary vein
      isolation.

      The reported success rates for SPVI for prevention of recurrence of PAF range from 60-87%
      (2-4) with most recurrences associated with recovery of PV conduction. Therefore, the success
      of SPVI for treatment of PAF appears to be related to in large part to permanent elimination
      of the triggers of AF. In a retrospective study by Sawhney et al, overall 5-year outcome
      after SPVI for PAF was similar to that for short-term follow up less than or equal to 2
      years. However, late recurrences after 2 years did occur (up to 22.5%) and repeat ablation
      was often required to maintain freedom from symptomatic PAF (5).

      Even though success rates for CPVA have been reported to be higher (up to 90%), most CPVA
      procedures previously reported included left atrial linear ablation (LALA), additional
      ablation lesions or lines connecting the mitral valve to the posterior pulmonary veins or
      along the roof of the left atrium. Thus the success of CPVA may be due in part to ablation of
      substantially larger amounts of atrial tissue (6-7). However, additional ablation (LALA) may
      cause potential pro-arrhythmic effects that lead to development of atypical left atrial
      flutter (8).

      Compared to SPVI, CPVA resulted in higher success rates and lower fluoroscopy time in one
      study by Arentz et al (9). However, that study included subjects with both PAF and persistent
      AF, and those with persistent AF have potentially different underlying mechanisms.
      Furthermore, two other randomized studies comparing the efficacy of PVI and CPVA have shown
      conflicting results (10-11).

      Thus, we will initiate this randomized controlled study to evaluate the efficacy of CPVA
      versus SPVI in subjects undergoing ablation of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation only.
    
  