
    
      The nuclear power plant accident at Chornobyl released large quantities of Iodine-131 and
      other radioisotopes of iodine into the atmosphere, contaminating thousands of square
      kilometers and exposing millions of people. For this study, a well-defined subset of
      Belarusian children under age 18 years at the time of the accident were identified and
      examined by well-trained specialists for thyroid disease every two years for three cycles.
      The study is a collaborative effort of researchers in Belarus and the United States.

      <TAB>

      The cohort includes approximately 12,000 persons who were children in 1986, all of whom had
      their thyroids measured for radioactivity during the weeks immediately following the
      accident. Under a rigid research protocol these subjects received diagnostic thyroid
      examinations, including palpation, ultrasound scanning, thyroid hormone and other laboratory
      tests. If indicated, they were referred for a fine-needle aspiration biopsy. Interview
      information regarding residential, health, diet and lifestyle history are also collected. All
      subjects were followed for thyroid cancer morbidity and mortality. Overall, 163 cancers were
      identified. Interviews with mothers of the subjects who were less than 10 years of age at the
      time of the accident whose memory of events proved inadequate increased the total accrual to
      13,552.

      Based on thyroid radiation measurements made in May-June, 1986, and other information
      (reconstruction of deposition patterns and environmental pathways of the radioiodines, and of
      the location, dietary characteristics, and lifestyle of each person throughout the exposure
      period), each person s radiation dose to the thyroid was estimated.

      The aim of the study is to assess the early and late morphologic and functional changes in
      the thyroid glands of young persons exposed to radiation from radioactive materials released
      as a consequence of the Chornobyl nuclear power plant accident, with emphasis on dose- and
      time-specific changes.

      Active screening for thyroid cancers ended in September 2006. The third and final thyroid
      screening examinations were completed in September 2006, identifying 163 cases of thyroid
      cancer during the examination period. Subject accrual through screening is no longer ongoing.
      Thyroid and other cancer case ascertainment is underway by linkage to the Belarusian Cancer
      Registry. A paper has been published on the radiation dose response for prevalent thyroid
      cancer and analyses of incident cancer cases and other thyroid disease are ongoing.
    
  