
    
      The parathyroid glands play a pivotal physiological function by maintaining blood calcium
      levels, specifically blood ionized calcium concentrations, within a very narrow range. They
      do so by modulating the minute-to-minute release of parathyroid hormone (PTH) into the
      circulation. Such changes have almost immediate effects on calcium excretion in the urine and
      on calcium efflux from bone and, if sustained for hours or days, affect renal vitamin D
      metabolism and ultimately the efficiency of intestinal calcium absorption. The capacity of
      chief cells of the parathyroid to detect small changes in blood ionized calcium levels,
      modify PTH release accordingly, and initiate these adaptive responses is mediated by a
      calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) located at the cell surface.

      The importance of the CaSR in parathyroid tissue extends beyond its traditional role as a
      modifier of calcium-regulated PTH secretion to involve other key components of parathyroid
      gland function that are frequently abnormal in clinical disorders characterized by excess
      parathyroid gland activity such as hyperparathyroidism. These include disturbances in the
      control of PTH gene transcription and hormone synthesis and the development of parathyroid
      gland enlargement due to tissue hyperplasia.

      PTH acts mainly on renal proximal tubule phosphorus (Pi) reabsorption and bone osteoclast
      calcium and Pi resorption. CASR is also expressed in nephron thick ascending limb (TAL),
      where it interacts with luminal potassium ROMK channel. Mutations in several TAL channels and
      proteins (including ROMK, NKCC2, ClCKb, Barttin and CASR) cause Bartter syndrome (BS), a
      normotensive hypokalemic tubulopathy. Whereas the effects of CASR mutations on ROMK function
      in the kidney have been described , it is unknown whether ROMK mutations exert any effects on
      CASR function or PTH regulation. We describe here a group of children and adolescents with
      type II BS (due to mutations in ROMK) with abnormal PTH homeostasis.

      Preliminary Data:

      We compared laboratory data of 12 children with type II BS (4M, 8F) and 17 children (7M, 10F)
      with type IV BS (d/t mutations in the Barttin gene, a beta subunit of the ClCKb basolateral
      chloride channel in the TAL ), followed in our center over the past 10 years. A total of 86
      and 105 datasets of blood and urine analyses (average datasets/pt: 7.3±4.1 and 6.9±2.9), for
      type II and IV BS respectively, were analyzed.Potassium levels were normal in all BS-II
      children without additional salt supplementation, whereas BS-IV children were usually mildly
      hypokalemic. Estimated GFR remains normal in all children. There was no hypomagnesemia.
      Average PTH values were significantly higher in BS-II (102±39 Vs 46±24 pg/ml in BS-IV,
      p<0.001) and were above upper normal limit in 93% of cases Vs 13% in BS-IV (p<0.001). Levels
      of 25(OH) vitamin D were not different. Total serum calcium was mildly decreased (within the
      normal range) and serum Pi increased in BS-II, both in absolute values or when normalized for
      age (PiSDS). The threshold for phosphate excretion (TpGFR) was slightly higher in BS-II.
      There was no difference in the degree of hypercalciuria between groups. Based on these
      preliminary data we concluded that the elevated PTH levels only in type II BS are not related
      to a decrease in GFR or vitamin D levels or decreased serum calcium or hypercalciuria. The
      elevated Pi levels are associated with a decrease in phosphate excretion, but are not
      correlated with PTH levels. The possibility that a mutation in ROMK may cause a dysregulation
      of PTH secretion via possible interaction with CASR should now be investigated.

      Methods:

      The investigative protocol has been submitted to the local Committee for Human
      Experimentation. Informed consent will be obtained from affected children (or young adults)
      and their parents.

      We expect to recruit 5 patients from each BS subgroup. In addition we will recruit 5 normal
      volunteers to serve as an additional control group.

      Subjects will be evaluated during 2-day admissions to the General Pediatric Ward as
      previously described . On the first day of study, 2-h I.V. infusions of sodium citrate will
      be done to gradually lower blood ionized calcium concentrations to a level of at least 0.2
      mmol/L below preinfusion values; the dose of sodium citrate ranges usually from 28-118
      mg/kg/h. Blood samples for measurements of ionized calcium and PTH will be obtained 30, 15,
      and 0 min before and every 10 min during sodium citrate infusions. The following day, 2-h IV
      infusions of 10% calcium gluconate will be done to gradually raise blood ionized calcium
      concentrations to a level at least 0.2 mmol/L above preinfusion values. The dose of calcium
      gluconate usually ranges from 2-8 mg/kg/h. Blood samples for measurements of ionized calcium
      and PTH will be obtained as described previously for infusions of sodium citrate. The average
      of measurements obtained 30, 15, and 0 min before starting each infusion will be used to
      determine basal values for blood ionized calcium and serum PTH for each day of study.

      Blood ionized calcium levels will be monitored during calcium infusions using a
      calcium-specific electrode (Radiometer ICA-II, Copenhagen, Denmark); blood samples will be
      collected anaerobically, and measurements will be obtained immediately thereafter. Serum
      samples for PTH determinations will be separated by centrifugation immediately after
      collection, snap frozen on solid CO2, and stored at -70 oC until assay. Ionized calcium
      levels will be monitored after stopping calcium infusions until values returned to baseline
      levels.

      The sigmoidal curve that describes the relationship between blood ionized calcium and serum
      PTH levels will be determined for each study subject using the combined results obtained
      during sodium citrate and calcium gluconate infusions. According to the four parameter model,
      the set point for calcium-regulated PTH release represents the ionized calcium concentration
      at which serum PTH levels are midway between the maximum value achieved during hypocalcemia
      and the minimum value attained during hypercalcemia, as reported previously .

      Results obtained during calcium gluconate infusions will be separately analyzed to assess the
      inhibitory effect of increasing blood ionized calcium concentrations on PTH release. To
      improve the linear fit of the data, serum PTH levels, expressed as the natural logarithm (ln)
      of percent preinfusion values, will be plotted against the corresponding blood ionized
      calcium concentration at each 10-min interval as previously described .

      Statistical Analysis:

      Linear regression analysis will be done using the method of least squares, and slope and
      y-intercept values will be compared using the t statistic. A mono-exponential curve fitting
      algorithm of the form y =A e-2kt + B will be also used to examine the curvilinear
      relationship between blood ionized calcium and serum PTH levels during I.V. calcium
      infusions; these results will be presented as mean values with 95% confidence intervals.
    
  