
    
      This is a multicenter, open label, randomized phase 2 study which investigated the effect of
      a second-line systemic treatment with IMA901 plus GM-CSF in RCC patients. Randomization was
      done according to a pre-treatment with low-dose cyclophosphamide (CY). Secondary endpoints
      comprised tumor response parameters.

      The study population consisted of HLA-A*02-positive men or women with advanced RCC of the
      clear-cell type classified as having a favorable or intermediate risk after first-line
      systemic therapy for. Patients had to be aged 18 years or older, had at least have one
      measurable tumor lesion and had have received first-line tyrosine kinase inhibitor or
      cytokine systemic therapy for advanced disease, during or after which the patient had
      experienced disease progression.

      Patients in both arms received a total of 17 vaccinations with GM-CSF followed by IMA901
      during the 9 month treatment period.

      At screening baseline tumor status was assessed by CT or MRI. During the study tumor
      assessments were performed every 6 weeks.

      Immunomonitoring (T-cell responses to peptides contained in IMA901 and analysis of other
      immune cell populations that may influence T-cell responses), serum levels of antibodies and
      molecules with suspected influence on immune response were assessed on several occasions
      during the study.

      Safety assessment comprised continuous adverse event reporting, regular physical examinations
      and regular assessments of vital signs, hematology, blood chemistry and urine. A 12-lead ECG
      was performed at screening and at the end of the study. Pregnancy testing was performed
      according to applicable legislation in the country where the trial was performed. At the very
      least, women of childbearing potential had have to undergo a pregnancy test during screening
      for the study, before the first dose was applied and at the end of the study.
    
  