
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The insulin resistance syndrome (IRS) is associated with a considerable increase in the risk
      of cardiovascular disease in adults. The disorder most likely is inherited to some degree
      with onset in childhood and early adolescence. The IRS is best defined by quantitative data
      from euglycemic insulin clamp studies. The investigators have developed a unique data base in
      children, and by continuing repeated studies and follow-up in early adulthood together with
      studies in parents and siblings this study should provide important insight into the
      occurrence and progression of cardiovascular disease in later life.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study is designed to: 1) define the relation of insulin resistance during childhood and
      adolescence to the development of insulin resistance syndrome (hypertension, dyslipidemia,
      obesity, and insulin resistance) in young adulthood; and 2) define the relation of insulin
      resistance within families. The original cohort consists of 357 children who have had two
      euglycemic insulin clamp studies (at mean ages 13 and 15 years). The specific aims are: to
      (1) repeat anthropometric and blood pressure measurements at mean ages 18, 19, and 20 and
      obtain insulin clamps, lipid levels, echocardiograms, and DEXA at mean age 21 in the
      children; and (2) obtain the measurements, blood and DNA samples, echocardiogram, and insulin
      clamp in the parents and siblings of the children. Statistical genetics methods are used to
      estimate heritability and genetic correlations among the insulin resistance syndrome traits.
      These data address the hypotheses that 1) insulin resistance in childhood predicts insulin
      resistance and cardiovascular risk factors in young adulthood; 2) insulin resistance in
      parents is associated with insulin resistance and cardiovascular risk factors in their
      children; 3) in fat children, BMI and insulin resistance at mean age 13 predicts
      cardiovascular risk, but in thin children only insulin resistance is a similar predictor; 4)
      insulin resistance has significant heritability; and 5) there are significant genetic
      correlations between insulin resistance and the insulin resistance traits. At least 300 of
      the original cohort of 357 who have had two euglycemic insulin clamps continue on in the
      study. The study continues through July, 2008.
    
  