
    
      Objective: Comparison of two externally worn recording systems for documentation of cardiac
      arrhythmias in symptomatic patients or patients at risk for arrhythmia. Non-invasive
      documentation of cardiac arrhythmias can be done by attempting to take a snapshot view of a
      patient's cardiac rhythm using the standard electrocardiogram (ECG). This has limitations
      given it is performed for only a 10 sec period, and requires the patient to be symptomatic at
      the time of the recording. Therefore, the sensitivity of this technique is very low.
      Alternative methods for making longer term recording have been developed and used for
      decades. The standard device is the 24 hour 7-lead Holter monitor. These devises are large,
      restrict patient mobility and require cables to be connected between the applied skin ECG
      electrodes placed on the patient's chest and the recording device. Newer technology has
      simplified the hardware needed to make these longer term recordings, and incorporate a
      self-contained recording system in a patch that is applied over the patient's chest. These
      units allow for unlimited mobility, are significantly smaller, easier to wear and have
      eliminated the requirement for cables to connect the electrodes with the recording device.
      However, little is known comparing the sensitivity, specificity and recording noise / signal
      artifact between the older technology (standard 24-Hour Holter monitor) and the Patch
      electrode.

      Specific Aims:

      Aim 1: Comparison of Cardiac Arrhythmia Documentation between Standard 24-Hour Holter Monitor
      vs. Patch Monitor To evaluate the diagnostic yield for cardiac arrhythmias between the two
      recording systems.

      The presence and frequency (qualitative and quantitative) of cardiac arrhythmias documented
      by each recording system with be compared. To allow for this type of comparison, each
      enrolled research subject with wear both systems simultaneously.

      Aim 2: Comparison of Recording Quality between Standard 24-Hour Holter Monitor vs. Patch
      Monitor To evaluate percentage of time ECG signal quality is poor and uninterpretable.

      Aim 3: Comparison of Comfortability Between Standard 24-HourHolter Monitor vs. Patch Monitor
      Recording Quality To evaluate level of patient's discomfort during the application of each
      recording system. Since both systems will be applied at the same time it may be hard for the
      research subject to rank the comfortability of the two systems. We will focus in this aim at
      more objective measures such as skin irritation under the recording electrodes, and frequency
      of time during which the skin electrodes come off the patient and require re-application.

      Hypotheses:

      Aim 1: Comparison of Cardiac Arrhythmia Documentation between Standard 24-Hour Holter Monitor
      vs. Patch Monitor We hypothesize that there will be no qualitative or quantitative difference
      in arrhythmia frequency between the two recording techniques, i.e. that both devices will
      detect all spontaneous arrhythmias with similar quantitative counts of ectopic beats (+/-
      5%).

      Aim 2: Comparison of Recording Quality between Standard 24-Hour Holter Monitor vs. Patch
      Monitor We hypothesize that recording quality will be better with the Patch Monitor since
      there are not 7 separately applied skin electrodes and cables connecting the electrodes with
      the recorder, resulting in a lower percent of poor ECG signal quality.

      Aim 3: Comparison of Comfortability Between Standard 24-hour Holter Monitor vs. Patch Monitor
      Recording Quality We hypothesize that the degree of skin irritation and level of discomfort
      in the region of application will be less with the Patch Monitor. We hypothesize that the ECG
      leads will fall off from its site of application will be less with the Patch Monitor.
    
  