
    
      In France, nearly 49,000 permanent pacemakers are implanted each year. The pacemaker
      longevity is about 10 years which leads to their replacement.

      In France, in 2016, 15,764 pacemaker replacement hospital stays took place. 10.6% of them
      were made during an outpatient stay, 12.4% during a one-night hospitalization and 70.7%
      during hospitalization for two or more than two nights for the severity level 1.

      If the outpatient care management is deployed at 90%, the economy of the cost care will be
      estimated to be 3,5 million euros and a reduction of 15 582 hospitalization night's stay.

      The aim of START study is to compare cost-utility between ambulatory and conventional
      hospitalization care of permanent pacemakers replacement for elective replacement indicator
      and to demonstrate equivalence between outpatient management and conventional hospitalization
      management.

      This study is in adequation with the national ambition to deploy the outpatient management in
      France. Surgery is the same with both hospitalization managements.

      An ambulatory surgery need to present different advantages and benefits like high quality
      care and substantial cost savings.

      The benefits of ambulatory care management are :

        -  An economy of hospitalization nights cost.

        -  A decrease in health costs related to the surgery realization.

        -  Patient satisfaction expected due to hospital discharged within 24 hours. Patient is
           expected to go home the same day as the surgery with good perception of ambulatory
           surgery.

        -  A decrease in the disorientation risk in the elderly patient is also expected.

      Surgery is the same with both hospitalization managements.

      Patients will be randomized in 2 arms. An arm conventional hospitalization management
      (control arm) and an arm outpatient care management.

      Study period is 30 months. Patients will be following during 6 months. The recruitment time
      will be 24 months.
    
  