
    
      Nitric oxide (NO) is an important and unique mediator of a variety of physiological and
      pathological processes. NO is generated from the oxidation of L-arginine to L-citrulline in a
      two-step process by nitric oxide synthase (NOS) enzymes. In the NOS family, there are two
      constitutive isozymes of NOS, neuronal NOS (nNOS) and endothelial NOS (eNOS), and one
      inducible isozyme (iNOS). The three isozymes of NOS are expressed in different tissues to
      generate NO for specific physiological roles. nNOS generates NO as a neurotransmitter and
      neuromodulator, mainly in brain and peripheral nerve cells; eNOS regulates blood pressure,
      and blood flow primarily in vascular endothelial cells. The induction of iNOS occurs by
      various inflammatory stimuli (e.g., endotoxin) in activated macrophages and other types of
      cells and plays a crucial role in the host defense and the inflammatory processes.

      Normally, the basal level of NO in all parts of the body is very low, mainly due to the
      constitutive nNOS and eNOS. In contrast, once expressed, iNOS can continue to generate NO in
      large amounts (up to μM concentrations) for a prolonged period of time. Studies have shown
      that production of NO by iNOS is implicated in a variety of acute and chronic inflammatory
      diseases (e.g., sepsis, septic shock, organ transplant rejection, vascular dysfunction in
      diabetes, asthma, arthritis, multiple sclerosis, and inflammatory diseases of the gut). iNOS
      activity has also been found in many tumors. Because of the central role of iNOS in
      NO-related diseases, numerous efforts have been made to develop iNOS inhibitors as
      pharmaceuticals ranging from the nonselective L-arginine analogues to the selective
      inhibitors reported recently. Some inhibitors of iNOS have shown promising results in animal
      models of sepsis, lung inflammation, arthritis, and autoimmune diabetes. Therefore, the
      development of a radiolabeled iNOS inhibitor for probing iNOS expression in vivo using
      noninvasive positron emission tomography (PET) imaging will be of tremendous value to the
      study and treatment of NO-related diseases.

      Acute allograft rejection is the major contributor to mortality in patients receiving
      orthotopic heart transplantation (OHT). Specifically, iNOS has been thought to be the main
      NOS involved in producing NO that is active in acute cardiac allograft rejection.
      Up-regulation of iNOS occurs in macrophage cellular infiltrates and later within the graft
      parenchymal cells. In human cardiac transplantation a positive correlation has shown between
      iNOS expression and left ventricular contractile dysfunction measured by echocardiography and
      Doppler techniques. We have recently developed a novel PET radiotracer, [18F](+/-)NOS,
      designed to measure cellular iNOS activity. This study evaluates the feasibility of the
      method in OHT patients undergoing surveillance endomyocardial biopsy as part of their normal
      post-transplant evaluation for potential allograft rejection. More specifically, it will
      compare the myocardial kinetics of this radiotracer measured by PET with tissue measurements
      of iNOS measured by immunohistochemistry.
    
  