
    
      Study Design/Sample. This study will be a prospective cohort study. The study sample will be
      derived from patients presenting to the study site in need of at least two dental implants
      and who satisfy the criteria listed below. The study site for this project will be University
      of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) Postgraduate Periodontics and Implant Surgery Clinic.
      Implant surgeries will be performed by postgraduate periodontal residents of this program.
      Any resident involved in this study will have had previous experience in placing dental
      implants. Also, the residents will be, at all times, under the supervision of attending
      faculty with extensive experience in dental implant surgery.

      The implants to be used in this study are Easy (EZ) Plus and AnyRidge. Both implants are
      manufactured by Megagen Implants United Kingdom (UK) and are currently on the market. The EZ
      Plus fixture features a "conventional" macroscopic thread design with self-tapping threads
      with four cutting edges. The AnyRidge fixture features a unique knife-edge thread design. The
      company claims this thread design results in "maximum bone to implant contact (BIC),
      maximized compressive force resistance and minimized shear force production," thereby
      preventing a drop in stability in the immediate post-placement healing period. Both fixtures
      are manufactured with the same material and surface (Super Resorbable Blast Media (RBM)
      Surface). Therefore, the only difference between the two implants is the macroscopic thread
      design.

      Potential implant sites will be evaluated clinically and radiographically to determine the
      amount and location of available bone for the placement of dental implant(s). Implant sites
      are deemed appropriate when bone height (crest of ridge to vital anatomic structure such as
      the mandibular nerve canal) is equal to or greater than the length of the proposed implant
      plus 2+mm (margin of safety). In the case of locations without vital anatomic structures, the
      bone height may be equal to the length of the implant. The width of available bone should be
      at least 3mm greater in diameter than the proposed implant (i.e. at least 1.5mm of bone on
      all sides of the implant). Thus, a 4mm diameter implant requires a minimum of 7mm width of
      bone (anterior-posterior and mesial-distal). Finally, two implants may be placed next to one
      another when the available bone meets the above criteria for two implants (i.e. two 4mm
      implants require 14mm of bone with 3mm bone between the implants). As an example of the
      required minimum measurement for two 4mm implants: (1.5mm + 4mm + 1.5mm) + (1.5mm + 4mm +
      1.5mm) = 14mm.

      Following an appropriate medical evaluation and comprehensive clinical and radiographic
      examination, treatment for patients selected for this study will be executed according to the
      following standardized protocol:

        1. Alginate or polyvinyl siloxane (PVS) impression of maxillary and/or mandibular arch

        2. Fabrication of a radiographic stent using [materials]

        3. Cone Beam Computed Tomography (CBCT) scan (J. Morita, 3D Accuitomo 170) of implant site

        4. Fabrication of a computer generated guide using (Megagen or Anatomage InVivo 5 implant
           planning software)

        5. Guided surgical placement of dental implant(s) using (Megagen or Anatomage Surgical
           Guide) with a one-stage approach. The implant size (diameter and length) will be
           determined individually based on usual parameters of implant selection.

        6. Resonance frequency analysis measurements using (Osstell ISQ meter). These measurements
           are done by connecting a metal post to the top of the dental implant. This post is then
           connected to the ISQ meter which resonates at a certain frequency and provides the
           operator with a numerical value correlating to the stability of the implant. Taking
           these measurements does not harm the patient or the implant in any way. This technology
           is in widespread use among clinicians as a means of assessing implant stability.

             1. Immediately after placement

             2. Weekly for the first eight weeks

      Measuring implant stability quotient (ISQ) using resonance frequency analysis (RFA) is not
      considered "standard of care" but as data from this technology is collected, analyzed and
      published, it is conceivable that it may become a standard of care procedure for dental
      implants (e.g. at the time of implant placement and after a period of healing just prior to
      placing an implant restoration in function).

      Whenever it is clinically acceptable to do so, patients needing more than one implant will
      receive both the EZ Plus implant and the AnyRidge implant, thereby serving as internal
      controls. Implants may be placed adjacent to one another and/or adjacent to remaining natural
      teeth. No sites will receive any type of implant-supported provisional restoration. All
      implants will receive a short healing abutment that protrudes through the gingiva but remains
      out of occlusion.

      For patients requiring two implants, the type of the implant placed in the first site will be
      determined by a coin flip. The second implant placed will automatically be the other type.
      For patients requiring three or more implants, an analogous process will occur (i.e. coin
      flip to decide the first, third, etc. implant type; the second, fourth, etc. will
      automatically be of the other type).

      Data Collection. Data will be collected in a standardized, coded fashion. Data collection
      sheets will be stored in a locked file cabinet at the study site. Data will be entered into a
      password-protected database. At the completion of the study including analysis and
      publication, the data sheets will be destroyed.

      Limitations. The limitations of this study include examining only two macroscopic implant
      designs. Conclusions drawn from this study may guide future research projects with the
      ultimate goal of minimizing or eliminating the transient drop in implant stability following
      implant placement and establishing protocols for immediately loaded prostheses based in
      resonance frequency analysis.
    
  