
    
      The efficacy of compression garments (CG) for recovery will be assessed in 10 elite modern
      pentathletes, using a crossover design. Athletes will complete each of two different recovery
      interventions immediately after each of 2 identical 3 hour fencing sessions, in a random
      order. Sessions will be separated by at least 2 weeks, standardising training in the lead-up
      to control for training-load and fatigue. A two-way (4 time-points x 2 conditions) crossover
      trial will be conducted to assess differences in performance tests following fencing
      ("sparring"), conducted before and after sparring, then 12 hours and 36 hours afterwards. In
      addition, 3200 m running performance will be assessed the afternoon before and at 12 hours
      and 36 hours after the fencing session.

      All testing will be carried out at the British Modern Pentathlon base at the University of
      Bath. One month before testing, athletes will familiarised with strength testing using a
      strain-gauge (MIE Medical Research Ltd., Leeds, UK). Participants will be seated on a
      plyometric box, starting from a flexed position of 90 degrees, as measured with a goniometer,
      before taking the best of three attempts of maximal knee flexion. All other measures to be
      taken form part of the athletes' regular performance monitoring tests. Body composition will
      be assessed, including height and body-mass, as well as waist, hip thigh, calf, ankle and
      gluteal circumferences. All limb measurements will be taken from the right side, in
      accordance with guidelines set by the International Society of Anthropometry and
      Kinanthropometry (ISAK). Skinfold measurements will be taken according to the ISAK 8 site
      protocol by a level 1 anthropometrist. Athletes will be fitted for custom fitted (CF) CG
      (stockings), after taking real-time 3D images using the manufacturer's proprietary, digitised
      method (Isobar Compression Ltd., Manchester, UK).

      In the afternoon before fencing begins (12 midday), 3200 m running performance will be timed
      using a stopwatch on a 400 m running track (8 laps). Fencing sparring will commence at 5 p.m.
      the same day, preceded immediately by the other performance measures and physiological tests.
      Following athletes' individual warm-ups, maximal leg strength will be assessed, as well as
      vertical jump performance (maximal force and maximum height from the best of 3 attempts)
      using a force plate (Kistler 3-Component Force-Link, New York, USA). Maximal grip strength
      will also be assessed (Takei Digital Hand-Grip Dynanometer 4001, Takei Scientific Instruments
      Co., Niigata-City, Japan). Soreness (200 mm visual analogue scale) and swelling at the
      mid-thigh skinfold site will also be recorded (spring loaded tape measure - Lafayette
      Instrument Co, Lafayette, Ind, USA). Muscle damage will be quantified with creatine kinase
      analysis (CK), and inflammation quantified with C-reactive protein (RX Daytona,
      Kearneysville, West Virginia, USA) from venous blood samples taken from the arm at baseline
      and at each time-point throughout recovery. Biomarkers of oxidative damage (the free oxygen
      radicals - FORT - test) and anti-oxidant defense (free oxygen radicals defense - FORD) will
      also be assessed. Testing will be conducted after warm-up before sparring, and then
      immediately after the cessation of the fencing session, after 12 hours and 36 hours recovery.
      However, 3200 m running performance will be assessed only in the afternoon before, then at 12
      hours and 36 hours.

      Athletes will complete each of two recovery conditions immediately after training and
      testing, being randomly assigned to a different condition over each session. Athletes will be
      allocated to one of the following 3 conditions:

        -  Custom fitted stockings applying over 30 mmHg and 20 mmHg at the calf and mid-thigh
           respectively (CF)

        -  A sham treatment (CON) The CON group will receive a sham "recovery" drink immediately
           after training (Robinsons no added sugar fruit juice), which contains 1 g carbohydrate
           and 0 g protein per serving. Pressures at the skin-garment interface will be measured
           for both garments using a pressure monitor at the medial calf and mid-thigh skinfold
           sites (as defined by the International Society for Anthropometry and Kinanthropometry),
           as well as 2 cm above the medial malleolus.

      Between-treatment differences in the recovery of performance and physiological factors will
      be assessed over time using a 2 way (time by condition) mixed-measures analysis of variance
      (SPSS Statistics 22, IBM, New York, USA).

      Equipment used and methods employed make use of validated measures of strength, power, muscle
      damage and compression pressures, cited in the protocol above.
    
  