
    
      Glaucoma is the second commonest cause of blindness in our society. The only effective
      treatment currently involves lowering the intraocular pressure (IOP) by medical, laser, or
      surgical techniques. Glaucoma surgery is indicated when further IOP lowering is needed
      despite maximal medical therapy and appropriate laser treatment.

      The choroid is a pigmented and vascular structure located between the sclera and retinal
      pigmented epithelium.

      Choroidal effusions are aberrant collections of fluid within the suprachoroidal potential
      space. There are two types of choroidal effusion, serous and hemorrhagic, depending on the
      type of fluid that accumulates in the suprachoroidal space. A serous choroidal effusion is
      composed of a transudate fluid from increased transmural pressure across the capillaries.
      Their development is usually relatively painless. Hemorrhagic choroidal effusion or
      suprachoroidal haemorrhage is a sudden and usually very painful accumulation of blood in the
      suprachoroidal space. 4 Choroidal effusions can be caused by both low IOP and
      pro-inflammatory conditions. Causes of concomitant low IOP and inflammation include trauma
      and eye surgery, especially glaucoma surgery. Inflammatory causes include scleritis.

      Modern glaucoma surgery has minimized the incidence of postoperative hypotony and resultant
      choroidal effusion but it is still prevalent. 1 The prevalence of choroidal effusions after
      glaucoma surgery varies between 10 and 15%, with average of 13% after trabeculectomy (the
      standard technique of glaucoma surgery). 5 A complication of low-IOP-induced choroidal
      effusion is hypotony maculopathy, which can cause permanent decline in vision, especially if
      not resolved in a timely manner. 5 Treatment can be either medical or surgical. Medical
      treatment includes cessation of any systemic and topical IOP lowering agents and adding
      cycloplegic agents, topical steroids and eventually systemic steroids. If treatments do not
      increase the IOP and reduce the choroidal effusion, then surgical management should be
      considered.

      Depending on the particular clinical circumstances of each patient, different surgical
      approaches can be used, including revision of the trabeculectomy flap, anterior chamber
      reformation, and surgical drainage of the effusion.

      As an alternative to systemic steroids, steroids as triamcinolone acetonide (Kenalog™) can be
      injected in the subtenons space. This treatment allows for a high local dose of steroids,
      without exposing the patient to systemic treatment. Not every patient requires steroid
      injection, and this treatment will be reserved for patients who do not respond to medical
      management after a few days.

      Following the sham or Kenalog injection participants will receive topical prednisolone
      acetate 1% qid for 4 weeks or PRN Topical atropine 1% qid for one week or PRN.

      There are several studies in the literature showing the benefit of a triamcinolone injection
      for different inflammatory conditions, such uveitis and for the treatment of diabetic
      maculopaty and cystoid macular edema. 6-9 Recently Shen et al. published the benefit of
      subtenons triamcinolone acetonide in the management of a combination of retinal detachment
      and choroidal effusion. 2 However we did not find any studies that assessed the benefit on
      triamcinolone subtenons injection for choroidal effusion after glaucoma surgery. In a recent
      retrospective study we performed a chart review of the effect of subtenons triamcinolone
      injection in patients with choroidal effusions after glaucoma surgery compared to a group of
      patients who did not receive the injection as part of their management. We found that
      recovery time in the injection group was significantly shorter than in patients with no
      injection, 10.6 days versus 27.44 days. (p=0.02). The study showed no difference in final
      intraocular pressure (IOP), number of medications and visual acuity.
    
  