
    
      Sedentary Arm: This portion of the study is complete. 10 participants completed the study in
      its entirety. Maximal exercise testing utilized a Parvomedics Metabolic cart to analyze
      oxygen consumption in ml/kg/min and maximum heart rate. Results from this test were used to
      estimate intensity using heart rate for the exercise sessions. Prior to each exercise
      session, participants arrived at 4:00 PM ate a Glucerna bar (to prevent drastic falls in
      glycemia with exercise) and had an IV inserted. A total of six blood samples were taken at
      each session at the following timepoints: (1) 0 mins-baseline, (2) 10 mins- end of warm up,
      (3) 35 mins-end of intervals, (4) 45 mins-end of exercise, (5) 75 mins-mid recovery, and (6)
      105 mins-end of exercise. Each blood draw was sampled for glucose, cortisol, and growth
      hormone. Before exercise, blood glucose was measured on a handheld glucometer. If blood
      glucose was <5.7 mmol/L glucose was administered via Dex4 tablets. Exercise did not begin
      until blood glucose was at least 5.7 mmol/L. If blood glucose was greater than 16.7 mmol/L
      but less than 20.0 mmol/L ketones were tested on a urine ketone strip. If ketones were
      negative or trace exercise began.

      The first exercise session was 45 minutes of moderate intensity exercise at 45-55% of heart
      rate reserve (HRR). The intensity determined from this session (speed and incline) was used
      as the recovery intensity for the high intensity sessions. The high intensity sessions were
      allocated in a random order from www.random.org where 1=70%, 2=80%, and 3=90%. Each high
      intensity session started with 10 minutes of moderate intensity exercise (at the same speed
      and incline from the first session) and six one minute bursts of high intensity every four
      minutes followed by a 10 minute cool down.

      Because of the small sample size and non-normal glucose profiles, data was analyzed using a
      Friedman analysis of variance (non-parametric test).

      Active Arm: This portion is still recruiting participants. The procedures for this experiment
      are very similar to the sedentary component. Blood glucose targets prior to exercise are the
      same however no blood samples will be taken. Participants will arrive at the lab for 4:30 PM
      and eat a Glucerna bar (to avoid drastic falls in glycemia with exercise). The two exercise
      sessions, moderate and 90%, will be allocated in a random order from a coin flip where heads
      is moderate exercise and tails is the 90% intervals. The moderate intensity session will
      consist of 45 minutes of exercise at 45-55% of HRR. The 90% session will consist of 15
      minutes of moderate intensity at 45-55% of HRR followed by six one minute bursts of exercise
      at 90% of HRR every two minutes followed by a 10 minute cooldown.

      Data will be analyzed using a general linear model and logistic regression.
    
  