
    
      The important role that diet plays in health and disease is well established. Excessive
      intake of energy, saturated fat and sodium increase the risk of heart disease, diabetes and
      certain cancers. As a result, interventions aimed at encouraging healthier food consumption
      have been pursued by many countries. These can be broadly grouped into the following
      categories: price manipulations, food labeling, and behavioral nudges.

      No study has previously assessed the potentially interactive effects of a multi-component
      intervention that incorporates the strongest features of each intervention component while
      discarding those that do not meaningfully contribute to healthier consumption. That is the
      goal of this effort.

      To this end, the investigators chose a full-factorial design because this experimental design
      allows us to estimate not only the independent (main) effects of the interventions but also
      their interaction effects. The full-factorial design includes all possible combinations of
      the interventions' status. Because the investigators have four interventions, each of which
      has two levels (intervention On or Off), there are 16 (i.e. 2^4) experimental conditions/arms
      in total. The four interventions for this study are outlined below:

      - Explicit Tax: To impose an explicit tax on food and beverage items that are eligible for
      red stop-sign (explained in b.) as less healthy foods.

      Foods and Beverages: The investigators will impose a 20% tax on sales price of the food
      items.

        -  Food Labels (with the summary of healthiness of shopping baskets & targets): To provide
           the green circle 'healthy choice' food label to items with Nutri-Score "A" and "B", the
           amber circle 'in between healthy and unhealthy choice' food label to items with
           Nutri-Score "C", and the red stop-sign 'Unhealthy choice' food label to items with
           Nutri-Score "D" and "E". In the presence of food labels, before shopping, subjects will
           watch a video briefly explaining the food labels on the store and be provided a live
           visual indicator of the healthiness of shoppers' current basket (called "My Cart
           Summary") with the recommended healthy baskets goals (i.e., Green logo products ≥ 60%
           and Red logo products ≤ 15% of the weighted number of servings of products.). My Cart
           Summary will be displayed as a pie chart with the proportion of servings in their
           current shopping baskets, according to the three food labels. This way, as shoppers add
           to their basket while browsing the store, they will have visual feedback on how their
           latest addition contributes to their total basket healthiness.

        -  Ordering: To order food items by Nutri-Score such that healthier items are shown upfront
           on NUSMart.

        -  Within Group Substitution: At the checkout, to provide consumers with an opportunity to
           replace their original items with an item chosen from two or four recommended
           substitutes that are healthier within their corresponding food categories based on the
           similarities of price, ingredients, flavor, and other characteristics.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to one of the 16 arms and instructed to perform a
      one-time hypothetical grocery shopping on NUSMart.

      The investigators will collect participants' demographic and health characteristics as well
      as hunger at the time of the survey and their self-control in the baseline survey. The
      collected data will be used to precisely estimate the causal effect of the interventions and
      address their underlying mechanism to change consumers' food choices.

      Our hypotheses about the effects of the interventions on diet quality, measured by the
      weighted average Nutri-Score (primary) of finalized shopping baskets, are as follows:

        1. There will be significant and positive main effects of each of the interventions.

        2. There will be significant and positive interaction effects on diet quality of: Explicit
           tax & food labels, Food labels & ordering.

      We will also run models both with and without including covariates that include demographic
      variables (e.g., age, minority status, income, BMI, sex, and household size) and measurements
      of self-control, hunger, and health-status. To test the moderating effects of hunger,
      self-control, health-status, and education level, we will include interaction terms between
      the intervention arms and these variables.
    
  