
    
      Introduction

      Optimising fitness prior to surgery, known as prehabilitation, has the potential to reduce
      risk and improve post-operative outcomes by increasing functional capacity and physiological
      reserve. Prehabilitation strategies include educating patients with lifestyle modifications
      such as smoking cessation, nutrition, exercise and anxiety reduction. Deconditioning and
      sarcopenia has been shown to predict a higher cost amongst patients undergoing major
      abdominal surgery [1] and has been recently identified as an independent predictor of
      hospital length of stay [2], hence optimising functionality may prevent morbidity.

      There is a growing need to improve outcomes in vascular surgery, yet few examples of vascular
      prehabilitation exist. The 2018 Get It Right First Time (GIRFT) report [3] states one of the
      key recommendations is to improve the use of prehabilitation and to make it more consistent
      via NHS England commissioning.

      Multiple studies with varying prehabilitation strategies have been published in the last
      decade [4]. Prehabilitation has been associated with encouraging results in major colorectal
      and upper gastrointestinal cancer surgery [5],[6]. Data such as these have also led to the
      development of prehabilitation services within NHS Trusts [7].

      Supervised training programmes have shown to improve patient's anaerobic threshold and
      fitness in patients having aortic aneurysm repairs [8],[9],[10]. A recent randomised
      controlled trial has provided evidence to support supervised exercise training, by suggesting
      improvements in postoperative outcome, length of stay, postoperative pain and
      complications[11]. Historically there were concerns about exercising in this cohort of
      patients, however recent studies has shown that aneurysm expansion does not occur with
      exercise and exercise is safe [11],[12].

      St. Thomas' Hospital is a tertiary referral centre performing between 200-250 aortic aneurysm
      repair operations annually. We serve a large demographic from South East England and receive
      referrals from across the whole of the UK, making the provision and appeal of a supervised
      prehabilitation exercise programme difficult.

      Prehabilitation education provided is especially effective if delivered at the right time,
      for example, the need for high risk surgery; the so called 'teachable moment' [13]. Despite
      the recent surge in evidence surrounding the benefits of prehabilitation, it is not yet part
      of established pathways. There has been some guidance as to how to practically achieve
      prehabilitation into our clinical practice but there is still work to be done in terms of
      integrating it into perioperative pathways [14].

      A mentored prehabilitation programme that does not require supervised exercise is
      generalisable and feasible, but yet to show improvements in patient outcomes.

      Over the last 12 months we have been delivering a group based prehabilitation and exercise
      workshop named 'Road to Recovery'. This is a physiotherapist and anaesthetist led
      prehabilitation workshop, targeted to provide valuable education and advice to patients and
      their families about their surgery, hospital stay and expectations for discharge, diet,
      lifestyle and exercise before their aneurysm surgery. The advice emphasises the importance of
      empowering patients to take control of their own health. The workshop is designed to educate
      patients and allay their fears and anxieties around hospital admission and surgery.

      The physiotherapist then provides a detailed lecture on exercise and the relevance of
      strength in the recovery period. An interactive, group-based demonstration of various safe
      and approved practical exercises is then undertaken. Feedback from the patients has been
      positive.

      As part of the study, in addition to the prehabilitation workshop, we also aim to examine the
      potential benefits of a mentored approach, by use of technology and communication.

      Our patients often live long distances from the hospital, so frequent hospital visits and
      supervised exercise sessions are not plausible. Therefore, a mentored prehabilitation
      programme could be considered more practical and generalisable.

      We hypothesize that a prehabilitation workshop, and continued patient engagement, has the
      potential benefit to improve both the physical and psychological wellbeing of patients
      awaiting aortic aneurysm repair.

      An initial pilot study examining the study design and deliverability of a mentored approach
      prehabilitation programme, is warranted.

      References

        1. F. Gani et al., "Sarcopenia predicts costs among patients undergoing major abdominal
           operations," Surg. (United States), vol. 160, no. 5, pp. 1162-1171, 2016.

        2. N. Shah et al., "The association of abdominal muscle with outcomes after scheduled
           abdominal aortic aneurysm repair," Anaesthesia, vol. 72, no. 9, pp. 1107-1111, 2017.

        3. B. J. Orandi and J. H. Black, "Vascular Surgery," Curr. Surg. Ther., no. March, pp.
           777-980, 2013.

        4. K. Valkenet, I. G. van de Port, J. J. Dronkers, W. R. de Vries, E. Lindeman, and F. J.
           Backx, "The effects of preoperative exercise therapy on postoperative outcome: a
           systematic review," Clin. Rehabil., vol. 25, no. 2, pp. 99-111, 2011.

        5. C. Li et al., "Impact of a trimodal prehabilitation program on functional recovery after
           colorectal cancer surgery: a pilot study and Other Interventional Techniques," Surg
           Endosc, vol. 27, pp. 1072-1082, 2013.

        6. B. P. Chen et al., "Four-week prehabilitation program is sufficient to modify exercise
           behaviors and improve preoperative functional walking capacity in patients with
           colorectal cancer," Support. Care Cancer.

        7. "Imperial College Healthcare | PREPARE programme." [Online]. Available:
           https://www.imperial.nhs.uk/our-services/cancer-services/oesophago-gastric-cancer/prepar
           e-programme. [Accessed: 06-Sep-2018].

        8. E. Kothmann et al., "Effect of short-term exercise training on aerobic fitness in
           patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms: A pilot study," Br. J. Anaesth., vol. 103, no.
           4, pp. 505-510, 2009.

        9. S. Pouwels, E. M. Willigendael, M. R. van Sambeek, S. W. Nienhuijs, P. W. Cuypers, and
           J. A. Teijink, "Beneficial Effects of Pre-operative Exercise Therapy in Patients with an
           Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm: A Systematic Review," Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg, vol. 49, no.
           1, pp. 66-76, 2015.

       10. G. A. Tew et al., "Randomized feasibility trial of high-intensity interval training
           before elective abdominal aortic aneurysm repair," Br. J. Surg., vol. 104, no. 13, pp.
           1791-1801, 2017.

       11. H. M. Barakat, Y. Shahin, J. A. Khan, P. T. Mccollum, and I. C. Chetter, "Preoperative
           supervised exercise improves outcomes after elective abdominal aortic aneurysm repair,"
           Ann. Surg., vol. 264, no. 1, pp. 47-53, 2016.

       12. J. Myers et al., "A randomized trial of exercise training in abdominal aortic aneurysm
           disease," Med. Sci. Sports Exerc., vol. 46, no. 1, pp. 2-9, 2014.

       13. P. Banugo and D. Amoako, "Prehabilitation," BJA Educ., vol. 17, no. 12, pp. 401-405,
           2017.

       14. G. A. Tew, R. Ayyash, J. Durrand, and G. R. Danjoux, "Clinical guideline and
           recommendations on pre-operative exercise training in patients awaiting major
           non-cardiac surgery," Anaesthesia, vol. 73, no. 6, pp. 750-768, 2018.

      Our hypothesis is that a mentored prehabilitation programme will benefit patients having
      elective aortic aneurysm surgery. This approach should be tested in a pilot study to ensure
      appropriate study design, processes and uptake of the programme by patients.

      Primary objectives

      To determine the feasibility of delivery of a randomised controlled trial by examining the
      following:

        1. Feasibility of screening and recruitment. Definition: screening: recruitment ratio of
           3:1

        2. Subject retention and adherence to 8-week follow up and blinding

      Definition:

        -  Subject wearing activity tracker for greater than 80% of the time.

        -  80% or more attendance to 8-week follow up

        -  80% or more maintenance of blinding

           3. Adherence to trial protocol by comparing weekly physical activity between the three
           trial groups.

        -  Definition: increase in activity in intervention groups of 30% or more compared to the
           control group

      Secondary objectives

      To determine baseline outcome data that may be used to power a full randomised control trial
      by examining the following:

        1. Composite of post-operative cardiac, respiratory and renal complications at 30 days

           Defined as:

           Cardiac: MI, new onset arrhythmia, prolonged inotropic support ( > 12 hours post op)
           Renal: renal insufficiency needing haemofiltration, >20% increase in creatinine from
           baseline.

           Respiratory: prolonged intubation > 12 hours, patient needing re- intubation,
           post-operative pneumonia

        2. Mortality at 30 days

        3. Length of hospital stay

        4. Quality of life (QoL) EQ-5D-baseline, pre-operative, 6 weeks post-operative

        5. Tests of activity and function using the following assessment tools at baseline and
           pre-operatively:

           - Duke Activity Status Index (DASI) score.

             -  Time up and Go (TUAG)

             -  Gait speed

             -  Leg muscle strength

           Study Design This will be a single centre, single blinded, randomised, controlled pilot
           study.

           Inclusion criteria

           • Scheduled for aortic aneurysm surgery

             -  Ability to walk

             -  Willingness to wear the activity tracker for 8 weeks.

             -  Willingness to return at 8 weeks for assessment of secondary outcomes

           Exclusion criteria

             -  Urgent or emergency aneurysm repair

             -  Patients who undergo emergency admission during the 8-week time frame, will be
                removed from the ongoing trial, but their data will be used up to that point.

             -  Contraindications to exercise

             -  Severe musculoskeletal disorders preventing exercise

           Recruitment

           Eligible patients will be identified either from tertiary referrals, or during the
           weekly aneurysm multidisciplinary meeting by the aortic clinical nurse specialist (CNS).

           The CNS will post the participant information leaflets to eligible participants 2-3
           weeks before their first surgical consultation.

           The research team will then recruit and consent the participants on the day of their
           attendance to the surgical clinic.

           The workshop will run on two Fridays a month. The participants will then be randomised
           to one of three groups on this date. All recruited participants will be given the
           activity monitor and instructed on its use for the study.

           The participants recruited into the non-mentored (Arm 2) and mentored (Arm 3)
           interventions will then attend the workshop on the next available day. Participants in
           arm 3 will be given training on the use of the app.

           Participants will be reimbursed for all study-related travel costs.

           Randomisation

           Recruited participants will be randomised into one of three intervention groups in a
           1:1:1 allocation ratio. A block randomisation technique with computer-generated sequence
           of random numbers will be produced using Sealed Envelope software
           (www.sealedenvelope.com).

           Study Arm 1 (Control):

           - Current usual practice, no prehabilitation workshop.

           Study Arm 2 (non-mentored prehabilitation):

           - Prehabilitation workshop with no further patient contact.

           - Participants to be given a prehab 'pack' which includes lifestyle advice.

           Study Arm 3 (mentored prehabilitation):

           - Prehabilitation workshop with regular 'mentoring' up to 8 weeks after the workshop,
           prior to their surgery.

             -  Participants to be given a prehab 'pack' which includes lifestyle advice.

             -  Weekly phone call by a member of the research team to remind and encourage the
                participant to increase activity.

             -  Participants will be given a smartphone with a 'Prehab Activity' app. This app is
                designed and delivered by Medopad (London, UK). The app will include motivational
                push notifications, embedded documents and video clips summarising the importance
                of prehabilitation and demonstration of exercises.

             -  The participants in this group will receive training in how to use the app by the
                research team.

             -  Participants will have the opportunity to access expert advice from a designated
                physiotherapist in normal working hours.

           Medopad is a software company which provides health information and a learning platform
           for patients. All data is anonymised and the clinicians will be able to view any
           comments made by the participants (using their ID only) - this will be cleared once the
           participant finishes the trial.

           Medopad will receive anonymised feedback from participants via the research team.

           Activity Trackers All patients are to have their activity levels tracked by an Actiwatch
           Spectrum (PHILIPS Healthcare, Eindhoven, Netherlands) activity tracker. This is a
           lightweight, waterproof, wrist-worn device. All data will be stored on the trackers and
           downloaded anonymously onto secure research computers for analysis.

           Outcome assessors will be blinded to the intervention.

           Follow up

           Patients will be followed at two time points in the trial, prior to surgery after the
           eight-week intervention period (Follow up 1) and six weeks post-operatively (Follow up
           2).

           Follow up 1: Eight weeks after recruitment, prior to surgery

           - The participant will be requested to attend St Thomas' Hospital to complete a QoL
           questionnaire and functional assessments.

           - The outcome assessor will remain blinded to the group allocation of the participant.

           Follow up 2: Six weeks postoperative Subjects will be contacted to complete a QoL
           questionnaire. Electronic patient records and discharge letters will be used to collect
           data on post-operative complications, 30-day mortality and length of hospital stay.

           Data Recording All data will be recorded onto paper CRFs which will then be transferred
           onto CASTOR database.

           Data collection

           Demographics Co-morbidities Size and type of aneurysm Surgical method

           Baseline data: Day 1; Surgical Consultation Co-morbidities Renal function QoL: EQ-5D

           Functional assessment:

           - Duke Activity Status Index Score

           - Gait speed

             -  'Timed up and Go'

             -  Hip flexion strength

                8 weeks: After the surgical OPA, before surgery. Repeat of the functional
                assessments and QoL assessment.

           Postoperative data:

           - Composite of post-operative cardiac, respiratory and renal complications at 30 days

             -  Death at 30 days

             -  Length of hospital stay

             -  EQ-5D
    
  