
    
      Inclusion Criteria:

        1. Planned for elective primary arthroplasty for knee and hip disease at New England
           Baptist Hospital.

        2. Over 20 years of age.

        3. Normal baseline platelet count, prothrombin and partial thromboplastin times.

        4. Signed consent.

      Exclusion Criteria:

        1. Surgery for acute fracture (< 4 weeks), septic joint, or extraction arthroplasty.

        2. Patients with personal history of TED, or documented hypercoagulation disease.

        3. Increased risk of hemorrhage, as from active gastric ulcer, or bleeding diathesis; or
           persistent intestinal or urinary tract bleed within the last year.

      SPECIFIC AIMS:

      This prospective, randomized study seeks to determine if there is an advantage for fixed, low
      dose of warfarin Thromboembolic Disease (TED) prophylaxis among patients undergoing elective
      lower extremity joint arthroplasty, as compared to variable dose warfarin and a low molecular
      weight heparin (LMWH). If confirmed as effective fixed, low dose warfarin would be an almost
      ideal prophylaxis against Deep Vein Thrombosis (DVT) and Pulmonary Embolus (PE): inexpensive,
      easy to administer, with minimal hemorrhagic potential, needing minimal laboratory support .

      BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE:

      A progression of studies has been performed to examine the efficacy of low dose warfarin.
      These studies demonstrated that low dose warfarin has antithrombotic activity, with little
      anticoagulant effect. Critical to this approach that the warfarin therapy be initiated prior
      to surgery. A summary of other studies offering supportive or conflicting data is available.
      (1-9)

        1. Low dose warfarin (2mg) dampens activated coagulation. (1-3)

        2. Two-step low dose warfarin begun 10-14 days pre-op is effective prophylaxis. (4)

        3. Low dose warfarin (1mg) prevents DVT's surrounding central venous catheters when started
           3 days before catheter insertion among patients at very high risk for subclavian DVT.
           (5,6)

        4. Low dose warfarin (1mg) started 7 days prior to surgery is equal to variable dose
           warfarin for TED prophylaxis following hip arthroplasty. (7)

        5. Low dose warfarin (1mg) started 7 days prior to surgery is effective TED prophylaxis for
           patients having hip replacement arthroplasties in retrospective study of 1003 patients.
           (8)

      The sentinel study used a fixed low dose warfarin regimen given to patients at extreme risk
      for DVT. Patients requiring central venous catheters for chemotherapy for metastatic cancer
      participated in a randomized study of 0.0 mg vs.1.0 mg daily warfarin starting 3 days prior
      to catheter placement. Subclavian vein venograms were performed at the time of symptoms of
      subclavian vein DVT or after 90 days. When using this low dose warfarin schedule there was a
      reduction in the incidence of thrombosis from 37.5% to 9.5%. (p<0.05) Four patients acquired
      vitamin K-responsive prolongation of the PT due to concomitant advanced liver disease and/or
      malnutrition. Concentrations of factors II, VII, IX, X, and protein C showed no difference
      between treated and untreated patients. (5)

      Two orthopedic surgery studies from NEBH on this question have been published. (7,8) The
      first was a pilot study of 100 patients demonstrated no difference between the effectiveness
      of low fixed dose and variable dose warfarin in a population of patients at high risk for TED
      (7) Patients studied were planning total hip replacement arthroplasty were randomized between
      the standard regimens using warfarin of 5 mg the night prior to surgery followed by variable
      dose (target PT 1.3 - 1.5 times normal) for 30-45 days, or the experimental regimen using 1
      mg beginning 7 days prior to surgery and continued until follow up at 30-45 days. Ultrasounds
      of the deep veins of the legs were performed at baseline, at discharge following surgery, and
      at 30-45 day follow-up. There was no difference between the groups for incidence of venous
      thrombosis. The second study was a retrospective study of patients undergoing primary (833)
      or revision (170) hip replacement arthroplasty receiving 1 mg warfarin for 7 days before
      surgery, variable dose while in hospital, (INR target 1.5 - 2.0) followed by 1 mg daily until
      follow-up at 30-45 days. (8) Each patient used pneumatic followed by elastic compression
      stockings. Of these 1003 patients, with 9 lost to follow-up. Three patients had TED,
      including 1 PE and 2 DVT.
    
  