
    
      In co-operation with the Swedish Handball Federation, Swedish elite players are invited to
      participate during September 2019 and start to use the mobile application weekly during the
      current season (2019 to 2020.

      By an electronic signed agreement, they receive unique user-name and log in. Download the
      free app from AppStore or Google Play, and then they are ready to start registration with
      questions in order to get retrospective data from the last week.

      It takes 2-8 minutes to complete a registration, depending on if they have had a injury to
      report or not.

      The data are stored according to data-regulations and GDPR on a secure server at Linköping
      University.

      Players in the top League in Swedish handball, for the men called Handbollsligan and for
      females called SHE, together with contact persons for their Medical team will take part in
      the study. The later only when it comes to analysis of management of a head injury/concussion
      in case of such an injury in their team.

      There is 14 possible male-teams within Handbollsligan and 12 possible female-team in SHE.
      Assessed possible number of players to register as a user of AIM Control is thought to be
      between 15-25 players peer team. Considering that some of them will not agree to participate
      or complete the study, a probable total number of participants might be 150 players in
      analysis.

      This epidemiological study has the objective to create research based knowledge about the
      injury panorama within Swedish handball with special interest in head-injuries in the elite
      level.

      A retrospective weekly registration by the handball player to record handball related
      injuries together with self-assessed injury impact. The application will push notice when it
      is time to do the weekly registration as well as a reminder.

      Also data about sports/exercise exposure, other causes that could affect the players ability
      to practice/play matches, self-rated recovery before next practice/match as well as positive
      and negative affects will be analyzed.

      If power, association between variables before injury occurs as well as afterwards is taught
      to be analyzed.

      If a head injury is reported, possible symptoms afterwards will be self-reported in the app
      (part 2 in SCAT 5), and duration and when they return to team practice will be analyzed.
      Several questions regarding standard management and decisions for return to play is monitored
      by interviewing members of the Medical team and a follow-up interview with players with a
      handball related head-injury is planned to map retrospective experiences.
    
  