
    
      It is estimated that more than 150,000 patients receive anticoagulant treatment in Greece.
      More than 10% of those will need to undergo surgery annually. Major side effects of all
      anticoagulants are bleeding or major thromboembolic events perioperatively.

      The perioperative treatment of patients receiving long-term anticoagulant therapy is
      challenging. This is attributed to the continuation of anticoagulants perioperatively, which
      is associated with an increased bleeding risk while their discontinuation increases the risk
      of thromboembolic or ischemic events.

      Type of surgery and patient's comorbidities (i.e. haematological diseases, renal or hepatic
      insufficiency, and concomitant use of other anticoagulants) are significant factors
      associated with perioperative bleeding. According to the 2011 Canadian Cardiovascular Society
      Guidelines for the Management of Patients with Antiplatelet Disorder, bleeding risk is
      stratified as following:

        -  Very high risk: neurosurgery (intracranial or spinal surgery), cardiac surgery (coronary
           artery bypass grafting or valve replacement).

        -  Medium risk: intrathoracic, intra-abdominal procedures, orthopaedic, vascular and other
           selective procedures (prostate or cervical biopsy).

        -  High Risk: major vascular surgeries (abdominal aortic aneurysm, aortic bypass), major
           orthopaedic surgery on the lower extremity (total hip / knee), pneumonectomy,
           enterectomy, placement of permanent pacemaker or internal defibrillator and other
           selected procedures (kidney biopsy, pericardium puncture, resection of colon polyps).

        -  Low risk: laparoscopic procedures (cholecystectomy, inguinal hernia repair), dental,
           dermatological, ophthalmic procedures, coronary angiography, gastroscopy /colonoscopy
           and other selected procedures (bone marrow or lymph node biopsy, thoracotomy, joint
           puncture).

        -  Very low risk: low risk dental procedures (i.e. tooth extraction), skin biopsy or skin
           cancer excision, cataract surgery.

      Surgical thrombotic risk assessment is based on 2014 ESC / ESA Guidelines on non-cardiac
      surgery. Low risk (<1%) surgeries include superficial surgery, breast procedures etc., medium
      risk (1-5%) splenectomy, cholecystectomy, etc., and high risk (>5%) are major aortic and
      other major blood vessel operations, open limb revascularization or amputation or
      embolectomy, gastric surgery, hepatectomy, etc.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate and record the management of anticoagulant
      therapy and long term outcome. The primary target is to record the anticoagulant management
      in non-cardiac elective surgery during one year in our Hospital. The study involves the
      investigation of the degree of compliance according to published guidelines. Immediate
      postoperative complications and major events are secondary goals. Data are assessed at 30, 90
      days and one year follow up after surgery.

      Data recording involves patient demographics, somatometric data, medical history,
      comorbidities and home medication. Specifically, details concerning antiplatelet or
      anticoagulant medication, such as diagnosis, duration of treatment, time to treatment
      discontinuation prior surgery, bridging, intraoperative administration of anticoagulants if
      needed, time of re-administration postoperatively and what medical specialties were involved
      in the perioperative management of antithrombotic agents are also included. Hospital length
      of stay is also recorded. Complications recorded during the one year study period include the
      following: acute myocardial infarction, pulmonary embolism, vascular haemorrhage, sudden
      death, arrhythmias, aneurysm rupture, bleeding and management, and other major events.
      Moreover, after patient discharge, all cause re-hospitalization and any alteration to
      antithrombotic treatment is also recorded.

      Perioperative management of patients receiving antithrombotics is multifactorial and high
      quality evidence is lacking. The achievement of the delicate balance between efficacy and
      safety, between thrombotic and hemorrhagic risk, remains a challenge for the physicians who
      are called upon to treat patients under antithrombotic agents who are candidates for surgery.
      Understanding the need to discontinue or not antithrombotic agents and adapting treatment
      strategies according to type of surgery is the key to balance their safety and efficacy.
      Cardiologists, surgeons, and anaesthesiologists should be aware of the potential catastrophic
      risks of early discontinuation or continuation of antithrombotic therapy.
    
  