
    
      Other investigators have focused on tumor cell-based vaccine strategies using either
      allogeneic or autologous tumor cells. Vaccines derived from allogeneic melanoma tumor cell
      lines are associated with no clinically significant toxicity when given alone.

      Most tumor cell line vaccines are lethally irradiated, but not genetically modified. However,
      a newer generation of tumor vaccines that have been genetically modified to enhance
      tumor-associated antigen presentation to patient T cells have reached early clinical trials.
      Based on extensive preclinical studies and clinical allogeneic prostate cancer vaccine data,
      a strong impression exists that ex vivo GM-CSF gene transfer may make human prostate cancer
      cell lines more potent in inducing clinically relevant antitumor immune responses in men with
      micrometastatic prostate cancer.

      In the early clinical studies of irradiated GM-CSF-secreting autologous cancer cell vaccine
      treatment of advanced kidney cancer and advanced melanoma, immune responses elicited by
      vaccination appeared dependent on both the vaccine cell dose administered and the level of
      GM-CSF secretion by the vaccine cells. A significant fraction of the nearly 50,000 men each
      year who suffer from life-threatening prostate cancer will not be candidates for autologous
      tumor vaccine treatments simply because an insufficient number of autologous prostatic
      carcinoma cells will be available after surgery. These men may benefit from an allogeneic
      GM-CSF-gene-transduced prostate cancer vaccine.

      Theoretically, autologous prostate cancer cells may be the best source of prostate cancer
      antigens for eliciting therapeutically useful immune responses. However, evidence has
      accumulated to suggest that allogeneic prostatic carcinoma cells might also serve as useful
      sources of prostate cancer antigens for prostate cancer vaccine construction. One theoretical
      concern about the use of allogeneic prostate cancer cells to prime antigen specific T-cell
      immunity is whether cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTLs) restricted to the HLA molecules of the
      patient's tumors can be primed by vaccine cells expressing different (allogeneic) HLA
      molecules. Recent work has shown that the GM-CSF gene transduced tumor cells do not directly
      prime MHC class I restricted CTLs but are broken down by the recipient's antigen-presenting
      cells, which process and present these antigens on their HLA molecules to prime T cells. In
      fact, tumor cells that do not express any MHC class I molecules are nevertheless capable of
      generating systemic antitumor immunity that is comparable to their MHC class I positive
      counterparts.

      Phase I and II studies of the allogeneic prostate cancer vaccine have been performed in
      patients with metastatic prostate cancer. One is a Phase I trial of CG1940 alone and one is a
      phase I/II trial of CG1940 and CG8711 using the AAV GM-CSF vaccine cells. These trials are
      currently in progress to evaluate safety and time to progression by PSA and bone scan. In
      these trials the vaccines are administered at dose levels of 5 x 10^7, 1 x 10^8, 2 x 10^8, or
      3 x 10^8 cells every 2 or 4 weeks for 3 to 12 vaccinations and a 5 x 10^8 cell prime
      vaccination followed by a 3 x 10^8 cell boost vaccination every 2 weeks for a total of 13
      vaccinations. Preliminary analysis of the 12 patients enrolled in the phase I trial shows one
      patient with stable disease. Eighty patients have been enrolled in the phase II trial.
      Sixty-five of these patients in the phase II trial have been followed for a median of 4
      months. One of these patients had a partial PSA response, and 10 maintained stable PSAs.
      Follow-up bone scans were obtained in 33 patients. One patient showed improvement in
      metastatic lesions on his bone scan, and 12 patients maintained stable disease on bone scans.
      ICTP was assayed at Treatment 1, Treatment 4, and at the First Follow-Up Visit in fifteen
      patients. The ICTP level decreased in five patients (33%) of whom two had undetectable levels
      after vaccine treatment. This normalization of osteoclast activity suggests a novel mechanism
      of immunotherapy in metastatic prostate cancer.

      As of November 29, 2004, 188 patients have received the prostate GVAX vaccine. In summary,
      these phase I and II trials showed that CG1940 and CG8711 has an excellent safety profile. As
      of January 24, 2005, a phase III trial of prostate GVAX is open at more than 40 medical
      centers in the USA.
    
  