
    
      Many health care interventions and medications found to have benefits ("efficacy") in
      experimental, tightly-controlled, human research trials are later found to lack real-world
      health benefits ("effectiveness"). Inadequate surveillance of real-world clinical
      effectiveness may falsely reassure clinicians and those who monitor healthcare quality,
      propagating unrecognized ineffective or harmful treatments at high costs to patients and
      society. The failure to translate potential health benefits into realized gains, or to detect
      unexpected harms in healthcare delivery, stems from a lack of methods with which to robustly
      measure real-world (in)effectiveness. Current methods to detect changes in outcomes 'before
      and after' implementation may be biased by secular trends in healthcare practice and
      outcomes; other methods to compare outcomes for treated and untreated patients may be biased
      by unmeasured factors.

      The current project aims to develop and demonstrate - as a proof-of-concept - the use of a
      quasi-experimental research method called 'regression discontinuity design (RDD)' in
      surveillance of real-world clinical effectiveness. RDD had previously found use in the
      evaluation of educational programs in which students scoring below a threshold were assigned
      an intervention. The US Department of Education considers RDD designs to have quality similar
      to randomized trials. However, RDD has not been rigorously evaluated in the context of
      evaluating clinical effectiveness. RDD can be used whenever an intervention is given to
      patients scoring above a threshold on a continuous biomarker or risk score. This scenario
      often arises in clinical practice, in which thresholds are used to identify and treat 'high
      risk' patients. In RDD, outcomes are compared for patients just above and just below the
      threshold, who are similar, but receive different treatments.

      The project will study the use of RDD in evaluating the real-world effectiveness of
      drotrecogin alpha, a medication that was recommended by the FDA to be given to critically ill
      patients with severe sepsis at high risk for mortality (APACHE score > 25). Drotrecogin alpha
      was shown to potentially have "effectiveness" using traditional methods of real-world
      research, but was eventually shown to not be clinically efficacious in subsequent large
      randomized trials. The present proposal is a 'proof-of-concept' study that will allow
      evaluation of effect estimates derived from RDD methods to those of gold standard, pooled
      randomized trial results. The demonstration of feasibility for a new research method, such as
      RDD, to evaluate real-world clinical effectiveness would be a major leap forward in the
      ability monitor for potential real world benefits and harms of new treatments.
    
  