
    
      Background:

        -  We have engineered human TIL (tumor infiltrating lymphocytes) and peripheral blood
           lymphocytes (PBLs) to express an anti-MART-1 T-cell receptor that recognizes an
           HLA-A*0201 restricted epitope derived from the TIL clone DMF5.

        -  We constructed a single retroviral vector that contains both alpha and beta chains and
           can mediate genetic transfer of this TCR with high efficiency without the need to
           perform any selection.

        -  In co-cultures with HLA-A*0201 positive melanoma, anti-MART-1 F5 TCR transduced T cells
           secreted significant amount of interferon (IFN)-gamma (but no significant secretion was
           observed in control co-cultures with cell lines.

        -  The anti-MART-1 F5 TCR transduced T-cells could efficiently kill HLA-A*0201 positive
           tumors. There was little or no recognition of normal fibroblasts cells.

        -  This TCR is over 10 times more reactive with melanoma cells than the MART-1 TCR that
           mediated tumor regression in two patients with metastatic melanoma.

      Objectives:

      Primary objectives:

      -Determine if the administration of anti-MART-1 F5 TCR -engineered peripheral blood
      lymphocytes (PBL) or tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) and aldesleukin to patients
      following a nonmyeloablative but lymphoid depleting preparative regimen will result in
      clinical tumor regression in patients with metastatic melanoma.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Determine the in vivo survival of TCR gene-engineered cells.

        -  Determine the toxicity profile of this treatment regimen.

      Eligibility:

      Patients who are HLA-A 0201 positive and 18 years of age or older must have:

        -  metastatic melanoma;

        -  previously received and have been a non-responder to or recurred after aldesleukin;

        -  normal values for basic laboratory values.

      Patients may not have:

        -  concurrent major medical illnesses;

        -  any form of primary or secondary immunodeficiency;

        -  severe hypersensitivity to any of the agents used in this study;

        -  contraindications for high dose aldesleukin administration.

      Design:

        -  If TIL can be obtained and grown, but are non-reactive, patients will be assigned to
           receive TIL transduced with the anti-MART-1 F5 TCR retroviral vector. If TIL cannot be
           obtained, PBMC will be obtained by leukapheresis (approximately 5 X 10(9) cells) and
           cultured in the presence of anti-CD3 (OKT3) and aldesleukin and transduced with the
           anti-MART-1 F5 TCR retroviral vector. If TIL cells are reactive to autologous tumor or
           major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-matched tumor cells or PBL cannot be grown,
           patients will not be treated on this protocol.

        -  Transduction is initiated by exposure of approximately 10(8) to 5 times 10(8) cells to
           retroviral vector supernatant containing the anti-MART-1 F5 TCR genes. These transduced
           cells will be expanded and tested for their anti-tumor activity.

        -  Once engineered lymphocytes are demonstrated to be biologically active according to the
           strict criteria outlined in the Certificate of Analysis, patients will receive a
           nonmyeloablative but lymphocyte depleting preparative regimen consisting of
           cyclophosphamide and fludarabine followed by intravenous infusion of ex vivo tumor
           reactive, TCR gene transduced cells plus IV aldesleukin (720,000 IU/kg q8h for a maximum
           of 15 doses).

        -  Patients will undergo complete evaluation of tumor with physical examination, CT of the
           chest, abdomen and pelvis and clinical laboratory evaluation four to six weeks after
           treatment and then monthly for approximately 3 to 4 months or until off study criteria
           are met.

        -  The study will be conducted using a phase II optimal design where initially 21 evaluable
           patients will be enrolled into each of two cohorts. If 0 or 1 of the 21 patients per
           cohort experiences a clinical response, then no further patients will be enrolled but if
           2 or more of the first 21 evaluable patients enrolled in that cohort have a clinical
           response, then accrual to that cohort will continue until a total of 41 evaluable
           patients have been enrolled in that cohort.

        -  The objective will be to determine in two cohorts if the combination of high dose
           aldesleukin, lymphocyte depleting chemotherapy, and anti-MART-1 F5 TCR-gene engineered
           lymphocytes (TIL and PBL) is able to be associated with a clinical response rate that
           can rule out 5% (p0=0.05) in favor of a modest 20% PR (partial response) + CR (complete
           response) rate (p1=0.20).
    
  