
    
      This prospective, multicenter longitudinal five-year study of X-STOP PEEK implant usage in
      LSS patients is designed to supplement pre-market safety and effectiveness data with
      information on longer-term device performance in a population of patients with moderately
      impaired physical function at preoperative baseline (i.e., an "indicated" population) who
      elect to undergo X-STOP PEEK surgery. This post-approval study will enroll 240 patients at up
      to 8 clinical sites where all participating spine surgeons have completed a company-sponsored
      physician training program. The clinical sites recruited to participate in this study
      comprise a geographically diverse mix of academic, referral, and/or community based sites.

      Safety and effectiveness data will be assessed at baseline and annually through five (5)
      years postoperatively. Office visits will be scheduled preoperatively, and at 6 weeks, 1, 2,
      3, 4, and 5 years postoperatively. Clinical/neurological and radiographic examination will be
      performed during each office visit. A baseline patient history (including medication usage)
      will be taken, and concomitant medications will be recorded at each postoperative follow-up
      visit. In addition, patients will be asked to complete the following questionnaires prior to
      consultation with their physicians or their staff: Zurich Claudication Questionnaire (ZCQ),
      Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), Numeric Rating Scale (NRS), and SF-36 Health Survey. At the
      2-, 3-, 4- and 5-year office visit, patients will also be asked two questions assessing the
      value of surgery and the overall improvement in the quality of life postoperatively.

      The primary study endpoint in this study is treatment success. Secondary endpoints will
      include scores from the SF-36, ODI, and NRS, as well as incidence rates of adverse events,
      device failures, and secondary surgeries.
    
  