
    
      This pilot study is designed as a randomised controlled trial comparing the effectiveness of
      two group interventions to a waitlist control (WLC) group: The first group is informed by
      Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT), and the second group is informed by
      Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR). Student participants in the intervention groups
      will take part in either four 2-hour group sessions of ACT or MBSR-informed group
      interventions. Participants who are placed on the waitlist will be offered either brief ACT
      or brief MBSR-informed groups after 4 weeks. Both intervention and WLC groups will be
      administered an assessment battery before the interventions start (baseline), and soon after
      the intervention (post-intervention). All participants will complete the assessment battery
      measures at 8 weeks after post-measurement (4-week follow-up). After the completion of the
      4-week follow-up measures, participants in the WLC group will be randomly allocated to either
      intervention groups, followed up by a post-measurement 4 weeks later after the completion of
      each intervention.

      METHODS Therapeutic interventions: Participants of the intervention groups will be randomly
      allocated into either a 4- week ACT or MBSR-informed group. Instructions will be offered by
      the group facilitators, including discussion, reading assignments, as well as training and
      practice in a variety of acceptance- and mindfulness-based techniques.

      ACT GROUP The ACT protocol proposed in this study has been adapted from a manual developed by
      Flaxman, McIntosh and Oliver (2018) for ACT training in workplace settings. This protocol has
      been adapted further by the authors in collaboration with Dr Kornilia Givissi and Dr Hana
      Villar for use in clinical settings and specifically applied to participants struggling with
      anxiety. This intervention combines psychoeducational and experiential practices to introduce
      concepts and develop skills in the six core processes of ACT. Participants will attend 4
      two-hour weekly sessions of this group. The first five and last five minutes of each session
      will be for process measure completion. The focus of each session is detailed in the ACT
      protocol MBSR-INFORMED GROUP The 4-week MBSR protocol proposed in this study has been adapted
      from the work of Kabat-Zinn (1990), Segal, Williams, and Teasdale (2002) and has been adapted
      by Dr Trudi Edginton, an experienced mindfulness teacher. It has synthesised the main
      elements, includes all of the traditional practices and is congruent with the philosophical
      underpinning of the original MBSR group. This group consists of 4 two-hour weekly sessions.
      The first five and last five minutes of each session will be for process measure completion.
      The focus of each session is detailed in the MBSR-informed protocol .

      Waitlist Control (WLC) group: Those assigned to the WLC group will not engage in the group
      interventions during the course of the intervention period. At the start of the pilot trial,
      they will be informed of the 4-week waiting period after which they will be randomly
      allocated into either intervention groups. They will be asked to complete the assessment
      battery measures at baseline and all follow-up timepoints.

      Researcher/Practitioners: The ACT or MBSR-informed protocols in this study will be delivered
      by qualified and HCPC registered counselling and/or clinical psychology practitioners and are
      either employed or visiting lecturers in the Department of Psychology. They will all have
      received training in ACT and/or MBSR, and will undertake weekly clinical peer supervision to
      ensure fidelity to the intervention models. The research will be evaluated by the named staff
      members on this application and will not provide interventions but supervision to those
      delivering the protocols to the study participants.

      Evaluation: Evaluation of the study will be conducted by the research clinic team. The
      evaluation will comprise of the assessment battery measures that will be self- administered
      at the start of the project and collected by the researcher, and therapy process measures
      that will be completed at the end of each session. To ensure confidentiality, measures will
      be de-identified and assigned a code. The researcher will remind the participants that they
      can choose not to complete the measures or answer any of the questions. Any paper-based
      measures completed by participants will be stored in a locked filing cabinet in the research
      clinic office until the data have been entered into a computer, after which hard copies will
      be securely destroyed. Data collected via tablet or other electronic devices will be stored
      on a City-protected cloud.
    
  