
    
      Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic autoimmune inflammatory disease characterized
      by the presence of multiple auto antibodies and is associated with a multisystemic illness.
      The clinical presentation of SLE ranges from mild to severe and the course of the disease is
      unpredictable, with periods of remission and flares. (1) Juvenile-onset systemic lupus
      erythematosus (jSLE) patients present more frequently in teenage years and accounts for
      15%-20% of lupus population, and they typically have severe disease course than adult
      patients. A considerable number of jSLE patients have significant renal or central nervous
      system(CNS) involvement at the time of diagnosis.(1) It is slightly more common in girls,
      with a sex ratio about 4:3 before puberty; however after puberty, the sex difference
      increases to about 4:1.(2) The disease is more common in Native Americans,African Americans,
      and Asians. (3) Prevalence rate of jSLE have varied from 4-250 per 100,000 population.(4,5)
      JSLE is not rare in Egypt and Africa, representing an important subset that is commonly
      overlooked and requires special attention. (6,7) SLE ranges from an insidious, slowly
      progressive, chronic disease with exacerbations and remissions,to an acute and rapidly fatal
      disease. Constitutiona lfeatures such as fever, fatigue, anorexia, myalgia,weight loss are
      common both at onset and during exacerbations of the disease. (8,9) Familial Mediterranean
      fever (FMF), an autosomal recessively inherited autoinflammatory disorder, is characterized
      by recurrent, self-limited inflammatory attacks involving mainly serosal membranes. The
      disease has been associated with variations in the MEFV gene, which encodes the pyrin
      protein, in the great majority of patients.(10) FMF is the most common autoinflammatory
      disorder, and the rate of heterozygous carrier for MEFV gene variations is quite high in
      Eastern Mediterranean countries, including Turkey, Israel, and Armenia.(11,12) A higher acute
      phase response has been reported in asymptomatic heterozygous carriers, and heterozygosity
      for MEFV variations has been suggested to affect the course of other autoinflammatory
      disorders.(13,14) A connection between FMF and collagen diseases were suggested previously by
      multiple studies as that MEFV mutations M694V and M680I were observed to be associated with
      Behcet's Disease (BD), (15)Also the MEFV variants in exon 10 were suggested to affect the
      clinical presentation of Henoch-Schönleinpurpurain populations where FMF is common. (16) The
      mutation p.M694V/I in MEFV gene might be a risk factor for systemic onset juvenile idiopathic
      arthritis sJIA, (17)and M694V is accepted to be associated with more severe inflammation as
      compared to other mutations in patients with Polyarteritis nodosa.
    
  