
    
      In 2018, 32.6% of women of reproductive age had an unmet need for family planning in Uganda,
      meaning they wanted to avoid pregnancy but were not using a modern contraceptive method.
      Filling the unmet need for family planning has important public health implications,
      including reductions in pregnancy-related health risks and deaths, and infant mortality.
      While Uganda is scaling up efforts to reduce supply-side barriers in rural areas, such as
      community distribution of contraceptives, couples are still faced with multi-level
      demand-side barriers to contraceptive use. In addition to misinformation and fear of
      contraceptive side-effects, relationship dynamics, peer and family influence, and broader
      community norms promoting large family size and traditional gender roles influence family
      planning. This study will pilot test a multi-level, community-based intervention, which
      employs transformative community dialogues to alter individual attitudes and the perception
      of community norms that discourage family planning. Community dialogues are delivered to
      groups of couples enhanced to simultaneously address individual and interpersonal-level
      determinants of family planning and link couples to family planning services. The aims of
      this project are to conduct a pilot quasi-experimental controlled trial to: 1) assess
      acceptability and feasibility of the trial procedures and intervention content; 2) the
      intervention's potential efficacy on contraceptive uptake and continuation and intermediate
      outcomes (knowledge, attitudes, perceived community norms, partner communication and equity)
      through 6-month follow up.

      One village will be randomized to the multi-level intervention and one village to the control
      condition (attention-matched control intervention). Participation in the full study will last
      6 months. Participants will first complete a questionnaire after enrollment, and female
      participants will take a pregnancy test at baseline. Participants in both study arms will
      participate in interviewer administered questionnaires at 3 months and 6 months follow-up,
      pregnancy testing at 6-months follow-up for women, and will permit the research team to
      access their medical records to extract information about their contraceptive use and use of
      family planning services. Participants in the intervention arm will participate in a series
      of group sessions with other couples from the community. Group sessions will last
      approximately 90 minutes, including community dialogues to reconstruct group norms that
      discourage contraceptive use enhanced with activities to improve knowledge, motivation,
      couple dynamics, and link couples to services.
    
  