
    
      Research supports the use of a Healthy Weight (HW) program targeting small lifestyle
      modifications in the prevention of ED onset and in reducing ED risk factors. Studies show
      that HW can be tailored for specific social systems (e.g., sororities) which can facilitate
      dissemination and that undergraduate peer-leaders can implement these programs. Interventions
      that can be administered affordably by endogenous providers are more likely to be
      disseminated, as indicated by the large scale dissemination of a peer-led ED prevention
      program by a national sorority. Another target social system for dissemination of ED
      prevention is collegiate athletics. Research suggests that disordered eating among female
      athletes is prevalent, and that this group is at greater, or at least equal, risk for
      developing EDs as non-athlete females. Disordered eating is especially dangerous in female
      athletes because it increases risk for the Female Athlete Triad (i.e., low energy
      availability/disordered eating, menstrual disorders, and decreased bone mineral
      density/osteoporosis) and subsequent injury. Moreover, the triad puts athletes at risk for
      serious long-term health consequences, such as osteoporosis, reproductive disorders, and
      cardiovascular disease. Despite this, efforts aimed at prevention of EDs among this group
      remain surprisingly limited. A pilot study with female athletes suggests that a modified
      version of HW can be successfully implemented by peer-leaders within the constraints of a
      competitive athletics program with positive effects at 12 month follow-up. The proposed study
      is to evaluate a randomized controlled trial of the HW intervention among female athletes.
      500 female collegiate athletes from three sites will be randomized to either the HW
      prevention program or a brochure waitlist control condition using group (cluster)
      randomization based on teams. Participants will complete surveys and telephone interviews at
      pretest, posttest, and at 6 and 12 month follow-ups. The investigators will examine; (1) the
      efficacy of HW in reducing empirically supported ED risk factors relative to a waitlist
      brochure control condition at one year, (2) whether HW impacts secondary outcomes, including
      knowledge and identification of the female athlete triad, treatment seeking for the triad,
      affect, and health care utilization, and (3) whether positive effects for HW replicate the
      effects from the pilot study at one year and 18 months for the HW condition only. Based on
      previous promising findings, the department of athletics involved in the study have chosen to
      implement HW to all athletics teams on a mandatory basis on a staggered schedule. Given that
      it is unethical to require human subjects to participate in research, the proposed study
      (i.e., the study) must be separated from the program (i.e., the athlete prevention program)
      it aims to assess. Thus, the overall study will evaluate (via assessment measures) the
      program that the departments of athletics deliver at three sites, i.e. LSU, TU/IW, and AU.
    
  