
    
      Effective analgesia in patients undergoing liver resection is an important measure to enhance
      the process of postoperative recovery. The aim of this prospective, interventional,
      randomized trial is to compare the effectiveness of postoperative analgesia using single-dose
      intrathecal morphine and intravenous morphine in patients undergoing liver resection. The
      study is to include a total 36 patients randomized in a 1:1 ratio into two groups. The
      patients scheduled for liver resection in the Department of General, Transplant and Liver
      Surgery (Medical University of Warsaw) will be screened for eligibility basing on inclusion
      and exclusion criteria. Eligible patients will be included in the study following provision
      of informed consent. Randomization will be performed immediately before the surgical
      procedure in the operating theatre. The study will be single-blinded with respect to outcome
      assessors. Patients in the experimental group (n=18) will receive a single dose (0,4 mg)
      intrathecal morphine immediately before operation and patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) with
      morphine over first 24 postoperative hours and subcutaneous morphine (5 mg in case of
      numerical rating scale>4) over next two days in the postoperative period. Patients in the
      control group (n=18) will receive a single dose of intravenous morphine (0,15 mg/kg body
      mass) immediately after the operation and PCA with morphine over first 24 postoperative hours
      and subcutaneous morphine (5 mg in case of numerical rating scale>4) over next two days. Both
      groups will receive antiemetic prophylaxis with dexamethasone (4 mg) and ondansetron (4 mg)
      and standard baseline analgesia with paracetamol (1,0 g every 6 hours) and dexketoprofen (50
      mg every 8 hours). Severity of pain at rest evaluated with numerical rating scale twice daily
      over 3 first postoperative days will be the primary outcome measure. Secondary outcome
      measures will include: severity of pain at coughing evaluated with numerical rating scale
      twice daily over 3 first postoperative days, total dose of morphine administered with PCA,
      time to patient mobilization, grade of sedation, intestinal motility, solid food intake
      tolerance, duration of hospitalization, and postoperative complications. Side effects of
      intrathecal morphine injection and intravenous morphine administration will be monitored. The
      thresholds for type I and type II errors will be set at 0.05 and 0.20, respectively.
    
  