
    
      Annually, more than 250,000 patients in the U.S. with end-stage heart failure stand to
      benefit from ventricular assist device (VAD) therapy. Despite VADs providing long-term
      "durable" support, this therapy is associated with substantial risk (50% mortality at 4
      years) and expense ($179,000 for inpatient services). Additionally, 60% of patients develop a
      healthcare-associated infection (HAI) within 90-days of implantation. Broad adoption of
      durable VAD therapy is hindered in part by HAIs, given associated sequelae (6-fold increased
      risk of 1-year mortality) and costs ($264,000 - $869,000 per patient). It is critical to
      determine how best to prevent HAIs in order to maximize the benefit of VAD therapy. While
      several studies have reported variation in HAI rates across centers after complex cardiac
      surgery, less is known in the setting of durable VADs. The average 90-day HAI rate after VAD
      implantation is as high as 19 events per 100 patient-months and varies (25th - 75th
      percentile, 9-23) across centers. While some argue that centers with lower HAI rates select
      healthier patients, others counter that improved practices (e.g., standardizing empirical and
      targeted antimicrobial therapy) or enhanced provider teamwork are more predictive of improved
      outcomes.

      While evidence-based HAI prevention guidelines and implementation tools (e.g., checklists)
      exist, these approaches are not comprehensive (e.g., neglecting device-specific determinants)
      or customizable to local context, thus limiting usability, adoption, and likelihood of
      significant effectiveness for preventing HAIs. Understanding the barriers and facilitators
      within individual centers for maximizing adoption of prevention measures would serve as the
      foundation for targeted improvement strategies. Without this knowledge, evidence-based,
      action-oriented recommendations will have limited local adoption and ultimately effectiveness
      in preventing HAIs after VAD implantation.

      The investigators long-term goal is to develop and subsequently promote wide-scale adoption
      of evidence-based HAI prevention practices following durable VAD implantation. The objective
      of this proposal is to identify prevention recommendations for the most significant HAIs
      after VAD implantation. To achieve this objective, the investigators will undertake a mixed
      methods study of adult patients receiving VADs in the U.S. from 2009 - 2017 and develop a
      modular toolkit of evidence-based recommendations. To determine best practices for preventing
      HAIs, the investigators will examine center-level differences in HAI rates to identify
      strategies used by centers with low rates, and potential barriers among centers with high
      rates.
    
  