
    
      Postoperative swelling is an annoying problem after orthognathic surgery. There are two
      reasons to minimize postoperative swelling. The first is a functional consideration.
      Orthognathic surgery is performed in oromaxillary area, and consequently swelling in this
      area can compromise airway. The second is esthetic one, as patients feel uncomfortable and
      embarrassing with a swollen face. Reducing facial swelling after orthognathic surgery helps
      to reduce airway complication and patient down time.

      Several methods are used to reduce postoperative facial swelling, including controlled
      hypotension during operation, meticulous operative procedures, postoperative facial ice
      packing, head elevation, and suction drainage. Perioperative use of steroid has been applied
      for reduction of facial swelling after oral surgery and 3rd molar extraction.
      Cyclooxygenase-1 (COX1) and COX2 have been reported to be important enzymes for inflammatory
      process, and steroids inhibit their synthesis, consequently reducing postoperative edema.
      Steroid has also been used to decrease edema after orthognathic surgery, as well as to reduce
      pain, nausea and vomiting.

      There were three randomized controlled studies looking at the effect of steroid on
      postoperative facial swelling after orthognathic surgery, separately by Dr. Weber et al,
      Peillon et al, and Munro et al. However, the results were controversial. The first two
      studies concluded that the steroid use could reduce facial swelling. The other one did not
      find significant difference between the experimental and control groups. Another limitation
      of the previous studies was that they all used two-dimensional or non-objective methods for
      evaluation of the amount of swelling, which could be less accurate. Three-dimensional
      photogrammetry has been introduced in recent years, and has obtained satisfactory results
      over the conventional methods. The investigators have experience of applying the device for
      facial surface study, and the accuracy has been validated in our imaging laboratory.

      The purpose of this study is to determine the effect of steroid for reduction of
      postoperative facial swelling determined by three-dimensional photographic method. 3dMD face
      scanner will be used. The 3-dimensional method makes no harm to patients. Patients will be
      seated during scanning and thus reducing possible inconvenience. There is no radiation hazard
      with this method. The image acquisition time is 2 milliseconds or less, and therefore no
      concern of motion artifacts. The first part of this study is to get information about the
      swelling curve after orthognathic surgery. 3dMD face scanning will be performed 5 times
      postoperatively every 12 hours after 24 hours of operation. When the postoperative timing of
      maximal facial swelling is obtained, the investigators will proceed to perform the second
      part of study, and the number of facial scanning is reduced. The second part of study
      involves recruiting 70 patients with prognathism. The patients will be carefully screened and
      selected by craniofacial surgeons. The patients will take preoperative and postoperative 3dMD
      image scanning. The recovery course and clinical outcome will be monitored. 3dMD face image
      data analysis will be performed for quantitative comparisons between the experimental and
      control groups.
    
  