
    
      In recognition of the fact that novel potential biomarkers are continually being identified
      and will need to be validated in a rapid, efficient and scientifically rigorous manner, the
      NCI has made an enormous commitment to the development of a network that will facilitate
      biomarker development and validation in multiple organ sites. As part of the National Cancer
      Institute-funded Early Detection Research Network (EDRN), the Great Lakes-New England
      Clinical Epidemiological Center (GLNE CEC) proposes a research study that validates potential
      molecular markers ("biomarkers") for the detection of precancerous and cancerous conditions
      and cancer risk assessment. Although examples of such biomarkers are currently in clinical
      use (i.e. CEA, CA-125), there are limitations to all of them. Our consortium focuses on
      gastrointestinal neoplasia. The goals of this phase of the proposed research are:

        1. Assessment of the utility of individual stool-based, serum-based and urine-based
           biomarkers for discriminating between patients with adenocarcinomas, patients with
           adenomas, patients without adenomas and normal subjects both at normal and high risk for
           developing colon cancer.

        2. Construction of a panel of markers from those considered in Objective 1 to discriminate,
           under a number of assumptions concerning prevalence and cost of misclassification,
           between:

             1. Subjects with normal colons versus patients without adenomas, patients with
                adenomas and patients with cancers;

             2. Subjects with normal colons, patients without adenomas and patients with adenomas,
                versus subjects with cancers;

             3. Subjects with normal colons versus patients without and patients with adenomas
                versus patients with cancers.

        3. Comparison of the characteristics of individual markers and panels as discriminators to
           those of the established current standard, fecal immunochemical test (FIT).

        4. Continued support of a renewal of a bank of stool samples linked to serum, tissue, and
           clinical data from patients with colorectal cancer, adenomas and normal controls for
           validation of stool-based markers that may be developed in the future.

      To build our collection, we propose to collect stool, FIT, serum, plasma, and tissue samples
      from 1000 new subjects. Each biomarker will be analyzed individually and considered as a
      potential panel marker to be used for future largescale screening longitudinal trials. (This
      protocol had previously recruited subjects from January 2006 to June 2010.)
    
  