
    
      The varicella-zoster virus (VZV) which causes herpes zoster (HZ), or shingles, is associated
      with a painful skin rash and post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN). The incidence and severity of HZ
      and PHN increase as immune function decreases, as in elderly or HIV-infected people. The live
      VZV vaccine, ZOSTAVAX, has been shown to reduce the incidence and severity of HZ and PHN in
      people over the age of 60. The main purpose of this study is to determine whether a two-dose
      regimen of ZOSTAVAX is safe and well-tolerated in HIV-infected individuals with conserved
      immune function.

      This study has two stages and two arms. It may last up to 24 weeks per subject. In Stage 1,
      48 participants with CD4 cell counts of 200 or more cells/uL will be enrolled (24
      participants with a CD4 count between 200 and 349 cells/uL and 24 participants with a CD4
      count equaling 350 or more cells/uL). These participants will be randomized 3:1 to receive
      two doses of ZOSTAVAX or placebo at least six weeks apart. If certain safety criteria are met
      for Stage 1, enrollment will be opened to Stage 2. Stage 2 will enroll approximately 352
      subjects with CD4+ T cell counts >= 200 cells/uL. In Stage 2, participants will be stratified
      using the same parameters as Stage 1 and will then be randomized 3:1 to receive either two
      doses of vaccine or placebo according to the same schedule. Participants will be followed for
      at least 42 days after each vaccination. Temperatures will be collected daily for 42 days
      following each vaccination. Telephone contact will also be made 2 to 3 days after each
      vaccination and at 24 weeks following the initial vaccination to obtain information regarding
      vaccination-related symptoms.

      All participants will have between 6 and 8 study visits. At the screening visit,
      documentation of HIV status is required, and blood and urine collection, a physical exam,
      medical history, and clinical assessment will occur. At each visit, a targeted physical exam
      will occur. At some visits, blood and urine collection, and a clinical assessment will occur.
      Antiretroviral medications are not provided by this study.
    
  