
    
      Cirrhosis Care Alberta (CCAB) is a 3 year multi-component system-wide quality improvement
      trial which aims to improve quality of care, reduce acute care utilization and meet the needs
      of both patients and providers throughout Alberta. Instead of addressing just a single
      contributor to acute care utilization, this ambitious intervention will be the first in the
      world to bring together care providers across the province to tackle the complex multilevel
      problem with a multilevel solution. The intervention includes implementation of our
      standardized integrated strategy for delivering evidence-based best practices under
      real-world conditions to address the key determinants of hospital readmission and length of
      stay (LOS) in patients admitted with cirrhosis.

      The CCAB project intervention includes:

        1. Comprehensive Care Bundle (development underway):

             1. Admission and Discharge/Transition order set focused on the screening and
                management of:

                  -  Cirrhosis complications

                  -  Frailty and malnutrition

                  -  Alcohol use disorder and

                  -  Transition to community

             2. Patient and caregiver education

                • A major theme that came up in focus group work with patients and in the
                literature is the lack of useful information that is available to them. This is a
                top priority for patients. Education will include guidelines and tools for patients
                to improve self-management as well as support for caregivers.

             3. Provider education

                  -  Nursing education focused on providing teaching to patients with cirrhosis and
                     initiating alcohol screening and performing a brief intervention to promote
                     abstinence is done in the minority of patients at discharge.

                  -  Physician education focused on cirrhosis complications and broader health
                     needs such as prescribing pharmacological therapies for alcohol use disorder
                     (currently done in <5% of patients even though the number needed to treat is
                     12 (i.e. need to do it in 12 patients to result in a benefit)).

        2. Community Care Pathways

             1. Hepatic Encephalopathy (HE) Pathway: HE is the most common reason for admission to
                hospital and is a significant burden on patients and families. In collaboration
                with Health Link, this project aims to develop a call pathway so that patients and
                families can receive best practice support by nurses in the community and avoid
                needing to access emergency departments when HE can safely be managed in the
                community. The patient education surrounding HE is being developed as part of the
                Care Bundle, but developing a care pathway will ensure the education is translated
                and reinforced.

             2. Ascites Pathway: Ascites (abdominal fluid build-up) is the most common cirrhosis
                related complication and is extremely uncomfortable for patients. When diuretics
                are not tolerated or ineffective, this population typically requires frequent
                draining of the ascites fluid (paracentesis) to treat symptoms such as shortness of
                breath, pain and inability to eat. Paracentesis is usually performed in hospital
                based day procedure areas, but when patients can not access a scheduled
                paracentesis in a timely manner, they are left with no option other than going to
                emergency rooms. Through process mapping and identifying current barriers and
                facilitators with each site, the project team aims to develop effective pathways
                for linking patients in with timely paracentesis.
    
  