
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Phase I

             -  Determine the maximum safe volume rate and maximum tolerated infusion concentration
                of TGFa-PE38 toxin (TP-38) infused through 2 or 3 catheters in pediatric patients
                with recurrent or progressive supratentorial high-grade glioma.

             -  Describe the toxic effects of this drug in these patients.

        -  Phase II

             -  Estimate the efficacy of this drug, in terms of post-infusion survival, in these
                patients.

      Secondary

        -  Phase I and II

             -  Determine the prevalence of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) expression and
                phosphorylation (activity) in patients treated with this drug.

             -  Correlate EGFR expression with qualitative measures (e.g., histology, grade, and
                other tumor characteristics) and tumor response, survival, and progression-free
                survival in patients treated with this drug.

        -  Phase II Only

             -  Estimate the objective response rate in patients treated with this drug.

             -  Estimate the progression-free survival of patients treated with this drug.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study. Patients in the phase I portion of the
      study are stratified according to the number of successfully placed catheters (3 catheters vs
      2 catheters). Patients in the phase II portion of the study are stratified according to time
      of recurrence of high-grade glioma (first vs second or greater) and by surgery extent
      (surgical resection vs stereotactic biopsy) for those with first recurrence only.

        -  Phase I: Patients undergo stereotactic biopsy or resection of the tumor followed by
           intratumoral (or tumor bed) catheter placement for treatment infusion. Within 12-48
           hours after intratumoral (or tumor bed) catheter placement, patients receive TGFa-PE38
           toxin (TP-38) intratumorally through 2 or 3 catheters over 33 to 124 hours. Treatment
           continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients (in each stratum) receive escalating volumes until the maximum safe
      volume (MSV) is determined. Cohorts of 3-6 patients (in each stratum) receive escalating
      concentrations at the MSV until the maximum tolerated infusion concentration (MTIC) is
      determined. The MSV and MTIC are defined as the volume and concentration preceding that at
      which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive treatment as in phase I at the MSV and MTIC.

      Phase I patients are followed post catheter placement, daily during TP-38 infusion, at 30
      days, and then every 2 months for 1 year. Phase II patients will be followed for an
      additional year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 6-105 patients (6-60 for phase I and 45 for phase II) will be
      accrued for this study.
    
  