
    
      Purpose and aims:

      The overall purpose of this project is to evaluate ASSIP for the prevention of future
      suicidal behavior in persons who attempt suicide. The specific goals are a) to examine the
      effectiveness of Attempted Suicide Short Intervention Program (ASSIP) in reducing new suicide
      attempts in Swedish healthcare, b) to identify factors associated with the effectiveness of
      ASSIP, c) to construct a cost-effectiveness model of ASSIP.

      Background:

      According to a consensus position paper from the evidence-based national suicide prevention
      task force in Europe, health care approaches with high evidence include treatment of
      depression and ensuring chain of care. These strategies are in line with Swedish guidelines.
      However, several recent international studies suggest that interventions specifically
      targeted to prevent suicide attempts may be more successful and that brief psychological
      interventions are of interest . One promising brief psychotherapeutic intervention to prevent
      new suicide attempts in suicide attempters is ASSIP . An RCT from Switzerland that included
      120 patients showed an 80% risk reduction for new suicide attempt within two years, when
      ASSIP was added on to treatment as usual (TAU) compared to TAU alone.

      Study design:

      This is an evaluator-blinded, multicenter randomized controlled trial (RCT). The patients
      will be examined with a structured interview and self-rating scales at baseline (first
      visit), and structured telephone interviews, self-rating scales and medical record screening
      at 3 months, 12 months and 24 months follow up. Completed suicides will be detected through
      the Cause of Death Register. The study will also collect information from the National Board
      of Health and Welfare (NBHW), National Prescribed Drugs Register (NPDR), Longitudinal
      integrated database for health insurance and labour market studies (LISA) and the Swedish
      Social Insurance Agency (Försäkringskassan).

      Randomization: After the first visit, the patients will be randomized to ASSIP+ TAU or TAU
      only, using stratified randomization according to clinical site. The randomization will be
      performed through REDCAP, a web-based application for electronic data collection in research
      studies. Expected site differences: To map the variation of TAU with site, age, gender, ICD
      diagnoses and previous suicide attempts, health care contacts and treatments a TAU check list
      will be used.
    
  