
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To correlate histologic measures of tumor angiogenesis and VHL mutation/methylation
           status with clinical outcome in patients with stage IV renal cell carcinoma treated with
           sunitinib malate.

        -  To determine the effects of sunitinib malate on tumor vascular permeability by dynamic
           contrast-enhanced MRI and iodine I 124 chimeric monoclonal antibody G250 positron
           emission tomography (PET) after 2 weeks of therapy.

        -  To correlate steady-state plasma concentrations of sunitinib malate and angiogenic
           growth factors in serum with clinical outcome in these patients.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Neoadjuvant therapy:Patients receive oral sunitinib malate once daily on days 1-14.

        -  Cytoreductive surgery: Patients undergo cytoreductive nephrectomy on day 16.

        -  Adjuvant therapy:Beginning at least 4 weeks after surgery, patients receive oral
           sunitinib malate once daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 42 days in the absence
           of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI with motexafin gadolinium and positron
      emission tomography with iodine I 124 chimeric monoclonal antibody G250 at baseline and after
      completion of neoadjuvant sunitinib malate (prior to cytoreductive nephrectomy).

      Patients undergo tumor tissue and blood sample collection periodically for correlative
      laboratory studies. Tumor tissue samples are analyzed for VHL mutations and other somatic
      genetic mutations by mutation analysis; allelic loss or gain by comparative genomic
      amplification; microvessel density (MVD) by immunohistochemical staining for CD34 and CD105;
      pERK, SMA, Ki-67, HIF-1α, CAIX, macrophage migration inhibition factor (MIF), and CREB by
      multicolor analysis; and VEGF-R1 and -R2 and other relevant antigen expression by validated
      assays. Blood samples are analyzed for pharmacokinetics; angiogenic growth factor levels
      (e.g., free VEGF, basic FGF, and other markers); and polymorphisms in VEGF, VEGFR, VHL, and
      HIF.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.
    
  