
    
      Research Questions/Goals and Specific Objectives:

      Research question: The study aims to answer the question whether integrated intervention of
      VHT registration of children (registration of children will enable follow up by VHTs),
      community sensitization and regular meetings between the public and private providers on
      referral of sick children targeting women and men is cost-effective and can improve uptake of
      referral advice.

      Goal: The goal of the study is to assess the effect of a strengthened referral system from
      the private sector on uptake of referral advice and its cost-effectiveness. The project
      addresses poor referral of children as one of the challenges in the reduction of under-five
      mortality in Uganda.

      Primary objective:

      1. To asses the effect of strengthening the referral system on uptake of referral of sick
      children who seek care in the private sector.

      Secondary objectives

        1. To explore factors which influence the referral or non-referral of sick children from
           the private sector.

        2. To assess the cost effectiveness of uptake of referral of sick children who seek care in
           the private sector.

           Uganda's under-five mortality is high, currently estimated at 90/1000 live births (UDHS,
           2011) Poor referral of sick children that seek care from the private sector is one of
           the contributory factors. Previous studies in Uganda and elsewhere have found out that
           referral of sick children to higher levels of care is poor (Oryema, 2009, Achan et al
           2011; Font et al 2002, Kallander et al 2006 ), In Uganda several studies have estimated
           referral of children to be as low as 8% (Kallander et al 2006) to 28% (Peterson et al
           2004). Several factors have been attributed to the poor referral like long distances to
           health facilities, high costs involved in referral, poor attitudes of health workers,
           lack of drugs at health facilities and lack of involvement of fathers in the referral
           process (Mbonye 2003, Font et al 2002).

           A study in Uganda found that of the 70% of patients who sought treatment at private
           clinics within 1 week of onset of symptoms only 7% were properly managed (treated
           according to National Guidelines). The study concluded that at private facilities
           possible strategies include training and social marketing of prepackaged treatment for
           STDs (Jacobs et al 2004).

           In Tanzania, it has been found that in urban private-sector clinics, flexible clinics
           hours, prompt services, and efforts to improve respect, privacy and confidentiality may
           prove more helpful in increasing visit adherence (Miller et al 2014).

           The proposed intervention aims to improve referral and uptake of referral advice of
           children that seek care from private facilities by addressing constraints to the
           referral of children. The private sector providers participating in this project will
           include private clinics and registered drug shops. A recently concluded trial has shown
           that staff in drug shops were mainly female, of whom over 50% were qualified health
           workers (state enrolled nurse or above). The majority of drug shop vendors had received
           no prior training on malaria case management, and had little knowledge at baseline of
           ACT as the first-line anti-malarial drug, or what an mRDT was used for (Mbonye et al.
           submitted, 2014).

           The project will be implemented in Mukono District, Central Uganda. There is a high
           prevalence of diarrhea (22.3%), acute respiratory tract infection (12%) and fever (42%)
           among children aged <5 years (Uganda Bureau of Statistics 2011).

           This district has been selected because of a recent concluded trial showed drug shop
           vendors (DSVs) adhere to malaria diagnostic test results, treat appropriately and refer
           sick children; although uptake of referral is poor. Thus proposed project therefore is a
           follow up to assess factors that lead to poor uptake of referral.

           The main focus of this project is to implement a community-based intervention to
           encourage uptake of referral. This is because non-compliance or delayed uptake of
           referral threatens child survival. The project targets children aged less than five
           years, especially in rural areas who have poor access to health interventions. Three of
           the barriers to effective treatment are poor quality of care in the private sector,
           timely referral, and uptake of referral advice at a community level . Poor quality of
           care in the private sector may be attributed to inadequate training of providers in the
           private sector (in diagnosis and management of childhood illnesses); inadequate
           supervision and regulation; poor linkages and collaboration between the public and
           private sectors. Poor uptake of referral advice may be due to lack of awareness of
           severe signs for childhood illnesses and their consequences; and poor preparation of
           household's especially inadequate male involvement in child care; and non-existent
           linkages between community structures and the public-private sectors. The
           cost-effectiveness and sustainability of such innovative ways to scale up interventions
           is not known.

           The proposed research will be implemented in a district endemic for malaria, pneumonia
           and diarrhea with both peri-urban and rural areas. It has numerous registered drug shops
           and private clinics that are capable of diagnosing febrile illnesses with RDTs and treat
           malaria appropriately and refer sick children (Mbonye et al 2013, submitted). The target
           population is children with febrile illness who seek treatment at private outlets. It is
           hypothesized that raising community awareness targeting households (women and spouses)
           and initiating discussion on saving schemes for referral costs will lead to completion
           of referral advice for sick children. The intervention will be supported with
           qualitative studies to explore reasons for uptake of referral or not; and lessons for
           policy action. The contextual issues to be explored by the qualitative research will
           include involvement of community structures (VHTs) in raising awareness, the modalities
           of linkages between the community and public-private health facilities, and incentives
           for referral.

           The first aspect of innovation is using VHTs to register children and do community
           sensitization. The second innovation in this project is introducing integrated
           management of malaria, pneumonia and diarrhea in private outlets, that has been only
           implemented at community level and in health facilities. The third aspect of innovation
           is to involve the private sector in the referral of sick children. Understanding the
           referral system is a new research area that could inform the private-public interactions
           with wider public health implications for child survival.

           There will be meetings convened by the district health system between private and public
           providers in the study communities to introduce the study and discuss the referral
           process. Referral forms will be developed and discussed with all stakeholders; as well
           as SOPs for handling referral cases. In the previous trial of RDTs in drug shops in
           Mukono district, referral forms were in the local language and health workers despised
           them. In this present study the investigators shall modify them and pilot forms in
           English, and put in place supporting interventions to foster acceptance of referrals
           from the private sector.

           The third aspect of innovation is to involve VHTs, an established community structure (
           MOH, 1999; MOH 2010) to register all children aged less than 5 years, distribute health
           education materials and enlist male heads of households and women to be active in the
           care and referral of children. Since men are crucial in decision making and control of
           resources, the investigators hypothesize that this innovation is likely to improve
           timely referral and uptake of referral advice. VHTs currently have no collaboration with
           the private sector thus creating links between VHTs and the private sector is creative
           and is likely to provide lessons for future scale up of health interventions. Meetings
           between the private and public providers have never taken place and establishing such
           interaction would be innovative.

           The immediate sustainable impact will be appropriate treatment of sick children. The
           long term effect is reduction in child mortality, which may lead to reduction in
           fertility as women would embrace more family planning methods once the survival of
           children improves. The potential scientific impact of the project will be evaluated by
           capturing data on referrals, where sick children are referred, uptake of the referral
           compared between the two arms.

        3. Objectives & Outcome Measure(s) A. Study objectives

      Primary objective:

      1. To assess the effect of strengthening the referral system on uptake of referral of sick
      children who seek care in the private sector.

      Secondary objectives

        1. To explore factors which influence the referral or non-referral of sick children from
           the private sector.

        2. To assess the cost-effectiveness of timely and uptake of referral of sick children seen
           in the private sector.

      B. Study Outcome measure(s) List and describe the primary outcome measure and if applicable,
      secondary outcome measures including both quantitative and qualitative outcomes. Discuss the
      validity of the selected outcome(s). Provide evidence that selected outcomes will provide
      relevant, valid, and reliable measures of all study objectives.

      The primary outcome:

      • The proportion of sick children referred from the private sector that completes the
      referral process (seen at higher health facilities).

      Co-primary outcomes:

        -  Appropriate case management for malaria, pneumonia and diarrhea among children in the
           private sector.

        -  The cost-effectiveness of timely and uptake of referral of sick children.

      Secondary outcomes:

        -  The proportion of sick children seeking care at private outlets within 24 hours of onset
           of symptoms

        -  The time between consultations at private outlets and uptake of referral at health
           facilities (referral facilities)

        -  The proportion of sick children receiving prompt appropriate treatment from a private
           sector outlet.

        -  Factors which influence the referral or non-referral of sick children from the private
           sector.

      All private outlets in both arms will be trained to record data on sick children aged less
      than 5years who seek care at private outlets:

        1. Demographic (age, sex, relationship to caretaker, marital status of caretaker, education
           levels, rural/urban residence)

        2. Social-economic data (household income, ownership of household items that determine
           expenditure and consumption levels, address and telephone contacts of caretakers));

        3. Type of illnesses, treatment given, prescription of drugs, referral advice, children
           referred and where referred.

      These data will be captured in patient registers and treatment forms distributed in the
      intervention and control clusters.
    
  