
    
      The Living Hungry Collaborative, in partnership with the South Florida Hunger Coalition,
      previously operated a pilot program, Fresh Food Farmacy, staged from June 1, 2018, to
      September 29, 2018. The program consisted of nine Eat Well Pop-Up Pantry events at the My
      Clinic in Jupiter, Florida, serving 104 patients and feeding approximately 300 people
      including their families. Each set of groceries contained two weeks' worth of "medically
      tailored" groceries for diabetic-friendly meals for food-insecure patients diagnosed with
      diabetes or prediabetes. All clients involved in the intervention were referred by staff at
      the same four clinics that will participate in this study: My Clinic, C.L. Brumback Clinic in
      Jupiter, Jupiter Medical Center, and FoundCare. The Living Hungry Collaborative has an
      ongoing program to further evolve and test the "Fresh Food Farmacy", renamed as the Healthy
      Food Prescription Program intervention in Palm Beach County, for food-insecure, diabetic
      patients.

      In addition to receiving diabetic appropriate groceries at the former Fresh Food Farmacy
      events, clients will be engaged in diabetes education classes led by volunteer doctors and
      nurses, cooking demonstrations, shared meals, 1:1 and group coaching by nutritionists and
      dietitians on best choices from a menu for diabetics, and tasting new recipes with produce
      from the pop-up event. The pilot program allowed Living Hungry to fine-tune the patient
      referral process, distribution logistics, and establish strong partnerships required for the
      next phase of the program. However, gaps exist to understand the extent to which the program
      design is improving the health of the participating diabetic patients.

      Living Hungry will partner with Tufts University to conduct an evaluation of this existing
      program on key health outcomes that concern the partner clinics, specifically: biomarkers
      including Hemoglobin A1C, BMI, blood pressure, lipid profile, health care utilization
      including medication use, hospitalizations, emergency department visits, and health care
      costs, plus dietary quality, food insecurity, medication use, and quality of life indicators.
      The study is a pilot evaluation, implementing a quasi-experimental, pre/post study design.

      The Living Hungry Healthy Foods Prescription Program is a community-based program that will
      be available to individuals whether or not they participate in the evaluation by Tufts
      University. This program is using the same referral and data collections procedures as the
      pilot, which include having physicians at the partner clinics refer patients with HbA1C
      levels greater than 8.0 mmol/mol and who are food insecure to Living Hungry to participate in
      the program. In addition, Living Hungry will again collect data on HbA1c, BMI, blood
      pressure, lipid profiles, and distribute a survey to participants.
    
  