
    
      Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) is a common condition among preterm infants, with an estimated
      incidence of 60% in extremely low birth weight infants (ELBW). Several factors, such as the
      relative oxygen hyposensitivity and increased sensitivity to prostaglandins of the immature
      tissues and the scarceness of ductal medial muscles, contribute to the patency of arterial
      duct in prematurely born neonates; as a consequence, the rate of spontaneous closure is
      inversely related to gestational age (GA) Over the past two decades, the persistence of a
      significant systemic-to-pulmonary shunt through the PDA has been associated with a higher
      incidence of adverse clinical outcomes, including acute pulmonary morbidities and
      bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), intraventricular haemorrhage (IVH), necrotizing
      enterocolitis (NEC), feeding intolerance and increased mortality rates.

      The management of PDA in very preterm infants first includes supportive therapy (e.g.,
      restricted fluid intake, diuretics, increasing end-expiratory pressure) and targeted
      pharmacologic treatment with cyclooxygenase inhibitors (i.e., ibuprofen, indomethacin,
      acetaminophen) or paracetamol if spontaneous closure does not occur. However, when
      pharmacological closure is ineffective or contraindicated and the neonate requires extensive
      respiratory support, surgical ligation may be required. PDA ligation can be performed
      on-site, either at the infants' bedside or in the operation room, or off-site, if a
      paediatric cardiac surgery team is not available locally. By favouring one approach over the
      other, the setting may also contribute to influence the timing for PDA ligation. To date,
      literature comparing the effects of early vs. delayed PDA ligation on the main neonatal
      morbidities has led to contrasting results; hence, the optimal timing of surgical PDA closure
      remains a matter of debate among neonatologists.

      This study aims to assess whether a different management of surgical PDA closure (on-site
      bedside ligation vs. referral to an off-site specialist paediatric cardiac surgical centre)
      may influence the timing of the intervention and the main neurological, respiratory and
      gastrointestinal clinical outcomes in very low birth weight (VLBW) preterm infants from two
      tertiary Neonatal Intensive Care Units with different paediatric cardiac surgery
      capabilities. Postoperative complications, mortality rates and the length of hospital stay
      will be also evaluated as secondary outcomes.

      Methods Preterm infants <32 weeks' gestation born at the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU)
      of Cambridge University Hospital (CUH, Cambridge, UK) and of St. Orsola-Malpighi Hospital
      (SOM, Bologna, Italy) between January 1st, 2007 and June 30th, 2018 will be included in this
      retrospective study if, due to failed or contraindicated medical therapy, underwent surgical
      closure of PDA, judged hemodynamically significant (hsPDA) either on a clinical (hypotension,
      ventilator dependence, heart failure symptoms) or echocardiographic basis (left atrial/aortic
      root ratio >1.5, pulsatile left-to-right shunt and/or mean velocity in the left pulmonary
      artery >0.6 m/s). The presence of major congenital malformations, including congenital heart
      disease, was considered an exclusion criterion.

      Echo-Doppler studies of each patient will be reviewed, and the following parameters from the
      latest pre-operative scan were will be recorded: PDA size and shunt characteristics
      (direction and pattern); left atrial to aortic root ratio; evidence of reversed end-diastolic
      flow in the descending aorta and/or in the middle or anterior cerebral artery (when
      evaluated). Contraindications and adverse effects of pharmacological treatment will be also
      reviewed. Failure of pharmacological treatment is defined by PDA persistency after at least
      two full pharmacological courses.

      Neonatal characteristics and the following pre- and peri-operative data will be recorded:
      echocardiographic PDA characteristics, PDA management (supportive or pharmacological
      treatment, related adverse effects, rates of responsiveness and recurrence),
      post-conceptional age, days of life and weight at surgical intervention.

      Neonatal outcomes include mortality rates, IVH, periventricular leukomalacia (PVL), NEC,
      sepsis (defined as relevant symptoms with positive blood culture and/or C reactive protein
      >25 mg/L and >5 days of antibiotic treatment), retinopathy of prematurity (ROP, any grade)
      and BPD (defined as any requirement for supplemental oxygen and/or positive-pressure
      respiratory support at 36 weeks' post-conceptional age). Length of hospital stay, time needed
      to achieve full enteral feeding, total duration of mechanical ventilation and the rate of
      supplemental oxygen need at hospital discharge will be also evaluated.
    
  