
    
      Thirty percent of returning veterans present with mental health problems with Posttraumatic
      stress disorder (PTSD) as the most common problem in this group (52% of overall diagnoses).
      This translates into PTSD prevalence rates of 12% in Afghani veterans and 19% for Iraqi
      veterans, rates that are two to three times higher than the overall lifetime prevalence rate
      in the general population (8%). Moreover, 70% have not received any mental health services.
      Thus the majority are not receiving any help. Those with PTSD are likely to experience
      problems across several life domains including higher rates of divorce, problems raising
      children, and engaging in domestic violence. They are also more likely to suffer from other
      mental health problems including depression, substance abuse, and generalized anxiety
      disorder. Forty four percent of individuals with PTSD do not respond to psychosocial and
      pharmacological treatments. Thus, there is a clear need to develop highly effective and
      efficient treatments for PTSD. Researchers have established a relationship between PTSD and
      difficulty disengaging attention from threat relevant information. This knowledge; however,
      has not been translated into more effective treatments for this disorder. This five-year
      proposal aims to test a computerized treatment for PTSD in a double-blind, placebo-controlled
      study that would bridge research on attention bias and treatment development. Those in the
      active condition will receive a computer-delivered attention modification program (AMP)
      designed to enhance attention disengagement from threatening stimuli. The AMP protocol
      includes six weeks of biweekly sessions in which participants see 240 trials consisting of
      the various combinations of probe type (E or F), probe position (top or bottom), and word
      type (Neutral or Trauma). Of the 240 trials, 48 include only neutral words: 2 (probe type) X
      2 (probe position) X 12 (word pairs). The remaining 192 trials include one neutral word and
      one trauma word: 2 (probe type) X 2 (probe position) X 2 (repetitions) X 24 (word pairs). On
      trials where participants see one neutral word and one trauma word (i.e., 80% of the trials),
      the probe always follows the neutral word. Thus, although there is no specific instruction to
      direct attention away from threat word, on 80% of the trials the position of the threat word
      indicates the position of the probe (i.e., in the location opposite the threat word). The
      placebo condition (PC) will be identical to the AMP condition except that during the
      presentation of threat/neutral word pairs, the probe will appear with equal frequency in the
      position of threat and neutral words. Thus, neither threat nor neutral words have signal
      value. We have used this intervention to successfully establish a pattern of enhanced
      attention disengagement to threat words in 3 studies. We present the results from 3 clinical
      trials demonstrating the efficacy of attention modification programs (AMP) in ameliorating
      symptoms of anxiety. Specifically, we report results from studies of individuals with
      generalized social phobia (GSP; n=53) and generalized anxiety disorder (GAD; n=24)
      demonstrating the effectiveness of the procedures described in this proposal. In brief, our
      intervention was effective in: a) changing biased attention, b) reducing clinical symptoms of
      anxiety, c) maintaining its effects in up to one year follow-up. This efficient and
      efficacious technique for changing attention bias in anxiety can provide a low cost, easy to
      administer treatment that is grounded in basic cognitive science that may help reduce
      suffering in individuals with anxiety. The goal of the current proposal is to extend these
      findings to the highly related disorder of PTSD, and to examine the generalizability of the
      results to individuals with comorbid conditions. In the current proposal we will test two
      hypotheses: 1) Individuals with PTSD completing the AMP will show a larger reduction in their
      attention bias to threat compared to the placebo group, 2) Individuals with PTSD completing
      AMP will show a larger reduction in anxiety symptoms compared to the placebo group.
    
  