
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To confirm the safety and tolerability of IMC-A12 (cixutumumab) and temsirolimus using the
      recommended phase II dose level for advanced solid tumors in chemo-naive patients with
      metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer and a rising prostate-specific antigen (PSA).
      (Phase I) II. To confirm the safety and tolerability of IMC-A12 and temsirolimus given on an
      every three weeks dosing schedule. (Phase I Extension) II. To determine the tumor response
      rate and/or composite time to progression (cTTP) for chemotherapy-naive patients with
      castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) receiving the combination of IMC-A12 and CCI-779
      (temsirolimus). (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximal percent decrease in PSA from baseline. II. To determine the
      change in PSA doubling time (PSADT). III. To determine the time to PSA progression and
      6-month progression-free survival (PFS).

      IV. To determine the rate of adverse events.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate changes in circulating tumor cell (CTC) numbers with time. II. To evaluate
      IGF1R and androgen receptor (AR) in CTCs and correlate with response.

      III. To evaluate profiling CTCs at the molecular level by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for
      prostate cancer-specific genes.

      IV. To explore the association between clinical outcomes, administration of therapy, and
      serial fludeoxyglucose F 18 (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET) imaging.

      V. To correlate fluorine F 18 FMDHT (18-FDHT)-PET imaging findings with outcome measures of
      response.

      VI. To perform tumor biopsies and evaluate biomarkers that may correlate with active feedback
      and tumor response to therapy, including anti-insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS-1),
      anti-IRS-2, phosphorylated (p) protein kinase B (Akt)(S473), p-ribosomal protein S6 kinase
      (70/S6K), anti-phospho-AKT1 substrate 1 (proline-rich) (PRAS 40), and phosphatase and tensin
      homolog gene (PTEN) status.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive cixutumumab intravenously (IV) over 60-70 minutes and temsirolimus IV over
      30 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks.
    
  