
    
      The main study in this protocol is a 3 arm (HUMAN vs. ECA vs. ECA + HUMAN), randomized,
      between-subjects experimental design.

      There is one sub-study, the Images study, also included in this protocol. Subjects who are
      eligible for the main study can choose if they would like to participate in this sub-study.
      This is a within-subjects design, where subjects will be randomized to different conditions
      within the system.

      One additional sub-study, called Stance, also a within-subjects design, where subjects will
      be randomized to different conditions within the system, was also included in the original
      protocol,but has since been closed to enrollment. Data collection for this sub-study was the
      same as for the current sub study (Images), and the main study (Consent Advocate).

      Eligible subjects will be given the option to participate in the sub-study in addition to the
      main study. Subjects may opt out of this sub-study, but not the main study (as in, a subject
      cannot do the sub-study and NOT do the main study, unless there is some legitimate reason to
      stop after the sub-study). Due to the nature of the content, the order of the studies must
      be:

      Images (sub) Consent Advocate (main) In these studies, baseline data is collected by the RA
      verbally administering the instruments to the subjects. Then, the subject will sit in front
      of a touch-screen monitor to interact with the character on the screen. A member of the
      research team will be available at all times to assist with any technical issues, or if the
      subject needs to take a break. Once the on-screen interaction(s) are complete, the RA will
      administer any post-system data collection instruments.

      Due to the amount of time required for data collection and completion of study protocol (each
      study takes approximately 60-120 minutes), the subject can choose to complete the 2 studies
      in 1 or 2 study visits, depending on study subject and staff scheduling needs.

      Main Study: Consent Advocate In this study, the participant will be randomized to one of
      three arms: 1) a sham research informed consent form will be explained by a research
      assistant; 2) a sham research informed consent form will be explained by an ECA, or 3) a sham
      research informed consent form will be explained by an ECA and then questions will be
      answered by a research assistant.

      Baseline Data Collection:

        1. Sociodemographics

        2. Need for Cognition

        3. Patient Activation

        4. Trust in Medical System

        5. REALM

      Post Data Collection:

        1. BICEP (primary outcome measure)

        2. Trust in Agent

        3. Instructor Evaluation Permission to audiotape the interaction will be obtained prior to
           conducting this portion of the sub-study. The audio recording will be used to analyze
           what questions the participant asks. If assigned to the ECA and RA condition, the audio
           recording will be used by the research assistant prior to conducting the live consent
           process. A knowledge test will be conducted after the consent process to ascertain what
           was understood.

      This study should take approximately 60 minutes to complete.

      Sub-study:

      1. Images. The ECA will explain a consent form but will use images to represent potential
      risk as opposed to descriptive language only. Understanding will be measured by a knowledge
      questionnaire. (n=50)

      Baseline Data Collection:

      Sociodemographics Need for Cognition

      Post Data Collection:

      Instructor Evaluation Informed Consent Scales Knowledge (of sham consent form) This study
      should take approximately 60-90 minutes to complete. If a subject participates in the
      sub-study that requires the same data collection forms (i.e. sociodemographics, need for
      cognition, etc), these forms will only be completed once for each subject, not for each study
      they participate in.
    
  