
    
      Esophageal cancer is the sixth most common cause of cancer death worldwide, killing over
      380,000 people each year. Over 80% of esophageal cancers occur in developing countries, where
      the great majority of cases are squamous cell carcinomas. Esophageal cancer is characterized
      by striking geographic variation in incidence. One remarkable high-risk area, called the
      Central Asian Esophageal Cancer Belt, stretches from the Caspian Sea across Central Asia to
      northern China and includes focal areas with recorded incidence rates greater than
      100/10s/year in both genders. For the past 20 years, D CEG investigators have studied
      esophageal and gastric cancer in one of these extremely high-risk areas, Linxian, China, at
      the eastern end of the Belt. While these studies have discovered new risk factors for
      esophageal cancer in this region, they have produced an incomplete explanation of the
      etiology of this disease. Now we have the opportunity to perform similar studies in another
      of these extremely high-risk areas, Golestan Province, Iran, at the other end of the
      high-risk Belt. The people of Golestan, in northeastern Iran, are geographically, culturally
      and ethnically quite different from the people of Linxian, and they appear to be similar only
      in their extraordinarily high rates of esophageal cancer. Performing similar studies in these
      two exceptional populations will give us a better chance to identify important new modifiable
      risk factors for esophageal cancer in both places.

      Our cohort study is a collaboration between the Digestive Disease Research Center of Tehran
      University of Medical Sciences (DDRC), the International Agency for Research on Cancer
      (IARC), and DCEG. The study has recruited 50,000 adults in three administrative districts of
      eastern Golestan Province. Baseline assessments included lifestyle questionnaire, a
      semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaire, and collection of blood, hair, nails and
      urine. Follow up will includes active surveillance by a study team, aided by a comprehensive
      health network in the rural areas, a GI referral clinic in the largest town, and a provincial
      cancer registry. The main hypotheses include dietary hypotheses (low consumption of fruits
      and vegetables, high consumption of hot tea), exposure to potential carcinogens (tobacco,
      PAHs from non-tobacco sources), novel exposures (opium, animal contact), and genetic
      susceptibility. Some cross sectional and a few total mortality analyses have been completed.
      Annual follow-up is ongoing.
    
  