
    
      The goal of this study is to evaluate if the DNA-Ad vaccine that targets both the liver and
      blood stages of the malaria life cycle is safe and protective, in hopes to develop a vaccine
      to prevent infection and/or lessen the severity of disease caused by the P. falciparum
      malaria parasite. More specifically, this DNA-Ad vaccine contains a liver stage antigen
      (circumsporozoite protein) and an antigen (apical membrane antigen 1) that is present in both
      the liver and blood stages designed to prevent infection by killing the majority of
      developing parasites in the liver and to prevent severe disease and death should
      break-through blood stage infections occur.

      This study is an open-label, Phase 1/2a study designed to assess the safety, immunogenicity,
      and efficacy of a DNA-Ad vaccine in healthy adults who are Ad5 seropositive or seronegative.
      The vaccinated study group will consist of up to 20 healthy, malaria-naïve adults aged 18 to
      50 years, who have been previously screened to meet inclusion and exclusion criteria and will
      receive three priming doses of the DNA vaccine and a single dose of the boosting component,
      an adenovirus-vectored vaccine to be given 4 months after the last dose of DNA. Follow up
      visits will occur after each immunization. The control group will consist of six
      non-immunized subjects that will participate in a challenge to assure that vaccinated
      subjects were indeed exposed to P. falciparum. Subjects in both the immunized and control
      cohorts will receive malaria challenge. Subjects will be assessed for development of
      parasitemia by daily blood smears and will be closely observed in hotel after the challenge.
      Subjects will then be followed periodically and have the final in-person visit twelve weeks
      after the challenge, followed by annual contact by phone, email, or mailings up to five years
      after the first dose of immunization per FDA recommendation.
    
  