
    
      The significance of diabetes and related co-morbidities as considerable health concerns in
      the US and worldwide is clearly supported by the high incidence (estimated 9.3% of the US
      population), mortality burden (7th leading cause of death in the US), and rising costs ($245
      billion/year). Strategies to identify individuals at high diabetic risk, and to modulate
      disease processes in these individuals before the onset of overt disease, would have a
      significant impact in reducing mortality, morbidity and healthcare costs. For this approach
      to be successful, early markers of disease that predict at-risk individuals before onset of
      dysregulated glycemic control are required, as well as discovering novel pathways for
      therapeutic targeting.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate a novel biomarker, α-aminoadipic acid (2-AAA),
      which may influence the risk of diabetes. 2-AAA has been identified as a novel predictor of
      diabetes development in humans, identifying at-risk individuals before any detectable glucose
      abnormalities. 2-AAA is a naturally occurring metabolite in the body, and it has no known
      adverse effects at normal physiological levels. 2-AAA is generated in the body from the
      breakdown of lysine. Lysine is one of the twenty essential amino acids, meaning that it is
      essential for human function, but that our body cannot manufacture it. Thus, it is acquired
      from dietary sources (such as meat, eggs, soybeans and legumes), with a recommended daily
      intake of 30 mg/kg/day. Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins, which are what allow
      our cells, organs and body to maintain structure and function. The investigators are
      interested in whether 2-AAA is increased in the body after consumption of lysine.

      The investigators specific aim is to determine whether acute lysine administration leads to
      increased plasma 2-AAA in humans. Catabolism of lysine leads to generation of 2-AAA. In this
      study, the investigators will determine whether a single dose of lysine leads to increased
      plasma 2-AAA present in the blood and urine of humans. The investigators will ask 10 lean,
      healthy subjects to drink a beverage containing lysine and the investigators will measure the
      level of 2-AAA in their blood plasma and urine at baseline (before ingestion) and serially
      post-ingestion. The amount of lysine subjects will be given is equivalent to that which is
      found in a 10 oz. serving of beef. This pilot study will allow us to establish the
      relationship between lysine and 2-AAA in healthy subjects, and inform future studies on how
      to study the effects of 2-AAA on diabetes risk.
    
  