
    
      Influenza is a leading vaccine preventable cause of respiratory illness that leads to
      substantial morbidity and mortality during the winter months. It is defined by a rapid-onset
      systemic illness, with patients presenting with fever, chills, cough, myalgias, headache and
      sore throat. Given the huge health burden caused by influenza and the ever present threat of
      a future pandemic, a better understanding of population genetic variation and its association
      with severe outcomes from influenza infection is critical for developing improved vaccines
      and treatments for the entire population of at risk persons. This study is a single-center,
      specimen collection pilot protocol designed to compare the genotype of patients, aged greater
      than 50 years, who are hospitalized with respiratory symptoms or fever at Vanderbilt
      University with culture or PCR confirmed influenza virus infection with individuals who are
      not related but are in close daily contact with the subject and are not infected with
      influenza virus during the 2006 - 2007 influenza season. This study is linked to DMID
      protocol 06-0051. All subjects will be recruited from those subjects who have been enrolled
      in Division of Microbiology and Infectious Diseases (DMID) parent study 06-0051, a Vaccine
      and Treatment Evaluation Units (VTEU)-funded respiratory disease surveillance study conducted
      during the 2006 - 2007 influenza season. If the subject has completed the surveillance parent
      study, (DMID study 06-0051), then he/she must have agreed to be contacted for future studies
      on the surveillance consent prior to enrollment into this sub-study. Controls for this study
      will be recruited via the index cases. This study will enroll 100 subjects total, 50 study
      subjects and 50 control subjects. The 50 study subjects will include individuals hospitalized
      with respiratory symptoms or fever and infected with influenza virus. The 50 control subjects
      will be uninfected, non-related individuals living in the same household or in close daily
      contact with the subject. The study staff will obtain 15 ml venous blood sample from each
      subject for genotyping studies. Subjects will have completed a health assessment as part of
      the parent trial and controls will be asked a shorter version of this survey which includes
      items such as: demographics, chronic disease history, history of immunosuppressive drugs or
      conditions, vaccination history, smoking history, and living conditions. The primary
      objectives of the study are to conduct whole genome array analysis on individuals with
      confirmed influenza virus infection and to compare their genotype with individuals who were
      likely exposed to influenza due to close daily contact, but are not genetically related.
    
  