
    
      1. Background 1.1 Pathophysiology Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a progressive
           disease that causes irreversible visual impairment and blindness in nearly 50 million
           people globally 1. 2. Current estimates of patients affected with AMD are higher than
           those affected by Alzheimer's disease 1.3 Although geographic atrophy and
           neovascularization represent the advanced forms of AMD, neovascular AMD is the more
           aggressive form and accounts for almost 90% of blindness from this disease. It is
           characterized by choroidal neovascularization (CNV) which is the development of abnormal
           blood vessels underneath the retina. Current treatments such as photodynamic therapy
           (PDT) and intravitreal pegaptanib are designed to limit further visual loss, but these
           are only marginally effective 4-6.

           1.2 Treatment of on-label naive AMD patients Recent randomized clinical trials (Marina,
           Anchor) have conclusively demonstrated that continued intravitreal therapy with
           ranibizumab in patients with subfoveal CNV from AMD leads to stabilization of vision in
           over 90% of patients and improvement in vision in at least a third of the patients and
           has led to the approval of ranibizumab (0.5 mg) for the treatment of neovascular AMD.
           Naive patients will be used in this study to determine if an improvement by ERG can be
           determined in those without prior therapy.

           1.3 Electroretinography(ERG) Effects Of Ranibizumab Therapy AMD trials are typically
           designed to address visual acuity outcomes but not designed to evaluate retinal function
           outcomes. Global and macular retinal indices as measured by electroretinography (ERG)
           are key indicators of retinal health which have largely been ignored in clinical trials.

           1.4 Non-Clinical Experience With Ranibizumab 1.4.1 Nonclinical Pharmacokinetics The
           pharmacokinetics of ranibizumab have been investigated in rabbits and cynomolgus monkeys
           following intravitreal and intravenous administration. In both species, following
           intravitreal administration, ranibizumab was cleared from the vitreous humor with a half
           life of 2-3 days. Following single intravitreal administration to cynomolgus monkeys,
           retinal concentrations of ranibizumab were approximately one third of vitreous
           concentrations and declined in parallel with vitreous concentrations. In humans, the
           intravitreal half-life of ranibizumab is estimated to be 7-8 days. Repeated intravitreal
           injections of ranibizumab can lead to detectable antibodies in serum in rabbits and
           cynomolgus monkeys.

           1.4.2 Nonclinical Toxicology A series of nonclinical studies of ranibizumab administered
           by intravitreal injection to cynomolgus monkeys have been performed (details regarding
           study design and results can be found in the Investigator Brochure).

           1.4.3 Stability Studies The stability of ranibizumab alone and in combination with
           verteporfin was assessed in vitro. The combination of ranibizumab and verteporfin in a
           5% dextrose solution at concentrations of 500 mg/mL and 1.4 mg/mL, respectively,
           resulted in ranibizumab degradation and a decrease in ranibizumab capacity to bind VEGF.
           The ranibizumab degradation products have not been fully characterized. Although it is
           currently unknown if such degradation also occurs in vivo, sequential administration of
           verteporfin followed by ranibizumab with an intervening washout period will decrease the
           likelihood of loss of ranibizumab activity and degradation.

           1.5 Clinical Experience With Ranibizumab Ranibizumab has been or is being clinically
           evaluated in nine studies (additional details regarding study design and results can be
           found in the Investigator Brochure).

           The first clinical trial with ranibizumab, Study FVF1770g was a Phase Ia study of the
           molecule given as a single intravitreal injection to subjects with neovascular AMD. The
           goals of the study were to investigate safety and tolerability and to define the
           maximally tolerated dose (MTD). The single intravitreal MTD was determined to be 0.5 mg
           (limited by ocular inflammation).

           The Phase I/II study FVF2128g was the first clinical trial of multiple-dose regimens of
           intravitreally administered ranibizumab. Sixty-four subjects were enrolled in the study.
           Data show that ranibizumab was safe and potentially efficacious in subjects with
           subfoveal choroidal neovascularization due to AMD.

           Study FVF2425g was a Phase I, open-label, randomized study of three escalating multiple
           dose regimens of intravitreally administered ranibizumab. Data show that doses of
           ranibizumab up to 2 mg could be safely given as part of an escalating dose regimen to
           subjects with subfoveal choroidal neovascularization due to AMD.

           Study FVF2428g was a Phase I/II, single masked, multicenter study of the safety,
           tolerability, and efficacy of multiple dose intravitreal injections of ranibizumab in
           combination with verteporfin PDT in subjects with neovascular AMD. Data show that the
           combination of ranibizumab and verteporfin PDT had a good safety profile in the study
           population, and the efficacy of ranibizumab and verteporfin PDT was better than that of
           verteporfin PDT alone.

           Preliminary findings from Study FVF2428g suggest that administration of ranibizumab
           injections 7 days (plus/minus 2 days) after treatment with verteporfin PDT in the same
           eye may result in a decrease in visual acuity of 30 letters due to temporary intraocular
           inflammation (uveitis).

           Study FVF2508g is an ongoing Phase I extension study designed to assess the safety and
           tolerability of multiple-dose intravitreal injections of ranibizumab administered
           monthly in subjects who have completed the treatment phase of a Genentech-sponsored
           Phase I study.

           Study FVF2587g is an ongoing Phase III active treatment-controlled study designed to
           assess the efficacy and safety of intravitreal administered ranibizumab compared with
           verteporfin in subjects with angiographically determined, predominantly classic
           subfoveal neovascular AMD.

           Study FVF2598g was an ongoing Phase III study designed to assess the efficacy and safety
           of intravitreal injections of ranibizumab administered monthly compared with sham
           injections administered monthly in subjects with angiographically determined, minimally
           classic or occult subfoveal neovascular AMD. Data show that ranibizumab was safe and
           efficacious in subjects with subfoveal CNV due to AMD.

           Study FVF3192g is an ongoing Phase IIIb study designed to assess the efficacy and safety
           of intravitreal injections of ranibizumab administered as three monthly injections
           followed by quarterly injections for a total duration of 24 months, in subjects with
           angiographically determined subfoveal neovascular AMD with or without classic CNV.

           Study 3426g is an ongoing open-label extension study designed to assess the safety and
           tolerability of intravitreal injections of ranibizumab in subjects who have completed
           the treatment phase of a Genentech-sponsored ranibizumab study.

           Study 3689g is an ongoing Phase IIIb, 1 year multicenter study of the safety and
           tolerability of intravitreally administered ranibizumab at two different doses (0.3mg
           and 0.5mg) to subjects with active subfoveal CNV secondary to AMD, administered once a
           month for 3 months and thereafter as needed, based on criteria-based re-treatment
           options.

        2. Objectives

           2.1 Primary Objective To determine if there is an improvement in retinal function
           determined by the pattern and full-field ERG following treatment with ranibizumab for
           AMD

           2.2 Secondary Objectives To determine if there is a correlation between improvement in
           visual acuity and retinal function as determined by the ERG Visual acuity at 6 months

        3. Study Design 3.1 Description Of The Study This is an open-label, Phase I single arm
           study of intravitreally administered ranibizumab in on-label treatment naive patients
           following by an assessment of retinal function using the ERG.

      Consented, enrolled subjects will receive monthly open-label intravitreal injections of 0.5
      mg ranibizumab administered every month for 6 months. ERG will be performed at baseline, 1
      month, 3 months and 6 months.

      Electroretinograms will be recorded using DTL fiber electrodes moistened with
      carboxymethyl-cellulose sodium 1% lying in the inferior fornix of each eye. Each DTL fiber
      will be laid along the top of the lower eyelids so that it contacts the inferior cornea.
      Fibers will be anchored with small adhesive pads near the inner and outer canthi. A reference
      electrode will be applied with adhesive paste lateral to the outer canthi. An adhesive
      electrode placed on the forehead will serve as the ground. Prior to pupil dilation, PERG
      responses will be recorded, including P50 (derived from macular photoreceptors) and N95
      (post-photoreceptor, including optic nerve), in response to an alternating checkerboard
      pattern. Pupils will then be dilated with tropicamide 1% and phenylephrine hydrochloride 2.5%
      for the full-field ERG and PhNR recordings. The patient will be dark-adapted for 30 minutes.
      For full-field recordings, stimuli will be brief white flashes presented by a Ganzfeld
      integrating sphere. Responses to dim and bright flashes will be recorded under scotopic
      conditions, and a- and b-wave amplitudes will be noted. Patients will then be light adapted
      for ten minutes. Responses to bright flash and 30 Hz flicker responses will then be recorded
      under photopic conditions. A- and b-wave amplitudes and implicit times will be noted.
      Finally, the photopic negative response (PhNR) will be recorded with a red flash on a blue
      background.

      3.2 Rationale For Study Design Per the package insert, naive AMD patients will receive
      monthly injections of Lucentis as part of their usual care.

      3.3 Outcome Measures 3.3.1 Primary Outcome Measures Percent of patients with Improvement in
      ERG from baseline to 6 months based on international standards (determined by expert reader).

      3.3.2 Secondary Outcome Measures

      Percent of patients with Improvement in ERG from baseline to 3 months based on international
      standards (determined by expert reader) Correlation between change in PERG and mean change in
      VA at 6 months Mean change in VA from baseline to 3 months and 6 months.

      3.4 Safety Plan There are no safety issues associated with the ERG. All safety monitoring
      will be as in standard care with the use of on-label ranibizumab. ERG testing is
      non-invasive.

      3.5 Compliance With Laws And Regulations This study will be conducted in accordance with
      current U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Good Clinical Practices (GCPs), and local
      ethical and legal requirements.
    
  