
    
      Research reports that children who were breastfed as infants have a decreased risk of
      becoming obese. However, it is not clear how breastfeeding may prevent the development of
      obesity. Breastfeeding may support the maintenance of sensitivity to internal hunger/fullness
      cues, which helps with self-regulating energy intake. Additionally, breastfeeding may
      facilitate the development of a parental feeding style low in control or restriction. This
      type of feeding style is also associated with greater ability to self-regulate energy intake.
      Bottle-feeding shifts feeding control to parents, and may lead to a parental feeding style
      high in control or restriction, impairing children's self-regulation abilities.

      The aims of this study are to determine in females aged 3-5 years if: 1.) breastfed children
      have greater energy self- regulation capabilities; 2.) parents of breastfed children
      demonstrate a parental feeding style characterized by less control or restriction; and 3.)
      children with the greatest energy self-regulation capabilities were breastfed and have
      parents with feeding styles lowest in control or restriction. It is hypothesized that female,
      preschool-aged children breastfed and/or parented with a feeding style low in control or
      restriction self-regulate intake better than females not breastfed and/or parented with a
      feeding style high in control or restriction.

      A within-subjects, counterbalanced design, using a standard preloading paradigm, will measure
      children's ability to self-regulate intake to preloads of differing energy densities.
      Children and a parent will participate in two trials, with children consuming preloads high
      and low in energy followed by a lunch in which energy intake is measured. Lunch will be
      videotaped so parental feeding style during the child's lunch can be coded for restriction
      and control. Results will provide information about potential mechanisms by which
      breastfeeding reduces the risk of obesity and obesity related diseases in children.
    
  