
    
      Baseline Data Collection:

      If participant chooses to take part in this study, they will be asked to fill out several
      questionnaires on an MD Anderson computer. Participant will be asked questions about anxiety,
      pain, and spirituality. The questionnaires will take about 20 minutes to complete.

      Participant will have their heart rate and blood pressure taken, which will take about 3
      minutes to complete. Participant will then have an electroencephalogram (EEG) done. An EEG is
      used to view a person's brain waves. The EEG should take about 5 minutes to complete. During
      the EEG, a snug cap which contains small electrodes will be placed on the head to measure the
      electrical patterns coming from the brain--much like the way a doctor listens to
      participant's heart from the surface of their skin. The EEG cap will stay on participant's
      head until the end of the study.

      Study Groups:

      After the baseline information is collected, participant will be randomly assigned (as in the
      role of a die) to 1 of 3 study groups: 2 relaxation training groups or a standard care group.
      Based on the way the study is designed, there is a 1 in 5 (or 20%) chance that participant
      will be assigned to the standard care group, and a 4 in 5 (or 80%) chance that participant
      will be assigned to one of the relaxation groups. Both relaxation groups will focus on
      helping participant to relax by focusing on their breath. At the end of participation, all
      groups will be given a 25 minute relaxation audio CD created by the MD Anderson Integrative
      Medicine Program.

      Pre-Breast Biopsy Procedures:

      Participants assigned to the relaxation groups will be guided through relaxation techniques
      for 10 minutes before the biopsy. Participants assigned to the third group will listen to 10
      minutes of National Public Radio.

      Participant's heart rate and EEG activity will be recorded during this 10-minute period of
      time. At the end of the 10-minute period before the breast biopsy, participant's blood
      pressure will be taken again and they will complete a 5 minute questionnaire about anxiety.

      Breast Biopsy Procedures:

      When it is time for the biopsy procedure, the research assistant will go with participant to
      their procedure room. In the procedure room, the research assistant will continue to monitor
      participant's heart rate and EEG activity throughout the biopsy time. If participant is in
      one of the relaxation groups, the relaxation guide will also accompany participant to the
      procedure room and will continue to be guided through relaxation during the biopsy procedure.
      If participant is in the standard care group, they will be provided with the usual breast
      biopsy care. Participant will be asked to talk about any anxiety and pain at several times
      during the procedure. Participant will also be asked to rest with their eyes closed during
      the biopsy procedure.

      After the biopsy is finished, the research assistant will go with participant to a separate
      room, and they will have 5 minutes of EEG activity recorded, and their blood pressure will be
      taken. The EEG cap will then be removed, and participant will be asked to complete a
      questionnaire about their experience that will take less than 10 minutes to complete.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 85 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  