
    
      Despite the detrimental effects of smoking, approximately 33% of veterans continue to smoke
      compared to approximately 21% of the general population. While efficacious cessation
      interventions are available, implementation of cessation interventions remains a challenge
      and new intervention strategies are needed to reach veterans. VA cessation providers recently
      met in Atlanta and one recommendation was to develop a cessation website for veterans. The
      evidence-based Tobacco Tactics website will be designed, pre-tested, and pilot tested as an
      intervention to assist veteran smokers to quit smoking. The efficacy of the website will then
      be tested in a subsequent randomized control trial (RCT). If the website proves efficacious,
      it would decrease morbidity and mortality among veterans, decrease face-to-face cessation
      intervention time for providers, and reach veterans in areas all over the country, perhaps
      through the VA "My Healthy Vet" website. This is a Phase 1 behavioral clinical trial designed
      to develop and pilot test a web-based Tobacco Tactics intervention tailored to veteran
      smokers. First, we will outline the specific content areas to be addressed. Second, we will
      develop the Tobacco Tactics intervention with our web designer in accordance with VA Web
      Operations. Third, a member of the research team will go through the website with the 5
      veteran smokers obtaining feedback and noting any problems that occur. Fourth, with human
      studies approval, we will pilot test the impact of the intervention with 9 veteran smokers
      recruited to quit smoking using the Tobacco Tactics website. A research nurse will:

        1. be available by phone to answer any questions;

        2. collect qualitative data on veterans use of the Tobacco Tactics website; and,

        3. note the 30 day quit rate.

      Formative evaluation during pre-testing will include qualitative feedback on the:

        1. ability to accomplish tasks;

        2. ability to accomplish goals with skill and speed;

        3. ability to operate the system; and

        4. satisfaction.

      For the 9 veteran smokers that actually try to use the Tobacco Tactics website to quit
      smoking, we will be able to determine:

        1. the number of times they signed onto the website;

        2. the time spent on the website; and

        3. the number of times each module was accessed.

      Impact evaluation will be the 30 day quit rates of the 9 veteran smokers that agree to use
      the website.
    
  