
    
      Subject identification and recruitment - All participants will be recruited from the Pacific
      Brain Health Center in Santa Monica, which is a high-volume memory-care and dementia
      outpatient clinic within a large physician medical group affiliated with Providence Saint
      John's Health Center. 60 participants will be randomized into the RCT, with 30 in each
      treatment arm.

      Procedures for Obtaining Informed Consent - All participants will receive the Experimental
      Research Subject's Bill of Rights prior to signing the informed consent form (ICF),
      authorization of use and disclosure of protected health information (PHI), and authorization
      of medical record release for the subject's treating physician, will be obtained from each
      participants prior to enrolling in the study. A copy of all signed ICF's will be given to the
      participants, and the investigator will retain the original.

      A Functional Assessment Staging Test (FAST) will be done before participants are consented to
      determine whether they or a legally appointed representative (LAR) can consent to participate
      in the study. In this study, participants with FAST stages 2-4 will be recruited (see
      Inclusion Criteria).

      Considerations for consenting: FAST Stages 2-3 Participants - FAST stages 2-3 participants
      are usually capable of making medical and legal decisions, and will be consented directly,
      unless there is a caregiver, legally appointed representative, or other reason to think that
      an informed consent cannot be given by the participants without approval by a reliable
      informant acting on their behalf.

      Considerations for consenting: FAST Stage 4 (mild dementia) Participants - FAST stage 4
      participants will be consented by having them give oral or written assent, indicating their
      preference with regard to study participation. In addition, the caregiver or legally
      appointed representative of a demented participants will be consented to assure full
      understanding of study procedures and willingness on behalf of the participants to
      participate in the study.

      The consenting approach for patients with cognitive impairment has been evaluated by the
      Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at Johns Hopkins, and found to adequately
      ensure informed consent. They concluded that ADRD participants should not be excluded from
      study participation if they cannot directly consent themselves, so long as their caregivers
      can consent, and the participants can assent, either verbally or in writing, their preference
      to participate in the study.

      The caregiver or legally appointed representative will be required to accompany participants
      to participate in the required procedures. A copy of the appropriate document (e.g., the
      power of attorney for healthcare) will be obtained and filed with the original ICF.
    
  