
    
      Suicide remains one of the top 10 causes of death in the United States. Since 1999, the
      age-adjusted suicide rate has increased by approximately 33%, from 10.5 per 100,000 in 1999
      up to 14.0 per 100,000 in 2017. Cognitive behavioral therapies are empirically supported for
      the rapid reduction of suicidal thoughts and behaviors, especially when they are delivered in
      an individual therapy (versus group therapy) format. One particular protocol-brief cognitive
      behavioral therapy for suicide prevention (BCBT)-was developed by our research team and
      tested in a sample of active duty military personnel in a randomized clinical trial. Results
      of that study showed that service members receiving BCBT were 60% less likely to attempt
      suicide during the two-year follow-up and showed faster reductions in suicide ideation as
      compared to service members receiving treatment as usual (TAU). A recently completed pilot
      randomized clinical trial similarly found a large reduction in suicide attempt rates among
      adolescents and young adults who received BCBT as compared to TAU (0% vs. 25%).

      Unfortunately, fewer than half of suicide decedents and individuals with past-year suicide
      ideation seek out mental health treatment. While several factors influence the decision to
      use (or not use) mental health services, logistical barriers such as insufficient time and/or
      geographic location are among the most commonly cited reasons for choosing not to access
      treatment. Telehealth services can address this disparity due to reduced need for travel and
      less time away from school and/or work, which can increase attendance rates to medical
      appointments. Evidence also suggests that delivering mental health services via telehealth
      improves help-seeking behaviors. Although numerous studies indicate that the efficacy of
      empirically-supported treatments for a wide range of mental health conditions are not
      diminished when delivered via telehealth, no studies have examined the effects of
      suicide-focused treatment protocols when delivered in this format.

      The present study aims to address this knowledge gap by testing the effectiveness of BCBT
      when delivered via telehealth as compared to present-centered therapy (PCT), an active
      comparator that has been shown to significantly reduce suicide ideation. The results of this
      study would provide critical information about the effectiveness of BCBT when delivered via
      telehealth.
    
  