
    
      Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a heterogeneous neurodevelopmental disorder often with
      life-long consequences that affects young children during critical developmental periods. The
      Centers for Disease Control estimates that ASD affects as many as 14.7 per 1000 children (1
      in 68). Despite the dramatic rise in the detected prevalence of ASD over the past two
      decades, no effective medical treatment has been developed to address core ASD symptoms
      (social communication and repetitive behavior), the closely associated problem of language
      impairment, or the underlying pathophysiology of ASD. Currently, the only accepted treatment
      for core ASD symptoms is behavior therapy, which may entail intensive one-on-one treatment
      over several years.

      The purpose of this study is to determine the effectiveness of folinic acid in the treatment
      of language problems in children with autism spectrum disorder. Folinic acid, also known as
      leucovorin, is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to decrease side
      effects during cancer chemotherapy. Folinic acid may be helpful in treating language problems
      in children with autism spectrum disorder, but this is not known. Therefore, folinic acid is
      an investigational new drug for this study.

      The primary aims of this study are to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of high-dose
      folinic acid for improving the closely associated symptoms of language impairment in children
      with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Improvement in delayed language may also benefit the
      core ASD problem of social communication. The study will also focus on identification of
      biomarkers in pre-specified subgroups of children with ASD that may moderate positive
      response to folinic acid. The study model is that high-dose folinic acid will improve
      language and set the stage for improved social communication in children with ASD and
      moderate language impairment. To test whether folinic acid is superior to placebo, 162
      children (age 5 to 12 yrs 6 months, inclusive) with ASD and moderate language will be
      randomly assigned to folinic acid or placebo for 12 weeks under double-blind conditions. The
      study team will also test whether abnormalities in folate-dependent pathways, such as
      dysfunctional transport of folate across the blood-brain barrier, will moderate positive
      response to folinic acid treatment.
    
  