
    
      The investigators will examine the use of the WalkAide, a Neuroprosthetic device, on a
      child's ability to ascend/descend stairs and curbs. It is hypothesized that with WalkAide
      use, the improved ankle control achieved, will affect the speed, symmetry, and independence
      of completing the task.

      Study subjects will be fitted with the WalkAide by Physical Therapists trained in this
      procedure. Subjects will build tolerance to the device over a two-week period, and use as
      able for the next six weeks. The children (participants/subjects) in the study will go
      through a desensitization process to familiarize them with the electrical stimulation.

      The children will begin with no stimulation, wearing the Walkaide to introduce the sensation
      of the cuff on their leg prior to beginning the stimulation. Once familiar with the feel of
      the Walkaide, the electrical stimulation will be introduced slowly and gradually. The child's
      face and verbal responses will be monitored while the stimulation is introduced and turned up
      to the desired response threshold.

      An age and cognitively appropriate pain scale will be available if applicable to the child
      and situation.

      The children will be assured that if they do not want to continue or if they feel
      uncomfortable, then the electrical stimulation will be turned off immediately. The minimum
      stimulus intensity is determined in collaboration with each subject. The children are asked
      to identify when they first begin to feel the stimulus, and the number on the intensity knob
      is noted. The duration of the stimulus is gradually increased along with the wearing of the
      Walkaide. Subjects will begin by wearing the prosthesis for 30 minutes. The wearing time will
      be increased to waking hours of the subject, depending on their age. The electrodes will be
      placed on the client before the session is to begin, and taken off immediately after WalkAide
      usage. The skin will be checked before and after WalkAide electrode usage. The skin will be
      cleaned with an alcohol wipe before the electrodes are applied. It is normal to observe
      somewhat reddened areas under the electrode placement following usage. However, the redness
      should disappear within an hour. With signs of irradiation or maintained redness, small
      pimple like lesions or blisters, the WalkAide usage will be discontinued at that time, and
      the patient will be brought to the medical staff. The skin will be re-evaluated an hour later
      following the electrode usage. The Pediatrician for that patient will be immediately
      notified, and the WalkAide usage discontinued until the problem is resolved.
    
  