
    
      This is a dual-site trial with identical study activities taking place at both locations. If
      you live in/near San Francisco, study visits will take place at UCSF; if you live in/near
      Lausanne, Switzerland, study visits will take place at the Lausanne University Hospital.

      You will be asked to attend one initial session for cognitive tests and answer questions
      regarding your medical history to see if you are eligible for the study. This process takes
      about 20 minutes. If you are eligible you will be asked to schedule the following
      appointments to participate:

      First you will be randomized into one of two different training programs. You will not be
      able to choose which program you are placed in, but have equal chances of being randomized
      into each:

        -  Program 1 involves brain training games displayed on a large screen. Participants will
           use whole-body movements to complete game tasks. Tasks involve movements such as
           reaching, stepping, and jogging in place. These movements are tracked by a motion
           sensor. Stretching, warm-up, and cool down sessions will be mandated prior to and
           following the tasks.

        -  Program 2 involves brain training and guided, light physical exercise games on a tablet
           device. The exercise involves movements such as reaching, stepping, and stretching.
           Stretching, warm-up, and cool down sessions will be mandated prior to and following the
           tasks.

      Baseline Visit: This session should take about two hours. You will be given some cognitive,
      visual and physical tests. You will be given questionnaires about your mood, fatigue and
      function. You will receive a Fitbit Flex to be worn daily for the duration of the study. The
      Fitbit will track daily active step count, number of active minutes, quality/length of sleep
      cycles.

      Week 1-4 Visits (12 sessions in total): These sessions will be 1 hour and 30 minutes each
      (Note: the first session will be 2 hours to account for calibrations). You will come in three
      times a week for four weeks to attend on-site sessions. You will be asked to complete
      digital, cognitive and physical training at each one of these visits.

      Post-Training Visit: You will be asked to come in for an assessment 1 week after completing
      your last training session. This visit will take about 2 hours. You will be asked to complete
      some cognitive, visual, and physical tests. You will be given questionnaires on mood,
      fatigue, and everyday function. You will also return the Fitbit you received at the start of
      the study.

      A final follow-up visit will occur 6 months after you have completed your last training
      session. This visit will take about two hours. You will be asked to complete some cognitive,
      visual and physical tests. You will be given questionnaires on mood, fatigue and function.
    
  