
    
      Background: Dementia is a neurodegenerative disease that leads to irreversible decline in
      one's cognitive and functional capacity, identity, and personhood. In Singapore, the number
      of persons with dementia is expected to soar to 187,000 by 2050. Hence, it is imperative to
      render comprehensive support to dementia sufferers, and especially their family caregivers.
      While local initiatives have raised public awareness and developed services for dementia
      care, they do not adequately address the psycho-socio-spiritual needs of family caregivers,
      as caregiving stress can greatly impede one's mental and emotional health. International
      research for dementia family caregivers has thus focused on developing multicomponent
      interventions that accentuate holistic support to promote healthy and sustainable caregiving.

      Objective and Methods: Building on the established MCAT protocol (Ho et al., 2019), this
      study will adopt a wait-list randomized controlled trial design to test the efficacy of the
      refined version of Mindful-Compassion Art Therapy for Dementia Care (MCAT-DC) among 102
      dementia family caregivers in Singapore. This study aims to: 1) develop a disease-specific
      version of MCAT for Dementia Care (MCAT-DC); 2) assess MCAT-DC's effectiveness in reducing
      caregiver stress and burden; 3) assess MCAT-DC's effectiveness for reducing caregivers'
      depressive symptoms and psychophysiological distress, while enhancing resilience, hope,
      spirituality, meaning and quality-of-life; and 4) assess the feasibility and acceptability of
      a standardized MCAT-DC protocol for large-scale implementation.

      Significance: MCAT is an effective psycho-social-spiritual intervention for reducing stress
      and promoting holistic wellbeing among professional caregivers. It has received wide
      recognition and distinction among palliative care and research communities for its clinical
      innovation and effectiveness. Given the robust evidence on MCAT's positive impact on
      professional caregivers, it is anticipated that a refined version of MCAT will have similar,
      if not greater, benefits for family caregivers. The study findings will form new knowledge to
      advance both theory and practice for sustainable dementia family caregiving in Singapore and
      around the globe.
    
  