
    
      The presence of cognitive deficits of varied intensity is characteristic of psychiatric
      disorders of childhood and adolescence such as Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder
      (ADHD), but also of neurological pathologies such as pediatric onset multiple sclerosis
      (POMS).

      ADHD is one of the most common neurodevelopmental disorders characterized by pervasive
      patterns of inattention and/or impulsivity/hyperactivity and a range of cognitive
      dysfunctions that often persist into adulthood.

      POMS represent 5-10% of total MS population. Cognitive dysfunction is one of the most
      remarkable features of MS, and, particularly in POMS, the percentage of patients with at
      least a mild cognitive deficit ranges from 30 to 80%. The most affected cognitive domains in
      POMS are complex attention, information processing speed, executive functions, verbal and
      visual memory, reasoning and problem solving.

      The functional consequences of cognitive impairment can be particularly striking in children
      and adolescents since they occur during formative years in the academic career and may affect
      their social activities. Cognitive training, during the developmental age, when brain
      plasticity is at the highest expression, can induce a strengthening of the key brain networks
      implicated in POMS and ADHD. To date the efficacy of specific cognitive rehabilitation
      interventions has never been evaluated by a randomized controlled trials (RCTS) in POMS.
      Conversely, in the last years, several RCTs assessed the efficacy of cognitive training as a
      potential non-drug alternative treatment for ADHD disorder.Most of the cognitive trainings
      focused on the working memory or attention dysfunctions. Preliminary evidence suggests that
      cognitive remediation might be at least partially effective in the ADHD treatment. It is
      argued that cognitive training can reduce ADHD symptoms and improve functioning by targeting
      neuropsychological deficits thought to mediate ADHD pathophysiology.

      During the study project "Cognitive impairment in Pediatric Onset Multiple Sclerosis:
      research of biomarkers predictive of cognitive impairment progression", which is aimed to
      assess clinical, radiological and biological markers in pediatric subjects, POMS and ADHD
      patients will be recruited to assess the efficacy of a home-based computerized program for
      retraining attention dysfunction.
    
  