
    
      Within the past decade, there has been increasing recognition of the limitations and risks of
      opioid therapy for chronic pain, spurred by the U.S.' widespread epidemic of opioid misuse.
      Within the clinical context, concerns about long-term opioid therapy persist due to limited
      evidence of efficacy and the occurrence of medication misuse/abuse (termed aberrant
      drug-related behavior). Psychosocial approaches, particularly self-management strategies such
      as cognitive-behavior therapy (CBT), have been found to be efficacious for the treatment of
      chronic pain. However, most chronic pain patients are not exposed to comprehensive
      psychosocial interventions, due to factors including pain specialty physicians' lack of
      familiarity with and time to provide behavioral treatments and insufficient payer coverage
      for these therapies. To address these public health concerns, this study developed,
      implemented and evaluated an innovative, web-based CBT intervention for the treatment of
      chronic pain tailored to the specific needs of patients who are prescribed opioids and
      present with aberrant behavior. The development of this interactive, web-based intervention
      was informed by iterative feedback from pain experts and chronic pain patients. In a
      randomized, controlled trial, chronic pain patients receiving opioid therapy at a pain
      specialty practice were assigned to receive 12 weeks of either treatment-as-usual (TAU; n=55)
      or treatment-as-usual plus the web-based intervention (Web-CBT; n=55). The trial evaluated
      the relative effectiveness of these treatments on the primary outcomes of pain severity, pain
      interference and aberrant opioid-taking behavior, and the secondary outcomes of pain
      catastrophizing and pain-related Emergency Department visits. Additional analyses explored
      the impact of the intervention on several supplementary outcomes, such as various categories
      of activities, psychiatric distress and positive affect, and examined hypothesized mediators
      of treatment outcome, including quality of life, social support and expectations about the
      future.
    
  