
    
      Human papillomavirus (HPV) has been found to be associated with several types of premalignant
      lesions and cancer. HPV16 is the far most common HPV type detected in these tumors and
      premalignant lesions. HPV16 encodes the two tumor-specific oncoproteins E6 and E7. In most
      humans the virus is cleared. However, in some individuals, infection results in an
      uncontrolled persistent HPV16 infection that due to expression of the viral oncoproteins E6
      and E7 may lead to the formation of malignancies. Moreover, these oncoproteins maintain the
      malignant state of the transformed cells. The virus-specific interferon-γ (IFNγ)-producing
      cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4+) helper T cells (Th1 cells) and cluster of differentiation
      8 (CD8+) cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CTL) are able to recognize peptides processed from the
      highly immunogenic E6 and play a critical role in the elimination and/or control of the
      virus. Studies in patients with HPV associated tumors showed that the spontaneous
      HPV-specific T-cell responses, are weak and fail to sufficiently control tumor outgrowth.
      Preexisting specific T-cell responses against E6 and E7 in patients with HPV related tumors
      such are associated with better outcome after treatment. Since the HPV16-transformed tumor
      cells constitutively express the two HPV16 encoded E6 and E7 oncoproteins, these viral
      antigens are considered to be excellent targets for immunotherapeutic vaccine strategies
      aiming at reinforcing the tumor-specific T-cell response. Previous vaccination studies showed
      that the use of our first generation HPV16 synthetic long peptides vaccine (HPV16-SLP) was
      safe and highly immunogenic in patients with HPV-induced ano-genital lesions. Vaccination of
      patients with cervical cancer (CxCa) also resulted in the induction of HPV16-specific T-cell
      responses but the nature and strength of the induced T cell responses was not sufficient for
      the regression of these tumors. Specifically, it was concluded that the polarization of the T
      cell response to Th1 (IFNγ-response) was not optimal and a much stronger CD8+ T cell response
      was required for clinical efficacy. These results initiated the development of new HPV16
      vaccination strategies that are able to polarize the induced Th1 response and obtain strong
      CD8+ T-cell cytotoxicity. One of these developments consists of conjugating two of the HPV16
      E6 SLP to Amplivant® a synthetic Toll-like receptor (TLR) 2 ligand. These two peptides cover
      the most immunodominant regions of the overlapping HPV16-SLP set and contain both Th and CTL
      epitopes. Peptide conjugated Amplivant® has been selected because it is acknowledged for its
      capacity to strongly enhance antigen presentation by dendritic cells (DCs), enhance T-cell
      priming and cause superior induction of effective anti-tumor CTL responses in mouse tumor
      models, compared to a mixture of free TLR ligand and peptide. In preclinical murine studies,
      Amplivant®-conjugated SLP showed 10 to 100 times higher bioactivity compared to unconjugated
      SLP, in terms of induced immune responses. In addition, the quantity and quality of human
      T-cell responses, and especially the HPV16-specific CD8+ T-cell response, in cancer patients
      could be markedly enhanced by ex vivo stimulation with Amplivant®-conjugated SLPs.
    
  