
    
      The objective of this research is to test the short-term effects of listening to noise (i.e.
      auditory feedback masking) on speech fluency in stroke survivors with aphasia and apraxia of
      speech. People with nonfluent types of aphasia frequently have apraxia of speech, which
      affects the motor programming of speech movements, causing distortions, slow rate, and speech
      disfluencies that impede the forward flow of communication. Speaking while listening to noise
      (e.g. auditory masking) is known to reduce disfluencies and increase speech rate in people
      who stutter. This method has been tested in people with aphasia, resulting in positive
      effects on speech production for a subset of those tested. The investigators contend that
      individuals who have apraxia of speech in addition to aphasia are most likely to benefit from
      auditory masking, but most previous studies did not test participants for apraxia of speech.
      In addition, though masking is most likely to affect speech disfluencies, previous studies
      did not measures disfluencies. The proposed work has two specific aims. Aim 1 will determine
      the short-term effect of auditory masking, provided on a single day, on speech fluency in
      stroke survivors with aphasia and apraxia of speech. Aim 2 will identify individual factors
      that predict a positive response, including presence of apraxia of speech, lesion
      characteristics, and type of aphasia (e.g. Broca's, Wernicke's). Voxel-based lesion analysis
      techniques will be used to determine sites of lesion associated with positive and negative
      response to auditory masking. Completion of this study will remove barriers to studying
      auditory masking as a technique for clinical intervention, but also as a research tool for
      behavioral neuroscientists probing the speech motor control system in speakers with aphasia
      and apraxia of speech.
    
  