
    
      Rationale: From 2015-2020, the 'Healthy Primary School of the Future' intervention took place
      in Limburg, the Netherlands. The school environment of four primary schools changed. Two
      schools became 'Healthy Primary Schools of the Future'; providing their students with a
      healthy lunch and structured physical activity (PA) sessions during lunch time breaks. Two
      other 'Physical Activity Schools' only implemented the structured PA sessions. Interim
      analyses showed promising effects of the intervention; at two-year-follow-up, the study
      showed a significant decrease in BMI z-score of children in the 'Healthy Primary Schools of
      the Future' as compared with children in control schools. Also, positive intervention effects
      on dietary and PA behaviours were observed. Following these promising results, childcare
      centres of educational board Prisma have expressed their interest in implementing changes
      fitting the 'Healthy Primary School of the Future' initiative. However, this is more complex
      than it seems to be, as budget to implement changes is lower than in the original trial, and
      all childcare centres have a unique context. Therefore, there is a need to investigate how
      'Healthy Primary School of the Future' can successfully be implemented in various, real-life
      school-settings. It is hypothesised that to maximise implementation and sustainability, each
      childcare centre will need to put together a set of changes and interventions which fit the
      context and needs of all stakeholders involved (e.g., the school board, teachers, parents and
      children).

      Objective: The main objective is to study the implementation process of 'Healthy Childcare
      Centre of the Future' in different school-contexts and develop guidelines that can be used to
      facilitate widespread dissemination of the initiative. Secondary objectives include
      evaluating the effects of the 'Healthy Childcare Centre of the Future' on children's BMI
      z-score, general health, dietary and PA behaviours and school well-being. To reach these
      objectives, a process evaluation, effect evaluation and cost-effectiveness evaluation will be
      executed.

      Study design: A non-randomised, non-controlled, observational study design. Study population:
      Children in study years four to six (at baseline) of twelve childcare centres located in
      Limburg, the Netherlands.

      Main parameters/endpoints: The main study parameter of the effect evaluation is the change in
      absolute BMI z-score, which will be compared between the childcare centres categorised based
      on their degree of implementation (using categories based on the Diffusion of Innovations
      Theory).

      Methods: Data will be collected in the form of questionnaires (parents, children,
      teachers/pedagogical employees, directors), anthropometric measurements (children),
      interviews (teachers/pedagogical employees, directors), observations and analyses of minutes
      of meetings.

      Nature and extend of the burden and risks associated with participation: No intervention is
      allocated in this study other than activities planned by childcare centres in accordance with
      wishes and needs of childcare centre staff and parents. All outcome measures are
      non-invasive. The measurement protocol was designed while taking into account both a minimal
      burden for participants and a relevant scientific output for stakeholders (e.g., school
      board, teachers, parents/caregivers and children). Burden of participants is minimalised by
      incorporating most measurements in the regular school day.
    
  