
    
      Currently 1/3 of our nation's children are overweight or obese. The goal of Healthy People
      2020 is to reduce the proportion of children who are obese and increase the proportion of
      primary care visits that include nutrition and weight-related counseling. However, there are
      a lack of resources and providers that can offer effective weight-related counseling and
      treatment. Gold-standard family-based weight control programs for children are often provided
      at tertiary care academic centers and can be difficult to access. Furthermore, primary care
      providers (PCPs), who have been identified as key players in the treatment of childhood
      obesity, are not well-equipped to address this issue, engage in behavior
      modification/lifestyle counseling, or provide effective treatment in the primary care
      setting. As a result, new models of care are needed so that a greater proportion of
      overweight/obese (OW/OB) children and their parents can access care and receive quality
      treatment for obesity. The investigators propose to train health coaches in the primary care
      setting to deliver Guided Self-Help (GSH) treatment of childhood obesity. Implementing this
      program in the primary care setting will increase our ability to deliver nutrition and
      weight-related counseling in the primary care office and serve patients closer to home,
      thereby increasing access to effective treatment, improving adherence to recommended changes,
      and meeting the goals of Healthy People 2020.

      The goal of this study is to conduct a pragmatic clinical trial in two large pediatric
      practices in San Diego County (n=200) where 38% and 39% of children are OW/OB. The
      intervention group will receive GSH (14 sessions over 6 months) delivered by a health coach
      in the clinic. The control group will receive usual care, i.e. PCP provides obesity
      management using decision support tools in the electronic health record and refers to a
      tertiary care program (20 sessions over 6 months) at the academic center.
    
  