
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of decitabine in combination with
      busulfan and cyclophosphamide in patients with hematologic malignancies. II. Establish the
      pharmacokinetics of decitabine and busulfan in this patient population. III. Determine the
      effectiveness of this combination in achieving durable complete remission in patients with
      chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) in blast crisis or acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) in
      relapse undergoing allogeneic stem cell transplantation.

      OUTLINE: In cohorts of 3, patients receive escalating doses of decitabine (DAC) IV over 4
      hours on days -8 and -7. Busulfan is administered orally every 6 hours on consecutive days -6
      through -4. Cyclophosphamide is given by vein (IV) over 1 hour on consecutive days -3 and -2.
      The maximum tolerated dose of DAC is defined as the dose at which 2 patients experience dose
      limiting toxicity. Donors receive filgrastim subcutaneously (SQ) daily every 12 hours
      starting 2-4 days prior to the first stem cell collection and before DAC infusion.
      Leukapheresis is conducted daily. If insufficient number of cells are collected, blood marrow
      is harvested for supplementation. Stem cells are infused on day 0. For graft vs host disease
      prophylaxis (GVHD), patients receive tacrolimus IV beginning one day before stem cell
      infusion, then orally following tolerance to tacrolimus. Patients intolerant to tacrolimus
      receive cyclosporine IV beginning on day -2, then orally following tolerance and engraftment.
      All patients receive methylprednisolone given according to clinical grade of GVHD procedures.
      For CNS prophylaxis, methotrexate is given intrathecally or intraventricularly monthly,
      beginning on the second month through the eighth month of treatment. Allogeneic patients are
      followed until the end of 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: An estimated 30 allogeneic recipients will be recruited in 2 years for the
      expected study duration of 2-3 years.
    
  