
    
      Clinical depression is a crucial problem among adolescents. In eighth grade more than half of
      all students experience headaches, stomach pain, stress, feeling down, and difficulties
      sleeping. Adolescents affected by depression at a young age are at greater risk of
      experiencing depressive symptoms as adults, with serious impacts on their quality of life and
      ability to work. Recent reports from the National Board of Health and Welfare have shown that
      depression is increasing among adolescents and there is now focus on implementing
      practice-oriented preventative programs for youth.

      Studies by members of our research team have shown that a cognitive-behavioral,
      developmentally-based intervention program, called "Thoughts and Health", prevented initial
      episodes of depression and/or dysthymia in adolescents for up to 12 months after program
      completion.

      This study aims to test the feasibility of implementing that program in a Swedish school
      setting, while also collecting and analyzing preliminary results regarding the potential
      impact of the program on number of students developing depressive symptoms and the number
      passing junior high school with full grades.

      This is an intervention study with a control group. Students from two Swedish junior high
      schools will be identified as "at-risk" and invited to participate in the program (n=40),
      while students from two other schools will act as controls (n=40). All participating students
      will be followed from study start (baseline) and 1, 6, 12, and 18 months after program
      completion. Results will include quantitative clinical measures, qualitative focus group
      discussions, and students' final grades. Two courses of the program will be run over two
      school years. This study involves close collaboration between academia, primary care, and the
      community.

      This is to our knowledge the first study in Sweden that employs a longitudinal design to
      evaluate the effects of a school program aimed at preventing depression in adolescents.
    
  