
    
      Project title:

      Detection of atrial fibrillation in patients with recent stroke or TIA: Validity of automated
      loop-recording (Rtest) compared to Holter recording and predictive value of short runs of
      atrial fibrillation and an excess supraventricular extra systoles for a new stroke

      Abstract:

      Stroke constitutes a major health problem both nationally and globally. Each year 15 million
      people worldwide are attacked by stroke. In Denmark stroke hits 14.000 people a year and is
      the third leading cause of death. In this research project, we will examine the heart rate of
      more than 1,500 patients whom within 1 week has had a blood clot in the brain (ischemic
      stroke) or have had symptoms of a blood clot in the brain, which has dwindled within 24 hours
      (TIA). There are no clear international or national guidelines regarding the optimal way to
      detect atrial fibrillation in stroke and TIA patients, though atrial fibrillation is known to
      increase fivefold the risk of stroke. Holter recording with two days electrocardiogram is
      considered as the golden standard for investigation of heart rhythm disturbances and is
      offered at Department of Neurology in Holstebro, where we recruit patients. Holter recording
      is a resource-intensive procedure in data analysis. Project patients will be mounted with a
      2- day Holter and Rtest for either 2 or 7 days. The Rtest is a loop recorder and a new device
      on the market that continuously monitor and opposite a Holter recorder, automatically
      analyses heart rhythm. The validity of the Rtest with regard to detect atrial fibrillation
      compared to Holter is unknown and is what we which to clarify. Additionally we use the 2-day
      Holter recordings to test whether short-term rhythm disorders as atrial fibrillation <30
      seconds, and/or many extra heartbeats (supraventricular extra systoles) increases the risk of
      stroke recurrence. Patients will be followed in the Danish Stroke Register. If an increased
      risk is found, these gray area patients who are currently not offered anticoagulant therapy,
      may prove to have treatment indication. If the study shows that loop recording can replace
      Holter recording it will mean an economic gain. The study is expected to contribute
      substantial evidence for the future treatment of stroke and TIA patients.Stroke constitutes a
      major health problem both nationally and globally. Each year 15 million people worldwide are
      attacked by stroke. In Denmark stroke hits 14.000 people a year and is the third leading
      cause of death. In this research project, we will examine the heart rate of more than 1,500
      patients whom within 1 week has had a blood clot in the brain (ischemic stroke) or have had
      symptoms of a blood clot in the brain, which has dwindled within 24 hours (TIA). There are no
      clear international or national guidelines regarding the optimal way to detect atrial
      fibrillation in stroke and TIA patients, though atrial fibrillation is known to increase
      fivefold the risk of stroke. Holter recording with two days electrocardiogram is considered
      as the golden standard for investigation of heart rhythm disturbances and is offered at
      Department of Neurology in Holstebro, where we recruit patients. Holter recording is a
      resource-intensive procedure in data analysis. Project patients will be mounted with a 2- day
      Holter and Rtest for either 2 or 7 days. The Rtest is a loop recorder and a new device on the
      market that continuously monitor and opposite a Holter recorder, automatically analyses heart
      rhythm. The validity of the Rtest with regard to detect atrial fibrillation compared to
      Holter is unknown and is what we which to clarify. Additionally we use the 2-day Holter
      recordings to test whether short-term rhythm disorders as atrial fibrillation <30 seconds,
      and/or many extra heartbeats (supraventricular extra systoles) increases the risk of stroke
      recurrence. Patients will be followed in the Danish Stroke Register. If an increased risk is
      found, these gray area patients who are currently not offered anticoagulant therapy, may
      prove to have treatment indication. If the study shows that loop recording can replace Holter
      recording it will mean an economic gain. The study is expected to contribute substantial
      evidence for the future treatment of stroke and TIA patients.
    
  