
    
      With the recent advancements in positron emission tomography (PET) and radioligand
      development, the investigators are now able to image and quantify the metabotropic
      glutamatergic system (mGluR5) in vivo in human subjects. The study proposes a novel
      investigation of mGluR5 in depression to obtain critical data to advance understanding of the
      etiology of depression and its associated symptoms of cognitive dysfunction.

      Aim 1: To determine mGluR5 availability in individuals with mood disorders compared to
      healthy controls as measured with PET brain imaging.

      Hypothesis 1: The study hypothesizes a decrease in mGluR5 availability in individuals with
      mood disorders in regions responsible for emotional and cognitive processes, including the
      amygdala, hippocampus, thalamus, anterior cingulate, and frontal cortices.

      Aim 2: To determine if glutamate cycling in individuals with mood disorders is altered as
      compared to healthy controls as measured with [1H]MRS and [13C]MRS.

      Hypothesis 2: The study hypothesizes an increase in glutamate number in individuals with mood
      disorders as compared to controls.

      Aim 3: To determine if the PET alterations in the glutamatergic system of depressed
      individuals are associated with cognitive deficits observed in depression, including
      concentration, attention, and memory.

      Hypothesis 3: The study hypothesizes a positive relationship between mGluR5 availability and
      cognitive functioning, such that individuals with higher receptor availability will perform
      better on tests of concentration, attention, and memory than individuals with lower receptor
      availability.

      Aim 4: To determine mGluR5 availability in individuals with anxiety and schizophrenia
      compared to healthy controls as measured with PET brain imaging.

      Hypothesis 4: Anxiety disorders such as obsessive compulsive disorder, and delusional
      disorders such as schizophrenia are frequently comorbid with mood disorders, and the
      glutamatergic system has been observed to be compromised in these individuals as well. This
      study will examine if there are regional differences in mGluR5 availability between
      individuals with depression, bipolar disorder, obsessive compulsive disorder, and
      schizophrenia.

      Aim 5: To examine whether changes in mGluR5 availability are dependent on state, or whether
      the lower availability is due to trait.

      Hypothesis 5: Due to changes in endogenous GLU shown with MRS studies, this study
      hypothesizes normalization (or increase) in mGluR5 availability in euthymia as compared to
      depressed state.

      Aim 6: To compare SV2A availability in individuals with MDD, healthy control individuals, and
      individuals with PTSD using APP311 and PET.

      Hypothesis 6: The study hypothesizes lower SV2A density in MDD and PTSD in the prefrontal
      cortex.
    
  