
    
      Rationale:

      Over the last 2 years, the treatment of chronic HCV underwent an enormous change in a
      positive way. New and recently EMA approved direct acting antiviral (DAA) combination
      therapies cure as 95% or more of the patients chronically infected with HCV genotype 1 and 4.
      Grazoprevir (MK-5172) and elbasvir (MK-8742) combination therapy is such a combination DAA
      therapy. Two recent phase II and 1 phase III clinical trial showed that chronic HCV genotype
      1 can be cured with 12 weeks of combination therapy with grazoprevir and elabsvir with a 97%
      cure in HIV-HCV co-infected patients in the phase III C-Edge co-infection study. However,
      none of these new HCV therapies have been well studied for the treatment of acute HCV and are
      therefore not registered for this indication. The only treatment approved for acute HCV is
      interferon. Interferon based therapy for the treatment of HCV has been shown to be much more
      effective when given during the acute phase of the HCV infection than at a time when the
      infection has become chronic. A likely explanation for this difference in success for acute
      versus chronic HCV therapy is a substantial immune response that is present during the acute
      phase of HCV infection, but becomes exhausted during chronic infection. This potent immune
      response is broadly targeted against various HCV epitopes and eradicates approximately 20% of
      HCV infections within the first 12 to 18 months of infection. However, spontaneous cure of
      HCV becomes very rare after the first 12 to 18 months of infection due to immune exhaustion.
      It is likely that the synergistic effect of the host's immune response and antiviral therapy
      when given during the first 6 months of HCV infection makes direct acting antiviral therapy
      during acute HCV infection more effective.

      Objectives:

      To document that treatment of acute HCV with grazoprevir (MK-5172), elbasvir (MK-8742) is
      effective. To show that, due to the host's immune response at the time of an acute HCV
      infection, the duration of therapy with grazoprevir (MK-5172) and elbasvir (MK-8742) for
      acute HCV genotype 1 and 4 infections can be shortened from 12 to 8 weeks without substantial
      loss in efficacy.
    
  