
    
      Patients with borderline personality disorder (BPD) will be provided with an empirically
      supported form of psychotherapy for BPD patients called transference-focused psychotherapy
      (TFP) and medication treatment, if indicated. The primary goal of the current study is to
      detect changes in psychological, psychosocial and work functioning over the course of
      18-months of TFP. Previous research has shown that TFP is an effective treatment for BPD over
      the course of one year, significantly reducing symptoms. An 18-month treatment period will
      most likely allow patients to achieve significant and lasting gains in work and psychosocial
      functioning. Each patient will be assessed prior to (baseline), at 3-month intervals
      throughout, and at the termination of the 18-month treatment period for symptoms, vocational
      status, and psychosocial functioning. In addition, patients and therapists will complete
      self-report measures every three months about the therapeutic relationship. After the
      18-month treatment period, a final, brief assessment of vocational status, symptoms, and
      psychosocial functioning will occur.

      The therapists doing TFP are professional psychiatrists, psychologists, and social workers
      who have been trained by Dr. Otto Kernberg in this special form of psychotherapy. In this
      therapy, the patient and therapist meet for 50-minute sessions two times a week on a weekly
      basis (except for vacations) for 18 months. Due to the ongoing worldwide pandemic meetings of
      the therapist and the patient will take place over a secured internet connection for the time
      being. Once it is considered safe again, the therapy sessions will take place in the
      therapists' private office

      Hypothesis: It is hypothesized that patients in Transference Focused Psychotherapy (TFP) will
      manifest differential responses to the treatment, depending upon pre-treatment patient
      psychological and psychiatric characteristics. The investigators expect that some patients
      will show significant positive changes in symptoms, work, and social functioning at the end
      of 18 months, and that these positive changes will manifest in psychological and
      neuropsychological measures. The investigators will investigate the pre-treatment
      psychological variables (e.g. trait sociability, constraint, and negative affect) and
      neuropsychological functioning that will be predictive of patient improvement with treatment
      at the end of 18 months. By the end of the treatment, the investigators expect some patients
      to approach normal levels of enjoyment and enrichment of their experiences in work and social
      functioning. As all analyses will occur at the end of the study, response to TFP will not be
      assessed during the course of treatment. Therefore, patients will not be moved to a different
      intervention during the course of the study.

      Research Question: The investigators have found in our pilot work that symptom change occurs
      in the first 12 months of TFP followed by substantial work and psychosocial changes in
      subsequent months. The primary goal of the current pilot project is to demonstrate that TFP
      over an 18-month treatment period is associated with significant improvement in work and
      intimate relations, reflecting significant personality changes that should enhance patients'
      overall effectiveness and gratification in their lives.
    
  