
    
      Maternal antenatal corticosteroids (ACS) therapy is considered to be the last major advance
      in the antenatal management of fetuses at risk of preterm birth. It was adopted worldwide to
      prevent neonatal death and neonatal complications following preterm birth, including
      respiratory distress syndrome, necrotizing enterocolitis and severe intraventricular
      hemorrhage. While short-term benefits of ACS were extensively investigated, long-term
      neurological outcomes in infants exposed antenatally to betamethasone have been assessed in
      few cohorts only. A recent report from the Cochrane collaborative network suggest that ACS is
      able to prevent some neurodevelopmental impairments associated with preterm delivery and
      related to postnatal adverse events .

      As of today, in Europe and France, more than 85% of neonates born very preterm have been
      exposed to antenatal corticosteroids, mostly betamethasone for a total dose of 24 mg.
      Cochrane collaborative networks stated that trials of dosages comparing different regimens of
      commonly used corticosteroids are most urgently needed. Because a half dosage was associated
      with maximal benefits on lung function in ewes, a randomized controlled trial (BETADOSE,
      NCT02897076) is currently conducted to demonstrate that a 50% reduced betamethasone dose
      regimen is not inferior to a full dose regimen to prevent respiratory distress syndrome in
      neonates. Whatever the results of this ongoing clinical trial, follow-up of infants born from
      enrolled women is mandatory both to confirm the non-inferiority of the dose reduction on
      neurocognition and to assess the long-term effect of dose reduction on survival, on complex
      aspects of cognition, on behavioral aspects and on others neurodevelopmental impairments.
      Indeed, changes in clinical practices following BETADOSE trials will be depending on both
      short- and long-term outcomes. If non inferiority is demonstrated, dramatic changes will
      occur in the clinical use of antenatal betamethasone in women at risk of preterm birth in
      France and worldwide. If non inferiority is rejected, the neurocognitive follow-up of
      enrolled patients will be also of interest to (i) assess the long-term impact of the early
      consequences associated with betamethasone dose reduction and (ii) to find out domains of
      neurocognitive development sensitive to ACS exposure.

      BETANINO study aims at assessing the impact of a 50% dose reduction on neurocognition at 3
      years of age in infants born from mothers enrolled in the BETADOSE trial before 32 weeks of
      gestation, children that are at highest risk of neurocognitive impairments during childhood.

      The main hypothesis of this cohort study following a randomized clinical trial is that half
      dose betamethasone (12 mg) is not inferior to full dose betamethasone (24 mg) to prevent
      neurodevelopmental impairment in children born very preterm.
    
  