
    
      The number of patients undergoing ambulatory arthroscopic rotator cuff repair (ARCR) in our
      center is increasing annually. This procedure is associated with significant postoperative
      pain and effective analgesia is required in order to develop day-case surgery. Although
      continuous interscalene catheter block (ISB) is considered to be the most effective analgesic
      technique for ARCR, the difficulties in implementing and monitoring ISB have led to many
      anesthesiologists preferring single injection block, so that patients can be discharged on
      the same day as surgery with a satisfactory level of pain control.

      ISB is frequently associated with phrenic nerve block,even with low volumes of local
      anesthetics. Phrenic nerve block is a concern in some ambulatory surgery patients as it may
      lead to respiratory complications after hospital discharge, limiting the eligibility of many
      patients for day surgery. Changes in spirometry variables have been associated with ISB,
      whatever the site of injection around the roots (anterior or posterior). Nevertheless,
      effective regional anesthesia (RA) is essential for this surgery, because multimodal
      analgesia alone is insufficient.

      Several alternatives to ISB exist that are associated with a decreased prevalence of phrenic
      nerve paresis.6 Supraclavicular block (SCB) decreases the risk of phrenic nerve involvement,
      particularly when guided by ultrasound. This technique, which has been linked to a risk of
      pneumothorax when carried out by neurostimulation only, has now been revived and is included
      among the RA techniques considered to be safe in terms of respiratory risk, especially when
      guided by ultrasound. Many studies have demonstrated a decreased risk of phrenic paresis with
      ultrasound-guided SCB, even with volumes as high as 20 mL. Published studies have
      demonstrated that SCB is an effective alternative to ISB, and many studies have shown that
      ultrasound-guided SCB is a safe technique for ambulatory shoulder surgery in terms of
      respiratory complications. SCB is therefore a real alternative to ISB for ambulatory ARCR,
      but comparative studies are necessary to evaluate its analgesic efficacy after patients have
      been discharged from hospital, particularly in terms of their oral morphine consumption at
      home.

      Investigators carried out a monocentric, prospective, comparative study to determine whether
      SCB is non-inferior to ISB in terms of post-operative analgesia in patients undergoing
      ambulatory ARCR. Analgesic efficacy was determined by oral morphine use and/or pain scores in
      patients after hospital discharge. Promotor hypothesis was that SCB would provide similar or
      better analgesia to ISB in patients returning home on the evening of their surgery.
    
  