
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Phase II

        -  Compare the complete response rates in men with intermediate prognosis germ cell cancer
           treated with bleomycin, cisplatin, and etoposide (BEP) vs bleomycin, cisplatin,
           etoposide, and paclitaxel (T-BEP).

        -  Define the toxicity profile of T-BEP in these patients.

      Phase III

        -  Compare the disease-free survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the complete response rates and overall survival of patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare symptoms and aspects of quality of life at baseline and after treatment in
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the acute and intermediate (1-2 years) side effects of these regimens in these
           patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      histology (seminoma vs non-seminoma) and hospital. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive cisplatin IV and etoposide IV on days 1-5 and bleomycin IV on
           days 1, 8, and 15.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive cisplatin, etoposide, and bleomycin as in arm I and paclitaxel
           IV over 3 hours on day 1. Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously on
           days 6-15.

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 3 weeks for a total of 4 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed before treatment randomization and at 1 and 2 years after
      randomization.

      Patients are followed monthly for 1 year, every 2 months for 1 year, every 3 months for 1
      year, every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 84-164 patients (42-82 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      the phase II study. A total of 498 patients (249 per treatment arm) will be accrued for the
      phase III study. Accrual will be completed within 4 years.
    
  