
    
      Patients with localized and non-metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) represent an "at-need"
      population who would benefit from immunotherapy earlier in their disease course with a PD-1
      therapy combined with a second immunotherapy agent. A logical next step is to pursue the
      combination of an anti-PD1 therapy with CTLA-4 blockade extrapolating from recent successes
      in the metastatic setting. The primary concern with previous approaches and studies is that
      CTLA-4 based therapy is associated with increased risk of autoimmune side effects which
      potentially could delay a curative surgery. Clearly, the neoadjuvant setting in RCC
      represents an ideal space to evaluate novel I/O combination strategies aside from CTLA-4
      blockade.

      This study intends to confirm the safety and feasibility of canakinumab and spartalizumab
      (PDR-001) administered using a standard dose / schedule in the neo-adjuvant setting in renal
      cell carcinoma. This is a single-center, single arm, open-label pilot study evaluating the
      feasibility, safety, anti-tumor effect, and immunogenicity of neoadjuvant canakinumab and
      spartalizumab given prior to radical nephrectomy in patients with localized renal cell
      carcinoma. Patients will be recruited from the outpatient Urology clinic.

      Eligible patients will receive canakinumab at a dose of 300 mg Q4weeks and spartalizumab at
      400 mg Q4weeks IV. Approximately 14 days after the last dose of canakinumab and
      spartalizumab, patients with proceed to radical nephrectomy, and nephrectomy tissue will be
      examined for the secondary endpoints. Follow-up evaluation for adverse events will occur 30
      days and 90 days after surgery. Patients will then be followed by their urologists and
      oncologist according to standard institutional practices, but will require repeat labs every
      3 months along with standard of care surveillance imaging.
    
  