
    
      Low-dose Naltrexone (LDN): A potential treatment for fibromyalgia (FM)

      Naltrexone is an opioid antagonist used for treating opiate and alcohol dependency that
      blocks the mu receptors and, to a lesser extent, the delta-opioid receptors. There is growing
      evidence that naltrexone administered in very low doses (i.e. low-dose naltrexone, LDN)
      -approximately 1/10 of the usual dose, between 1.5-5 mg vs. 50 mg/day- may be useful in
      managing the various pathologies that alter inflammatory markers, such as Crohn's disease,
      multiple sclerosis and FM.

      The anti-inflammatory effect of naltrexone should be produced through the inhibition of TLR-4
      (Toll-like receptor 4) activity expressed in the membrane of various immune system cells
      (e.g. microglia, macrophages). Conversely, due to a "rebound effect", LDN could exercise an
      analgesic effect that strengthens the endogenous inhibitory system. According to this
      hypothesis, the low-intensity and intermittent blocking of the opioid receptors generated by
      LDN should induce a compensatory mechanism that should facilitate an increase in the
      production of endogenous opioids and greater sensitivity of the system to their effects. To
      date, the effects of LDN in patients with FM have only been evaluated through crossover pilot
      studies and have always produced highly promising results. Thus, in the first study conducted
      with LDN in FM (N= 10), ameliorations in the daily pain, stress and fatigue levels were
      observed. In the same vein, in a posterior study (N= 31), significant improvements (vs.
      Placebo) in daily pain (28% vs. 18%), satisfaction with life and mood were also observed. In
      another single-blind crossover study (N= 8) the pre and post changes in the levels of
      cytokines in plasma were evaluated over 8 weeks, with reductions in a wide range of
      inflammatory markers being observed (e.g. IL-1, sIL-1ra, IL-6, IL-10, TNF-alpha), as well as
      changes in the levels of pain (-15%) and FM symptoms (-18%). Given that the studies conducted
      up to now had reduced sample sizes and crossover designs, and given that there are still no
      studies in which its potential cost-utility is assessed, studies with greater methodological
      rigor and larger samples are necessary to confirm the clinical effectiveness of LDN in FM.
      Jointly evaluating the efficacy and cost-utility analyses, the changes in metabolites (i.e.
      Glu) in certain areas of the brain, and systemic inflammatory markers potentially linked to
      the etiopathogenesis of FM, should allow us to gain a more detailed knowledge of the
      neurobiological mechanisms underlying the effectiveness of LDN in this population. The INNOVA
      project will enable all these factors to be evaluated for the first time.
    
  