
    
      If you decide to participate in the study you will be asked to sign this informed consent
      form prior to beginning any study activities. If you agree to participate the study
      procedures are as follows:

        -  The participants enrolled in this study will receive NPWT in combination with
           polypropylene suture being laid out over half of the wound. Enrollment in this study is
           not considered standard of care.

             -  You will be randomized (like flipping a coin) to what side of the wound the suture
                will be placed on. Randomization means the study team has no say in what side the
                suture goes on. Your information is put into a computer and the computer picks what
                side to place the suture. The polypropylene suture will be placed over half of your
                wound. There is an equal chance for the polypropylene suture to be placed on the
                right or left side. The other half of your wound will not have the polypropylene
                suture in place and will act as the control (comparison) group in this study. The
                use of the study polypropylene suture is not considered standard of care.

        -  The wound vacuum will be placed over the entire wound and will be left in place for no
           more than 3 days as per standard of care.

        -  After no more than 3 days at a time during the healing process, the nurses will remove
           the wound vacuum, dressings, suture, and the sponge.

        -  One blinded (they are not told which side of the wound the suture is placed on) study
           physician will come look at your wound. This study physicians will determine if further
           NPWT, with or without the study polypropylene suture, is needed.

        -  You will be asked to complete a pain rating questionnaire (rating scale 0-10) in
           relation to both sides of your wound when the wound vacuum has been removed.

        -  If further NPWT is needed without the use of the study polypropylene suture, you will be
           withdrawn from the study

        -  If discharged with NPWT you will not continue receive polypropylene suture placement and
           that would be end of study participation

        -  If further NPWT is needed with the use of negative pressure wound therapy, the
           polypropylene suture and the sponge will be placed and the process will continue as
           noted above until your wound is healed or you are withdrawn from the study.

        -  Information from your medical records will be collected throughout this study. You will
           also be asked questions about your medical and surgical history as well as what
           medications you are currently taking.

        -  Your demographics will be collected including your age, date of birth, race, sex,
           height, weight, and ethnicity.
    
  