
    
      Efficacy of Ultrasound Guided Percutaneous Transperineal Laser Ablation in Benign Prostatic
      Hypertrophy Patients: Non-Pharmacological Interventional Study

      The aim of this pilot study is to evaluate the efficacy of TPLA under US-guidance and the
      safety and the reproducibility in acute and follow-up.

      Objective of the study: Evaluate the efficacy of percutaneous ablative treatment with
      neodymium laser; the complete profile of safety and tolerability in acute and in the
      follow-up in patients with Benign Prostatic Hypertrophy by using multiparametric prostate MRI
      that allows us to evaluate the prostate acutely after treatment and in follow-up. All of the
      imaging data is correlated with clinical and laboratory data.

      Design of the study: Non-pharmacological interventional study. The clinical evaluation will
      be carried out at three different times:

      Time 1: eligibility assessment, signing of informed consent Time 2: admission, laser ablation
      and control with multiparametric MRI of the post-procedural prostate (T0).

      Time 3 Follow up at 3 (T1) -6 (T2) -12 (T3) months from the procedure.

      There are various inclusion and exclusion criteria. The inclusion criteria are: over 65 years
      old, benign prostate hypertrophy (BPH) confirmed by pre-interventional multi-parametric
      (mpMRI), moderate-elevated surgical risk, presence of urinary obstructive symptoms, signed
      consent form. Exclusion criteria are: presence of prostate tumor diagnosed by MRI and
      confirmed by biopsy, urethral stenosis, severe coagulation pathology, ischemic pathology,
      pacemaker presence, inflammatory pathology in acute phase, presence of 3rd dominant lobe and
      contraindication to MRI.

      Pre-treatment blood chemistry tests:

        -  Total and fractionated PSA

        -  Complete blood count with platelet count and leukocyte formula

        -  Blood coagulation tests

        -  Urine test - urine culture

        -  Azotemia

        -  Creatinine

      Technique of performing a percutaneous laser ablation treatment:

      The treatments are performed by the radiology team, in an outpatient setting using the
      Echolaser XVG combined system.

      The procedure is performed with the patient in gynecological position, and in safe conditions
      according to the current legislation for laser treatments (such as protective glasses).

      Treatment includes local anesthesia of the perineal region, under ultrasound guidance. At the
      discretion of the medical team, sedation can be carried out with anesthetic assistance.

      2 or 4 needles of 21G, 1 or 2 will be inserted. In each needle a 300 micron optical fiber
      will be inserted - Elesta s.r.l. - 50041, Calenzano (FI) - Italy, at a distance of 8-10 mm
      from the urethra. For each ablation, for about 6 minutes, an energy of 1200 J per fiber will
      be delivered, at the power of 2-5 Watts. At the end the needle and the fiber is retracted for
      about 1 cm ("pull-back"). Further ablation follows, with delivery and duration and power
      equal to the previous one. Depending on the size of the middle lobe one or more pull-backs
      can be made. In total the treatment consists in dispensing up to 1800 J, at the power of 2-5
      W for a total duration of 30 minutes.

      The laser causes hyperthermia, denaturation and coagulative necrosis of proteins.

      The maximum volume treated in a session and the extent of the ablation vary according to the
      prostatic volume, anatomy and receptivity of the tissue.

      At the end of the treatment 20 mg of corticosteroids ev (if not specifically contraindicated
      by the patient) is administered, for anti-edema and anti-inflammatory purposes. An
      antibiotic, pain relief and gastroprotective therapy is established for 1 week. After an
      adequate observation period, the patient will be discharged.

      Follow up: The clinical evaluation is carried out at different times

      Post procedural follow up:

      Immediately after the procedure, a multiparametric prostate MRI is performed, followed by
      discharge with steroid therapy (prednisone), if not contraindicated, to be scaled and for
      programming the subsequent follow-up phases.

      Post-discharge follow-up:

      Specialist examination, suprapubic ultrasound of the urinary tract (with evaluation of the
      post-residual volume) and multiparametric prostate MRI at 3 months, 6 months and 12 months
      and subsequent checks according to clinical judgment.

      A urine test and any urine culture are attached to each clinical-ultrasound evaluation. At
      each revaluation the IPSS form and the data collection form is filled out.
    
  