
    
      This prospective double-blind randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial was approved by
      our institutional review board and adheres to the tenets of the Declaration of Helsinki.
      Patients who agree for the study had to sign an informed consent.

      Eligible subjects will be subsequently allocated into one of three topical study medication
      groups by a computer-based randomisation programme: the placebo group received artificial
      lacrimal tears (Liquifilm®), the NSAID group a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug
      (Aculare®, ketorolac), and the CS group a corticosteroid (FML®, fluorometholone). All study
      medication is made by the same pharmaceutical manufacturer (Allergan™), and contained the
      preservative benzalkonium chloride. Each subject of the 3 study groups will have to take one
      drop of their study medication four times daily for one month before filtering surgery in
      addition to their routine antiglaucoma medication. The trabeculectomy technique will be done
      according to a modified Moorfields procedure by experienced surgeons (IS, TZ)using a standard
      fornix-based approach.

      Patients will be postoperatively examined on days 1 and 2, at weeks 1, 2, and 4, and at
      months 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 following trabeculectomy. IOP will be measured by Goldmann
      applanation tonometry. IOP outcomes will be the observed IOP values and relative (percentage
      reduction) IOP reduction as compared to baseline at the different postoperative time points.
      In addition, complete (without additional postoperative medication) and qualified (with and
      without additional postoperative medication), and number of postoperative additional
      treatments (needling, laser suture lysis, needling revision) in the study eye will be
      assessed.

      Statistical Analysis

      Before the onset of the study, sample size and power calculations are performed. In addition,
      a randomization programme was set up. A multivariate regression model was used to compare the
      IOP evolution between the three groups .
    
  