
    
      Study Design:

      This is a Phase I, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded study to examine safety,
      tolerability and immune response of a multiclade HIV adenoviral vector vaccine in uninfected
      adults. The hypothesis is that this vaccine will be safe and elicit immune responses to HIV.
      The primary objective is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of VRC-HIVADV014-00-VP in
      uninfected subjects and the secondary objectives include immunogenicity evaluations and
      adenovirus serotype 5 (Ad5) antibody titers through Week 4 and social impacts at Week 24.
      Exploratory evaluations include immunogenicity evaluations at Weeks 12 and 24 and Ad5
      antibody titers at Week 24.

      Product Description:

      VRC-HIVADV014-00-VP is a recombinant product composed of 4 adenoviral vectors (Ad) (in a
      3:1:1:1 ratio) that encode the HIV-1 Gag/Pol polyprotein from clade B and HIV-1 Env
      glycoproteins from clades A, B, and C, respectively. The final formulation buffer,
      VRC-DILUENT013-DIL-VP will be used as the diluent and as the placebo control. Injections will
      be administered intramuscularly (IM).

      Subjects:

      Healthy adult volunteers (18 to 44 years old).

      Study Plan:

      Thirty-six volunteers will receive one 1.0 mL injection of the study agent or placebo in a
      deltoid muscle as shown in the schema. Dose escalation will occur about three weeks after the
      last injection in a dose group following an interim safety data review by a DSMB, provided
      that there are no significant toxicities.

      Study Duration:

      Subjects will be evaluated at 5 or more clinical visits for 24 weeks after the study
      injection, followed by annual telephone or mail contact for the subsequent 4 years.

      Study Endpoints:

      The primary endpoint is safety of the vaccine administered at doses of 1 x 10(9), 1 x 10(10)
      and 1 x 10(11) particle units (PU) by intramuscular injection. Secondary endpoints are
      immunogenicity as indicated by HIV-specific antibody and cellular immune responses through
      Week 4, Ad5 antibody titer at Week 0 and Week 4 and social impact at Week 24. Exploratory
      analyses of immunogenicity at Weeks 12 and 24 and Ad5 antibody titer at Week 24 will also be
      performed.
    
  