
    
      One of the major problems in the expanding population of patients with congenital heart
      disease (CHD) is dysfunction of the right ventricular (RV) outflow tract (OT). Initial
      surgical repair for complex conditions or repeated surgery for free pulmonary regurgitation
      often includes the creation of an artificial RV to main pulmonary artery connection. Over
      time, these conduits are prone to develop valvar incompetence or obstruction. There is clear
      evidence that pulmonary stenosis and pulmonary regurgitation are associated with exercise
      intolerance, arrhythmias and an increased risk of sudden death. Timely pulmonary valve
      replacement can halt and may reverse such unfavourable outcomes. However, this means that
      patients have to undergo multiple open-heart surgeries in order to reduce the haemodynamic
      burden on the right ventricle. Decision making in these patients with RVOT dysfunction is
      based on the aim to perform pulmonary valve replacement as late as possible to minimise the
      total number of open-heart surgeries required in individual patients, but before functional
      impairment might be irreversible. Importantly, this point of 'no return' in right ventricular
      pressure and/or volume overload is still unknown and represents one of the most challenging
      problems in the field of CHD. Ideally, quality of life, survival and freedom from atrial and
      ventricular arrhythmia should be the endpoints for any study trying to optimise timing of
      pulmonary valve replacement. However, such studies would require long follow-up in large
      patient populations and will not help to improve management of right ventricular outflow
      tract (RVOT) dysfunction in the short-term. In order to design studies with surrogate
      functional endpoints, a sound understanding of physiological consequences of altering RV
      loading and its implications for bi-ventricular function or exercise capacity is pivotal.

      The investigators established a method of acquiring robust RV pressure-volume-loops at our
      institution. In the context of a research study, the investigators performed RV conductance
      catheter measurements in 22 patients with heart failure with preserved ejection fraction and
      in 11 patients with no evidence of any RV disease. Within the RaDICAL study the investigators
      aim further to compare these results to pressure-volume loops acquired in patients with
      congenital heart disease (CHD) and adverse RV loading conditions in order to evaluate
      characteristics, incidence and predictors of load-independent right ventricle (RV) diastolic
      dysfunction.
    
  