
    
      Endoscopic sleeve gastroplasty (ESG) is a transoral endoscopic procedure that utilizes
      full-thickness sutures extending from the prepyloric antrum to the gastroesophageal junction,
      creating a tubular sleeve along the lesser curvature with a gastric volume of approximately
      30%. After the first feasibility study was available in 2013, multiple investigators
      published data on safety and efficacy of ESG. A recent meta analysis of novel endoscopic
      procedures revealed four observational studies on ESG. At 6, 12 and 24 months pooled
      excessive weight loss (EWL) was 52%, 53%, and 60% while pooled total body weight loss (TBWL)
      was 16%, 17%, and 20%, respectively.

      Aside from its efficacy in terms of body weight loss, only a small number of investigations
      addressed metabolic changes in response to ESG so far. In a large retrospective analysis,
      which observed the outcomes of 1000 patients following ESG, 13 of 17 cases of type 2 diabetes
      mellitus (T2DM), all 28 cases of hypertension, and 18 of 32 cases of dyslipidemia were in
      complete remission by the third month of follow-up.

      Summarizing the available literature, knowledge about effects of ESG on metabolism and
      glucose homeostasis is scarce. Available studies are subject to significant limitations in
      terms of sample size and or generalizability of results. The present study aims at a
      comprehensive determination of changes in hormonal regulators of glucose homeostasis after
      ESG in comparison to the preoperative state. Up to date, there are no structured and detailed
      analyses available that investigate glucose homeostasis following ESG. Proper glucose
      homeostasis yields a significant impact on a patients' quality of life and may - if
      deteriorated - be accompanied by a plethora of somatic and psychological constraints. The
      results of the present study seeks to investigate glucose homeostasis following ESG in
      detail. This may help to identify patients in need for further assistance regarding their
      post-interventional lifestyle in order to avoid e.g. hypoglycemia, and to further
      characterize patients' cohorts that will likely benefit from ESG.
    
  