
    
      The study will be conducted on total group of 100 participants, from which 75 will be the
      patients with PAH (pulmonary arterial hypertension), HF-REF (heart failure with reduced
      ejection fraction) or IHD (ischemic heart disease).

      In all participants medical anamnesis, physical examination, anthropometric measures,
      6-minute walking distance (6MWD six minute walking distance) will be performed and initial
      functional class according WHO (World Health Organisation)/NYHA (New York Health
      Association)/CCS (Canadian Cardiovascular Society) classification will be evaluated. Medical
      history will consist of questions regarding coexisting diseases, treatment, lifestyle, family
      burden, etc. Quality of life will be assessed with use of The Short Form (36) Health Survey -
      SF-36) and Fatigue Severity Scale - FSS. Biochemical measures will be performed including,
      among others. brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), blood morphology, P-selectin, concentrations
      of cytokines such as : Interleukin 6 (IL-6), soluble Interleukin 6 receptor (sIL-6R), stromal
      derived factor-1 (SDF-1, CXCL12) and soluble tumor necrosis factor-like weak inducer of
      apoptosis (sTWEAK).

      Among lab parameters routinely measured in groups of patients with PAH, HFREF, IHD performed
      in Cardiology Department of University Clinical Hospital during hospitalization will be used:
      creatinine level, uric acid level, total cholesterol, LDL (low density lipoprotein), HDL
      (high density lipoprotein), triglycerides levels, troponin I level, CRP (C reactive protein),
      BNP (brain natriuretic peptide), fasting glucose, TSH (thyroid stimulating hormone), blood
      morphology and arterial geometry. Fasting venous blood will be collected in 4 tubes each a 10
      ml. Two tubes a 10ml (one dedicated to obtain serum ("on clot"), second with heparin) to
      perform biochemical analyses, tube a 10ml with EDTA (ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid) will be
      used to evaluate PBMC (peripheral blood mononuclear cell) (density gradient centrifugation),
      tube a 10ml with citrate will be used to obtain platelet lysate.

      Additionally fasting venous blood will be obtained - 2 tubes a 10ml in order to assess number
      of stem cells, natural lymphoid cells, and distribution of subpopulations of lymphocytes.

      In clinical evaluation measurement of respiratory (inspiratory and expiratory) muscles force
      with use of device MicroRPM (respiratory pressure meter), analysis of body mass composition
      with special regard to muscular mass with use of bioelectrical impedance analysis method
      (BIA) (Maltron) and measurement of hand grip strength with use of hand dynamometer will be
      performed.

      During first visit also ECG (electrocardiogram) and echocardiography will be done.

      The safe protocol of home physical training and respiratory rehabilitation adjusted to the
      clinical state of patients will be developed in the form of brochure with photos and precise
      description of exercises and the diary of self-control of patient in order to collect data
      regarding daily physical activity will be given to participants. Patients willing to take
      part in stage of exercises (circa 45 persons) will be trained in Rehabilitation Department
      how to perform exercises at homes. Easy to use devices dedicated to respiratory exercises
      (Pulmogain Respitrain) enabling respiratory muscles training with various degree of intensity
      and pedometers to assess daily motor activity will be given to patients.

      Stage of exercises during which the next series of tests will be performed will last 6
      months. Exercising patients will come to Rehabilitation Department on first and third month
      after start of rehabilitation in order to control the correctness of training performance,
      filling self-control diary assessment of patients compliance and eventual corrections of
      training program. Patients will be also under continuous phone supervision (minimally once a
      week) and in the case of doubts and need for consultation. After finishing exercises stage
      and performed clinical evaluation, patients will by themselves decide if they are willing to
      continue rehabilitation (will have possibility of further use of physiotherapists care), and
      follow up assessment will take place after 6 months from finishing exercises stage.

      Comparative group will consist of patients with PAH, HF-REF, IHD who agreed to participate in
      study but were not qualified to the exercises stage. Control group will consist of patients
      of Cardiology Department and Cardiology Outpatient Clinic and Rehabilitation Department
      (without cardiovascular diseases). Range of examinations in control group will consists of
      medical anamnesis, physical examination, anthropometric measures, individually filled
      questionnaires SF-36 and FSS, evaluation of respiratory muscles force, hand grip strength and
      analysis of body mass composition BIA.
    
  