
    
      As part of this study, patients who are waiting for a total hip replacement, and have no
      other serious medical problems will be given an information sheet about the study at the
      preoperative education group session approximately 12 weeks prior to their surgery. If they
      are interested they would be asked on the day of their operation if they would like to take
      part in the study, potential participants will have had the opportunity to ask any questions
      to a senior member of the research team over the telephone or at a further study specific
      appointment if they wish before this stage.

      Any patients who agree to take part would be free to withdraw from the study at any time,
      without any implications for their ongoing medical treatment. Patients do not have to give a
      reason as to why they would like to stop taking part, this is explained during the consent
      process but will be reiterated to participants during the study.

      Once participants have entered the study, they would be selected at random to one of two
      groups:

      Group 1: (Rapid Mobilisation Group) Participants will be seen between 4 and 6 hours after
      returning to the ward after surgery. The physiotherapist would aim to start walking with them
      at this stage, as long as the physiotherapist feels that this is safe.

      Group 2: (Control Group) Participants will be seen between 4 and 6 hours after returning to
      the ward after surgery. The physiotherapist would start exercises on the bed with these
      patients. This is standard practice and is the current patient protocol at the Royal
      Bournemouth Hospital. The rest of their stay as a patient would continue as normal in
      accordance with standard care.

      The following items will be measured for each patient:

        1. How long they stay in hospital after their operation

        2. How satisfied they were with physiotherapy.

        3. Their pain levels when walking for the first time.

        4. How quickly they return to independence with walking and other tasks.

        5. Whether they had any medical complications after their operation.

      The null hypothesis is that rapid walking following total hip replacement does not affect the
      amount of time patients stay in hospital, the amount of time taken to reach functional
      milestones such as walking or stairs, and how the patient grades their experience of
      physiotherapy.

      The results of this research would then be analysed both at half way through data collection
      and at the end of data collection by the research team and the Sponsor and would be published
      as part of a research paper in a medical journal. This type of study design has been chosen
      to provide the research team with a high quality comparison between the two groups. Due to
      the nature of the treatment it was felt that it wasn't possible to implement any participant
      or clinician blinding to the methodology.

      However, both groups of patients will be treated using a treatment protocol to limit any
      differences between group interventions.
    
  