
    
      Appendectomy has been the treatment of acute appendicitis for over a hundred years.
      Appendicectomy, however, includes operative and postoperative risks despite being a routine
      procedure. Several studies have proved promising results of the safety and efficiency of
      antibiotics in the treatment of acute uncomplicated appendicitis. The previous APPAC study by
      the investigators, published in 2015 in the Journal of American Medical Association, also
      proved promising results with 73% of patients with uncomplicated appendicitis treated
      successfully with antibiotics. None of the patients initially treated with antibiotics that
      later had appendectomy had major complications. The results of the APPAC trial suggest that
      CT proven uncomplicated acute appendicitis is not a surgical emergency and antibiotic therapy
      is a safe first-line treatment option. Reducing unnecessary appendectomies has also been
      shown to lead to significant economic savings. On the other hand, antibiotic therapies have
      been shown to have an effect on the normal gut microbiota.

      Gut microbiota is an extremely complex ecosystem with both high bacterial density and
      diversity. Recent scientific evidence emphasizes that the symbiosis between the host and the
      balanced gut microbiota supports good health, and contributes to various biochemical and
      metabolic functions occurring in host's body. The possible role of the somehow distorted gut
      microbiota composition in addition to its metabolites in the etiopathogenesis of many
      diseases such as allergy, inflammatory bowel disease, type 1 diabetes and obesity related
      disorders, has been recently proposed. Further, detected alterations and perturbations both
      in the gut microbiota composition and functionality have been linked to the development of
      various malignancies such as colorectal cancer, gastric cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma.
      To date, the role of the microbes and especially the members of the commensal microbiota with
      their structural compartments and metabolites in the pathogenesis and etiology of
      appendicitis have not been clarified in detail, despite the recent knowledge that
      uncomplicated acute appendicitis could be treated by antibiotic treatments alone. Further,
      there is only limited amount of evidence on the appendix microbial composition in humans.

      Microbial overgrowth has been speculated to serve as a secondary consequence in appendicitis.
      However, recent accumulating evidence suggests that primary bacterial infection may actually
      be an initiating event in the pathogenesis of the disease. Interestingly, it has been
      postulated that the appendix could serve as a microbial reservoir for repopulating the
      gastrointestinal tract in times of necessity thus gut microbiota may act as a source for
      these pathogenic intruders. Further it has been reported that certain members of the gram
      negative Fusobacteria especially F. nucleatum and necrophorum are present in most
      appendicitis samples.

      Additionally, antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is considered an increasing global threat.
      According to the WHO (World Health Organisation), in 2050s more people will be killed by AMR
      bacteria than by all cancers.The use of antimicrobials in humans and especially in animal
      health care and production industry are the major causes of increasing AMR worldwide; the
      prudent use of antimicrobials is essential to prevent increasing AMR. Antimicrobials are
      known to decrease the gut microbiota diversity, richness and species variation and cause the
      perturbation of its overall balance and even a short-term antimicrobial treatment has a
      long-term impact on its composition underlining the importance of evaluating both short- and
      long-term effects of the antimicrobial treatment in old and new indications.

      The aims of this randomized prospective study are:

        1. To evaluate the possible role and differences in the microbiological etiology of
           complicated and uncomplicated appendicitis. The bacterial composition of the complicated
           appendix will be compared to the gut microbiota composition determined from the fecal
           sample collected from the same individual. Additionally, these results will be compared
           to the gut microbiota composition of patients with uncomplicated acute appendicitis.

        2. To determine the effects of both antibiotic and placebo treatment on the composition of
           gut microbiota, and to evaluate how it recovers after the appendicitis-related
           antimicrobial treatment (AMT). The bacterial composition and AMR reservoir of the gut
           microbiota will be evaluated both pre and post treatment in patients receiving
           antibiotic or placebo treatment for uncomplicated acute appendicitis. Additionally, the
           recovery of gut microbiota composition and disappearance of AMR will be evaluated. We
           will compare two variations (i.v.and p.o.) of antibiotic treatment with the placebo
           treatment.

        3. To evaluate the effects of the duration of the hospital stay on the AMR reservoir of the
           gut microbiota. According to the study protocols of the APPAC II and III trials,
           patients will spend either 1 or 3 days in the hospital in order to receive treatment
           before continuing the selected treatment at home. We will evaluate the effects of length
           of stay on the AMR reservoir of gut microbiota as well as evaluating if and when
           possible colonization occurs.
    
  