
    
      Background Critical care costs an estimated 90 billion dollars per year in the United States,
      comprising approximately 1% of the gross national product.1 Though this expenditure is
      enormous, together with advances in critical care medicine and mechanical ventilation
      technology, it has produced a priceless trend in decreasing intensive care unit (ICU)
      mortality.1 Of all ICU admissions, about 40% require mechanical ventilation, often with
      accompanying necessary periods of sedation and inactivity.1 Although more patients are
      surviving their ICU stay, it is becoming apparent that our current ICU culture of heavy
      sedation and inactivity is taking its toll on the complete recovery of the critically ill
      patient. 1,2 Several studies have shown significant disability one year after discharge, as
      well as major declines in functional status and health-related quality of life; half of ICU
      patients were unable to return to work due to persistent fatigue, weakness, and poor
      functional status. 4 The primary contributor was muscle wasting and weakness,5 due to the
      prolonged immobilization brought about by illness, lengthy bed rest, deep sedation, and the
      use of paralytic agents.6 It is estimated that just a single day of inactivity causes muscle
      strength to decrease by 1-1.5%.7 Although 94% of survivors with critical illness
      myoneuropathy can demonstrate meaningful clinical recovery of muscle strength 9 months out
      from their hospital stay, there are still some patients whose weakness may persist, resulting
      in severe and prolonged functional deficits.14,18 To combat the deleterious effects of
      inactivity and improve complete recovery, some hospitals have instituted programs under the
      rubric early mobility, wherein sedation is reduced and patients are engaged in progressive
      levels of activity as soon as physically possible. Early mobilization starts with passive
      range of motion exercises, then progresses to active range of motion, sitting, standing, and,
      finally, walking. Early mobility in the ICU has been proposed as a crucial instrument in
      muscle preservation and protection from neuropathy of critical illness, thereby decreasing
      long-term morbidity and physical debilitation.18

      There is a growing body of evidence indicating that early mobilization of ventilated patients
      can have a significant positive impact on length of stay, muscle condition, and the patient's
      overall sense of well-being. The use of early mobility in patients with respiratory failure
      has been proven safe with the implementation of proper monitoring in a physiologically stable
      and awake patient.2 Hopkins et al. implemented an early activity program and demonstrated a
      decline in length of ICU stay of 3 days.1 Morris et al. implemented a similar early
      mobilization program that showed a statistically significant decrease in the length of stay
      in the ICU (6.9 vs. 5.5 days, P=0.025) as well as in the hospital (14.5 vs. 11.2 days,
      P=0.006); in addition there was a notable trend towards decreased inpatient cost per patient
      ($44,302 vs. $41,142, P=0.262).19 Schweikert et al. were able to demonstrate that patients
      who had undergone early mobilization had a greater rate of return to independent functional
      status at hospital discharge (59% vs. 35%, P=0.02).20 These studies have demonstrated the
      ability to increase mobilization, improve physical function, and decrease ICU resource
      utilization within a relatively short period of time with an appropriate change in routine
      clinical practice.12

      Unfortunately, there exist significant barriers to the implementation of an early mobility
      program. The most significant and pervasive of these barriers is cultural-the perception that
      the critically ill patient cannot tolerate physical activity. This barrier, however, is
      rapidly dissolving with the mounting evidence noted above. The demonstrated benefits of early
      mobility have prompted increasing numbers of institutions to develop their own early mobility
      protocols and attempt their implementation. Once the cultural barriers are overcome, however,
      additional barriers appear. Thus, implementation has been slow and spotty. In a multisite
      study, only 27% of patients with acute lung injury received any form of physical therapy in
      the ICU, with treatments occurring only 6% of those days.22 These barriers involved: 1)
      providing safety guarantees, 2) accommodating staffing models, and 3) finding the right
      hardware. With regard to safety guarantees, there exist legitimate fears regarding possible
      harm to the patient in the process of mobilization, either secondary to patient falls, or
      unintentional removal of lines, feeding or drainage tubes, or endotracheal tubes. Safe
      mechanical support is needed for the patient, to the point of full body-weight support. The
      staffing model is also critical: the mobilization of one ventilated patient requires, in
      addition to a physical therapist, at least three staff members to move medical equipment
      while the patient walks.11, 21 Although on a given day, within a 20-bed ICU, only two
      patients might qualify for assisted walking, and would require only four 15-minute periods
      from a 5-member mobility team per day, the logistics of assembling that team from the ICU
      staff are often prohibitive. Finally with regard to finding appropriate hardware, the
      management and transport of medical equipment alongside the walking patient is not easily
      addressed with rolling poles and carts. The current standard of care for walking a
      mechanically ventilated patient consists of a wheeled walker held onto by the patient, the
      patient supported with a gait belt held from behind by a physical therapist, and 4-5 staff
      persons in attendance to guide the patient, roll the equipment, and be ready to "pick up"
      should the patient fall.

      As an alternative to the front-wheeled walker, the Rifton Gait Trainer has been introduced
      into clinical practice. This device provides greater inherent safety features via a pelvic
      harness that keeps the patient from falling, even if their legs should give out while
      walking. In addition, there is a chest piece to keep patients from tipping forward or
      backward, and there are higher handholds to help patients mobilize more easily. The Rifton
      Gait Trainer addresses two of the three above listed barriers by providing more inherent
      safety features through better hardware, and it may also help decrease the number of staff
      required to mobilize patients.

      Purpose The following sections describe a 10-week pilot study for a randomized non-blinded
      controlled clinical trial to assess whether use of the Rifton Gait Trainer will improve the
      incidence of mobilization of critically ill ventilator dependent patients in the intensive
      care units (ICUs) and improve important patient outcomes. The pilot study is designed to
      assess the feasibility and logistics of doing a study of this nature in the ICU; it will also
      provide the means to obtain estimates of outcome effect sizes, number of repeated measures,
      time between repeated measures, and intra-subject and intra-unit correlations, to be used for
      sample size calculations for a multi-center study.

      Subjects Approximately forty subjects will be randomized to use either the RGT or the FWW,
      with enrollment spanning a period of approximately 10 weeks. Patients will be deemed eligible
      to ambulate based on their daily mobility score, as calculated according to the Early
      Mobility Protocol. Mobility scores are first determined based on level of consciousness. The
      unconscious patient has the lowest mobility level, Level 1. Patients who are conscious but
      have a low RASS score (-2) are considered a Level 2. Conscious patients are considered to be
      Level 3 or 4. Level 4 patients are those patients who have proven that they can master all
      the activities outlined for Level 3 mobility; that is, they can dangle at the bedside and
      stand and pivot to a chair. Level 4 activities are separated from Level 3 activities only by
      the ability to walk in the hallway.

      Informed consent will occur prior to randomization. Randomization will occur when patients
      have been on the ventilator > 2 days and have mobility scores eligible for walking.
      Randomization will be assigned on a 1:1 ratio to either the RGT or FWW. Patients will be
      randomized using a web-based system called CREDIT.

      Data Analysis A future study will be considered feasible if we are able to enroll 60% of
      eligible patients, have records for 90% of eligible ambulation days, and at least 85% of
      required data fields are completed as designed. Analysis will be based on intention-to-treat;
      that is, regardless of which walker is actually used, the patient will be analyzed in the
      group to which he or she was randomized.

      The primary outcome measure, how many times the patient is mobilized each day, will be
      compared between devices using a hierarchical generalized linear model with number of times
      the patient is mobilized each day as the dependent variable, device, unit and day and an
      interaction of device with day as the independent variables, and subject as the random effect
      in the model. Most likely, ordinal regression will be used with 0, 1, 2 or more times as the
      definition of outcome. If there are too few occurrences of 2 or more, we will convert to a
      logistic model. If one device is better than the other, we would expect the odds of being
      mobilized at a higher level with RGT is significantly different from the odds of being
      mobilized with FWW. We will also test for the interaction of device with time.

      Sources
    
  