
    
      Vestibular disorders are among the most common causes of disability in society and affect
      over 50% of the population over the age of 65 and a significant percentage of the younger
      population. Vestibular disorders have a dramatic impact on daily life impacting work,
      relationships, and even activities of daily living. At the current time, the mainstay of
      therapy for many vestibular disorders is a physical therapy called vestibular rehabilitation.
      While usually highly effective, this therapy is time consuming and not universally effective,
      in part because of inconsistent subject compliance. The use of adjuvant devices to speed
      recovery has been studied but very few devices have proved beneficial; the few that have
      shown benefit only work in special populations and are large units that cost several million
      dollars.

      The OtoBand has shown promise and might be beneficial for treating or improving the course of
      recovery from vestibular disorders. To date, the device has only been systematically tested
      on healthy volunteers and has been shown to improve vertigo associated to motion sickness and
      virtual reality device use.

      In this study, the investigators will assay the efficacy of the OtoBand on participants with
      acute unilateral vestibulopathy (AUV). The OtoBand will be given to participants with AUV for
      use during vestibular test batteries. The OtoBand will be set at either a normal power
      (effective) or low power (6 decibels lower than normal power, placebo device). There are two
      effective power levels, which will be randomly assigned to each of the participants. Outcomes
      will be assessed by the investigator by a set of vestibular tests while the participant uses
      the OtoBand or placebo device. Participants vestibular disorder outcomes will be compared
      between OtoBand and placebo device to:

        1. Determine if participants treated with OtoBand achieve instantaneous effectiveness in
           reducing vestibular symptoms.

        2. Determine if participants treated with the OtoBand at higher power levels experience
           higher benefits.
    
  