
    
      The study will involve two arms: a resistive blanket warming system arm and a forced air
      warming system arm. Both devices will be set to warm the participant at a standard 41 degrees
      Celsius when the participant is to be rewarmed.

      During the study, the forced air warming system (FAWS) will be placed on the (resistive
      blanket warming system (RBWS), with the participant laying on top of the forced air warming
      system. The arm components will be wrapped around the participant's arms to assist with
      patient positioning for surgery. Both the forced air and resistive blanket warming systems
      will be attached to their respective heating units before the participant is brought to the
      OR and transferred to the operating room table. After the needed standard monitors for
      surgery have been placed, general anesthesia will be induced and maintained with
      participant's hemodynamics and other vitals maintained per standard care (no additional
      measurements beyond standard of care which is recorded in EPIC). The certified registered
      nurse anesthetists (CRNA) will be involved in the placement of the blankets. Operating Room
      Nurse managers and CRNA's will be informed by research team regarding participant's
      involvement in the study.

      Participant's core temperature will be measured with a nasopharyngeal temperature probe.
      Vital signs, including continuous blood pressure, heart rate, oxygen saturation, and
      end-tidal carbon dioxide, will be monitored and recorded in Epic as is routine with all
      anesthetics performed.

      Standard anesthetic care of the participant will occur for the duration of the surgery. The
      participant will be randomized to either the FAWS or RBWS before arrival to the operating
      room. The participant's temperature will be monitored and recorded for the duration of
      surgery with the selected warming system. The primary outcome variable is the nasopharyngeal
      temperature as recorded at the end of the surgery.

      Temperature measurement in the PACU will be standardized with skin temperature probes that
      will be placed on the forehead prior to leaving the operating room.
    
  