
    
      This research was reviewed by an independent ethical review board and conforms with the
      principles and applicable guidelines for the protection of human subjects in biomedical
      research. This was a retrospective, comparative case series including pseudophakic patients
      who underwent PPV. Group 1 consisted of patients with pseudophakic RRD who underwent PPV and
      12% perflouropropane (C3F8) gas tamponade whereas Group 2 consisted of patients with ERM or
      VH who underwent PPV without any tamponade between February 2015 and March 2019 at Bursa
      Retina Eye Hospital. Informed consent was obtained from all the participants. The study was
      in line with the ethical standarts of the Helsinki Declaration

      Patient eligibility Patients who underwent uncomplicated cataract surgery with
      phacoemulsification and in-the-bag IOL implantation and subsequent
      neodymium:yttrium-aluminum-garnet (Nd:YAG) laser due to capsular opacification were included.
      Preoperative refractive data obtained after Nd:YAG laser and six months prior to vitrectomy
      surgery. Postoperative refractive data was obtained at 12 months after vitrectomy. Eyes with
      a preoperative spherical refractive error > ±6 D or cylindrical refractive error > ±3 D were
      excluded. Also eyes with corneal disorders were excluded.

      Ocular parameters

      All patients underwent complete ophtalmic examination including best corrected visual acuity
      (BCVA) in the logMAR scale, slit-lamp examination, intraocular pressure (IOP) assessment,
      fundus examination and autokeratorefractometry (auto kerato-refractometer KR-8800 from
      Topcon, Tokyo, Japan) at preoperative and postoperative month-12. Induced astigmatism values
      were calculated through vector analysis.

      Surgical procedures

      All surgeries were performed by the same surgeon (S.Y.). Retrobulbar block anesthesia (a
      mixture of 2 ml of lidocaine hydrochloride 2% and 2 ml of bupivacaine hydrochloride 0.5%) was
      used. Three port 23-gauge (G) transconjunctival PPV was performed using the vitrectomy system
      DORC (Dutch Ophthalmic Research Center, Zuidland, Netherlands) and Zeiss microscope with
      EIBOS 2 (Haag Streit, Mason, OH, USA) attachment for non-contact fundus viewing.

      In group 1, all patients underwent a near-complete vitrectomy including base shaving, laser
      endo-photocoagulation and C3F8 gas tamponade. In group 2, patients with ERM received a
      limited vitrectomy including; core vitrectomy, induction of a posterior vitreous detachment
      if not present and peeling of the ERM and inner limiting membrane (ILM). Peripheral retina
      was examined with indentation to identify any retinal breaks. Neither laser
      endo-photocoagulation, nor gas tamponade and vitreous base shaving was performed. For
      patients with VH patients, a near-complete vitrectomy, including base shaving, laser
      endo-photocoagulation was performed except for gas tamponade. In both groups, the sclera is
      sutured with 8-0 polyglactin suture (Vicryl) in case of wound leakage.
    
  