
    
      Interstitial cystitis or painful bladder syndrome is a condition that is chronic and often
      debilitating in nature. Interstitial cystitis is commonly defined by symptoms of urinary
      urgency and frequency associated with pelvic pain. Around one million men and women in the
      United States and Europe suffer from this condition. The diagnosis of Interstitial Cystitis
      is one of exclusion based on cystoscopy findings and clinical symptoms. Common symptoms of
      Interstitial Cystitis include urinary frequency, urinary urgency, dysuria, and pain in the
      lower abdominal region, bladder, vagina, urethra, or in the perinea . Women between ages 40
      and 60 are the most commonly affect by Interstitial Cystitis. In the Nurses' Healthy Study I
      and II the prevalence of Interstitial Cystitis was 52-67 individuals out of 100,000. There is
      no single cause of Interstitial Cystitis however, there are several known theories to the
      cause of Interstitial Cystitis. A popular hypothesis is that a defect in the
      glycosaminoglycan layer of the bladder epithelium allows leakage and absorption of urinary
      solutes. The major solute that is responsible for causing bladder symptoms when the
      epithelium is injured is potassium. The long held notion is that patients with Interstitial
      Cystitis should avoid acidic foods. This logic is largely based on anecdotal data and
      questionnaires of foods, beverages and supplements that increase symptoms. Controversy exists
      that Interstitial Cystitis diet restricts many more foods than necessary in an attempt to
      decrease Interstitial Cystitis symptoms. Current questionnaires-based data suggest
      eliminating tomatoes, citrus fruits, vitamin C, artificial sweeteners, carbonated and
      alcoholic beverages, and spicy foods which are thought to exacerbate symptoms, while calcium
      glycerophosphate and sodium bicarbonate may improve symptoms. Though the literature review,
      the investigators did not find any analytical studies that correlated diet with Interstitial
      Cystitis symptoms or that the ingestion of acidic foods exacerbate Interstitial Cystitis
      symptoms. Based on the lack of analytical data and the impact of acidic food on IC symptoms
      this study is going to evaluate the potential renal acid load and net acid excretion of foods
      to determine which foods change urinary pH.
    
  