
    
      Pancreatic cancer (PC) is the fourth leading cause of cancer death in men and fifth in women
      in the US (Jemal, Sigel, Ward, Murray, Xu, Thun et al., 2007). According to the American
      Cancer Society, the reported incidence of PC is roughly 37,000 cases per year, with
      approximately 33,000 annual deaths (2007). Periampullary cancers are less common; there were
      9,250 incident cancers of the biliary tract in 2007, with 3,250 resultant deaths (Jemal et
      al., 2007).

      Five-year survival rates for untreated PC and periampullary cancers are poor, approximately
      4%. Surgery offers the only hope of a cure for these patients. Following resection, the
      reported median survival is 12-18 months, with a five-year survival of 10-40% for patients
      with PC (Cleary, Gryfe, Guindi, 2004; Ishikawa, Ohihashi, Yamada, Sasaki, Imaoka, Nakaizumi
      et al., 2002; Sohn, Yeo, Cameron, Koniarais, Kaushal, Abrams, et al., 2000; & Conlon,
      Klimstra, & Brennan, 1996) and somewhat higher rates for patients with periampullary cancers.
      Five-year post-resection survival rates may approach 40% when performed at specialized major
      medical institutions and when favorable pathologic predictors are identified (Sohn et al.).
      In recent years, improved post-resection survival is due in part to lower perioperative
      mortality, and partially due to aggressive resection of early, low stage tumors. Long-term
      survival is considerably lower when resection is performed at low volume pancreatic surgery
      institutions and postoperative mortality is significantly higher (Birkmeyer, Siewers,
      Finlayson, Stukel, Lucas, Batista, et al., 2002).

      As patients with pancreatic and periampullary cancers experience improved survival rates and
      live longer, issues regarding adverse symptoms, physical function and quality of life become
      more important. Fatigue and pain are commonly reported symptoms in patients undergoing CT and
      RT, with fatigue the most universally reported symptom (Given, Given, McCorkle, Kozachik,
      Cimprich, Rahbar, Wojcik, 20002). Fatigue can lead to a decrease in activity levels and in
      one's overall QOL. Exercise has been found to effectively decrease fatigue levels and improve
      functional capacity in patients with breast and prostate cancer (Mock, Pickett, Ropka, Lin,
      Rhodes, McDaniel, et al. 2001; Segal, R., Reid, R., Courneya, K, Malone, S., Parliament, M.,
      Scott, C., et al., 2003; MacVicar, Winningham, & Nickel, 1989).

      No study to date has reported on the effects of an exercise program on fatigue levels,
      physical functioning or QOL in post-operative pancreatic and periampullary cancer patients.

      This pilot study will employ a quasi-experimental study design that is prospective in nature
      and randomizes patients to either the intervention group or the usual care group.

      Participants will complete the Piper Fatigue Scale (PFS) and the MOS SF-36 QOL questionnaire
      post-operatively prior to hospital discharge or at the first office visit, and again at the
      end of six months or at the conclusion of adjuvant treatment.
    
  