
    
      The choice of a childbirth provider is one of the most consequential decisions a pregnant
      woman makes. The hospital she delivers at is a better predictor of many treatment decisions
      than her own risks or preferences. For example, choosing the wrong hospital can increase the
      risk of cesarean delivery up to 10-fold. Cumulatively, avoidable cesarean deliveries are
      estimated to cause 20,000 major surgical complications, $5 billion in spending, and
      unmeasured pain each year in the United States.

      The proposed project aims to prevent these harms by empowering women to choose hospitals with
      risk-appropriate cesarean delivery rates. Preliminary research indicates that the majority of
      women may not understand how hospital-level quality data applies to them personally. In a
      test sample of 1,000 demographically diverse pregnant mothers, over half do not know if
      hospital-level cesarean delivery rates are important, and the overwhelming majority do not
      know if obstetrical infection rates, maternal or neonatal birth trauma rates, or hospital
      quality metrics are important when selecting their hospital. The investigators will conduct a
      randomized controlled trial of women using Ovia Health mobile applications to track their
      fertility or pregnancy to understand whether women provided with location-specific cesarean
      delivery rate data along with education about the importance of hospital-level cesarean
      delivery rates are more likely to select higher quality hospitals than women provided with
      education alone.

      The study is labeled double blind, but the investigators recognize uncertainty on this
      framework. Though subjects will be exposed to different information they do not know they
      were in a trial. At the point that outcomes are collected, researchers will not know which
      group the subject was randomized because outcomes are self-reported.
    
  