
    
      Despite the lack of anatomical clarity in the literature, Tibor Tot has postulated that
      breast cancer and DCIS are a lobar disease as the simultaneously or asynchronously appearing,
      often multiple in situ tumor foci are localized within a single "sick" lobe. This theory has
      some resonance in the molecular studies that have been done in the breast demonstrating that
      there are large "patches" of clonality even in normal breast tissue. Most of this work was
      based on microdissection, however, and assumes that adjacent duct profiles belong to the same
      lobe. In fact both Cooper and Going have shown intertwining of arborizing ducts from
      different independent lobes. This sets the stage for errors of interpretation in
      micro-dissected tissue.

      Ductal lavage allows the cannulation and lavage of individual ducts and collection of 1,000-
      over 10,000 exfoliated cells that can be studied for molecular and genetic changes.
      Ductoscopy adds the ability to confirm that the duct has not been perforated and to brush the
      lining of the duct to increase cell yield. Real-time ultrasound can be used to confirm the
      ductal anatomy. With the combination of these minimally invasive techniques it is now
      possible to collect the cells needed to apply new genetic techniques and investigate the
      genome of the ductal epithelial cell.

      While the methods for obtaining the ductal epithelial cells have been being developed similar
      advances have been made in whole genome sequencing technology. Knome®, a for-profit company,
      is now able to analyze ductal cells against blood to identify variants, including single
      nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP's), short and long insertions and deletions (indels),
      inversions, translocations, fusion genes and copy number variations (CNVs). Ingenuity Pathway
      Analysis can identify mRNA networks that can be driving pre-cancerous hyperplasia. Covance
      Genomics Laboratory (CAL) will perform DNA and RNA extraction, DNA QC and Next-Generation
      Sequencing on the Illumina platform.

      With the combination of these minimally invasive techniques and Next-Generation Sequencing we
      will be able to test our hypothesis that it is now possible to interrogate the genetic
      sequence of a single normal duct and to compare it to the sequence in the blood to identify
      early epithelial mutations. In addition by comparing the sequence of two ducts in one breast
      we can gain insight into whether each duct is clonal or the whole breast shares the same
      genetic pattern. And finally, understanding the pathways that are activated in pre-cancerous
      duct lesions can provide targets for intraductal treatment programs.
    
  