
    
      Background/rationale: To date, there is some evidence to suggest a benefit of cryotherapy
      application over closed post-operative incisions, however, this has not yet been implemented
      into practice. Furthermore, there are no clinical practice guidelines that recommend the
      application of cryotherapy for adjuvant pain management. Relevant randomized controlled
      trials (RCTs) in abdominal surgery demonstrate a possible advantage of cryotherapy
      application, when compared to no cryotherapy application. However, those RCTs were small and
      were restricted to gynecology procedures or emergent procedures. Therefore, the investigators
      aim to address this knowledge gap by assessing the benefit of applying cryotherapy
      post-operatively (along with standard of care approaches), compared to no cryotherapy, (i.e.,
      standard of care, only) over closed incisions, across broad surgical specialties and
      procedures, to improve the quality of patient recovery in adult patients.

      Objectives: Before embarking on a definitive RCT, this pilot trial has five specific
      feasibility objectives:

        1. To assess the investigators' ability to accrue patients using the IMPACTS Program design
           platform at multiple institutions, over the course of one year.

        2. To assess the investigators' ability to adaptively randomize patients and deliver the
           randomized assignment using the IMPACTS Program design platform, over the course of one
           year.

        3. To estimate the change in quality of recovery to inform the sample size calculation for
           the definitive trial.

        4. To assess the investigators' ability to collect complete data directly from participants
           (patients and clinicians) on: narcotics use and surgical site infections over the course
           of one year.

        5. To examine the investigators' ability to carry out data linkages using the IMPACTS
           Program design platform over the course of one year.

      Study design: This is a multicentre, pragmatic, open label, two-arm parallel-group Vanguard
      feasibility randomized controlled trial. Patients will be randomized to cryotherapy
      application or no cryotherapy application. If feasibility is demonstrated during the pilot
      trial, the investigators will plan to conduct a definitive trial. If there are only minimal
      changes to the protocol, the investigators will include data from the pilot phase into the
      definitive trial analysis (i.e. a Vanguard design).
    
  