
    
      Patients will undergo a telephonic interview 48-96h before the procedure where will ask about
      the presence of symptoms suggestive of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Optionally, they will also be
      carried out a scan (PCR) to detect infection 48-96h before procedure, withdrawing from the
      study patients with positive PCR or infection suspected by clinical data according to the
      questionnaire, after evaluating the responses to the questionnaire by one of the members of
      the research team.

      Endoscopic examinations will be carried out according to the recommendations of the Spanish
      Society for Digestive Endoscopy (SEED). The patient will perform a hand wash with solution
      hydroalcoholic before entering the endoscopy room, and you will be placed a surgical mask and
      gloves. Staff close to the patient will carry FFP2 mask, exceptionally surgical mask, gown
      (waterproof in high-risk examinations as established in the SEED guidelines), hat, nitrile
      gloves and face shield or safety glasses (reusable) and shim covers. The examinations will be
      carried out using sedation guided by endoscopist according to current clinical guidelines.

      Ultrasonographic examinations (US) will be carried out according to clinical guideline. The
      examinator will wear a filtering face pieces 2 (FFP2) mask, exceptionally surgical mask,
      gown, cap, nitrile gloves and face shield or goggles safety (reusable) and shoe covers. The
      gel bottle, the transducer and the gurney will be washed before each US with low level
      disinfectant.

      Patients who meet the inclusion criteria and do not have any exclusion criteria will be
      invited to participate in the study. The patients who agree to participate will complete the
      informed consent according to the law 41/2002 of patient autonomy without for that reason
      alter the relationship with your doctor or cause any harm to your treatment. The monitoring
      period will have a maximum duration of 17 days. It will consist of a telephone control
      through a pre-established checklist. In case of any positive answer to the questionnaire, it
      will be completed the study through the consultation of the investigators by means of a
      polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
    
  