
    
      The participant collective will include 3 groups of 200 persons, consisting of patients with
      schizophrenia, their healthy relatives and healthy controls that are not related to the
      patients. The patients must be diagnosed of schizophrenia according to DSM-5 to be included
      in the study and will be excluded when there is a further psychiatric comorbidity that
      dominates in the clinical appearance. All participants have to be aged from 18 to 80 years,
      be mentally and contractually capable to give their consent to study participation and may
      not be pregnant or have a structural neurological disease. The healthy participants must not
      suffer from a psychiatric disorder themselves and, additionally, the control subjects must
      not have psychiatric disorders in the family history of their first-degree relatives.

      Every participant will undergo the same examinations, tests and measurements. All subjects
      will be taken a blood sample of 30 milliliters of blood that will be tested for antibodies
      against the NMDA receptor, neuronal growth factors, components of the glutamatergic and
      GABAergic metabolism and markers for the integrity of the blood brain barrier. In addition to
      that, a genetic analysis to identify risk alleles for schizophrenia and important
      glutamatergic and GABAergic genes will be performed. A medical history of every subject will
      be taken, including medication, somatic and psychiatric disorders. Furthermore, a row of
      psychiatric ratings scales as well as neuropsychological and neurological tests will be
      performed.

      These will include

        -  Structured Clinical Interview for DSM Disorders (SCID)

        -  Mini-RDoC

        -  Short Form Health 36 (SF-36)

        -  Personal and Social Performance Scale (PSP)

        -  Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale

        -  Berner Psychopathologie-Skala

        -  Calgary Depression Rating Scale for Schizophrenia

        -  Conners' Adult ADHD Rating Scales (CAARS)

        -  Wender Utah Rating Scale (WURS-k)

        -  Clinical Global Impression (CGI)

        -  Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF)

        -  Extrapyramidal Symptom Rating Scale (EPS)

        -  Heidelberg Neurological Soft Signs Scale

        -  Brief Assessment of Cognition in Schizophrenia

        -  d2 test

      Every study participant must undergo an EEG measurement while different, neutral visual
      (fixation cross or movies without sound) and auditive stimuli (tones or clic trains) will be
      presented to them. They will be instructed to ignore the auditive stimuli. Resting state,
      auditory steady state response (ASSR) and two different auditory mismatch paradigms will be
      used. Without contradiction for the conduction of an MRI measurement, a combined EEG/ MRI
      measurement and a pure MRI measurement (without EEG) using the same paradigms are intended.
      It will also include structural (T1, T2 and diffusion tensor imaging) MRI and MR spectroscopy
      of glutamate and GABA. All the previously mentioned examinations are planned to take place on
      the same day with an approximate expenditure of time of five hours. If necessary, the
      examinations may also take place on different days, providing that there will be a maximum of
      three weeks between the first and the last measurement. Except from the blood withdrawal, we
      intend repeating all the measurements for a second time. This repetition must take place at
      least one day and not later than three years after the first measurement. It will not be
      necessary to repeat the clinical and neuropsychological tests if the first testing does not
      date back more than 6 weeks. In a second part of the study, we want to generate induced
      pluripotent stem cells (iPS cells) from 15 participants of every study group. For this
      purpose, a further blood sample of 20 milliliters of blood must be taken. The participants of
      the second part of the study will be selected based on special genetic, EEG or fMRI
      characteristics revealed in the first part of the study if they agree to be contacted again.
    
  