
    
      Roughly 60% of spinal cord injuries occur at the cervical level. Most injuries are
      anatomically incomplete. Activating spared nerve circuits augments functional recovery of the
      damaged nervous system. With this goal, the Investigators have developed a novel method of
      non-invasive cervical electrical stimulation (CES). Preliminary data show that CES triggers
      afferent sensory or efferent motor nerve roots depending on stimulus intensity, resulting in
      concurrent activation of multiple muscles on both upper limbs. the Investigators aim to use
      CES to strengthen residual circuits to hand muscles after SCI. Regaining control over hand
      function represents the top priority for individuals with cervical SCI.

      However, much more work needs to be done to better understand underlying CES mechanisms, its
      interactions with segmental and supraspinal circuits, and its optimal stimulation parameters
      for improving neural transmission to the hands. This proposal will address these issues.

      Mechanistic experiments: 15 able-bodied volunteers and 15 subjects with motor-incomplete
      cervical spinal cord injury will undergo systematic combinations of CES with transcranial
      magnetic stimulation or peripheral nerve stimuli at varying intensities, sites, and
      interstimulus intervals.

      Mechanistic hypotheses: Conditioning subthreshold CES pulses will potentiate responses to
      test pulses of TMS and peripheral nerve F-wave stimulation, will reduce responses to test
      pulses of peripheral nerve H-reflex stimulation, and will modulate response to test
      suprathreshold CES pulses in either direction depending on conditioning stimulus interval and
      intensity. These experiments will elucidate CES circuit interactions at both the segmental
      and supraspinal levels.

      Combined CES-volitional movement experiments: 15 able-bodied volunteers and 15 subjects with
      motor-incomplete cervical spinal cord injury will undergo systematic combinations of CES with
      volitional wrist and hand movements at varying intensity and effort level.

      Combined CES-volitional movement hypotheses: Conditioning subthreshold CES pulses will
      facilitate concurrent volitional wrist and hand muscle activation. Suprathreshold CES will
      transiently inhibit concurrent volitional wrist and hand muscle activation. These experiments
      will shed light on the clinically relevant possibility of using CES to enhance response to
      physical exercise therapy.

      Completion of the proposed studies will characterize CES circuit timing and distribution, and
      will demonstrate in principle the potential for CES to enhance physical therapy for wrist and
      hand muscles. Furthermore, this approach is compatible with other interventions, including
      drug and cell-based treatments.
    
  