
    
      Menière's disease is an inner ear disorder with recurrent attacks of vertigo, fluctuating
      sensorineural hearing loss, tinnitus, and aural fullness. The underlying pathogenetic
      mechanisms are not known. The pathologic-anatomic correlate of the disease is endolymphatic
      hydrops, i.e. distension of the endolymphatic spaces as seen at post-mortem microscopic
      examination of the temporal bone. Prevalence-figures are in the range between 0.1% to 0.5% in
      the population. In Denmark, the estimated prevalence of Menière's disease is 3500. The
      disease commonly begins in the fourth or fifth decade of life, and the prevalence increases
      with age.

      There are a great number of different treatment options for Menière's disease including
      diuretics, sodium-restriction, beta-histidine, and psycho-supportive means, most of which are
      not validated. The only validated treatment for the vertigo attacks is chemical
      labyrinthectomy by intra-tympanic injections of the ototoxic antibiotic gentamicin for which
      two double-blind, placebo-controlled trials found a significant effect. Treatment with
      gentamicin is ablative, i.e. the goal of the treatment is to destroy the vestibular sensors
      of the affected ear. This carries a risk of long-standing unsteadiness alongside with
      permanent hearing loss in the treated ear. Still, no treatments seem to protect from the
      hearing loss associated with Menière's disease.

      The first to advocate the use of transmyringeal ventilation tubes for Menière's disease was
      Tumarkin in 1966. Tumarkin et al. suggested that negative middle-ear pressure, due to poor
      tubal function, would lead to a relative over-pressure in the inner ear and that this might
      be one of the mechanisms behind Menière's disease. In addition, Tumarkin et al. presented
      several cases where treatment with transmyringeal tubes resulted in relief from vertigo
      attacks. Hall and Brackmann performed tympanometry in patients with Menière's disease and
      showed that some, but not all, patients had negative middle-ear pressure and they questioned
      Tumarkin's suggestions.
    
  