
    
      Project Background/Rationale: Recent reports suggest that a substantial proportion of OEF/OIF
      veterans suffer from one or more co-occurring mental health disorders, particularly
      post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), depression, and substance use disorders. Many newly
      returning veterans fail to initiate or complete an adequate course of mental health treatment
      largely owing to barriers that include inherent features of the mental illness, practical and
      logistical concerns, and stigma. Untreated mental illness threatens to produce functional and
      occupational disability as occurred with Vietnam-era veterans. Motivational Interviewing (MI)
      is an evidence-based, client-centered, therapeutic technique shown to enhance mental health
      treatment engagement in high-risk populations by helping patients explore and resolve
      barriers to care.

      Project Objectives: The aims of this proposal are: (1) to evaluate the efficacy of
      telephone-administered motivational interviewing (TAMI) compared to telephone-administered
      informational support sessions (Control) to enhance mental health treatment initiation and
      retention among OEF/OIF veterans who screen positive for one or more mental health disorders;
      (2) to compare change in mental health symptoms and quality of life among veterans assigned
      to TAMI versus Control, and (3) to describe barriers to mental health treatment engagement
      among OEF/OIF veterans and assess the putative mechanism by which TAMI increases mental
      health treatment engagement.

      Project Methods: The study is a two-arm randomized controlled trial. We will conduct
      telephone-administered psychometric screening for PTSD, depression, high-risk alcohol and
      substance use among 1,000 OEF/OIF veterans residing in Northern California. In addition, we
      will collect baseline data on sociodemographic and military service-related characteristics,
      VA and non-VA mental health treatment experiences, barriers and motivation to initiate and/or
      follow-up with VA mental health appointments. Approximately 300 OEF/OIF veterans screening
      positive for one or more mental health disorders will receive a referral to mental health
      treatment in their area and will be randomly assigned to either an initial TAMI session
      followed by two booster TAMI sessions at 1 and 3 months versus three informational support
      sessions balanced for time and attention. We will measure outcomes at baseline, one, three,
      and six months. We will test the hypotheses that OEF/OIF veterans receiving TAMI as compared
      to the Control condition will be more motivated and hence more likely to overcome barriers to
      initiate and attend follow-up VA mental health treatment appointments and will have greater
      improvements in mental health symptoms and quality of life.
    
  