
    
      It is well known from large Medicare and National Inpatient Sample databases that vascular
      evaluations in patients with critical limb ischemia (CLI) and at risk for amputations remains
      extremely low. However, this data is largely pulled from the early 2000s with a scarcity in
      studies from this recent decade. A recent study showed that Medicare patients from 2011
      showed that 23% of patients received primary major amputation. In a recent retrospective
      analysis preformed at this institution, all amputation patients from 2011-2017 were evaluated
      for vascular work up and long-term mortality. This cohort included 698 patients with 1009
      amputated specimens (major and minor). This means that this institution is preforming around
      140 amputations per year, which can be considered unacceptably high. Only 50% received any
      form of vascular study (ankle-brachial index, doppler ultrasound, and computed tomography
      angiography) within the year prior to amputation. Furthermore, only 30% of patients received
      an angiogram within the year prior to amputation. In addition, all major amputations received
      histopathological analysis, which confirmed that 62% the specimens were graded with severe
      atherosclerosis. Even in this present decade, with the knowledge that CLI patients are not
      receiving proper evaluation and treatment leading to amputation which is associated with
      extreme mortality rates and a large economic burden, health care facilities are not improving
      their care.

      Multidisciplinary teams are a recommendation from the American Heart Association/American
      College of Cardiology guidelines for managing peripheral vascular disease. Multidisciplinary
      team approaches in other cardiovascular diseases, such as structural heart disease, has long
      been validated. Literature regarding the implementation of "CLI Teams" remains scarce and not
      widely adopted. However, institutions that have implemented a CLI Team that engages with
      specialists from multiple disciplines have shown successful decrease in amputation rates and
      increases in vascular evaluations and revascularization in these patients. The goal for this
      study is to establish a hospital-based, physician and nurse led, multidisciplinary team to
      deliver comprehensive care to CLI patients. We believe it is important to document the
      experience of building a CLI Team and care protocols to provide insight and validated data
      for other programs to implement. The multidisciplinary team will include vascular
      interventionalists, hospitalists, podiatry, wound care, infectious disease, nephrology,
      orthopedics, pharmacists, emergency department physicians, mid-level providers, nursing
      staff, and vascular technologists. The ultimate goal is amputation prevention and wound
      healing through comprehensive vascular care and data driven patient outcomes.
    
  