
    
      Accurate characterization of the functional significance of intermediate stenoses located in
      the left main coronary artery (LMCA) is of central relevance for decisions about the need of
      myocardial revascularization. However, the physiological assessment of such lesions by means
      of fractional flow reserve (FFR) measurements are affected by stenoses in the downstream
      vessels (left anterior descending artery and/or left circumflex artery), which frequently
      coexist in series with LMCA lesions. More recently introduced, the instantaneous wave-free
      ratio (iFR) is a resting index that is less influenced by crosstalk between serial lesions
      and, in theory, could be more accurate for assessment of LMCA stenoses in the presence of
      downstream disease. Nonetheless, iFR has not been validated for assessment of LMCA lesions.
      Due to the difficulty in interpreting FFR results, the possibility of characterizing the
      atheroma type, precisely estimate lesion severity and disease extension and distribution,
      intravascular imaging [especially intravascular ultrasound (IVUS)] became an attractive
      alternative to assess LMCA lesions and guide the percutaneous treatment, whenever this
      strategy is selected. However, most IVUS validations for LMCA stenosis assessment used FFR as
      the standard comparator, which by itself has limited diagnostic ability in this anatomic
      scenario.

      Thus, the main objective of the current research project is to determine the impact of
      stenoses in downstream vessels on FFR and iFR measurements of LMCA stenoses of intermediate
      severity as determined by coronary angiography. The primary endpoint is the change (delta) in
      FFR and iFR values prior and after percutaneous treatment of downstream stenoses. Assuming a
      change of 0.04 mmHg between the FFRpredicted and FFRtrue with a standard deviation of 0.04
      mmHg, and a change of 0.01 mmHg between iFRpredicted and iFRtrue with a standard deviation of
      0.03 mmHg, a total of 53 patients are needed to confirm the mean difference of 0.03 mmHg
      between iFR and FFR changes before and after treatment of downstream stenoses. Anatomic
      metrics derived from intravascular imaging modalities of IVUS and optical coherence
      tomography (OCT) will also be validated using as the comparator the FFRtrue and iFRtrue
      measurements.
    
  