
    
      Protocol synopsis Title: Dissection of Staphylococcus aureus infection from colonization in
      cystic fibrosis patients. A non-interventional prospective, 2-year longitudinal multicenter
      study

      Study objectives: The aim of the study is to dissect S. aureus infection from colonization of
      the pathogen in airway secretions of CF patients during a 2 year period by means of a
      non-interventional, prospective, longitudinal multicenter study.

      The following hypothesis will be developed:

      CF patients with high bacterial loads are more likely to be infected by S. aureus than
      patients with low bacterial loads.

      Definition of infection:

        -  change in volume, colour or consistency of sputum (exacerbation)

        -  increased cough

        -  malaise, fatigue or lethargy

        -  body temperature more than 38°C

        -  new or increased hemoptysis

        -  anorexia or weight loss

        -  sinus pain or tenderness

        -  change in sinus discharge

        -  change in chest sounds

        -  ten percent decrease in pulmonary function from a previous recorded value (FEV1, MEF25)

        -  radiographic changes indicative of pulmonary infection

      Primary endpoint: bacterial load of sputum cultures [high (>/= 106CFU/ml); low (<106CFU/ml)]

      Secondary endpoints are:

        -  assessment of nasal S. aureus carriage

        -  serum samples: antibody titres against S. aureus specific antigens; S100A12,
           IL-8,TNF-alpha, CRP

        -  molecular analysis of S. aureus colonization/infection (monoclonal or heteroclonal)

        -  sputa analysis: activity of S100A12, IL-8 and myeloperoxidase

        -  antibiotic treatment regimens against S. aureus

        -  body mass index

        -  lung function tests: FEV1, deltaFVC, deltaMEF25

      Extensive microbiological investigations will be performed when the patients are seen at
      their regular visits in the outpatient clinics or if exacerbations occur. During the study
      period of 2 years, at least 8 visits to the outpatient clinic should be recorded. The
      following clinical parameters will be documented:

        -  lung function

        -  body mass index (weight/height)

        -  antibiotic treatment Diagnosis: CF and positive S. aureus cultures for more than 6
           months within the last year Localisation of the study: multicenter study in Germany
           Number of centers: Seven centres agreed already to participate in the study. More
           centers have been and will be contacted.

      Design: non-interventional prospective, longitudinal multicenter study Planned number of
      patients/volunteers: 228 Inclusion criteria: positive S. aureus cultures for more than 6
      months within the last year; children (>6 years) and patients with CF, who are able to
      perform lung function tests Exclusion criteria: Pseudomonas aeruginosa and/or Burkholderia
      cepacia colonization or infection for more than 6 months within the last year before
      recruitment; patients who have not been colonized with these pathogens before but acquire
      them within the study period and are colonized/infected for more than 6 months during the
      observation period
    
  