
    
      Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a highly prevalent condition characterized by visceral obesity,
      abnormalities of glucidic and lipid metabolism, and increased risk for cardiovascular events.
      Such findings appear to be associated with a decrease in insulin sensitivity. Management of
      metabolic syndrome is currently aimed at treating individual components of the disease
      without addressing this underlying pathophysiologic mechanism; this translates into multidrug
      regimens, high costs and patient compliance issues.

      A complication of hypertension is hypertrophy of the left ventricle (LV), which is closely
      related to the incidence of cardiovascular events whose regression results in a proportional
      reduction of the risk. But also other factors contribute as sex, age, race, genetics, diet
      and insulin resistance.

      MetS is closely related to hypertrophy of the LV. Therefore it is possible that the treatment
      of MetS may be an effective strategy for the prevention of organ damage.

      Armolipid Plus (an association of berberine 500mg, red yeast rice titled in 3 mg monacolin
      K,- policosanol 10 mg, coenzyme Q10 2mg,astaxanthin 0,5mg, folic acid 0,2mg) has been found
      to be effective at reducing blood cholesterol and triglycerides, and at improving endothelial
      function; subgroup analyses also suggested a benefit on glucose metabolism, myocardial mass
      and improved diastolic function in subjects with MetS and early organ damage.

      Aim of the study is to evaluate the effects of Armolipid Plus on insulin sensitivity in
      patients with MetS and increased LV mass.

      168 patients will be enrolled in this randomized, double-blind, parallel-group,
      placebo-controlled trial; active treatment will consist of Armolipid Plus (1 tbl qd).

      Primary end point will be the reduction of the insulin resistance in patients with metabolic
      syndrome and increased LV mass.
    
  