
    
      Non-obstructive azoospermia (NOA) is generally considered a non-medically manageable cause of
      male infertility. These patients, who constitute up to 10% of all infertile men, have
      abnormal spermatogenesis as the cause of their azoospermia. The etiology affecting
      approximately 60% of azoospermic men, includes non-obstructive causes of azoospermia,
      including toxic exposures or abnormal testicular development. NOA results from either primary
      testicular failure (elevated Luteinizing Hormone (LH), Follicle stimulating hormone (FSH),
      small testes affecting up to 10% of men presenting with infertility), secondary testicular
      failure (congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism with decreased LH and FSH, small testes),
      or incomplete or ambiguous testicular failure (either increased FSH and normal volume testes,
      normal FSH and small testes, or normal FSH and normal testis volume). Prior to microsurgical
      testicular sperm retrieval techniques and IVF/ICSI, donor insemination was the only option
      available to men with NOA. The establishment of in vitro fertilization using intracytoplasmic
      sperm injection (ICSI) as a standard treatment modality has resulted in a number of these men
      successfully fathering a child through surgically retrieved sperm from the testis. The
      challenge, however, is to improve their spermatogenic function to enable the appearance of
      sperm in their ejaculate or to improve the chances of a successful retrieval from the testis
      for ICSI.

      The initial evaluation aims at resolving the following issues: (1) confirming azoospermia,
      (2) differentiating obstructive from non-obstructive etiology, (3) assessing for the presence
      of reversible factors and (4) evaluating for the presence of genetic abnormalities. An
      elevated follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) level or an absence of normal spermatogenesis by
      testicular histology in the presence of azoospermia is generally considered sufficient
      evidence of a non-obstructive etiology. The most common reversible factors that need to be
      ruled out include recent exogenous hormone administration, severe febrile illnesses,
      chemotherapy/radiation or prolonged antibiotic use.

      During past few years a considerable progress in the derivation of male germ cells from
      pluripotent stem cells has been made. These studies provide a desirable experimental model
      for elucidating underlying molecular mechanism of male germ cell development and potential
      strategies for producing haploid germ cells for the treatment of male infertility.
      Spermatogenesis is a complex process by which spermatogonial stem cells (SSC) self-renew and
      differentiate into haploid spermatozoa. In mammals, this process takes place in the
      seminiferous tubules of testis, which provide a functional niche for male germ cells and
      involve three major stages: mitosis, meiosis, and spermiogenesis. Errors at any stage of
      spermatogenesis can result in subfertility and infertility.

      Researchers are currently developing alternative treatment options for these men involving
      stem cells. It has been verified that mouse induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) can form
      functional spermatozoa. Functional assays have shown that spermatozoa generated from iPSCs
      were capable of fertilizing the oocytes after intracytoplasmatic injection and giving rise to
      fertile offspring following embryo transfer. So far, functional male gametes from human iPSCs
      have not been obtained.

      There are two possible approaches in generating of male germ cells from pluripotent stem
      cells: in vitro differentiation into advanced, haploid cell products or combined in vitro
      differentiation and in vivo transplantation. However, the originality of this study is
      illustrated in the transplantation of purified autologous CD34+/CD133+ and mesenchymal bone
      marrow stem cells (BMSCs) into infertile patients without in vitro breeding, culture, or
      manipulation thus avoiding in vitro cell propagation risks as genetic mutations and DNA
      changes. The cells are withdrawn and injected back into the patient on the very same day of
      the procedure, hence conferring the highest safety and efficacy parameters.
    
  