
    
      Background

      Urinary tract infection (UTI) is the most frequent bacterial infection diagnosed and treated
      by general practitioners and accounts for about 15% of antibiotic prescriptions in ambulatory
      medicine. World-wide raise of antibiotic resistance among uropathogens, most commonly
      Escherichia coli, threatens treatment of UTI. Uncomplicated UTI, the most frequent
      manifestation of UTI, is a benign, self-limited disease and the primary goal of treatment is
      symptom relief not cure. Antibiotic treatment reduces the duration of symptoms by 1-2 days
      from 5-6 days to 3-4 days. Symptoms of cystitis are the result of an inflammation evoked by
      bacterial products which stimulate the production of prostaglandins by a cyclooxygenase
      dependent mechanism. Therefore, we propose that symptom control with a non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), an inhibitor of cyclooxygenase 1 and 2, may be equally
      effective for symptom control as standard antibiotic therapy in non-complicated UTI and may
      therefore help to reduce antibiotic consumption.

      Objective

      The primary objective is to determine whether initial symptomatic treatment followed by
      optional delayed antibiotic treatment (experimental intervention) is non-inferior to
      immediate antibiotic treatment followed by optional delayed antibiotic treatment (control
      intervention) in terms of symptom resolution.

      The secondary objective is to determine whether the experimental intervention is superior to
      control in reducing the proportion of patients undergoing antibiotic treatment.

      Methods

      Randomized controlled patient and assessor blind trial performed in general practices. Study
      population are women between the ages of 18 to 70 years with acute uncomplicated UTI. The
      experimental intervention will consist of symptomatic treatment with diclofenac 75mg twice
      daily, followed by optional, delayed antibiotic treatment with single dose of 3g fosfomycin
      if deemed necessary by the patient. The control intervention will consist of immediate
      antibiotic treatment with norfloxacin 400mg twice daily for three days, followed by optional,
      delayed antibiotic treatment with single dose of 3g fosfomycin if deemed necessary by the
      patient. Patients will use a diary to describe symptoms for 10 days. A follow-up telephone
      interview will be performed on day 10 and 30.
    
  