
    
      CF is a genetic disease resulting from mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane
      conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. Patients with CF manifest pathological changes in a
      variety of organs that express CFTR. The lungs are frequently affected often resulting in
      chronic infections by bacteria such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa and airway inflammation.
      Treatment of chronic lung infections is one of the principal goals of CF therapy. Arikayce™
      LAI (liposomal amikacin for inhalation) is a sustained-release formulation of amikacin
      encapsulated inside nanoscale liposomal carriers designed for administration via inhalation.
      It is hypothesized that the sustained-release pulmonary targeting and biofilm penetration
      properties of this formulation will have several advantages over current therapies in
      treating CF patients with chronic lung infection caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa.

      This Phase 3 study has been designed to evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of
      Arikayce™ in treating CF patients with chronic bronchopulmonary infection compared to a
      currently available antibiotic, TOBI® Inhalation Solution. Eligible participants will be
      randomized 1:1 to receive 590 mg of Arikayce™ once daily via a PARI Investigational eFlow®
      Nebulizer or 300 mg TOBI® BID via a PARI LC® PLUS nebulizer. Participants will receive 3
      cycles of treatment with each cycle being comprised of 28 days on treatment followed by 28
      days off-treatment. Total study duration is up to 186 days (~6 months) including an up to 18
      day Screening period. Participants will be evaluated for safety, tolerability and efficacy
      bi-weekly during the first 4 weeks of treatment, and thereafter every 4 weeks for the
      duration of the study. Pharmacokinetics (PK) of Arikayce™ in blood, sputum and 24-hour urine
      will be determined in a subgroup of study participants who consent to PK evaluation.

      At the completion of the TR02-108 protocol, participants who have consented and meet study
      safety criteria may enroll in the long-term, open-label, multi-cycle extension study of 590
      mg of Arikayce™ (under a separate protocol TR02-110). Arikace™, Arikayce™, Liposomal Amikacin
      for Inhalation (LAI), and Amikacin Liposome Inhalation Suspension (ALIS) may be used
      interchangeably throughout this study and other studies evaluating amikacin liposome
      inhalation suspension.
    
  