
    
      At the present time, effective treatments for RTT, MECP2 Dup, or Rett-related disorders are
      lacking. Investigators have made substantial progress in RTT over the past eleven years such
      that this study represents a narrowing of focus to mutations or duplications of the MECP2
      gene and related disorders, including those with phenotypic overlap. Understanding of RTT has
      advanced remarkably well through the Rett Syndrome Natural History Clinical Protocol (NHS)
      and correspondingly advancement in the basic science realm has moved forward with equivalent
      success. Thus, progress in clinical and basic science has led to the establishment of
      clinical trials and other translational studies that hold promise for additional clinical
      trials in future. In the process, however, investigators became aware of additional MECP2-
      and RTT-related disorders that were unknown at the time the original proposal was conceived
      and further were impressed by the substantial clinical variability in individuals with RTT
      that cannot be explained by differences in mutations alone. In fact, variability among
      individuals with identical mutations has led investigators to search for additional
      explanations. At the time of the initial application (2002), just three years after the
      identification of the gene, MECP2, as the molecular link to RTT, investigators were not aware
      of the variation in clinical disorders related to MECP2 mutations or to the related but quite
      different MECP2 Dup. Each disorder is characterized by significant neurodevelopmental
      features related either to alterations in the MECP2 gene or related to phenotypes closely
      resembling those seen in individuals with RTT. Further, the phenotypic overlap with RTT due
      to mutations in CDKL5 and FOXG1 was also unexplored. The investigators propose in this new
      study to build on the substantial progress made in understanding both classic and variant RTT
      and to add these related disorders, MECP2 Dup and the Rett-related disorders including CDKL5,
      FOXG1, and individuals with MECP2 mutations who do not have RTT. In conjunction with the
      longitudinal clinical assessment performed via the natural history component, investigators
      will systematically collect from all willing participant's blood and isolate plasma, DNA, and
      RNA. All participants in the Natural History Study will be asked to contribute samples at the
      initial visit, whereas samples will be collected repeatedly on a subset of participants in
      order to look for changes over time. In order to identify factors that distinguish between
      affected and unaffected individuals, as well as to have the potential to characterize the
      heritability and potential consequences of genetic changes in families, samples will be
      collected from unaffected family members. Additionally, on a subset of individuals chosen
      because of unique clinical features skin biopsies and/or hair follicles will be collected to
      establish cell lines. Investigators will ask all individuals providing samples to agree to
      potential future whole-genome sequencing in order to be able to potentially evaluate for
      genetic modifiers of these diseases.

      These materials will be stored at a central repository (Greenwood Genetics Laboratory). The
      main purpose of these samples is to serve as durable materials for future analyses, however,
      a set of defined analyses will be performed on all samples. For the samples collected in the
      Rett syndrome cohort, investigators will perform X-chromosome inactivation studies and
      evaluate common polymorphisms in Brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and determine the
      contribution of these known factors to disease severity. For MECP2 Dup cohort investigators
      will characterize inflammatory markers in the plasma and correlate these with clinical
      features. Also for MECP2 Dup cohort investigators will perform detailed genomic breakpoint
      and gene content analysis and correlate this with disease severity. Similar analysis of
      genomic breakpoints and gene content will be performed on people with FOXG1 Duplications.
      Finally, in a pilot study, investigators will perform metabolic profiling on people from all
      disorders and evaluate for metabolic features correlated with disease severity, and metabolic
      features common or unique between these disorders. This work will provide a durable resource
      for future analysis, extend understanding of genotype/phenotype correlations, identify other
      biological factors contributing to disease severity, as well as provide the framework for the
      development of biomarkers of disease state and severity.
    
  