
    
      The protocol will assess the need for AED prophylaxis during the post-operative period in
      patients undergoing neurosurgical procedure for a suspected diagnosis of glioma (WHO grade
      I-IV) and brain metastasis. Patients (n=116) will be consented and randomized at their
      pre-operative assessment, either at their pre-operative clinic visit or in the ED, if that is
      the time of their initial presentation prior to surgery. There will be three arms to the
      study - patients will be randomized to LCM, LEV, or control (no AED). Randomization will be
      stratified by suspected grade (LGG vs HGG) and brain metastasis. The AED can be initiated
      anytime within 48 hours before neurosurgical procedure.

      Doses will be either LCM 100mg twice a day (BID) (Arm A), LEV 1000mg BID (Arm B), or no AED
      (Arm C). If a patient is randomized to Arm C and undergoes tumor mapping, the patient is
      allowed to receive one dose of AED in the operating room. If a patient is randomized to Arm A
      or Arm B and takes the morning dose of their AED, they do not need an intra-operative dose of
      AED. If a patient has a seizure during the post-operative period, AEDs will be adjusted at
      the discretion of the treating physician. However, if a patient has intolerable side effects,
      patients will be changed to a different dose of the same medicine before consideration of
      another AED [i.e., BID to four times a day (QID) dosing if patient experiences diplopia on
      LCM].

      Patients with high-grade tumors (newly-diagnosed or transformed) will be treated with
      standard radiation and temozolomide therapy per the Stupp protocol 25,70. For these patients,
      an AED taper will be initiated at the first clinic visit after completion of radiation. For
      patients with a low-grade tumor or recurrent disease of any grade or brain metastasis, an AED
      taper will be initiated at the first scheduled post-operative visit, approximately 6-10 weeks
      after the operation. LCM will be tapered by 100mg a week one week at a time. LEV will be
      tapered 500-1000mg one week at a time.
    
  