
    
      In septic critically ill mechanically ventilated patients with acute circulatory failure,
      inadequate volume resuscitation leads to multiple organ failure. Early goal-directed therapy
      emphasizes early and aggressive hemodynamic support in patients with severe sepsis and septic
      shock. On the other hand, because of increased microvascular permeability and capillary
      leakage, conservative fluid management and more aggressive restriction in fluid accumulation
      to reduce lung water and tissue edema has been suggested by acute respiratory distress
      syndrome net. Fluid responsiveness refers to the ability of the heart to increase its stroke
      volume in response to volume load. Accurately predicting volume responsiveness will be
      beneficial in obviating the need for unnecessary fluid loading, and in detecting patients who
      may benefit from a volume load.

      By inducing cyclic changes in pleural and transpulmonary pressure, mechanical ventilation
      results in cyclic changes in the preload and afterload, and therefore, the cyclic variation
      in systolic and pulse pressure. Recently, a systemic review concluded that dynamic preload
      indicator [pulse pressure variation (PPV), stroke volume variation (SVV)] are highly accurate
      in predicting volume responsiveness in critically ill patients. However, this technique is
      limited to patients who receive controlled ventilation with adequate tidal volume (> 8 ml/Kg)
      and sedation or paralysis is needed to abolish the spontaneous ventilation.

      For acute respiratory distress syndrome patients, protective ventilatory strategy suggested
      low tidal volume to 6 ml/Kg. On the contrary, high PEEP needed for acute respiratory distress
      syndrome to prevent VALI induces a leftward shift to the steep pat of the Frank-Starling
      curve and increase the fluid responsiveness. Whether the dynamic preload indicators (PPV and
      SVV) are still effective in acute respiratory distress syndrome patients for predicting fluid
      responsiveness remain controversial.

      Passive leg raising (PLR), by inducing a gravitational transfer of blood from the lower part
      of the body toward the central circulatory compartment, can be considered as a brief "self
      volume challenge". Recently, a systemic review and meta-analysis concluded that PLR-induced
      changes in cardiac output reliably predict fluid responsiveness regardless of ventilation
      mode, underlying cardiac rhythm and technique of measurement and can be recommended for
      routine assessment of fluid responsiveness in the majority of ICU population. More
      importantly, this prediction remains very valuable in patients with cardiac arrhythmias or
      spontaneous breathing activity.

      Respiratory variations in the pulse oximeter plethysmographic waveform amplitude (ΔPOP) have
      been shown to be able to predict fluid responsiveness in mechanically ventilated patients.
      The main advantage of this index is that it is noninvasive, widely available, and
      inexpensive. Perfusion index (PI), the percentage between the infrared pulsatile and
      nonpulsatile signal, reflects the amplitude of the pulse oximeter waveform. Recently, Pleth
      Variability Index (PVI), derived from perfusion index, affords a continuous monitoring of
      ΔPOP. PVI has been shown to be correlated to ΔPOP and PPV and has been demonstrated to be
      equivalent to SVV as a predictor of fluid responsiveness in ventilated patients during major
      surgery. However, whether the PVI can predict the fluid responsiveness in acute respiratory
      distress syndrome necessitating low tidal volume and high PEEP is not clear.

      Because of the aforementioned contrasting effects of low tidal volume and high PEEP on the
      prediction of fluid responsiveness, the aim of this study is to compare the relative
      predicting power of the dynamic preload indicator (PPV, SVV), passive leg raising test, and
      PVI on the fluid responsiveness of acute respiratory distress syndrome ventilated with
      various PEEP levels or various tidal volumes.
    
  