
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of our new method for high dose
      partial irradiation of the hypoxic tumor segment of bulky masses in terms of the intentional
      induction of the non-targeted effects of radiotherapy in patients with metastatic or locally
      advanced (N+) malignancies who are ineligible for, or currently in progression under systemic
      therapies. By mapping the homeostatic immune fluctuations serially, and by monitoring the
      blood levels of the cytokines and inflammatory markers over the 2 weeks prior to irradiation,
      radiotherapy will be administered at the precise, optimal timing in order to stimulate and to
      increase anti-tumor immune system activity.

      Primary endpoint: bystander (local) and abscopal (distant, metastatic or lymph nodal sites)
      response rates.

      Secondary endpoints: overall safety and tolerability profile of our new radiotherapy method,
      progression-free survival rates at local and distant sites, as well as overall survival
      rates, efficacy of this regimen in palliating symptoms, neoadjuvant potential of this novel
      radiotherapy for unresectable/borderline resectable bulky lesions, optimal timing for
      radiotherapy to be administered based on the fluctuating/oscillating suppressed anti-tumor
      immune response.

      This monocentric, two-arm prospective phase I proof of principle trial will enroll 26
      patients from a single institution: KABEG Klinikum Klagenfurt am Woerthersee, Austria.

      During the visit, and after clinical examination, patients will be eligible if they satisfy
      the inclusion criteria for participation in this pilot study on the use of the novel
      stereotactic radiotherapy technique which will consist of partial irradiation of exclusively
      hypoxic segments of their bulky tumors, with 1-3 high dose fractions of radiotherapy based on
      the tumor's site, volume and its relationship with nearby organs. The irradiation will take
      place within 3 weeks of clinical examination. After the treatment, the patient will be
      regularly followed for the evaluation of all endpoints. If any severe toxicity (grade ≥3 per
      CTCAE v 4.3 criteria) occurs in the first 7 evaluable patients, the trial will stop. Safety
      reviews will continue on an ongoing basis, provided that severe toxicities do not occur in
      more than 15% of patients. In the case of eventual disease progression during the follow-up,
      the patients will be offered additional local (radiotherapy) or systemic (chemotherapy,
      immunotherapy, hormonal therapy) treatment if indicated by current NCCN (National
      Comprehensive Cancer Network) treatment recommendations and guidelines.

      Routine surveillance computerized axial tomography (CT) imaging of the whole body will be
      performed beginning at 1 month (+/- 3 days) after treatment to allow for endpoint assessment
      - or before in any case of clinical suspicion of disease progression. Routine CT imaging
      surveillance will continue per standard of care. Patients will also be followed clinically
      with physical and laboratory examinations as indicated.

      Tumor assessments will be completed on the CRF using RECIST v1.1. criteria. Radiographic and
      clinical evaluations will be conducted with the same schedule. The investigator will assess
      anti-tumor activity based on radiological assessments and clinical evaluations of patients
      using RECIST v1.1 at baseline, 1 and 2 months post-treatment, and every 3 months thereafter
      until confirmed disease progression per RECIST v1.1, regardless of the discontinuation of
      study treatment or the initiation of subsequent anti-cancer therapy. Radiological tumor
      assessments will also be conducted whenever disease progression is suspected (e.g.
      symptomatic deterioration or physical examination findings suggestive of mucosal recurrence).
    
  