
    
      The purpose of this pilot study is to test the feasibility and effects of a functional
      mobility training program on the motor ability and physical activity of young children who
      are developmentally delayed and at risk for cerebral palsy (CP). The study includes a sample
      of 10 participants between 12-36 months of age who have at least a 4 month motor delay and
      are at risk for CP in a single-subject research design with repeated measures during baseline
      and intervention phases. Participants will have biweekly assessments during the 6 week
      baseline phase and the subsequent 6 week mobility training phase, followed by a final
      assessment after 6 weeks of treatment withdraw. Assessments and training will occur in the
      Functional and Applied Biomechanics (FAB) section. The mobility training program consists of
      three days per week of 30 minute treatment sessions using dynamic body weight support during
      a variety of functional motor tasks. Children will be assisted, but not limited, by the
      dynamic weight support system while they are encouraged to participate in a variety of
      age-appropriate mobility tasks. It is hypothesized that this system combined with the
      functional activity practice will facilitate the development of postural control and
      strength, and thereby improve walking ability. The primary outcome measures are completion
      rate and gross motor ability as measured by the Gross Motor Function Measure (GMFM).
      Secondary outcome measures include the amount of gross motor delay as measured by the Bayley
      Motor Scale (BMS),, the Functional Mobility Scale (FMS), spatiotemporal gait measures, and
      amount of physical activity in daily life. Results of this pilot study will be used to refine
      the mobility training program, evaluate the appropriateness of the selected outcome measures,
      and to provide preliminary data for a larger scale clinical trial.
    
  