
    
      Background - Individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD) have to deal with several aspects that
      contribute to voice and speech decline and thus, alteration of communication ability during
      the course of the disease: (i) The orofacial motor dysfunction, so-called dysarthria, which
      depends on the neurodegenerative processes; (ii) The effects of the medical treatment, which
      vary according to the disease stage; and (iii) The particular speech modifications that can
      be language-specific, i.e. dependent on the language spoken by the patients. The main
      objective of the FralusoPark project is to evaluate changes in dysarthric speech in PD as a
      result of medical treatment and disease duration using acoustic parameters (voice and
      prosody), perceptual markers (intelligibility), and patient-based outcomes (the psychosocial
      impact on quality of life) in two different languages (French vs. European Portuguese).

      Methods - Individuals with PD will be enrolled in the study in Aix-en-Provence, France (N =
      60) and Lisbon, Portugal (N = 60). Their global motor disability and orofacial motor
      functions will be assessed with specific clinical rating scales, without (OFF) and with (ON)
      medical treatment. Two groups of 60 healthy age-matched volunteers will provide the reference
      for between-group comparisons. Along with the clinical examinations, several speech tasks
      will be recorded to obtain acoustic and perceptual measures. Self-evaluation questionnaires
      will be used to assess the psychosocial impact of dysarthria on quality of life.

      Discussion - Our three a priori hypotheses are the following: (i) Global acoustic features
      are altered similarly in French and Portuguese individuals with PD; (ii) Language-specific
      prosodic patterns might be altered differently according to the language spoken by the
      patients; and (iii) The impact of speech disorders on intelligibility and quality of life
      depends on the cultural and linguistic environment. The study combines an interdisciplinary
      and cross-linguistic approach to study motor speech disorders and will allow for a better
      understanding of the progression of speech symptoms in PD and their response to medical
      treatment. It will provide recommendations on how to assess speech and voice disorders in
      individuals with PD in order to monitor symptom progression and management.
    
  