
    
      The clinical recommendations for unresectable malignant tumors, which cause pain and other
      symptoms, are chemotherapy or local radiation therapy to delay tumor progression, improve
      life quality and prolong survival, while there is no other effective recommendations for
      benign tumors., Local ablation, such as radiofrequency ablation (RFA), is expected to be
      another therapeutic option for tumors that cannot be surgically resected. However, the main
      drawback of radiofrequency ablation is that its puncture invasion can sometimes cause
      bleeding or tumor metastasis. The peripheral blood vessels can also cause poor ablation,
      therefore; RFA is limited to small liver cancer treatment.

      High-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU), a recently developed tumor ablation equipment, can
      be a non-invasive treatment for solid tumors. The principle of HIFU is physically focus the
      ultrasound point on the biological tissue to form high-intensity ultrasound focus, and kill
      tumor cells by the thermal effects, mechanical effects and acupuncture effects of the
      high-intensity ultrasound.

      Under the real-time magnetic resonance imaging system and a variety of appropriate scanning
      to move the focused ultrasound in the treatment area to kill the tumor. The tumor that is
      killed will gradually absorb and fibrosis in the body. There is no significant invasion due
      to it is without penetrating the needle into body. This system has been approved and
      certificated for the use of soft tissue ablation by Taiwan Food and Drug Administration
      (TFDA) in 2016. The main participants of this study are patients who have benign and
      malignant tumors in the abdominal cavity with tumor-related symptoms and not suitable for
      surgical resection. The investigators will conduct HIFU, observe whether there is any
      complications after surgery. Moreover, the investigators will notice the tumor response after
      a month and track the survival rate to verify the feasibility and advantages of HIFU for
      clinical use.
    
  