
    
      Aims of the study The aim of this study is to examine the effects of a nursing intervention
      consisting of sanitary-therapeutic education during the follow-up period after the
      implantation of a defibrillator (ICD) in patients with congestive heart failure.

      The effectiveness of the educational intervention will be assessed on the basis of the level
      of "self-care" in every individual and their lifestyle as well as on mortality rates,
      readmission to the hospital and ICD pocket infection.

      Educational intervention will focus on

        1. Appropriate lifestyles

        2. Early recognition of signs/prodromal symptoms of HF

        3. Early recognition of signs of inflammation of the ICD-pocket

        4. Good management of the device

        1. Therapy, body weight, diet, smoking, alcohol, rest, exercise, job, and sex

        2. Dyspnea, edema, and fovea, rapid weight gain, loss of appetite, fatigue, asthenia,
           insomnia, mental confusion

        3. Signs and symptoms of inflammation: hyperpyrexia, rubor, dolor, calor and tumor

        4. Identification tag, vibration, metal detectors, air travel, use of electronic devices,
           diagnostic PET and MRI

           Materials and methods A multicenter randomized controlled study will be performed. The
           research project will involve two clinical centers in northern Italy: the "Città della
           Salute e della Scienza" University Hospital of Turin, which includes the "Molinette"
           Hospital (coordinator center), and the TO3 ASL, which includes the "Associated Hospitals
           of Rivoli".

           Subject recruitment and data collection will take place until data saturation is
           achieved, with an estimated period of approximately 12 months from the beginning of the
           study.

           Participants

           Inclusion criteria:

             -  Patients affected by heart failure following elective hospitalization during which
                an ICD was implanted on an arrhythmic and/or ischemic basis.

             -  Patients who have given written consent for the research.

           Exclusion criteria:

             -  Patients with syndromes and diseases that compromise their understanding of
                information, learning and all cognitive activities in general.

             -  Minors.

           Primary outcome measures • Self-care levels (measured using the Self-Care Heart Failure
           Index, SCHFI v 6.2)

           • Quality of life perception (measured using a numerical rating scale from 0 to 100)

           Secondary outcome measures • Number of visits to the ED (Emergency Department) and/or
           hospitalizations during the follow-up period after the implantation of a defibrillator
           (ICD).

           • Mortality rate at 180 days after the implantation of the ICD due to HF-related causes.

           • Infection rate in the device pocket.

           Data, sources and collection tools • Socio-demographic and clinical data: For all of the
           included patients, demographic (gender, age, educational level, marital status, country
           of birth (Italian citizens or foreigners), social (through a family context survey) and
           clinical (classification of HF using the NYHA classification, the implantation date and
           type of ICD, the execution of and the changes in laboratory tests and electrocardiograms
           results, number of perceived discharges) data will be recorded. Data on the patient's
           diagnosis and possible associated diseases will be obtained through the analysis of
           clinical documentation and will be record in accordance with the International
           Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems, 9th Revision
           (ICD-IX).

           • Economic data: For patients included in the study, the following data will be
           collected:

           • economic activity, occupational qualifications (if employed/ex-employed);

             -  visits to the ED and/or hospitalizations during the follow-up period, verified
                through analysis of administrative documentation certifying visits and admissions
                (Verbal First Aid and Medical record);

             -  the presence of a companion for the patients during their stay in the ED or
                hospital as well as their economic activity and professional qualifications;

             -  any costs directly incurred by the patient or companion;

             -  time spent by the nursing figure in providing therapeutic education. From society's
                point of view, the benefits received in the ED and hospitalizations will be
                assessed according to the charge currently in force in Italy. Indirect costs,
                represented by the time spent by the patient, and costs related to the time spent
                by caregivers will be valorized using values published by official sources such as
                ISTAT. Costs directly charged to the patient will be valued on the basis of the
                stated cost. Finally, the cost of time spent in educational activities will be
                assessed using the hourly average cost of a nurse and/or doctor in the clinical
                centers that participate in this study.

             -  Self-Care Heart Failure Index (SCHFI) version 6.2. A tool validated in the Italian
                context that allows evaluation of a patient's awareness and capacity for
                self-care11. The obtained responses are organized on a four-level Likert scale (1 =
                never, 4 = every day). Specifically, this instrument is divided into three
                sections:

           Section A: (questions 1 to 10) investigates self-care skills; Section B: (questions 11
           to 16) investigates an individual's symptomatology recognition skills; Section C:
           (questions 17 to 22) investigates the self-confidence related to self-care skills in
           detail.

           The total score is computed in the following manner:

           Section A: 10 is subtracted from the sum of the section results considering answers 1 to
           10, and the result is multiplied by a coefficient of 3.33; Section B: 4 is subtracted
           from sum of the section results considering answers 11 to 16, and the result is
           multiplied by a coefficient of 5; Section C: 6 is subtracted from sum of the section
           results considering answers 17 to 22, and the result is multiplied by a coefficient of
           5.56 All of the results have to be considered in terms of percentages. If the
           percentages for individual sections are all higher than the cut-off value (70%), then
           according to the literature11, the level of self-care is considered adequate. Otherwise,
           for lower values, the section showing an insufficient result will be strengthened.

             -  Numeric Rating Scale: scale from 0 to 100 used for subjective measurement of the
                perceived quality of life. This tool will be evaluated by a committee of experts
                using a pre-test, which is currently under way.
    
  