
    
      Some authors have reported the existence of an endometrial microbiota present in healthy
      woman and different from that in the vagina. It is well known that the presence of pathogens
      (such as Gardnerella and Streptococcus) in the endometrium is related with infertility,
      pregnancy loss, premature rupture of membranes and preterm birth.

      Another factor which has an impact on infertility is Chronic Endometritis (CE). It consists
      of a persistent inflammation of the endometrial mucosa and its prevalence in infertile
      patients has been estimated to be between 2.8 and 39%, although this percentage can reach up
      to 50 and 60% in patients with miscarriages and repeated implantation failure, respectively.
      The most common cause of CE is bacterial infection, but the traditional methods of diagnosis
      (histology, hysteroscopy and microbial culture) often give discordant results between them.

      Based on all mentioned above, two molecular tests have been respectively developed by
      Igenomix (an international company that provides leading advanced services in reproductive
      genetics and infertility) to assess endometrial microbiome: EMMA (Endometrial Microbiome
      Metagenomic Analysis) and ALICE (Analysis of Infectious Chronic Endometritis). EMMA test
      analyses and quantifies all the bacteria present in the endometrium, showing the main
      bacterial genera present in significant amount in an endometrial sample; while ALICE test
      quantifies the amount of pathogens more often causing CE (Enterococcus spp.,
      Enterobacteriaceae (Escherichia and Klebsiella), Streptococcus spp., Staphylococcus spp.,
      Mycoplasma spp., and Ureaplasma spp.), Chlamydia and Neisseria, also in an endometrial
      sample.

      The current project aims to investigate in a randomized way the potential improvement on the
      clinical outcome of Chinese infertile patients at their first IVF cycle considering a
      personalized diagnosis and treatment (when applicable) of their endometrial microbiome status
      with the EMMA/ALICE. To do that, only the outcomes of the first single embryo transfers
      performed after the inclusion of each patient will be considered.

      Considering a 30% of possible drop-outs, a total of 1018 patients will be recruited (509
      randomized in each group). They will be allocated on a balanced way (assigned by chance like
      the flip of a coin) in one of the two arms described below. Reproductive outcomes (defined
      following The International Glossary on Infertility and Fertility Care, 2017) will be
      compared between the two groups.

      Data exported from the source documents will be duly codified and treated in order to protect
      the clinical and personal information of participants in accordance with the current local
      legislation.

      All the statistical analysis performed on the data, as well as the procedures, will be
      registered in a detailed Statistical Analysis Plan (SAP) that will be developed during the
      study and before starting data analysis.

      An interim analysis of this data is planned once 50% of the recruitment has been achieved.
      Besides and at that same moment, the study will be overseen by an independent Data Monitoring
      Committee.

      All of the statistical procedures will be done systematically by both, intention to treat
      analysis (ITT) and per protocol analysis (PP). The ITT analysis will include all randomized
      patients recruited and assigned to one of the two groups after biopsy collection and before
      randomization. The PP analysis will be applied to those patients who adequately follow the
      protocol assigned according to their group and in whom the transfer of the good quality
      blastocyst is performed.
    
  