
    
      Background:

      Over recent decades, an increasing number of patients with Chronic Low Back Pain (CLBP)
      undergo surgical lumbar spinal fusion (LSF). For many of the patients LSF is their last
      resort in the hope of a better life with less pain, disability and use of medication.
      Unfortunately, several reports show, that the pain level remains the same after LSF for many
      patients, and that consumption of medication remains unchanged in almost 50 % of the
      patients.

      Knowing that characteristics such as maladaptive coping strategies, fear avoidance beliefs
      and pain catastrophizing seem to be predictive of worse outcome in pain, function and quality
      of life after surgery. It is important to assess how these individual factors in the
      postsurgical rehabilitation can be addressed.

      The single physiotherapists have an essential role in mobilizing the LSF patient
      post-operatively. In clinical practice it is not enough for the physiotherapists to use their
      biomechanical understanding of LSF material and heeling processes, it is also essential to
      use a so-called "silent knowledge" of experience and personal interaction with the patient.

      It remains unknown if this "silent knowledge" is a reliable predictor of the outcome of LSF
      surgery. If the physiotherapist can predict the outcome, it is important to explore which
      factors the physiotherapist rely their prognosis upon in order to identify objective and
      possible modifiable candidate prognostic factors for recovery.

      The aim of this study is to assess if physiotherapists attending inpatients at public back
      surgery hospitals can predict the future course (post hospitalisation) of recovery of
      patients undergoing LSF. The study will also break down the physiotherapists' "silent
      knowledge" in an attempt to identify objective (and hopefully modifiable) candidate
      prognostic markers of recovery.
    
  