
    
      Recruitment: Patients of orthopaedic surgeons (e.g. Dr. Antonia Chen, Dr. Jeffrey Lange, Dr.
      Vivek Shah, Dr. Richard Iorio and Dr. Wolfgang Fitz) at the Brigham and Women's Hospital or
      Mass General Hospital orthopaedic clinics will be identified as potentially eligible for the
      study based on 1) 40 < body mass index (BMI) < 47 kg/m2 in the last 6 months recorded in the
      Partners electronic medical record, and 2) recommended unilateral total joint arthroplasty.
      Study flyers will be posted in MGH orthopedics clinics to remind clinicians that their
      patients may be eligible for the study, or patients may directly contact the research team by
      emailing the contact person on the flyer. For patients identified as potentially eligible
      while in clinic, an orthopaedic surgeon will introduce the patient to the study, and a member
      of the research team (research assistant or trainee) will conduct an eligibility screening
      (see eligibility criteria above) and obtain verbal consent either in-person or by phone. For
      patients identified as potentially eligible outside of clinic, a member of the research team
      will call the patient to introduce the study, and conduct eligibility screening and consent
      on the phone. Research staff may also contact these patients by email or via Patient Gateway
      to help coordinate a time convenient for staff to call the patient.

      Interested, eligible, and consented subjects will be provisionally enrolled and each subject
      (both intervention and standard care participants) will be shipped a standard bathroom scale
      that they will keep even after the study concludes. Subjects will be asked to verify their
      enrollment BMI is 40 < body mass index (BMI) < 47 kg/m2. Subjects can verify weights by
      either a) submitting a photo to the study team of the home scale during a weigh-in that
      displays their body weight, or by b) recording a baseline weight at a Partners facility. For
      option a) subjects will submit a photo of their weight displayed on the scale to the study
      team either by email to a study team member's Partners email address, through the mobile app,
      or via RedCap. Subjects who are not able to confirm their enrollment BMI is within this range
      will be removed from the study. Subjects who can confirm their enrollment BMI is within this
      range will then be randomized to a trial arm.

      Arms: Intervention participants will download the Nutrimedy telemedicine online/smartphone
      app and be connected at enrollment with a certified registered dietitian who will contact
      intervention participants weekly or bi-weekly via video calls and unlimited in-app text
      messaging for up to three months. The first week will include either one 55-minute video
      session or two 25-minute sessions. Weeks 2-4 will have weekly 25-minute video calls, and
      weeks 5-12 will have biweekly 25-minute sessions for a total of 8-9 sessions over 12 weeks.
      Together, participants and dietitians will come up with goals for the 12 weeks, and
      dietitians will check on progress toward these goals using in-app tools such as food logs and
      messaging between video calls. All patients will be encouraged to lose at least 20 pounds
      with a goal BMI<40 kg/m2 after 12 weeks. Intervention participants will additionally be asked
      if they would be interested in completing a brief 5-minute interview in-person or by phone at
      the end of the study (10-14 weeks after enrollment) to discuss qualitative feedback about the
      intervention. Responses will be transcribed verbatim during the interview for later analysis.

      Individuals randomized to the usual care group will receive standard care. This may include a
      physical therapist and/or nutritionist referral. Brigham and Women's Hospital offers several
      programs for patients interested in losing weight, including the Nutrition Wellness Service
      (NWS) and Program for Weight Management (PWM).
    
  