
    
      After ethical committee approval, informed written consent will be obtained from all
      patients. A Sample size of 25 patients per group was calculated based on 15% reduction in
      morphine consumption with 0.05% significance and a power of 0.8.

      Consenting patients scheduled to have elective cesarean section under spinal anesthesia will
      be randomised to undergo QLB with Bupivacaine versus placebo(saline) after their surgery.
      Allocation will be done using closed envelope technique.

      The study medications/placebo will be prepared and labelled by an anesthetist who is not
      involved in the study.

      All patients will receive a standard spinal anesthetic. At the end of surgery , Quadratus
      lumborum block group (QL) patients will receive bilateral QLB with 0.125% bupivacaine.

      Control group patients will receive a bilateral placebo block using saline. The block will be
      performed in operation theatre after the end of cesarean section with intravenous access,
      ECG, BP, oxygen saturation by pulse oximetry monitoring and full resuscitation equipment and
      medication ready.

      The patient will be placed in a lateral position with the side to be blocked facing upwards.
      The ultrasound probe will be properly sterilized and with sterile covers.

      A 22 Gauge, two inch Pajunk Sonoplex needle is advanced under ultrasound guidance on the
      posterior aspect of the Quadratus Lumborum. Following negative aspiration, 0.2 ml/kg of
      0.125% bupivacaine, or placebo(saline) is injected in each side with intermittent aspiration
      and the spread of injectate followed on ultrasound.

      All patients will receive the routine postoperative analgesia, comprising patient-controlled
      IV morphine analgesia and regular diclofenac and paracetamol.

      All patients will be assessed postoperatively by a blinded investigator: in the
      postanesthesia care unit and at 2, 4, 6, 12, 24, 36, and 48 h postoperatively
    
  