
    
      Inflammation of the nasal mucosa (internal lining of the nose) results in a condition called
      rhinitis. Patients with rhinitis suffer from nasal stuffiness, congestion, rhinorrhea (nasal
      discharge), sneezing, and itchiness. Rhinitis affects a large number of people, with several
      studies estimating that between 10 and 50% of people have rhinitis.

      The term rhinitis includes many different diseases that are commonly divided into allergic
      rhinitis and non-allergic rhinitis. Allergic rhinitis is a result of allergen exposure, with
      the diagnosis requiring an identifiable offending agent. Common allergens include pollen,
      molds, animals, and insects. Allergic rhinitis has similar symptoms to those outlined above
      and can be confirmed by allergy skin testing. There is also a strong association between
      allergic rhinitis and asthma, with one third of allergic rhinitis patients also suffering
      from reactive airway disease.

      On the other hand, non-allergic rhinitis is a broad category and includes all forms of
      rhinitis that do not have an identifiable allergic component. Subcategories of non-allergic
      rhinitis include occupational, gustatory, smoking, hormonal, senile, atrophic,
      medication-induced, vasomotor (idiopathic), local allergic, and non-allergic rhinitis with
      eosinophilia syndrome (NARES).

      Avoidance of triggers and use of intranasal medication, such as intranasal steroids and
      intranasal antihistamines, are the mainstays of treatment for non-allergic rhinitis.
      Combination of intranasal steroid and antihistamine has recently been developed as a single
      product and approved for the use in both allergic and non-allergic rhinitis. When high
      volume, clear rhinorrhea is the primary rhinitis symptom, intranasal anticholinergics have
      shown good effect. Finally, surgical intervention is considered in patients with select
      non-allergic rhinitis causes, such as vasomotor rhinitis.

      The use of intranasal capsaiscinoid spray for treatment of rhinitis has been investigated for
      many years. The first identifiable trial was in 1991 and showed that both subjective and
      objective measurements of chronic rhinitis were reduced with repeated applications of
      intranasal capsaicin.

      Capsaicinoids are active ingredients in the plant genus Capsicum, which includes bell
      peppers, habanero peppers, and jalapeno peppers, amongst others. The most noteworthy of the
      capsaicinoids is capsaicin. All capsaicinoids are irritants for humans, and they give the
      Capsicum plants their pungent taste and hot sensation, as well as produce the burning
      sensation from topical application.

      Capsaicinoids are believed to be effective for non-allergic rhinitis due to their ability to
      block specific nerve fibers in the lining of the nose. Blocking this pathway results in
      decreased nasal hypersensitivity and leads to reduced nasal obstruction, sneezing, and
      rhinorrhea.

      More recently, a systematic review for the Cochrane Collaboration was carried out. Four
      studies were included in the review, representing 302 patients. The authors of the review
      conclude that given many therapeutic options for non-allergic rhinitis are ineffective, the
      use of intranasal capsaicinoid as possible treatment modality is reasonable.

      It should be noted that each of the four studies included in the review utilized a different
      dose of capsaiscinoid, and indeed a different capsaiscinoid altogether.

      Despite many trials documenting the efficacy of intranasal capsaicinoids for non-allergic
      rhinitis, tolerability of the intervention is poorly studied. Also of note is that many of
      the current studies utilizing intranasal capsaicinoids have used some form of topical
      anesthetic in order to deliver high doses.

      Therefore, given that intranasal capsaicinoid spray is an enticing treatment option for
      non-allergic rhinitis in terms of efficacy, and there is a dearth of reliable tolerability
      studies, we would seek to identify the side effect profile of a naturally sourced intranasal
      capsaicin spray. As pelargonic acid vanillylamide (PAVA) is the most studied capsaicinoid in
      terms of efficacy in humans, we propose to utilize this for our study.

      The proposed study would address the following objectives:

        1. Determine the rate and severity of intranasal burning sensation and pain with
           administration of intranasal PAVA in an otherwise healthy population with no history of
           medical or surgical nasal disease

           a. Measured using both a Likert scale and a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS)

        2. Determine the rate and severity of lacrimation with administration of intranasal PAVA in
           an otherwise healthy population with no history of medical or surgical nasal disease

           a. Measured using a Likert scale

        3. Determine the rate and severity of rhinorrhea with administration of intranasal PAVA in
           an otherwise healthy population with no history of medical or surgical nasal disease

           a. Measured using a Likert scale

        4. Determine the overall patient perceived tolerability of intranasal PAVA administration
           in an otherwise healthy population with no history of medical or surgical nasal disease
           a. Considered an overall combined measure of all Likert scales and VAS
    
  