
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the difference in recurrence-free survival (RFS) of patients with
           potentially resectable hepatic colorectal metastases receiving perioperative
           (preoperative plus postoperative) adjuvant chemotherapy vs only postoperative adjuvant
           chemotherapy following liver resection for colorectal metastases.

      Secondary

        -  To compare the proportion of patients between study arms who are R0 or R1 resected,
           alive, and free of recurrence at 6 months.

        -  To compare RFS between study arms in the cohort of patients event-free at 6 months.

        -  To compare overall survival between study arms.

        -  To evaluate the difference in R0 and combined R0 + R1 resection rates in patients
           receiving neoadjuvant therapy and those undergoing initial surgical resection.

        -  To compare the postoperative morbidity profile between study arms.

        -  To evaluate the safety and toxicity profile of postoperative and perioperative
           administration of chemotherapy and bevacizumab.

      Tertiary

        -  To evaluate the relationship of baseline circulating tumor cells (CTC) to RFS.

        -  To evaluate the relationship of baseline CTC to R0 resection.

        -  To evaluate the relationship of pre-resection CTC in the preoperative therapy group only
           with RFS and R0 resection.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified by number of liver metastases
      (1-3 vs 4+), chemotherapy regimen* (mFOLFOX6 vs FOLFIRI), and synchronous** primary
      colorectal cancer (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      NOTE: *Patients who have not received previous oxaliplatin receive mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy
      comprising oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours, and fluorouracil
      IV over 46 hours on day 1. Patients who have received previous oxaliplatin receive FOLFIRI
      chemotherapy comprising irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 2 hours, leucovorin calcium IV over
      2 hours, and fluorouracil IV over 46 hours on day 1.

      NOTE: **Synchronous is defined as the detection (by imaging) of suspicious liver metastases
      within 90 days before or after the date of histologic diagnosis of the primary colon or
      rectal cancer.

        -  Arm 1 (postoperative): Patients undergo hepatic resection. Beginning 31-56 days after
           surgery, patients receive mFOLFOX6 or FOLFIRI chemotherapy IV on day 1 over 3 hours.
           Patients receive an additional dose of fluorouracil over 46 hours using a portable pump.
           Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 12 courses.

        -  Arm 2 (perioperative): Patients receive mFOLFOX6 or FOLFIRI chemotherapy IV over 3 hours
           on day 1. Patients receive an additional dose of fluorouracil over 46 hours using a
           portable pump. Treatment repeats for every 2 weeks for 6 courses. Patients then undergo
           hepatic resection. Beginning 31-56 days after surgery, patients receive an additional 6
           courses of mFOLFOX6 or FOLFIRI chemotherapy.

      Blood and tumor tissue samples may be collected periodically for correlative studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  