
    
      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE

      The role of dietary fibre in human health is a topic of both debate and research.
      Interpreting evidence is complicated by changes in the definition of fibre. In the UK the
      Scientific Advisory Committee for Nutrition has recently proposed a definition of "all
      carbohydrates that are neither digested nor absorbed in the small intestine and have a degree
      of polymerisation of three or more monomeric units, plus lignin". They have also called for
      further research into the physiological effects of fibre of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract.

      The Nottingham GI MRI group has been at the forefront of elucidating the effects of poorly
      digested carbohydrates on gastrointestinal physiology. The investigators have published
      techniques to measure free water in the small bowel and assessment of the physical form of
      chyme in the colon using MR relaxometry. This includes the demonstration that fructose
      ingestion on its own leads to increased free water in the small bowel compared to
      co-ingestion with glucose.

      Bran is often confused with dietary fibre. Although it contains fibre, the term actually
      refers to the outer husk of seeds and grains. It has been shown to accelerate oro-caecal
      transit (OCT) with scintigraphy. Bran can also be shown to increase small bowel water
      content, possibly by mechanical stimulation, one of the most powerful stimuli for small
      intestinal secretion, which may be a mechanism to prevent blockage. In the past bran's high
      fibre content led to the hypothesis that its effect derived from holding water in the lumen
      but a comparison study of 17 different fibres found an inverse relationship between their
      water-holding properties and effect on faecal weight, with bran holding the least water but
      inducing the largest weight changes. Rather, weight change appeared to relate to the amount
      of undigested fibre present in the faeces and the associated changes in bacterial numbers,
      which account for most of dry stool weight.

      In contrast, psyllium husk contains a fibre that binds water effectively. On this basis it
      has been used as a laxative for thousands of years. In fact, there is little evidence that
      psyllium accelerates whole gut transit time as might be expected of a laxative. Work within
      the investigating group has shown that psyllium increases water in both the small bowel and
      the faeces, leading to softer, looser stool.

      Nopal is a Mexican dietary product derived from cactus. It contains a different mix of fibre,
      2/3rds of which is insoluble like bran fibre and 1/3rd soluble like psyllium. It is the
      subject of several health claims. The investigating group has recently been awarded a grant
      by the Newton Fund, through the Medical Research council, to study its effects on gut
      function. The aim of the Newton Fund is to stimulate collaborative research with
      middle-income countries such as Mexico. Part of the project plan is to invite a Mexican
      radiologist, Dr Alfonso Gil-Valadez, to Nottingham to learn about the MRI techniques used by
      our group.

      TRIAL OBJECTIVES AND PURPOSE

      Purpose

      The purpose of the study is to gather pilot data on the effect of Nopal on intestinal water
      content, in comparison to bran and psyllium.

      Objective

      The primary objective is to gather pilot data on the change from baseline in small bowel
      water content in healthy volunteers after a meal containing nopal, in comparison to meals
      containing psyllium or bran.

      Secondary Objectives

      Secondary objectives will be to gather pilot data on the effects of the fibre-containing
      meals on the physical form of colonic chyme, colonic volume and breath markers of
      fermentation.

      Hypotheses

      The test meals will lead to differences in post-prandial water in the small bowel.

      The test meals will lead to differences in the post-prandial volume and physical composition
      of chyme in the colon.

      The test meals will not lead to change in breath markers of fermentation.
    
  