
    
      Purpose The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy of post-FESS nasal debridements
      in the prevention of post-operative synechiae formation.

      Hypothesis There is no difference in short and long term clinical outcomes between patients
      who had routine post-operative nasal debridement following FESS and patients who did not have
      post-operative nasal debridement.

      Justification To prevent synechiae formation, many studies have been published evaluating the
      efficacy of post-operative debridement procedures. Many of these studies have shown
      conflicting results. There were many inconsistent variables between the studies, such as
      limited follow-up periods, varying extent of surgery, and variability in pre and
      post-operative treatment.

      With a well designed study, we would like to assess if there is a difference in the incidence
      of formation of middle meatal synechiae between patients who have debridement and patients
      who don't.

      This will further add much needed evidence to the need for this procedure in the post
      operative period following FESS.

      Surgery The participants in this study will all undergo standard-of-care functional
      endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS) to treat their sinus disease. No changes will be made to
      pre-operative or operative protocol on account of this study. All post-operative
      standard-of-care procedures and medication will be maintained.

      Follow up visits After FESS, participant subjects will be asked to return for 4 follow-up
      visits within the first 90 days and one follow-up visit at 180 days. They will be asked to
      return at 6, 30, 60, 90 and 180 days following their sinus surgery. At their 6 and 30 day
      follow-up visits they will either receive or not receive routine post-operative debridement
      depending on randomization.

      Statistical Analysis

      Sample size calculations A sample size calculation was performed to determine the appropriate
      number of patients required to adequately compare the incidence of synechiae between
      participants with versus without postoperative debridement following FESS. Previous
      investigations at the St. Paul's Sinus Centre have found that of post-FESS cases, 18% develop
      synechiae from use of gloved-Merocel middle meatal spacers. Utilizing a type I error of 5%,
      type II error of 20%, effect difference of 15% and 10% loss to follow-up, a total of 150
      patients are required (75 per arm).

      Statistical Comparisons The primary objective of this randomized controlled trial will be to
      compare the incidence of synechiae between subjects receiving debridement versus those
      receiving saline irrigation (no debridement) up to 180 days post-surgery. Count and absolute
      percentages of synechia incidence will be reported. The Chi-Squared test will be used to
      determine statistical significance between incidence rates. Probability values less than 5%
      (α=0.05) will be considered significant. Corresponding odds ratios and 95% confidence
      intervals will be reported.

      For the secondary outcome measures (e.g. Sinonasal Outcomes Test 22 SNOT-22, PJESS/MLK),
      results will be summated and considered as continuous, numerical variables. Descriptive
      statistics using mean, median, standard deviation and inter-quartile ranges will be reported.
      The unpaired two sample student t-tests will be applied to investigate the difference between
      the means of the various outcome measures. Probability values less than 5% (α =0.05) will
      also be considered statistically significant.

      Baseline demographics and clinical factors will be compared between each treatment group to
      determine whether randomization yielded comparable groups. Multivariable logistic and linear
      regression will be used to investigate the relationship between postoperative debridement and
      the primary (incidence of synechiae) or secondary outcomes (PJESS/MLK).
    
  