
    
      Rationale: During surgical resection, it is very challenging to discriminate between
      sinonasal inverted papilloma (SNIP) and surrounding tissue, as SNIP is associated with
      inducement of granulomatous inflammation of the environment. As a result, the surgeon has to
      perform a thorough resection in order to remove the complete inverted papilloma, which is
      associated with substantial morbidity. Clearly, there is need for an instrument that is able
      to guide the surgeon to discriminate between SNIP and surrounding tissue. Molecular imaging
      techniques using targeted optical contrast agents is a promising technique to accommodate
      this need. Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) is overexpressed in SNIP compared to
      normal epithelium of the sinonasal area and has been used effectively in molecular imaging.

      Objectives: The main objective is to study if the conjugate bevacizumab-IRDye800CW
      accumulates more in sinonasal inverted papilloma than in normal sinonasal mucosa.

      Study design: The current study is a non-randomized, non-blinded, prospective, single center,
      pilot dose-escalation study. A minimum of five and a maximum of eight patients with SNIP will
      be included. Five patients will be administered with 10 mg bevacizumab-IRDye800CW. An interim
      analysis is performed after inclusion of the first three patients to determine if a
      tumor-to-background ratio (TBR) of ≥2 is obtained by either intraoperative fluorescence in
      vivo measurements or by ex vivo back-table fluorescence imaging. If a TBR of ≥2 is found,
      inclusion is continued to five patients. If not, the dose is adjusted to 25 mg. Again, a
      similar interim analysis is performed after inclusion of the first three patients to
      determine the TBR.

      Study population: All included patients will meet the in- and exclusion criteria and have a
      biopsy confirmed diagnosis of primary or recurrent sinonasal inverted papilloma and are
      scheduled to undergo surgical resection.

      Patient related study procedures: Patients will - after written informed consent - receive an
      intravenous injection of the fluorescent tracer. The dose will be either 10 mg or 25 mg. Two
      to four days later, the peroperative fluorescence imaging and multidiameter single fiber
      reflectance and single fiber fluorescence (MDSFR/SFF) spectroscopy will be performed of the
      tumor and woundbed.

      Main study parameters/endpoints are macroscopic fluorescent signal levels, tumor to
      background ratio (TBR) and tracer distribution observed by fluorescence imaging and
      quantification of the fluorescent signal observed by means of MDSFR/SFF spectroscopy. Results
      of fluorescence imaging and spectroscopy will be correlated with standard histopathological
      assessment (i.e. hematoxylin and eosin staining) and VEGF immunohistochemistry.

      Burden: Time investment: Patients need to visit the UMCG two to four days before their
      planned surgery which will take approximately two hours. Extra procedures: 1) Intravenous
      administration of bevacizumab-IRDye800CW. 2)The estimated time for taking fluorescence images
      and MDSFR/SFF spectroscopy measurements is approximately 15 minutes, which will result in
      prolongation of general anesthesia with 15 minutes. 3) Prior to surgical resection, the
      surgeon takes biopsies of fluorescent and non-fluorescent areas, or areas of inverted
      papilloma and normal mucosal lining of sinonasal cavities involved as identified by the
      surgeon when intraoperative fluorescent signal is not detected. 4) Immediately after
      resection of the inverted papilloma, biopsies will be taken from areas in the wound bed
      showing high fluorescent signal.

      Risks: risks to study participants are mainly related to the, already present, risks of the
      surgical procedure and to the administration of the tracer in increasing dosages. A data
      safety monitoring board (DSMB) will not be installed as in more than two hundred patients
      receiving bevacizumab-IRDye800CW, no (serious) adverse events were observed.

      Benefit: Patients will have no benefit from this study directly. Surgery will be planned as
      usual. During surgery, no decisions will be made based on the fluorescence imaging.
    
  