
    
      Background:

      The malignant lymphomas, Hodgkin´s lymphoma (HL) and non-Hodgkin´s lymphoma (NHL), comprise
      approximately 10% of childhood cancers. The assessment of extent of disease (staging) and
      response to therapy (restaging) is performed with computed tomography (CT) scan,
      18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET scan) or integrated FDG-PET/CT.
      Staging and restaging are important for choice of treatment and for determining prognosis.
      Unfortunately, FDG-PET and CT are accompanied by a significant amount of radiation exposure
      which may induce second cancers. New magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques offer an
      alternative way for staging and follow-up of cancers. Whole-body MRI with diffusion weighted
      imaging (WB-MRI with DWIBS) is a radiation-free method which allows imaging of the body with
      excellent soft tissue contrast in a single examination and could be an attractive alternative
      to FDG-PET and CT for the staging and restaging of malignant lymphomas in children.

      Aim of the study:

      The aims of this study are to compare the diagnostic performance of whole-body MRI (including
      DWIBS) to FDG-PET/CT and/or CT for the initial staging, early response assessment and
      restaging after completion of therapy in children with Hodgkin's lymphoma.

      Study design:

      Patients eligible for enrollment in this multicenter, prospective, diagnostic cohort study
      are children aged 8-18 years, with histologically confirmed Hodgkin's lymphoma, who are
      treated according to the SKION / EuroNet-PHL-C1 protocol (or trial with similar imaging
      strategy) in one of the participating centers. Patients will undergo WB-MRI in addition to
      the protocolar imaging routinely done (FDG-PET(/CT) and CT scan) at 3 time-points: at initial
      staging, after 2 chemotherapy cycles and at end of treatment. We expect to enrol 75 patients
      in a 3 year study period. Staging and restaging results of WB-MRI (according to the Ann Arbor
      and Cheson classification, respectively) will be compared to those of FDG-PET(/CT) and CT.
      All imaging modalities will be assessed by a radiologist and nuclear medicine physician in a
      blinded fashion, using standardized score forms. Findings of FDG-PET and CT together will
      serve as the reference standard. Clinical and radiological follow-up after 6 months will be
      used to solve any disagreements between FDG-PET, CT and WB-MRI. Additionally, at least 3 year
      follow-up clinical data and data on follow-up imaging will be collected from the hospital
      charts of the patients, to better assess the prognostic value of FDG-PET and WB-MRI.

      Clinical/scientific relevance:

      This study aims to assess the accuracy of WB-MRI compared to FDG-PET(/CT) and CT in staging
      and response assessment of Hodgkin lymphoma. The results of this study can contribute to the
      development of evidence based 'radiation reduced' imaging protocols in Hodgkin's lymphoma.
    
  