
    
      English Synopsis

      I. Title of Study:

      Immediate and retained effects of three types of dual-task interventions on dual-task walking
      performance of stroke patients: psychometric study and randomized controlled trial

      II. Study Objectives:

      The objective of this study is to investigate psychometric properties of dual-task walking
      assessments and compare effects of three types of dual-task balance interventions on
      dual-task walking for stroke patients. Specifically, we will investigate psychometric
      properties (i.e. reliability, validity, and responsiveness) of dual-task walking assessments
      with various levels of difficulty for stroke individuals (Aim 1). The second aim of this
      study is to compare the immediate and retained effects of combined motor and cognitive
      dual-task training (MCDTT), motor dual-task training (MDTT), and cognitive dual-task training
      (CDTT) on dual-task gait and cognitive performance after stroke (Aim 2). The third aim of
      this study is to elucidate the changed CMI pattern of stroke patients after dual-task
      interventions (Aim 3).

      III. Study Design A metric analysis and comparative efficacy research will be conducted at
      medical center(s). Sixty ambulatory stroke patients will receive dual-task walking
      assessments twice at pretreatment with a 1-week interval for test-retest assessment and
      investigation of the reliability and validity of outcome measures. The primary outcome
      measure of the six dual-task walking assessments will include two types of walking conditions
      (walking at preferred speed and fast speed) and simultaneously perform three cognitive tasks
      (Serial Three Subtractions, Stroop, and Auditory Stroop tasks). These three cognitive tasks
      represent different domains of cognitive function: working memory and executive function.
      Concurrent validity will be studied to validate the dual-task walking measures with each
      other and with the item 14 of the mini-Balance Evaluation Systems test (Mini-BESTest) and
      dual-task Timed-up-and-Go test (dual-TUG) obtain concurrently for assessing dual-task
      ability. In addition, we will compare dual-task walking performance between fallers and
      non-fallers to examine discriminant validity of dual-task assessments.

      A comparative efficacy research is a single-blind, randomized controlled trial. Sixty stroke
      patients will be randomized to MCDTT or MDTT or CDTT. All three groups will receive dual-task
      interventions at progressively increasing task difficulty 3 times a week for 4 weeks. The
      MCDTT group will undertake sitting to standing, standing balance, and treadmill walking
      training while concurrently perform motor and cognitive tasks. The MDTT and the CDTT groups
      will train the same set of sitting to standing, standing balance, and walking activities as
      the MCDTT group while simultaneously performing only motor or cognitive task, respectively.
      During each session, all participants will receive the instruction of a variable priority to
      practice shifting attention between tasks by spending half of the training attention focus on
      the balance task, and half focus on the secondary cognitive or motor tasks. A blinded
      assessor will administer three assessments All participants will be examined gait and
      cognitive performance under single-task (walking only, cognitive tasks only) and dual-task
      conditions (walking while performing 3 cognitive tasks) at two baselines, post intervention,
      and 1-month follow-up. The primary outcome measure of gait and cognition is gait speed and
      composite score of accuracy and reaction time of the cognitive tasks under single- and
      dual-task conditions. The secondary outcome measures will be the Berg Balance Scale,
      Mini-BESTest, dual-TUG, Functional Gait Assessment, Activity-specific Balance Confidence
      Scale, Chair Stand Test, Stroke Impact Scale, and Patient Global Impression of Change.
      Repeated measure ANOVA will be used to compare measurements at baseline, after training, and
      follow-up among the groups.

      Number of Planned Patients: 60 stroke patients Duration of the Study: 2018/08/01～2021/07/31
    
  