
    
      The two most important causes of iron overload disease in humans are the iron-loading
      disorder hereditary hemochromatosis (HC), and transfusional siderosis in patients with
      chronic hematological diseases like myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), thalassemia, and
      leukemia.

      Hemochromatosis. In HC the molecular regulation of iron uptake across the intestinal mucosa
      is disturbed, leading to hyperabsorption and accumulation of iron in parenchymal tissues such
      as the liver, pancreas, endocrine organs and heart. Hepcidin, a small peptide hormone
      synthesized in the liver, apparently functions as the master regulator of systemic iron
      homeostasis by its ability to control the efflux of iron from the enterocytes and macrophages
      into blood plasma. This happens by diminishing the iron transfer capacity through the
      basolateral, transmembrane protein, ferroportin. Expression of hepcidin is carefully adjusted
      by the iron status of the hepatocytes through a multimolecular signal transducing pathway
      which acts as a positive feedback mechanism with increased hepcidin synthesis in iron
      overload (and inflammation). Mutation of one of the signal molecules, leads to inadequate
      hepcidin synthesis. The most common are the classic C282Y and H63D point mutations of the
      hemochromatosis protein HFE, which disturbs its interaction with the transferrin receptor 1,
      the first step in the hepcidin signal cascade. Homozygosity for C282Y is the strongest risk
      factor for serious iron overload and disease which develops after a long-lasting,
      asymptomatic period. In Norway the prevalence of C283Y homozygosity is approximately 0.75 in
      both genders. The preclinical, biochemical phenotype of HC is disclosed by blood tests with
      elevated transferrin saturation as a marker of hyperabsorption of iron, and increasing
      ferritin concentration as a surrogate marker of a growing iron overload. As an alternative to
      liver biopsy, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) seems to be a powerful non-invasive method to
      directly assess the iron content of the liver and heart.

      Myelodysplastic syndrome and transfusional siderosis. Transfusional iron overload is the
      result of multiple blood transfusions supplied over a long time period, each of which adds
      approximately 220 to 250 mg of extra iron to the body. Because iron loading occurs via a
      parenteral route with the macrophages as the primary target cells, the normal homeostatic
      mechanisms are not responding adequately and the plasma hepcidin level can be normal or even
      increased. Even if excess iron is better tolerated in macrophages than in parenchymal cells,
      a life-threatening iron overload develops much faster with transfusional siderosis than
      HFE-associated HC. Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) is a heterogeneous group of stem cell
      disorders with inefficient hematopoiesis and increased risk of developing acute myeloid
      leukemia. The MDS International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS) which is based on numbers of
      cytopenias, cytogenetic features and number of blasts in the bone marrow, enables separation
      of four risk groups with the following median survival years: low-risk patients, 5.7 years;
      intermediate-1, 3.5 years; intermediate-2, 1.2 years; and high-risk 0.4 years. Many patients
      become transfusion-dependent and get serious transfusional iron overload. Iron chelation is
      recommended to low-risk and intermediate-1 patients with probable need of lifelong
      transfusion therapy.

      Consequences of iron overload. If not interrupted, continuous iron loading will at some point
      start to gradually damage vital organs such as liver, heart and endocrine organs, and lead to
      serious disease and a shortened lifetime. At the molecular level persistently increased
      amounts of reactive, small molecular weight iron complexes or the sporadic presence of free
      iron in blood and tissues, are probably the fundamental pathogenetic mechanism in iron
      overload. These substances are highly toxic due to their strong ability to catalyze the
      formation of free radicals such as Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS). The activity of free
      radicals with damage of native molecules (e.g. DNA) and cellular structures is considered to
      be the first step in organ and tissue injury. In blood, reactive iron exists as
      Non-Transferrin Bound Iron (NTBI), mainly in the form of small molecular weight iron-citrate
      complexes. NTBI is rapidly taken up by the liver and other organs where it adds to the
      intracellular, reactive labile iron pool (LIP). The presence of NTBI and LIP has been found
      to correlate with hepatic and cardiac damage in transfusional siderosis and HC. In addition,
      the homeostasis of other trace metals may be abnormal in iron overload. Little is known about
      this issue, which warrants a deeper study.

      Treatment. In HC, the preferred iron removal therapy is venesection, whilst transfusional
      iron overload is treated with iron chelators.

      Clinical aims of study. The major objective is to determine the efficacy of deferasirox to
      remove iron from the liver, heart and bone marrow in HC- and MDS-patients with iron overload.

      Explorative aims. Determine the correlation between the novel biomarkers hepcidin and NTBI,
      and ferritin and transferrin saturation in serum; and liver iron concentration (LIC), heart
      iron concentration (HIC), and bone marrow iron.

      Assess the effect of iron overload and iron depletion with either deferasirox or venesection,
      on the concentration of trace metals in serum and urine in HC and MDS patients.

      Study the influence of iron overload and iron depletion with either deferasirox or
      venesection, on intracellular signal transduction in blood cells isolated from HC and MDS
      patients.

      Study the influence of iron overload and iron depletion with either deferasirox or
      venesection on oxidative damage of DNA (examined in urine), and the antioxidant status in red
      blood cells isolated from HC and MDS patients.

      Establish reference values for the investigational serum and urine tests in healthy control
      subjects.

      Rationale of the study. The major rationale of the study is related to the need to assess the
      potential use of deferasirox to treat HC- and MDS-patients with iron overload. However,
      several "learning objectives" are included: the impact of iron overload and iron depleting
      treatment on NTBI, hepcidin, markers of oxidative stress, trace metals and intracellular
      signal transduction molecules.

      Although venesection is a safe and effective means of depleting iron in HC patients, it may
      suppress hepcidin and thus increase iron absorption, particularly at the end of a long
      treatment period. Also, some HC patients not only feel the cumbersome impact of frequent
      phlebotomies in daily life, but also experience troublesome side effects.

      The subjective perception of venesection side effects was recently communicated in a survey
      study among 210 HC patients across the United States and some european countries. Of these,
      52% of patients undergoing weekly venesections and 37% of the patients in the maintenance
      phase reported side effects "always" or "most of the time", and 16% would "definitely" or
      "probably" refuse phlebotomy if they were offered an alternative treatment. Therefore,
      investigation of the effect of chelator as a potential alternative therapy in HC is
      warranted. Chelation therapy may not only remove excess iron from the body, but may also
      counteract formation of reactive, free radicals.

      In MDS patients transfusion dependency worsens the survival due to development of damaging
      iron overload. With every 500 ng/mL increase of s ferritin above the threshold, the risk of
      death increases by 30%.

      Traditionally, iron depletion therapy has been monitored by s-ferritin, which decreases as
      iron is progressively eliminated. However, s-ferritin is a non-specific parameter which is
      sensitive to acute phase reactions associated with inflammations, chronic diseases and tissue
      injury. Furthermore, s-ferritin does not offer information about the burden of free radical
      production stimulated by reactive iron. For this reason, one aim of this study will be to
      investigate whether new blood markers like NTBI and hepcidin, along with MRI assessment of
      LIC and HIC, will improve the diagnosis of iron overload and more accurately identify those
      patients who are at increased risk of iron induced damage and therefore will benefit from
      iron depletion therapy.

      Iron overload can weaken the cellular antioxidant defence and result in oxidative DNA-damage
      as the first step in carcinogenesis. Examination of the influence of iron overload and iron
      depletion with either deferasirox or venesection on oxidative damage of DNA, and on the
      antioxidant status in red blood cells will be performed.

      Increased knowledge of how intracellular signal transduction is influenced by cellular iron
      and use of deferasirox may provide new insights into the molecular pathogenesis of iron
      overload. This will be examined in single leukocyte cell flowcytometry assays of the
      following intracelluar signal parameters: stress sensor p53, mTOR and NFkB.

      Finally, little is known about how iron overload interacts with the metabolism of other trace
      metals. The concentration of a broad spectrum of trace metals in serum (S) and urine (U) will
      be monitored throughout the study period by Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry
      (ICP-MS) (28) : boron (S,U), barium (S,U), beryllium (S,U), cadmium (S,U), cobalt (S,U),
      cesium (S,U), copper (S,U), mercury (U), lithium (U), manganese (S), molybdenum (S), nickel
      (S,U), lead (S,U), antimony (S,U), selenium (S,U), tin (S,U), strontium (S,U), thallium
      (S,U), tungsten (S), yttrium (S,U), zinc (S,U).

      The tolerability of deferasirox will also be assessed throughout the study, either as sole
      treatment in MDS patients or compared to venesection in HC patients.

      Healthy volunteers are used solely as controls to determine the normal blood concentration of
      the biomarkers and tests which will be performed in the patients. The controls will not be
      treated.

      Previous clinical trials in HC and MDS. Deferasirox has been studied in a variety of diseases
      with transfusional iron overload, particularly in thalassemia. It has a favorable profile
      with respect to efficacy, safety and tolerability. However, controlled clinical studies with
      deferasirox in HC and MDS are limited.

      The study by Phatak et al (2010) was the first clinical trial to demonstrate the safety and
      efficacy of deferasirox in patients with C282Y-homzygot hemochromatosis. They showed that
      serum ferritin levels were reduced similarly in two cohorts given respectively 10 mg/kg/day
      and 15 mg/kg/day of deferasirox. Since the dose of 15 mg/kg/day caused a higher frequency of
      adverse events (AEs), they recommended a staring dose of 10 mg/kg/day to be most appropriate
      in HC- patients. The most important AEs were associated with an increase in serum creatinine
      and liver enzymes. The study was limited by pretreatment of some patients with phlebotomy
      prior to the deferasirox study; in addition, many of the patients had only mild iron
      overload. For this reason, we see no argument to use a higher dose in our study, and
      therefore we choose a starting deferasirox dose of 10 mg/kg/day in HC- patients.

      In a recent study, 24 heavily transfused MDS patients were enrolled to receive 52 weeks of
      deferasirox therapy. Deferasirox was well tolerated and effectively reduced LIC, labile
      plasma iron and s-ferritin in patients completing 24 to 52 weeks of therapy, despite ongoing
      receipt of red blood cell transfusions. In addition to reducing long-term toxicity of iron
      overload, chelation therapy has shown beneficial effects on hematopoiesis in a small
      proportion of MDS patients. One ongoing study comparing deferasirox with placebo was found in
      Cochrane search carried out in June 2010.

      Pharmacokinetics of deferasirox. Deferasirox (Exjade®) is a bivalent iron chelator which is
      taken orally as a tablet, once per day. It is readily absorbed and reaches peak concentration
      in blood after 1 to 2 hours. The half-life is 12 to 17 hours, and effective levels of active
      chelator are maintained in the blood for more than 24 hours. The drug is eliminated via the
      hepatobiliary system. The dose varies from 10 mg/kg/day in patients with mild iron overload
      to 30 mg/kg/day in patients with overt iron toxicity.

      Adverse events (AEs) of deferasirox. The most frequent adverse clinical events are
      gastrointestinal disturbances and skin rash. The most frequent laboratory side effects are
      mild increase in serum creatinine and liver transaminases. The adverse events have for the
      most part been reported in patients with transfusional iron overload. In HC patients the data
      are more scarce due to the very few studies that have been performed in this group. Other
      common AEs include headache, constipation, abdominal distension, dyspepsia, pruritus, and
      proteinuria. Less common AEs include anxiety, sleep disorder, dizziness, early cataract,
      maculopathy, hearing loss, pharyngolaryngeal pain, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, gastric
      ulcer, duodenal ulcer, gastritis, oesophagitis, hepatitis, cholelithiasis, pigmentation
      disorder, renal tubulopathy, glycosuria, pyrexia, edema, and fatigue.

      Adverse reactions reported during post-marketing experience include pancytopenia,
      hypersensitivity reaction, hepatic failure, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, urticaria, erythema
      multiforme, alopecia, acute renal failure, and tubulointerstitial nephritis, gallstones and
      related biliary disorders, elevations of liver transaminases, and hepatic failure. Any such
      adverse events will be recorded in the subject's Case Report Form (CRF).

      Study design.

      The study incorporates 4 arms, which will recruit in parallel:

      Arm 1: (open, randomized, comparative) will consist of 10 patients with confirmed HC, who
      will be randomized to receive standard treatment with venesection (withdrawal of 450 mL blood
      every 8 to 10 days).

      Arm 2: (open, randomized, comparative) will consist of 10 patients with confirmed HC, who
      will be randomized to receive investigational treatment with deferasirox (10 mg/kg orally
      given once daily) for a period of 12 months;

      Arm 3: (open, non-comparative) will consist of 20 patients with confirmed MDS, all of whom
      will receive investigational treatment with deferasirox (initially 10 mg/kg orally given once
      daily, can be increased to max 40 mg/kg) for a period of 12 months;

      Arm 4: will consist of 10 healthy volunteers who will undergo the same screening assessments
      (i.e. with respect to relevant exclusion criteria) and will act as non-treated normal
      controls for comparison of investigational blood tests.

      The study will be non-blinded. Subjects and investigators will be aware of their subject and
      treatment arm.

      Subjects will undergo assessments at screening (within 1-14 days prior to baseline), and for
      patients at baseline Day 0, and at 2,4,6,8 weeks, and thereafter monthly until 12 months, and
      at follow up 4-6 weeks after treatment has been completed. Healthy controls will be examined
      at screening, 2,6 and 12 months. Study-specific assessments will include physical
      examinations/vital signs, sampling of blood, urine, and for patients only: bone marrow and
      MRI to assess the effect of iron overload and iron reduction treatment on the following:

        -  Conventional tests to indicate iron overload: ferritin and transferrin saturation in
           serum; LIC and HIC, bone marrow iron content using microscopy.

        -  Hepcidin concentration in serum;

        -  NTBI concentration in serum;

        -  Intracellular signal transduction parameters: Analysis of the stress sensor p53, NFkB,
           and mTOR in leukocytes from peripheral blood;

        -  Trace metal concentrations in serum and urine;

        -  Antioxidant capability in blood hemolysate: Cu,Zn-SOD;

        -  Free radical damage to DNA and RNA: 8-oxodG concentration in urine;

        -  For MDS patients: number of transfusions;

        -  For HC and MDS patients: number of hospitalizations and overall survival;

        -  Safety and tolerability.

      For patients and controls, samples of peripheral blood will be taken pre-dose, and at 24
      hours after dosing, for assessment of stress sensor p53, NFkB, and mTOR.

      Interim assessments. Routine blood and urine tests will be performed for patients at 2,4,6,8
      weeks, and thereafter monthly until 12 months and at follow up 4-6 weeks after end of
      treatment for monitoring the disease, for safety reasons, and to obtain data for comparison
      traditional biomarkers with the new investigational biomarkers hepcidin and NTBI.

      Volunteers will undergo all safety assessments plus investigational blood and urine tests.
      They will not undergo MRI, bone marrow examinations, registrations of transfusions, or active
      treatment with deferasirox or venesection.

      Patients with HC or MDS will undergo a follow-up assessment 4 to 6 weeks after last dose. At
      this visit, all safety assessments and investigational blood and urine tests, including a
      pregnancy test, will be repeated, but MRI and bone marrow examination will not be performed.
      Volunteer controls will not attend for this visit.

      This is an exploratory study with no sample size calculation and no minimum enrollment
      requirement. It is anticipated that a maximum of 40 patients will be enrolled in order to
      obtain at least 30 patients fulfilling the study criteria; 10 volunteers will also be
      enrolled.
    
  