
    
      Rationale:

      Phantom limb pain following amputation is a major clinical problem. Current evidence how to
      best prevent phantom limb pain is equivocal because previous trials have included small
      numbers of patients, and tested heterogeneous patient collectives. There is some evidence
      that optimized perioperative pain control is effective in preventing phantom limb pain, but
      the potential added role of regional anesthesia has not been defined.

      Objective:

      The Aim of this study is to test the hypothesis that sciatic nerve block decreases the point
      prevalence of phantom limb pain 12 months after transtibial amputation for peripheral
      vascular disease compared to optimized intravenous pain therapy.

      Study design:

      Randomized, prospective, double-blind (patient, physician, statistician) clinical trial. All
      patients will receive standard optimized intravenous anesthesia and analgesia (opiate
      patient-controlled analgesia (PCA), intravenous ketamine). Patients in the intervention group
      will receive additional infusion of local anesthetic via a sciatic nerve catheter placed
      under ultrasound guidance.

      Study population:

      Patients undergoing elective transtibial amputation for peripheral vascular disease at one of
      the participating centres, ASA status II to IV.

      Intervention:

      Infusion of local anesthetic via sciatic nerve catheter placed under ultrasound guidance.

      Main study parameter/endpoint:

      Point prevalence of chronic phantom limb pain after 12 months.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      All patients, regardless of group allocation, will receive optimalized intravenous pain
      treatment. The aim of this study is to assess whether additional regional anesthesia
      (ultrasound-guided sciatic nerve block) can decrease the incidence of phantom limb pain. The
      working hypothesis is that patients undergoing intervention treatment (optimized intravenous
      therapy plus nerve block) are expected to feature a decreased incidence of phantom limb pain
      at 12 months, in addition to improved perioperative analgesia.

      The administration of both optimalized intravenous pain treatment and peripheral nerve
      blockade is routine clinical practice for many procedures on the lower leg, including
      amputation. The risk of this intervention can be described as very low. In control patients,
      the sciatic catheter will be used for rescue pain treatment.
    
  