
    
      In chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients, disease- and age- related changes in body
      composition, as well as the increased prevalence of obesity, determine a combination of
      excess weight and reduced muscle mass or strength, recently defined as sarcopenic obesity.
      The prevalence of sarcopenic obesity increase with lower eGFR, and previous studies showed
      that up to 18.3% stage 4 CKD patients and 56% prevalent hemodialysis patient to be with
      sarcopenic obesity. Sarcopenic obesity was negatively correlated with physical performance
      and quality of life. In the investigator's previous study, nondialysis-dependent CKD patients
      with normal body mass index (BMI) but excess body fat had the highest risk of death compared
      to those with BMI above the cutoff for obesity and excess body fat during a follow up of 5
      years. These patients with excess body fat but lower lean tissue mass was what so called
      "sarcopenic obesity" group.

      Hemodialysis therapy per se has been shown to be a catabolic process. Pupim et al. showed
      that in eight malnourished patients undergoing hemodialysis, highly positive whole-body net
      protein balance during hemodialysis and improvement of skeletal muscle protein homeostasis
      was achieved with an intradialytic oral nutritional supplement (ONS) compared to the control,
      and ONS during hemodialysis resulted in persistent anabolic benefits for muscle protein
      metabolism in the posthemodialysis phase. In the past, randomized trials of nutritional
      supplement intervention in dialysis patients were focused on populations with protein energy
      wasting, and most studies used change in serum albumin concentration as the surrogate marker.
      Studies focused on dialysis patients with sarcopenic obesity are sparse. Therefore, the
      investigators hypothesize that ONS could improve the nutritional status among dialysis
      patients with sarcopenic obesity, especially increase in lean tissue, and improve clinical
      outcomes. This pilot/feasibility study is aimed to conduct a randomised controlled pilot
      trial of the feasibility of undertaking a study to assess the effect of ONS on the
      nutritional status of haemodialysis patients with sarcopenic obesity and will lead to a more
      robust definitive trial in the future.
    
  