
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the phase II dose and assess the toxicity of bendamustine hydrochloride and
           erlotinib hydrochloride in patients with triple-receptor (estrogen receptor,
           progesterone receptor, and HER-2)-negative, stage IIIB, IIIC, or IV breast cancer.
           (Phase I)

        -  To determine the efficacy of this regimen in these patients. (Phase II)

      Secondary (Correlative)

        -  To assess the correlation between tumor EGFR expression and EGFR gene amplification and
           treatment efficacy and toxicity.

        -  To assess for differences in treatment efficacy between basal-like and non-basal-like
           cancers.

        -  To assess for differences in treatment efficacy between tumors with and without
           expression of DNA damage-response (DDR) checkpoint proteins.

        -  To assess for differences in the activation state of DDR checkpoint proteins based on
           breast cancer subtype.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.

      Patients receive bendamustine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1-2 and oral erlotinib
      hydrochloride once daily on days 5-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for at least 6 courses
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients with no evidence of disease progression may continue with daily single-agent oral
      erlotinib hydrochloride on days 1-28. Treatment continues every 28 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Breast cancer tissue blocks from prior procedures are obtained for correlative studies. After
      a tissue microarray (TMA) and a TMA map are prepared, TMA slides are used for hematoxylin and
      eosin (H&E) staining, FISH, and IHC.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years.
    
  