
    
      Complex craniofacial wounds (CCW) are those considered to be refractory to initial
      reconstructive and antibiotic treatment and may involve chronic infection, exposed hardware,
      irradiated local tissue, and soft tissue volume loss. They are a functional, aesthetic,
      quality-of-life, and economic burden and have many aetiologies and impact patients of all
      ages from diverse socio-economic and geographical backgrounds. The present study will
      evaluate if free dermal fat autografts (DFA) can serve as a less involved, more dynamic
      approach than the standard of microvascular flaps to facilitate healing and reconstruction
      for CCW. A previous 33-year retrospective study of free DFA for CCW indicated recipient graft
      sites healed and remained volume-stable in most patients. To evaluate the long-term viability
      of this modality, clinical and histological assessments of free DFA recipient and undisturbed
      tissue at donor sites will be carried out in patients from the original cohort. In the
      present study, it will be first determined if free DFA continues to provide stable long-term
      outcomes for prevention of infection and hardware exposure and stable volume and contour
      results. Then, it will be determined if free DFA recipient sites retain normal, expected
      histology and immune cells (dermal lymphocytes, macrophages, and mast cells). Finally, it
      will be evaluated if the long-term free DFA recipient site tissues are significantly
      different from undisturbed tissue at donor sites with respect to the presence of adipose
      tissue and populations of immune cells. The present study will be the first to (1) evaluate
      the long-term fate of free DFA recipient sites in this complex craniofacial wounds, (2)
      determine the presence of immune cells within free DFA recipient sites, and (3) compare the
      long-term differences of free DFA recipient and undisturbed tissue at donor sites. Outcomes
      from this project will serve as the basis of understanding of free DFA survival and function
      in treating CCW and provide an investigative framework for more rigorous follow-up studies to
      define indications and refine techniques for free DFA use in this context and more generally.
    
  