
    
      METHODOLOGY

      Study setting:

      The study will be conducted in two hospitals, which are located in two different major cities
      in Finland.

      Study design:

      This is a nonrandomized, pre-post quasi-experimental study. Participants in this study will
      participate in cultural competence education. Participants will self-assess their level of
      competence in mentoring in general along with their cultural competence in mentoring. There
      will be three assessment time points: at baseline (before education, T0), immediately after
      the education (T1), and 6 months after the education (T2). The control group will receive
      standard mentoring education that does not contain topics specific to cultural competence or
      the mentoring of students from diverse backgrounds. The same self-assessment instrument and
      assessment time points will be used for both the intervention and control groups.

      Study size:

      A total of 60 mentors will be allocated to the intervention group and 60 mentors to the
      control group.

      Study duration:

      The educational intervention (cultural competence education) will be conducted for a duration
      of 9 months (T0, T1, T2). The education will be offered twice (fall 2020, spring 2021), thus
      the total duration of the study (from date study open for recruitment to final data
      collection) will be a total of 16 months.

      Sampling of participants

      Recruitment:

      Participants in the intervention group who attend cultural competence education and
      participants who belong to the control group will be recruited into this study via internal
      recruitment methods implemented by clinical coordinators employed at the participating
      hospitals.

      Intervention:

      Cultural competence education for participants in the intervention group comprises of
      completion of an online learning module and participation in an eight-hour training day. The
      educational content includes various topics related to cultural and linguistic diversity and
      cultural competence in mentoring.

      Control:

      Participants in the control group will not receive the educational intervention but will
      participate in standard mentoring education offered at the participating university hospital.
      This education is offered in an online learning environment and participants can complete the
      education at their own pace. The educational content focuses on general issues related to
      mentoring and does not contain topics specific to cultural competence in mentoring.

      Sample size

      A power analysis has been calculated for an effect size according to Cohen's d, two
      tail-test, significance at p<0.05, power of 80% (1- Beta err prob). The estimated sample size
      was 60 participants per group after accounting for significance level of 0.05%, power of 80%
      and 50% attrition.

      INSTRUMENTS AND DATA COLLECTION

      Intervention: Cultural competence education

      Questionnaire: Mentors' competence in mentoring will be measured using the psychometrically
      validated self-assessment Mentors' Competence Instrument (MCI). A newly developed Mentors'
      Cultural Competence Instrument (MCCI) will be used to measure mentors' cultural competence.
      This instrument has been administered and pilot tested by 12 mentors prior to implementation
      of the intervention.

      Finnish language versions of the questionnaire will be administered containing the following
      sections:

        1. Sociodemographic data:

             -  Sex

             -  Age

             -  Educational background

             -  Place of work

             -  Current position

             -  Work experience

             -  Name of work organization

             -  Current work unit

             -  Time when last mentored a student

             -  Time used for reflective discussion with student

             -  Previous participation in mentoring education

             -  Experience mentoring international students

             -  How often international students are mentored

        2. Competence in mentoring using Mentors' Competence Instrument which contains 43 items
           divided into 7 sections

             -  Mentoring practices between the student and mentor

             -  Mentor's characteristics

             -  Mentor's motivation

             -  Goal-oriented mentoring

             -  Reflection during mentoring

             -  Student-centered evaluation

             -  Constructive feedback

        3. Mentors' cultural competence using Mentors' Cultural Competence Instrument which
           contains 21 items covering the following topics

             -  Cultural sensitivity and awareness

             -  Cultural knowledge

             -  Intercultural communication and interaction

             -  Cultural skills and safety

      DATA COLLECTION

      Intervention group

        1. Baseline questionnaire (T0): Paper-based questionnaires will be administered to
           participants in the intervention group on the day of study recruitment before being
           given details on how to complete the cultural competence education.

        2. Post course questionnaire (T1): Paper-based questionnaires will be administered to
           participants in the intervention group immediately following completion of the cultural
           competence education.

           a. Participants will be asked to provide their evaluation of the education in addition
           to the questionnaire described above. The evaluation contains the following questions:

             -  How satisfied were you with the mentoring education?

             -  Did the mentoring education have an impact on your ability to mentor students?

             -  Did the mentoring education have an impact on your willingness to mentor students?

             -  Open comment section for comments or concerns regarding the mentoring education

        3. 6-month follow up questionnaire (T2): Paper-based questionnaires including will be sent
           to participants via post to participants' home addresses.

      Control group

        1. Baseline questionnaire (T0): Web-based questionnaires will be administered to
           participants in the control group on the first day of standard online mentoring
           education.

        2. Post course questionnaire (T1): Web-based questionnaires will be administered to
           participants in the control group on the last day of standard online mentoring
           education.

        3. 6-month follow up questionnaire (T2): Web-based questionnaires will be sent to
           participants via email six months following completion of the standard online mentoring
           education.

      ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS This study complies with the standards and guidelines of the
      responsible conduct of research. The necessary research permissions from the participating
      hospitals have been obtained prior to data collection and implementation of the intervention.
      In this study, formal approval from an ethics committee is not required. Participation is
      voluntary and participants will be informed of the purpose of the study and their right to
      withdraw from the study. Participants' confidentiality and anonymity will be protected and
      research data will be secured according to current standards.

      Data analysis Data will be analyzed using IBM Social Package for Social Science (SPSS,
      version 26). Data will be analyzed using descriptive statistics, a Wilcoxon Signed-Rank Test
      and a two-way ANOVA test. In this study, two-tailed testing will be used and the significance
      level will be set at a p-value <0.05.
    
  