
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Cigarette smoking poses a serious but preventable health risk. Behavioral smoking cessation
      programs have been shown to help individuals quit smoking. However, concerns about
      post-cessation weight gain have been reported as a significant barrier to quitting for many
      smokers. Recently, sibutramine, a new serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor drug,
      has received FDA approval to help people lose weight. Since sibutramine affects
      neurotransmitters that are important in regulating body weight, it is reasonable to
      hypothesize that it may decrease post-cessation weight gain in overweight and obese smokers
      who quit smoking. To date, there have been no studies that compare sibutramine to a placebo,
      as a way to reduce post-cessation weight gain among overweight and obese smokers who take
      part in a behavioral smoking cessation program. Therefore, whether sibutramine is effective
      at reducing post-cessation weight gain in these smokers is unknown. Further, given the
      neuropharmacologic effects of sibutramine, it is reasonable to speculate that this medication
      could also be effective in helping individuals quit smoking both initially and in the long
      term. It is possible that the use of sibutramine, as compared to placebo, may result in a
      decrease in post-cessation weight gain in overweight and obese individuals who quit smoking.
      The use of sibutramine may also result in an increase in smoking cessation rates.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This study tests the hypothesis that the use of sibutramine, as compared to placebo, will
      result in a decrease in post-cessation weight gain in overweight and obese individuals who
      quit smoking, and result in an increase in smoking cessation rates. Participants will be
      randomly assigned to one of the following two groups: 1) sibutramine plus a behavioral
      smoking cessation program; or 2) placebo sibutramine plus a behavioral smoking cessation
      program. Assessments will include post-cessation weight change and smoking cessation rates
      measured during the study and 9 months following the end of the study.
    
  