
    
      This study will be the first to develop and use a collaborative pharmacy practice agreement
      (CPA) for medication assisted treatment (MAT) intended for statewide application. This will
      also be the first study to use a randomized controlled trial design to test the multisite
      implementation of known effective interventions to treat opioid use disorder and prevent
      fatal opioid overdose (treatment with buprenorphine and natlrexone) in a pharmacy setting.
      Understanding how this model can improve engagement in care within innovative systems of MAT
      delivery like the Rhode Island Centers of Excellence in MAT model as well as the more
      traditional office based opioid therapy (OBOT) arrangement, and for patients with shorter and
      longer time on stabilized MAT doses advances the science of addiction health services.

      This study presents an opportunity to compare clinical outcomes of patients randomized to
      receive the same medications but in different settings that are equipped with differing
      levels of counseling expectations and access to wrap-around services. In this way, the trial
      helps to inform whether-and for whom--the limited support services in the pharmacy are
      sufficient to engage and retain patients in MAT, or if ready access to comprehensive services
      are necessary. Approximately 86% of Americans live within 5 miles of a pharmacy, making
      pharmacists the most accessible health care professionals. This model could redefine the role
      of the pharmacy.

      The initial phase of the study (Phase 1) involves preparation for and conduct of a pilot
      study of the pharmacy MAT care model.

      The aims of the first study phase (R21 grant) are:

        -  Aim 1: Develop a pharmacy CPA for the management of opioid use disorder using
           buprenorphine and naltrexone.

        -  Aim 2: For patient inmates maintained at the Rhode Island Department of Corrections,
           assess the feasibility and timing of randomization and transfer to a CPA pharmacy
           providing MAT post-release. This targeted assessment will inform the R33 design.

        -  Aim 3: Pilot test the pharmacy MAT model with up to 12 patients, assessing feasibility
           of medication dispensing, administration, and monitoring in the pharmacy, and
           determining patient acceptability of this model.
    
  