
    
      This is an open-label (no placebo) study to see if the addition of Xyrem to a subject's PTSD
      medication regimen will be tolerated and possibly improve insomnia. Subjects will currently
      be taking at least a single psychotropic agent for the treatment of PTSD, (an SSRI). Dosing
      will be stable for at least 4 weeks and subjects will need to report continued insomnia
      despite treatment. They must also have failed at least two insomnia augmentations from
      separate drugs classes (benzodiazepine (temezapam, zolpidem, ect.), antihistime (quetiapine,
      mirtazapine, trazadone, etc.), dopamine antagonist (olanzapine, quetiapine, aripiprazole,
      etc.) to qualify for refractory insomnia.

      Subjects will complete consenting process and attend a screening visit where they will be
      given a MINI psychiatric diagnostic evaluation to confirm PTSD, be given a Hamilton Anxiety,
      a Hospital Anxiety & Depression Scale, PCL-C, Fatigue Severity Scale, Epworth Sleepiness
      Scale, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Inventory, SF-12, and sleep diary evaluation to delineate
      current anxiety levels (secondary measure). Subjects will have to offer consent for the study
      team to contact their primary providers and retrieve all past and present records to show
      refractory history and lack of substance abuse. Subjects will undergo a brief physical exam
      and bloodwork and a sleep EEG will be ordered. Furthermore, a urine drug screen will be used
      to screen for current misuse. If subjects are taking sleeping agents, they will be
      appropriately washed out (tapered per cusual clinical practice and then drug free 5 times the
      drug's half life) prior to sleep EEG and prior to Xyrem start. In clinical practice, Xyrem
      use does not warrant blood monitoring, EEGs or EKGs per the FDA.

      Assuming subject meets eligibility, they will start Xyrem per cataplexy dosing guidelines.
      Prior to titration, a 1-2 week washout of any sleeping agent will occur. Titration will then
      start with 2.25g at bedtime and then again 4 hours later. This drug may be flexibly increased
      to 4.5g (x2 doses) based upon tolerability and effectiveness. We will escalate dose if drug
      is toleratedbut without efficacy. Dosing will be increased if subjective sleep
      quantity/quality is still reported to be unchanged or if our rating scales indicate minimal
      to no change.

      After screening visit 1 (eligibility, medical safety determination, washout, sleep EEG)
      subjects will return for baseline Visit 2 and start Xyrem.

      They will be seen for Visit 3 after 7 days of treatment for rating scales and possible dose
      escalation to 6g/d.

      They will be seen for Visit 4 after 14 days of treatment for rating scales and possible dose
      escalation to 7.5g/d.

      They will be seen for Visit 5 after 21 days of treatment for rating scales and possible dose
      escalation to 9g/d.

      They will be seen for Visit 6/termination after 28 days of treatment for rating scales,
      physical exam, lab work, sleep EEG.

      Subjects will be called for final safety follow up one week later and 12 weeks later.

      Again, liaison with the subject's provider will occur to discuss continuance of Xyrem. If
      provider agrees, then long term monitoring will be in the jurisdiction of this provider. If
      agreement is to NOT continue Xyrem, patient will be tapered or offered help in finding a
      clinician comfortable with the drug. There is no major issue in stopping this drug from a
      withdrawal point of view as it does not build up in the system over time in regards to
      dependence when used at bed time only. Insomnia will likely return and patient would go back
      to their usual treatment if desired and most likely their original level of insomnia.

      Safety Measures The overall safety and tolerability of Xyrem will be assessed throughout the
      study by adverse event recording, clinical laboratory test results and physical exams. A
      Safety monitoring board will consist of the PI and two psychiatry attendings from University
      Hospital
    
  