
    
      For the studies, participants will be recruited via paper and electronic flyers on campus and
      in the surrounding communities. Interested participants will be screened via phone, email
      and/or web form to assess eligibility according to criteria listed elsewhere. Should
      participants qualify, they will be invited to complete a single laboratory session in the
      PI's psychophysiology lab.

      Once arriving at the laboratory, participants will complete the consent process, in which a
      research assistant trained in ethical principles regarding human subjects research will
      answer any questions about the consent form and verbally reinforce the key rights of the
      participants outlined there. Once both parties are satisfied, consent forms will be signed.

      Participants will sit with a trained research assistant/experimenter who will give an
      overview of the entire session, and then begin training for the cognitive reappraisal task.
      This training takes 10-15 minutes. During the training, the experimenter will offer several
      possible reappraisals of negative images and allow the participants to offer their own as
      well, providing encouragement and feedback. During this training, the experimenter will also
      go over the method of encouragement and feedback. During this training, the experimenter will
      also go over the method of responding (using the VR equipment). Participants will be reminded
      during training that they may stop the experiment at any point if the pictures are too
      upsetting.

      Immediately following task training, participants will make a general mood rating using the
      PANAS. Then, they will be randomly assigned to a positive or neutral mood induction, to be
      delivered by 10 minutes exploring a positive (beach scene) or neutral (office scene) VR
      environment using a headset with integrated audio. After the VR exploration, participants
      will complete the reappraisal task. The task will take just under 20 minutes.
    
  