
    
      The study "Integrated Community-Clinical Linkage Model to Promote Weight Loss among South
      Asians with Pre-Diabetes" aims to test the effectiveness and assess the implementation
      process of an integrated intervention to support weight loss for South Asian patients at-risk
      for type-2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) in primary care settings. The integrated intervention
      involves:

        1. An electronic health record (EHR) intervention for primary care providers (PCPs)
           utilizing embedded alerts to increase screening and identification of South Asian
           patients at-risk for T2DM with BMI >23 kg/m2 and registries to track outcomes: and

        2. Registry-driven community health worker (CHW)-led health coaching for patients. Using a
           stepped-wedge design, we will implement the study in 25 New York City PCP sites
           enrolling 2,840 South Asian patients at- risk for T2DM.

        3. Provider Surveys (n=40) to capture data on satisfaction with workflow before and after
           intervention, information sources for EHR-CHW initiatives before and after intervention,
           acceptability of and satisfaction with the integrated EHR-CHW intervention, and barriers
           and facilitators of point-of-care use of the tools.

        4. Key Informant Interviews (n=35) with physician champions at each site and/or
           administrator of each site, Health first representatives, and CHWs. At baseline, the
           interviews will be incorporated into the workflow analysis to assess current
           satisfaction and usage of EHR and health coaching. At follow-up, the interviews will
           assess barriers and facilitators to the implementation and adoption process of the
           integrated EHR-CHW intervention, fidelity to the interventions, and to solicit
           recommendations for the replication and scalability of the intervention to other sites
           and insurer organizations.
    
  