
    
      Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of different brain nuclei is evolving as an essential component
      of the treatment for multiple brain disorders. The subthalamic nucleus (STN) and globus
      pallidus have been used to treat advanced Parkinson's disease for a long time. The ventral
      intermediate nucleus of the thalamus is an effective target for treating essential tremor
      patients. STN and the internal segment of the globus pallidus are useful targets for treating
      dystonia. Aside from movement disorders DBS has demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of
      other conditions such as chronic pain, obsessive compulsive disorder, depression and
      epilepsy. For these illnesses the specific brain region targeted depends upon the illness and
      the patient's characteristics. As the indications for DBS increase in number, so grows the
      number of patients that may be helped by this treatment. Increasing numbers of patients are
      undergoing these procedures for various maladies at our center and at other locations
      throughout the nation.

      To achieve optimal clinical results and avoid side effects, the DBS electrode has to be
      implanted precisely within the targeted region. This was demonstrated elegantly for
      parkinsonian patients and the dorsolateral STN, but is likely to be the case for most DBS
      indications. To achieve this optimal electrode localization, many centers perform
      electrophysiological mapping of the target nuclei using microelectrode recording (MER). This
      way they can achieve precise localization of the electrode. During the mapping procedure,
      microelectrodes are passed through the target nuclei, and the electrical neuronal activity is
      observed and recorded. The surgical team can identify the precise location of the target
      nuclei and its borders according to the typical activity of its neurons.

      Dexmedetomidine, propofol and remifentanyl are often used in awake neurosurgical procedures.
      Dexmedetomidine provides sedation and amnesia with minimal respiratory depression, and
      improves perioperative hemodynamic stability in neurosurgical patients. Propofol and
      remifentanil have a much shorter duration of action, and thus allow rapid titration. Both
      these agents allow reliable and safe sedation for awake craniotomies. However, the effects of
      any of these three agents on the electrical activity, and whether they will allow safe
      sedation during DBS electrode implantation at different targets and in different clinical
      conditions is unclear.

      This study will compare the activity of neurons in several DBS targets before, during and
      after sedation with propofol, remifentanil and dexmedetomidine. The goal is to understand the
      effects of anesthetics on the neuronal activity in these targets, allowing the study team to
      choose the most appropriate sedation protocol to use during implantation of DBS electrodes in
      deep brain structures (bearing in mind that each structure may have a different optimal
      protocol).

      The primary aim is to document the effects of commonly used anesthetic drugs on the neuronal
      activity during MER in different brain structures that are used as targets for DBS
      implantation.

      The secondary aims is to Identifying effective sedation regimens for the different DBS
      targets; (2) Documenting the time course of the different drug's effect on the neuronal
      activity. Having this information will allow planning and performing sedation during the
      procedure prior to the MER without affecting the quality of the MER. This may prove useful in
      cases where no sedation regimen is completely devoid of effect on the MER; (3) Creating a
      database that includes the neuronal activity changes at multiple brain regions under the
      effect of different sedation drugs to enable further study of the effects of anesthetics on
      brain regions and the mechanisms underlying loss of consciousness.
    
  