
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      The primary objective of this study is to determine the brain regions responsible for the
      sense of volition and the associated sense of agency. Nerve blocks will be used to interfere
      with movement and/or sensory feedback from movement.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      Healthy subjects

      DESIGN:

      The initial studies will evaluate brain activity during the attempt to move different fingers
      after ulnar nerve block using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI),
      electroencephalography (EEG) and surface electromyography (EMG). Subjects will attempt to
      move their fifth finger, their second finger and the thumb. These fingers will also be moved
      by the experimenter as a passive condition. The paradigm will be done once without anesthesia
      and once after ulnar nerve block. For both fMRI, EEG and EMG, analysis will be done with
      single event design. As our primary outcome, we hypothesize that subtracting the activation
      associated with attempting to move a paralyzed and anesthetized 5th finger, as well as the
      activation associated with the passive movement of the 5th finger without anesthesia, from
      that of normal movement of the same finger (without anesthesia), will show activation
      remaining in the inferior parietal lobule, which may be the area responsible for the feeling
      of agency. The activation associated with the attempt to move second finger, which will be
      paralyzed but only partially anesthetized, will be a secondary outcome of this study, as will
      other subtractions of activation associated with the three fingers.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      fMRI: Comparison of the BOLD signal in different brain regions with the different finger
      movements or attempted finger movements. The primary outcome measure is the difference in
      BOLD activation in the inferior parietal lobule between that associated with the attempt to
      move the 5th finger after anesthesia compared to the activation associated with moving the
      5th finger actively minus the 5th finger being moved passively (with no anesthesia).
      Restated, from the trial with no anesthesia, the activation of active 5th finger movement
      (which reflects will (W), motor program (P), sensory feedback (S) and agency (A)) minus
      passive 5th finger movement (which reflects S only) will be compared to the activation from
      the attempt to move the 5th finger after ulnar block (which reflects W and P only). By
      comparing (W+P+S+A minus S) to (W+P) in the region of the inferior parietal lobule, we expect
      to see the activation associated with A, agency.

      EEG/EMG: Movement-related cortical potentials will be compared with the different finger
      movements, using EMG to mark the onset of movement; these will be secondary outcomes.
    
  