
    
      Although previous studies have made advances towards applying ultrasound guidance to the
      performance of paravertebral blocks (PVB), a technique combining both safety and technical
      ease remains elusive. The ideal technique (1) permits continuous visualization of the entire
      needle shaft and tip, (2) avoids aiming the needle tip and injectate directly toward the
      neuraxis or lung, and (3) is easy to perform. Visualization of all structures by ultrasound
      is essential to minimize the risk of vascular puncture, nerve root or spinal cord injury, and
      pneumothorax. Failure to consistently and quickly identify the transverse process and pleura,
      as occurs when using older techniques, results in several needle redirections, causing pain
      and discomfort to patients, and increases the potential risk of pneumothorax. The technical
      difficulty of applying previously-described US-guided techniques takes an inordinate amount
      of time and is clinically less practical within a busy surgical practice.

      In the current study, the investigators describe a novel, modified approach to real-time
      ultrasound-guided single shot paravertebral blockade, the proximal intercostal block (PICB),
      which utilizes a sagittal paramedian US probe placement to identify the intercostal space and
      PVS. In this method, instead of placing the probe at a fixed traditional distance of 2.5 cm
      from the spinous processes, the probe is moved laterally to obtain a comprehensive image,
      with a clear view of the ribs, internal intercostal membrane, and the parietal pleura.

      The investigators propose that moving the probe laterally towards the proximal intercostal
      space allows clearer simultaneous visualization of both pleura and needle as it advances
      towards the PVS, while achieving comparable injectate spread and, ultimately, similar or
      better clinical results. Such improved visualization will reduce the number of needle passes,
      increase confidence in the user, decrease block placement time, and improve overall block
      success. This technique combines the advantages of more lateral approaches (better
      visualization of structures, in particular the pleura) with the advantage of the more medial
      approaches (in-plane, closer, and not directed at the neuraxis).
    
  