
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine overall and leukemia-free survival of patients with acute
      nonlymphocytic leukemia or myelodysplastic syndrome treated with busulfan and
      cyclophosphamide (low-risk patients) or cytarabine, busulfan, and cyclophosphamide (high-risk
      patients) followed by allogeneic or syngeneic bone marrow transplantation. II. Compare the
      therapeutic effects of these cytoreduction regimens with those reported in the literature for
      similar patients who undergo syngeneic or allogeneic marrow transplantation following
      cytoreduction that includes total-body irradiation. III. Determine the early and late toxic
      effects produced by these chemotherapy regimens in this patient population.

      OUTLINE: Low-risk patients (those in first complete remission (CR) who achieved CR with 1
      course of chemotherapy) are treated on Regimen A. High-risk patients (those in second or
      subsequent CR who required more than 1 course of chemotherapy to achieve first CR or those
      with myelodysplastic syndrome) are treated on Regimen B. All patients undergo diagnostic
      lumbar puncture prior to beginning therapy and fluid is examined for CNS disease. Patients
      receive methotrexate IT along with the tap. Prior to initiation of chemotherapy, patients
      with CNS disease present on diagnostic lumbar puncture receive methotrexate IT every 2-3 days
      until lumbar puncture shows no leukemia cells and then 1 additional dose. Cytoreductive
      chemotherapy begins 3 days after the last dose of methotrexate. Regimen A: Patients receive
      oral busulfan every 6 hours on days -7 to -4 for a total of 16 doses and cyclophosphamide IV
      over 2 hours on days -3 and -2. Allogeneic bone marrow is infused on day 0. Regimen B:
      Patients receive oral busulfan every 6 hours on days -9 to -6 for a total of 16 doses.
      Patients receive cytarabine IV over 1 hour every 12 hours on days -5 and -4 and
      cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on days -3 and -2. Allogeneic bone marrow is infused on day
      0. Graft versus host disease prophylaxis: Patients receive cyclosporine IV continuously on
      days -1 to 28 followed by a taper of oral cyclosporine until day 180. Patients receive
      methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, 6, and 11. CNS disease prophylaxis: Patients receive 5 more
      doses of methotrexate IT weekly beginning between days 50 and 70. In addition, patients with
      history of CNS disease receive 1 dose of methotrexate IT monthly for 1 year. Patients are
      followed frequently during the first 100 days, at 6 months, 1 year, and then annually
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients will be accrued for this study within 2.7 years.
    
  