
    
      The study is a double-blinded randomized placebo controlled multicentric trial. The trial is
      expected to be conducted from April to January 2021. The duration for each individual subject
      includes 7 days study treatment and 21±2 days of follow-up after the last study treatment
      administration time. Adult male and female patients with positive COVID-19 diagnosis and
      fulfilling the outlined eligibility criteria will be enrolled into the study. Trial
      population will consist of both genders. Gender distribution in the trial is supposed to
      reflect the distribution in the real patient's population, there will be no prior defined
      quantitative ratio between females and males.

      All consenting and eligible adult patients with virologically confirmed COVID-19 will be
      recruited and randomly and double-blindly (patient and investigators) allocated in a 1:1
      ratio to either IMP or placebo. Each patient will be given a first dose of 600mg IMP
      (hydroxychloroquine or placebo) at the day of inclusion at the study site. This amount
      corresponds to 3 capsules. From the 2nd day on, each patient will take 600mg once a day until
      day 7 (6 more doses of 600mg) at home and will document it in an online form or, when not
      possible, in a diary.

      IMP will be given to the patients orally. To mask the IMP versus placebo the original tables
      will be encapsulated in a film coated tablet. After this step IMP and placebo will not be
      distinguishable. Only the pharmacy and an independent party are aware of group allocation.

      Treatment phase:

      Day 1:

      After randomization and treatment allocation medical history, concomitant as well as previous
      (up to 2 weeks) medication and baseline characteristics of the patients will be captured and
      a physical examination will be performed. The patients will receive the full amount of study
      medication (drug or placebo) from a trained study nurse together with a diary. They will be
      instructed how and when to fill in the diary concerning drug intake, clinical signs and
      symptoms and, if applicable, any adverse events and changes in concomitant medication. The
      first assessment of clinical signs and symptoms and a throat swab including blood sample
      collection will be done under supervision of a study nurse. The patients will then take the
      first dose of the allocated treatment and document the intake in the diary. This will also
      take place under the supervision of a study nurse. Patients will then be discharged to home
      isolation.

      Day 2 to Day 7:

      On each of the following 6 days during home isolation the patients will take the study
      medication and document the intake and the clinical signs and symptoms in their online or
      paper diary. In case of any adverse events or changes in concomitant medication, the patients
      will document this in their diary as well. The patients will be asked to contact the
      investigator in case their clinical condition is getting worse. Home visits will be performed
      in case of clinically significant symptoms.

      Day 8 to Day 13:

      On each day, the patients are in home isolation and document the clinical signs and symptoms
      in their diary. In case of any adverse events or changes in concomitant medication, the
      patients will document this in their diary as well. The patients will be asked to contact the
      investigator in case their clinical condition is getting worse. As before, home visits will
      be performed when indicated.

      Day 14±1:

      Patients will go to the study site and bring their diary and any unused study medication (if
      applicable). Physical examination will be performed. The patients will document their
      clinical signs and symptoms, a throat swab and a blood sample will be taken under the
      supervision of a study nurse. They will be motivated to continue their diary for the
      follow-up phase with instruction how to use it.

      Day 15 to Day 27:

      On each day, the patients will document the clinical signs and symptoms in their diary. In
      case of any adverse events or changes in concomitant medication, the patients will document
      this in their diary as well. The patients will be asked to contact the investigator in case
      their clinical condition is getting worse.

      Day 28±2:

      Patients will go to the study site and bring their follow-up diary. Physical examination will
      be performed. The patients will document their clinical signs and symptoms. Blood and throat
      swab will be taken in a subset of patients under the supervision of a study nurse. Their
      study participation will then be terminated.
    
  