
    
      This is a randomized, crossover study that includes two screening visits and two 4-week test
      periods separated by a 4-week washout. Subjects will consume two eggs/day (12 eggs/week
      consumed over 6 days per week, provided as breakfast foods such as burrito-type roll-up, egg
      sandwich and omelet) or non-egg based control foods (provided as breakfast foods such as
      English muffins, bagels, ready-to-eat cereal, and flavored muffins). The background diet will
      be a habitual diet. The nutritional profiles of the egg and control breakfast foods will be
      designed such that the energy from eggs will be substituted for a mixture of carbohydrate,
      protein and fat in the control foods.

      Study foods will be dispensed with instructions to consume the assigned breakfast food
      starting on day 1. Subjects will be instructed to consume the breakfast foods in their
      entirety each day, for the duration of the 28 day test period, and to record daily study food
      intake. Subjects will receive diet instruction on the incorporation of food substitutions
      during the test period to maintain habitual energy intake. Compliance will be assessed using
      the Daily Log intake and number of foods consumed based on returned foods.

      An intravenous glucose tolerance test (IVGTT) will be completed at baseline and the end of
      each treatment period for evaluation of insulin sensitivity. Blood will be collected for a
      fasting lipid profile (at all visits), glucose and insulin, high-sensitivity C-reactive
      protein (hs-CRP), vertical auto profile (VAP) for cholesterol carried by lipoprotein
      fractions (at baseline and end of each treatment period), with additional blood samples
      collected for storage and archived for possible future analysis of non-genetic indicators of
      metabolism. Assessments of vital signs and body weight, review of concomitant
      medication/supplement use and inclusion and exclusion criteria for relevant changes, and
      evaluation of adverse effects will be performed throughout the study.
    
  