
    
      During prolonged moderate-intensity exercise, skeletal muscle gradually increases its
      metabolic reliance on fat oxidation. In healthy subjects, this adaptation is enhanced by
      aerobic training and is associated with increased mitochondrial capacity in muscle. Whether
      or not subjects with type-2 diabetes (T2DM) respond to exercise training with similar
      metabolic and mitochondrial adaptations is yet to be demonstrated. Skeletal muscle
      mitochondrial oxidative capacity has been shown to be deficient in T2DM, suggesting a
      compromised physiologic reserve that might have implications for the metabolic plasticity of
      muscle during exercise.

      This study will test the hypothesis that fat oxidation rates during exercise are poorly
      responsive to training in T2DM, being correlated to the degree of muscle mitochondrial
      adaptation. The effects of a 16-week intervention (8 weeks of exercise intervention followed
      by 10-12 weeks of weight loss intervention) on systemic fat oxidation during exercise and
      mitochondrial capacity will be compared between 3 sedentary subject groups; 15 lean subjects,
      15 overweight subjects with T2DM, and 15 overweight subjects without diabetes. The first aim
      is to compare the degree of improvement in fat oxidation during submaximal exercise obtained
      by indirect calorimetry. The second and third aims are, respectively, to compare the degree
      of improvement in mitochondrial content and oxidative capacity in muscle biopsy samples. The
      fourth aim is to determine whether fat oxidation from non-plasma sources is increased by the
      intervention. The final aim is to examine whether improvements in fat oxidation predict
      degree off success in a subsequent weight loss program.

      The results of this study will be relevant to the understanding of the mechanisms by which
      exercise training confers metabolic improvements in T2DM. In addition, this study will
      address whether perturbations in mitochondria could explain why obese individuals with T2DM
      might have difficulty with fat disposal.
    
  