
    
      Opioids have traditionally been the cornerstone of acute postoperative pain management.
      Problematic side effects such as nausea, vomiting, ileus, urinary retention, excess sedation,
      and respiratory depression are significant disadvantages with the use of opioids. Alternative
      treatments have been sought. The concept of adding a nonsedating non opioid analgesic agent
      is appealing and has been validated by previous studies. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
      (NSAID) are nonsedating and combine analgesic and anti-inflammatory properties ideal for pain
      after surgery.

      Ketorolac is a potent intravenous nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), and a non
      selective cyclooxygenase inhibitor which mediates pain, inflammation and fever. It has been
      evaluated and used for treatment of moderate to severe pain including postoperative pain.
      Although intravenous route is not approved by Health Canada, its use is supported in medical
      literature and clinical practice.

      Previous studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of standard 30 mg intravenous ketorolac
      as an adjunct to opioids for postoperative pain relief. Standard parenteral dose recommended
      by manufacturer for healthy non elderly population is 30 mg based on a number clinical
      trials.

      Alberta Health Services (AHS) Pharmacy formulary has approved the intravenous use of
      ketorolac in the dosage range of 10-30 mg depending the patient's weight and medical
      comorbidities.

      NSAIDs, including ketorolac, have an analgesic ceiling effect in which higher doses do not
      provide any additional pain relief but may increase the likelihood of side effects. Single
      dose IM ketorolac have been studied in the past showing no difference in analgesia with the
      30 and 90 mg dose. Because of risk of drug toxicity and unwanted side effects, patients
      should be given the lowest effective ketorolac dose. Low dose ketorolac was studied in the
      adolescents undergoing spine surgery and showed that dose of 0.2mg/kg (11mg) provides
      supplemental analgesia postoperatively. However, there were no previous studies found on
      review of the literature using medline search that look at parallel comparison between
      intraoperative doses of ketorolac in terms of efficacy and safety profile.
    
  