
    
      Multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) is a chronic immune mediated neuropathy, which affects
      patients at a relatively young age and necessitates treatment with immunoglobulins (Ig) to
      improve and maintain muscle strength. Subcutaneous immunoglobulin (SCIG) therapy for MMN is
      equally efficacious to intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), may be self-administered and may
      induce fewer systemic adverse reactions. However, limited subcutaneous infusion volumes and
      reduced bioavailability, necessitate multiple infusion sites, more frequent treatment, and
      dose adjustment to achieve pharmacokinetic equivalence. This is an issue in particular in MMN
      where relatively high and frequent doses are necessary to maintain long-term improvement of
      muscle strength. Recombinant human hyaluronidase (rHuPH20) increases subcutaneous tissue
      permeability and facilitates dispersion and absorption, enabling subcutaneous administration
      of higher (monthly) doses of Ig. If treatment with HyQvia is at least equally effective and
      safe as compared with conventional Ig treatment, HyQvia could become the preferred treatment
      option for patients with MMN as it may have attractive benefits for patients by its mode of
      administration.

      Objective:

      The primary objective is to study the safety and tolerability of HyQvia in patients with

      MMN as compared with conventional intravenous, by documenting:

        -  Side effects by using a diary and a 10 cm visual analogue scale (VAS) scales to measure
           headache and nausea.

        -  Biochemical tests (Hemoglobin, haptoglobin, reticulocyte counts, lactate dehydrogenase,
           bilirubin, DAT) for haemolytic anemia 3-7 days after the last IVIG/SCIG infusion, during
           the enrolment period and 3-7 days after the last HyQvia infusion during the treatment
           period.

        -  Anti- hyaluronidase antibody titer before and after/during the HyQvia treatment.
           Together with the above mentioned test parameters in point 2, each time 30ml (equal to
           three tubes) will be drawn.

        -  Patient satisfaction of product on a 10 cm VAS scale.

      The secondary objective is to determine the efficacy of treatment with HyQvia in patients
      with MMN on:

        -  Disability, measured by Guy's Neurological Disability Scale and the self-evaluation
           scale;

        -  Function, measured by a nine hole peg test (9-HPT) and a 40 meter walk test (40-MWT);

        -  Muscle strength, measured by manual muscle testing and hand-held dynamometry.

      Study design:

      HyQvia in MMN will be studied in a prospective, uncontrolled single-blind open-label study of
      20 patients on IVIG with a duration of 48 to 60 weeks consisting of:

        1. Enrolment period of 12 to 24 weeks' duration in which patients will be treated according
           to their regular maintenance treatment regimen with IVIG, and visit the outpatient
           clinic every 6 weeks.

        2. Treatment period of 9 months' duration in which patients will be treated with HyQvia,
           using the same dose as during the enrolment period and visit the outpatient clinic at
           start and after 6, 12, 24 and 36 weeks.

        3. During the study, the dose may be increased if patients' functioning in daily life is
           worsening: the score of either the upper or lower limb score of the Guy's Neurological
           Disability Scale or the score of at least two motor activities on the self- evaluation
           scale have increased with 1 point or muscle strength on hand-held dynamometry has
           worsened by 50% or more in at least two clinically affected muscles or muscle groups. If
           patients do not improve on increased Ig dose during the treatment period the
           investigator can decide to stop maintenance treatment with HyQvia and restart the
           previous treatment after a period of minimal 3 months.

      HyQvia will be administrated in patients' routine setting -at home or in the hospital- with
      help of a nurse who is trained in using HyQvia. The patients are carefully monitored for
      potential adverse signs throughout the study period as well as anti- hyaluronidase antibody
      induction.

      Study population:

      From the outpatient clinic at the UMC Utrecht, 20 patients with MMN and currently under
      maintenance treatment with IVIG will be selected to study the safety, tolerability and
      efficacy of HyQvia.

      Intervention: 20 MMN patients, currently under maintenance treatment with IVIG, will be will
      be treated with HyQvia during a 9 months' period using the same dose as IVIG during the
      enrolment period.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      The following main study parameters will be used to assess tolerability and efficacy of
      HyQvia in MMN patients:

        -  Disability using the Guy's Neurologic Disability Scale and the self- evaluation scale.

        -  Function will be evaluated with a 9-HPT and a 40 MWT.

        -  Muscle strength will be measured with manual muscle testing using the Medical Research
           Council scale (MRC). Hand-held dynamometry will be performed in a selection of those
           muscles or muscle groups with an MRC score < 5 at any time. Grip strength of the hands
           will be measured using a hand-held dynamometer.

        -  Adverse events by using 10 cm long VAS analogue scales for headache and nausea as well
           as a diary, which will be provided to the patient at each visit in the clinic.

        -  IgM anti-GM1 ganglioside antibody titers at the enrolment visit and at the final visit.

      Biochemical tests for haemolytic anemia 3-7 days after the last IVIG/SCIG infusion during the
      enrolment period and 3-7 days after the last HyQvia infusion during the treatment period.

        -  Anti-hyaluronidase antibody titer 12 weeks before and at 3 and 9 months during HyQvia
           treatment. Together with the above mentioned test parameters in point 5, each time 30ml
           (equal to three tubes) will be drawn.

        -  Patient satisfaction of product on a 10 cm VAS scale.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      The risks are negligible and the burden minimal for patients enrolled in this study,
      assessing tolerability and efficacy of HyQvia in MMN patients. Patients participating in the
      study, will be assigned 6 grouped evaluations at fixed intervals: filling out a diary,
      evaluation scales, 3 blood samples, visit the outpatient clinic and are also evaluated with
      routine physical examinations. The two components of HyQvia, Subcutaneous immunoglobulin
      (SCIG) and recombinant human hyaluronidase (rHuPH20), are known to be safe and are already
      applied in primary and secondary immunodeficiency disorders, multiple myeloma and chronic
      lymphatic leukemia. SCIG therapy for MMN, is safe and equally efficacious to intravenous
      immunoglobulin (IVIG). Furthermore, it may be self-administered and may induce fewer systemic
      adverse reactions than IVIG. Recombinant human hyaluronidase (rHuPH20), increases
      subcutaneous tissue absorption and enables higher doses of subcutaneous administration Ig,
      which will decrease the number of infusion sites, resulting in less frequent treatment and
      dose adjustments.
    
  