
    
      Five randomized, controlled trials failed to demonstrate any benefit of a stainless-steel
      stent over angioplasty alone. The nitinol stent has proven superior primary patency than
      balloon angioplasty in superficial femoral artery lesions. Recent stent design improvements
      focus on decreasing stent fracture rates which can negatively impact patency rates by
      rearranging strut alignment. In vitro, Stefan et al. reported difference in stent design
      might play a major role in the appearance of stent strut fracture related to restenosis and
      reocclusion. Also, several retrospective or registry clinical studies reported stent
      fractures were associated with a higher risk of in-stent restenosis and reocclusion. In the
      literature, however, prospective, randomized, controlled, clinical trial for comparison of
      stent fracture and primary patency between different nitinol stents has never been performed
      except one study; SMART versus Luminexx stent named SuperSL trial (lesion length between 5-22
      cm). Furthermore, in the Asian population, the study of this type have never been performed.
      LifeStent is similar to S.M.A.R.T. stent in the design consisted of the peak-to-valley
      connected with S-shaped bridge but is different in lesser bridge (4 bridge vs. 6 bridge),
      large cell size on stent ends, and larger cell size than S.M.A.R.T. On the other hand, 2011
      ESC guideline recommended that dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and a thienopyridine
      for at least one month is recommended after infrainguinal bare-metal-stent implantation.
      Recent meta-analysis has shown that the efficaty of cilostazol in the atherosclerotic
      femoropopliteal lesion was proven. However, still specific data regarding a variety of
      antiplatelet regimen in implanted femoropopliteal lesion are limited. Upto date, in the
      literature, never has never been performed the clinical trial for optimal duration of
      cilostazol use in the patient undergone stent implantation for femoropopliteal lesion. Thus,
      The purpose of our study is to examine and compare Primary patency and stent fracture between
      different two-nitinol stents (S.M.A.R.T. CONTROL versus Lifestent) in femoropopliteal
      arterial lesion and to examine and compare the optimal duration of cilostazol use (6 month
      versus 12 month)
    
  