
    
      Study design A multi-center, randomized open label clinical trial was performed in 2
      university medical centers and 5 teaching hospitals in the Netherlands. The study was
      approved by the medical ethics committees of all participating hospitals and all patients
      provided written informed consent prior to enrollment.

      After inclusion in the trial, treatment allocation was established through an independent
      central randomization center. Stratified randomization per center was based on computer
      generated tables. Patients were either randomized to the intervention group, where clinically
      stable patients were switched from IV to oral antibiotics on the 3rd day of hospitalization
      to complete a total of 10 days antibiotic treatment, or to the control group, who received a
      standard regimen of 7 days of intravenous therapy. Clinical stability was defined as
      respiratory rate < 25/min, O2 saturation > 90% or arterial pO2>55mmHg, hemodynamically
      stable, > 1oC decrease in temperature in case of fever, absent mental confusion and the
      ability to take oral medication 10. Antibiotic choices were left to the discretion of the
      attending consultant and were based on Dutch treatment guidelines 20.

      Patients Adult patients (age 18 or above) with severe CAP admitted to general hospital wards
      were eligible for inclusion in the study. Pneumonia was defined as a new or progressive
      infiltrate on a chest X-ray plus at least two of the following criteria: cough, sputum
      production, rectal temperature > 38oC or < 36.1oC, auscultatory findings consistent with
      pneumonia, leucocytosis (>10.000/mm3, or >15% bands), C-reactive protein > 3 times the upper
      limit of normal, positive blood culture or positive culture of pleural fluid. 21 Severe
      pneumonia was defined as Fine class IV or V or fulfilling the ATS-criteria for severe
      community-acquired pneumonia. 16;22 Patients with cystic fibrosis, a history of colonization
      with Gram negative bacteria due to structural damage to the respiratory tract, malfunction of
      the digestive tract, life expectancy of less than 1 month due to underlying diseases,
      infections other than pneumonia needing antibiotic treatment, severe immunosuppression
      (neutropenia (<0,5 x 109 / l) or a CD4 count < 200 / mm3) and needing mechanical ventilation
      in an intensive care unit were excluded.

      Baseline, follow up and outcome measurements Patients were followed for a maximum of 28 days.
      On admission, a complete physical examination, chest radiography and blood sampling for
      arterial blood gas analysis and for hematological and biochemical analysis were performed.
      Demographic data, initial intravenous therapy and clinical data were recorded. During the
      follow-up period, in-hospital clinical data were recorded. Clinical stability was evaluated
      after 3 days of intravenous therapy in both study groups and discharge criteria (temperature
      < 37.8 oC, saturation >92%, normal blood pressure, heart rate < 100/min, respiratory rate <
      25/min, absence of mental confusion and ability to take oral medication ) were evaluated
      daily thereafter. If patients were discharged within 28 days after admission they were asked
      to return to the out-patient clinic 28 days after inclusion, where history, physical
      examination, blood chemistry analysis and a chest X-ray were taken and health-care
      consumption after discharge was recorded.

      Questionnaires were used to evaluate the effects on health care resource use outside the
      hospital (recorded daily after discharge). Quality of life was determined with the short form
      health survey questionnaire (www.sf-36.org) recorded at days 3, 10 and 28 of the study.
      Additional questionnaires were used to measure the effects of an early discharge on the
      workload for family members (questionnaire at day 28 of study) and effects of administration
      route on freedom of movement, adverse events and compliance (questionnaire at day 7 of
      study). Treatment failures were defined as death, clinical deterioration (clinical worsening
      such that the patient needed mechanical ventilation, re-administration of intravenous
      antibiotics after a switch to oral therapy, readmission for pulmonary reinfection after
      discharge, increase in temperature after initial improvement) or hospitalization at day 28 of
      the study. Clinical cure was defined as discharged in good health without signs and symptoms
      of pneumonia and no treatment failures during the follow-up period. 21

      Microbiological analyses Sputum samples and blood samples were collected, cultured and
      evaluated following standard procedures. Micro-organisms cultured in blood or sputum were
      recorded. In addition, Binax NOW-tests were used to detect urinary antigen for Legionella
      pneumophila and S. pneumoniae. Acute and convalescent serology samples were collected and
      evaluated for Mycoplasma pneumoniae, L. pneumophila and Chlamydia pneumonia. Any
      non-contaminating micro-organism cultured from a blood or sputum sample or detected by
      urinary antigen testing was considered a cause for the episode of pneumonia. For Mycoplasma
      pneumoniae, a fourfold or greater increase in titer in paired sera or a single titer of
      greater than or equal to 1:40 was considered indicative of infection. 23 (Immune fluorescence
      agglutination, Serodia-MycoII ®, Fujirebio, inc.) For Legionella pneumophila, a fourfold
      increase in the antibody titer to 1:128 or greater, or single titers of 1:256 or more were
      considered suggestive of Legionella pneumonia.24 For Chlamydia pneumoniae, detection of IgM
      above established values, seroconversion of IgG between acute and convalescence samples, high
      amounts of IgG in single titers or a combination of these factors were considered serological
      evidence of infection, according to the manufacturers instructions. (ELISA, Savyon
      Diagnostics Ltd)

      Economic evaluation The societal perspective was used to calculate direct medical costs
      associated with the treatment in both study groups. Costs were assessed in 2002 euros. Costs
      per patient were calculated by multiplying resource use by the unit costs. Resource use
      during hospital stay for diagnostic and therapeutic interventions, consultations of medical
      or paramedic specialists and antibiotic use was measured. Resource use outside the hospital
      was evaluated using questionnaires which recorded contacts with general practitioners,
      specialists, extra diagnostic procedures, use of medication, readmissions, home care and
      other disease-related costs. Additional costs associated with specific diagnostic tests were
      based on tariffs. Costs of hospital stay, diagnostic procedures and specialist consultations,
      were calculated using unit costs as determined within the realm of the Dutch guidelines for
      pharmaco-economic analyses 25. Costs for readmissions and reinfections were assessed
      specifically for the study cohort and included costs for extra diagnostic procedures,
      treatment and hospitalizations. Costs of antibiotics prescribed were estimated using Dutch
      2002 formulary cost-prices 26

      Sample size and statistical analysis To demonstrate equivalence in efficacy of the two
      treatment groups, initially, the sample size was set at 250 patients in each study group
      based on an expected cure rate of 85% in the IV group and acceptance of a 75% cure rate in
      the switch group. (=0.05, 2 sided; 1-=0.80). The absolute difference in cure rate including
      95% CI was calculated. Equivalence was rejected if the lower limit of the CI exceeded -10%.
      Eventually, with less than anticipated enrolment, a 15% lower effectiveness in the
      intervention group could be excluded with =0.05 and 1-=0.80.

      Analyses were performed on an intention-to-treat basis. Differences in continuous variables
      were presented as absolute differences with their corresponding 95% CI´s. Dichotomous data
      were compared with chi-square statistics. Alike cure rate differences in proportions were
      presented including 95% CI´s. For cost-calculations, arithmetic means of both study groups
      were compared. The uncertainty surrounding the cost-calculations was evaluated by means of
      standard bootstrap techniques. 27 Ultimately, the balance between costs and effects was
      compared for both strategies and incremental costs per therapy failure averted at 28 days
      were calculated. The uncertainty surrounding the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was
      again evaluated by means of bootstrapping.
    
  