
    
      Continuous femoral nerve analgesia technique is relatively safe, can be easily trained, and
      reduces significantly intravenous opioid consumption. These favorable features make it
      standard treatment option for postoperative knee pain. However, direct perineural local
      anesthetic effect is not only confined into pain fiber, but, the other sensory and motor
      nerve fibers. Therefore, unwanted motor weakness is accompanied. Quadriceps muscle strength,
      which is important determinant of physical function after knee arthroplasty, can be
      influenced in continuous femoral nerve block. Various local anesthetic infusion techniques
      have been suggested to minimize the change of quadriceps muscle strength. Decreasing local
      anesthetic concentrations affect not only degree of muscle weakness, but also reduces the
      quality of pain control. Different anatomic location of catheter tip, considering motor fiber
      in posterior part of femoral nerve, could not reduce motor weakness. In a study with
      continuous popliteal-sciatic nerve blocks after hallux valgus repair, repeated bolus
      administration seems to be more effective method for pain control without concurrent motor
      impairment. However, another study with continuous femoral nerve block in healthy volunteers,
      hourly repeated bolus dose of 5 ml of 0.1% ropivacaine failed to spare motor block.
      Previously, our institution standard technique is fixed continuous infusion of 0.2%
      ropivacaine and concomitant intravenous patient controlled fentanyl. Because physical therapy
      of our institution, usually starts with the 2nd day of operation, so, we assume that
      continuous fixed infusion may result in more drug accumulation near nerve fiber. So, patient
      controlled mode of femoral analgesia could be better choice for initiation of physical
      therapy. At the same time, comparison between patient controlled analgesia and continuous
      infusion is not fully elucidated until recently. Therefore, in this study, we try to compare
      quadriceps muscle strength change between continuous infusion and patient controlled femoral
      analgesia in patients undergoing total knee replacement arthroplasty. Secondary outcomes
      include sensory effect in femoral nerve distribution, pain scores, iv fentanyl consumption,
      and other adverse effects.
    
  