
    
      Malaria in Myanmar:

      In Myanmar, malaria is the number one cause of morbidity. According to the Department of
      Health (DoH) and WHO there are approximately 500,000 patients with malaria each year. About
      80% of reported infections are due to Plasmodium falciparum and 20% are due to Plasmodium
      vivax. This is likely to be a severe underestimation. MSF-Holland alone treats already
      250,000 slide positive malaria patients per year in an area of mixed endemicity covering a
      population of less that 1 million patients out of a total population of 54 million in the
      country.

      Chloroquine was the first line treatment for falciparum malaria for the last five decades. In
      1996 and 1998 MSF-Holland with support from the Wellcome Trust (Prof N. White) performed
      studies in the northern and western part of the country, in which very high in-vivo
      resistance levels to chloroquine and sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine were demonstrated1,2.
      Combination treatment of mefloquine plus artesunate (loose tablets) [MA(LT)]and treatment
      with dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DP) both proved highly efficacious (99-100%)3,4. The
      studies performed by MSF provided an important component of the evidence used to convince the
      health authorities that a change of national protocol was needed. In 2001, the DOH of Myanmar
      changed the national protocol for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria; a 3 day
      treatment of mefloquine-artesunate was chosen to become the first line treatment.
      Artemether-lumefantrine (AL) and DP are also mentioned in the national protocol as effective
      treatment regimens, but there is a call in the protocol for more research of these
      treatments.

      These changes in policy are a very good step forward and were widely respected. In practice,
      some problems remain.

      MSF has implemented large malaria activities in Myanmar over the past decade. The programme
      has performed a diagnostic test for malaria for approximately 3,000,000 patients and
      approximately 1,500,000 patients have been treated with artemisinin combination treatment
      (ACT).
    
  