
    
      Maxim Vital Sign study is a 2 part, investigator initiated observational study with Maxim
      Integrated aimed to compare vital sign readings using 2 prototype versions of new cell phone
      based mobile biosensors with standard of care (SOC). Adult subjects will be recruited from
      UCSD outpatient clinics, AVRC clinic, emergency department (ED), and hospitals. Vital signs
      will be measured using cell phone based mobile biosensors and SOC.

      For Phase 1, up to 800 subjects will be recruited (700 adults and up to 100 adolescents). 250
      subjects (200 adults and up to 50 adolescents) will participate in phase 1a and 550 subjects
      (500 adults and up to 50 adolescents) will participate in phase 1b. An additional group of 30
      adult subjects will be recruited from outpatient clinics for participation in phase 2.

      Phase 1a:

      Two identical copies of the device will be tested during the first part of phase 1 with a
      total of 125 subjects (100 adults and up to 25 adolescents). Each prototype version will be
      tested on up to 125 subjects (100 adults and 25 adolescents) and compared to readings
      obtained by Welch-Allyn Spot Vital Signs monitor. Data will be obtained on the usability and
      accuracy of the measurements with each initial prototype. Measurement particularly of SpO2
      depends on accurate finger position. Current SpO2 monitors encase the finger and immobilize
      it in order to obtain an accurate measurement. Maxim Integrated, in collaboration with DD
      Studios, Carlsbad CA, and Specialists in Global Health, Encinitas CA, have developed
      prototypes, which will be tested to inform design flaws in future prototypes.

      Phase 1b:

      Based on the results from phase 1a, one of the prototypes will be selected for further
      testing (the one with the least within-instrument variation). During Phase 1b, vital sign
      readings will be collected with the selected Maxim biosensor prototype and one of the
      Welch-Allyn Spot Vital Signs monitor simultaneously. The subjects will be recruited from both
      outpatient and hospital settings for accuracy and usability. A total of 550 subjects (500
      adults and 50 adolescents) will be recruited for this part of phase 1.
    
  