
    
      Hypothesis:

      Gut dysbiosis plays a significant causal role in chronic pouchitis. Modulating the gut
      microbiota using FMT has a clinical effect by inducing clinical remission in patients with
      chronic pouchitis.

      Objective of the study:

      The aim of the MicroPouch-trial is to investigate if transplantation (FMT) of faeces from
      healthy donors to patients with chronic pouchitis is clinical significant to placebo for the
      treatment of pouchitis.

      Study design:

      The project is designed as a multi-center, double-blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled
      treatment study.

      Methods:

      Faecal microbiota transplantation is performed with faeces from healthy donors. Potential
      donors are recruited from the Danish Blood Bank. They are screened for a various of
      infectious diseases by serum analysis (haematology, inflammation, liver and kidney function,
      HIV, Hepatitis, Cytomegalovirus, Epstein Barr virus and HbA1c) and faeces analysis
      (calprotectin, Clostridium difficile (PCR), enteric pathogenic bacteria and
      antibiotic-resistant bacteria, parasites, cysts, and viruses). Furthermore, the potential
      donors will complete an extensive questionnaire regarding general health, risk factors and
      medical history, before they can be included as faecal donors in the project. The screening
      procedure is based on recommendation from the European FMT Working Group.

      The transplantation is performed by enemas, which contain either faeces from the faecal
      donors or placebo.

      Initial before the treatment with either donor faeces or placebo, the patient will be invited
      for serum analysis (CRP, leukocytes) and faecal analysis (calprotectin, Clostridium
      difficile, enteric pathogenic bacteria), followed by a pouchoscopy with collection of
      biopsies. Materials from serum- and faecal analysis and biopsies will be stored for later
      analysis purpose. The patient will further complete questionnaires concerning symptoms and
      quality of life. The stage of disease will be evaluated based on the acknowledged
      questionnaire for pouchitis called Pouchitis Disease Activity Index (PDAI) score.

      The treatment begins after all the initial examinations, and the patient will be treated
      during one month. The treatment consists of daily enema infusion, which either contain faeces
      from the faecal donors or placebo. During the treatment, the patient will daily record
      symptoms related to pouchitis (diarrhea, abdominal pain, bleeding per rectum, fever, general
      discomfort) and possible adverse effects to the treatment.

      At the end of treatment, the patient will meet to a follow-up examination including serum
      analysis (CRP, leukocytes) and faecal analysis (calprotectin), pouchoscopy incl. biopsies,
      and the questionnaires applied before the treatment. Materials from serum- and faecal
      analysis and biopsies will be stored for later analysis.

      The patient will be followed up with serum- and faecal analysis and pouchoscopy after
      additional 6 and 12 months to evaluate the long term effect of the transplantation. The
      consumption of antibiotics during the first year will be recorded. In case of lacking effect
      of faecal microbiota transplantation, the patient is offered standard antibiotic treatment
      for pouchitis, and will leave the study.

      Faecal samples and biopsies collected in the study will be analyzed for the composition of
      the microbiota.
    
  