
    
      This case-control study was conducted on thirty patients (15 patients with type 2 diabetes
      mellitus and 15 normoglycemics) with clinical and radiographic diagnosis of a periodontal
      endodontic lesion. To assess the glycemic control of the patients were measured the plasma
      glucose level and glycosylated hemoglobin concentrations (HbA1c). All patients were initially
      submitted to examination to verify the clinical periodontal parameters (plaque index, probing
      bleeding, probing depth, clinical attachment level and gingival recession) and pulp
      sensitivity testing. The study included patients who presented periodontal pockets involving
      the apical region of the tooth and pulp necrosis (periodontal endodontic lesion). Exclusion
      criteria were: use of antibiotics in the last six months, pregnancy, smoking, other systemic
      diseases, clinical signs of oral candidiasis, and patients who did not sign a free and
      clarified consent term.

      Sample collection Collection from the root canal was performed after access, rubber dam
      isolation, disinfection of the surgical field with 5.25% sodium hypochlorite, and
      neutralization with 5% sodium thiosulfato, with 3 sterile paper points remaining in the root
      canal for one minute. Sampling of the periodontal pocket was made at the deepest site through
      3 sterile paper points, inserted one by one for one minute. The material collected from the
      periodontal pocket and the root canal was inoculated in Eppendorf tubes containing 1 ml of
      reduced transport fluid (RTF). Next, samples from each site were diluted and plated on the
      medium Saboraund Dextrose Agar plus Chloramphenicol and chromogenic medium (CHROMagar Candida
      ®, BioMerieux, Paris, France) and incubated at 37° C for 48h in a reduced oxygen atmosphere
      (10% CO2 and 90% air). The green colonies that grew on CHROMagar plates were chosen at random
      and stored in glycerol at 20° C for later identification by PCR.
    
  