
    
      Pain (spontaneous pain) is a fundamental non-motor symptom (NMS) of Parkinson's disease (PD)
      that is prevalent throughout the condition and often unrecognized and undertreated. Different
      types of pain have been described in association with PD including musculoskeletal, dystonic,
      central and neuropathic pain. Although musculoskeletal pain is the most commonly reported, a
      number of patients experience multiple types of pain which are more frequent and disabling in
      the intermediate phase of disease and which ultimately have a significant negative impact on
      the patient's quality of life. Despite its relevance, the pathophysiological mechanisms
      underlying pain in PD are yet to be fully understood. An abnormal nociceptive input
      processing in the central nervous system leading to hypersensitivity to evoked pain probably
      underlies all the different pain types experienced by PD patients and also intervene in
      pain-free PD patients. Additional factors including female gender, depression, disease
      duration, motor complications, postural abnormalities, medical conditions associated with
      painful symptoms (osteoporosis, rheumatic or degenerative joint disease,) probably contribute
      to the quality and distribution of spontaneous pain. Abnormalities in pain processing may be
      the consequence of decreased basal ganglia dopaminergic neurotransmission, as dopamine has
      been demonstrated to modulate pain perception in supraspinal regions involved in the pain
      pathways, including insula, anterior cingulate cortex, thalamus and periaqueductal grey.
      Furthermore, a neurodegeneration involving non-dopaminergic systems (such as g-aminobutyric
      acid, glutamate, noradrenaline, and serotonin) that modulate pain processing in other regions
      of the central nervous systems may also play a relevant role. The variegated pain dimension
      experienced by PD patients makes its therapeutic management a demanding challenge for
      clinicians.

      The study of the scalp laser-evoked potentials (LEPs) (evoked pain) allows a non-invasive
      exploration of pain central pathways in humans. This technique proved useful in elucidating
      the physiopathology underlying different pain syndromes. Some data show that LEPs are altered
      in PD, in both pain-free PD patients and in PD patients with different kinds of pain, with
      amplitude reduction in N2/P2 component. Acute levodopa challenge had no effect in normalizing
      the decreased pain threshold/LEPs observed in PD patients in early Parkinson's disease while
      in PD patients with motor complications it partially increased pain threshold. This is
      consistent with the hypothesis that motor complications and pain may share common
      pathophysiological mechanisms which include not only dopaminergic but also non-dopaminergic
      systems dysfunction (25).This study has been conceived to study spontaneous pain (and/or
      evoked pain by laser stimulation) in PD patients (with or without pain) with motor
      fluctuations under drugs-on (Safinamide Metansolfonato or Rasagilina Mesilato).
    
  