
    
      Plaque is a contributing factor for the development of dental diseases including tooth decay
      and gum disease. Thus, an excellent standard of oral hygiene is required to ensure all plaque
      is removed from the teeth to reduce the risk of developing these diseases.

      Plaque accumulation starts and is greatest at plaque stagnation sites, which tend to be at
      the gum margins. In orthodontic treatment, the brackets and archwires are significant plaque
      stagnation sites.Conventional tooth brushing is also more difficult compounding the increased
      plaque accumulation and retention.

      It is very important that patients learn to recognize the presence of plaque to ensure
      optimal levels of oral hygiene are achieved. Frequently patients have difficulty localizing
      the deposits to enable optimal levels of oral hygiene.

      Demineralisation occurs due to bacterial fermentation of dietary sugars, which produces
      acids. This leads to white marks developing on the tooth surfaces, which is the first stage
      of dental caries. The risk of demineralisation is increased during orthodontic treatment, as
      there tends to be greater plaque accumulation. Previous studies have reported prevalence
      rates of demineralisation during orthodontic treatment to be as high as 96%. The most visible
      front surfaces of the teeth are often the most severely affected which can have a detrimental
      impact on their appearance.

      Early demineralisation can be reversible if plaque control is improved, however progresses
      cavities may develop which require restoration. The main form of management of
      demineralisation is prevention. This is mainly by having an excellent level of oral hygiene
      and having a diet with a limited number of sugar intakes.

      During orthodontics, patients frequently find it difficult to detect the plaque around the
      braces, thus oral hygiene is often not adequate. This leads to greater plaque accumulation
      and an increased risk of developing demineralisation.

      The QLFD Biluminator is a noninvasive novel device, based on previous QLF technology. In
      vitro and in vivo studies of the former QLF device demonstrated it to be appropriate for
      identifying demineralisation and longitudinal monitoring of mineral changes during
      orthodontics. The advantage of the new QLFD device is that it takes a white light image in
      addition to a QLF image. Having two images, taken nearly simultaneously, allows comparisons
      to be made and ensures consistency with regards to magnification and angulation. From these
      images, plaque accumulation and demineralisation can be measured. In addition,
      demineralisation can be detected on QLF images before it is evident on white light images,
      which is of great benefit to clinicians in detecting at risk patients.

      This study aims to assess plaque accumulation and demineralisation using the new QLFD device
      before the start of orthodontic treatment. It will also assess its use as an oral hygiene
      evaluation tool to improve patients tooth brushing who have inadequate oral hygiene to start
      orthodontic treatment. White light and QLF images will be taken with the QLFD device and
      patients will be given focused oral hygiene advice based on these images.
    
  