
    
      This study is a phase I clinical trial of single arm，open-label，dose escalation with single
      and multiple doses.The safety,PK and preliminary efficacy of SHR-A1403 were evaluated
      respectively in the patients with advanced solid tumors that have invalid standard treatment
      or no standard and effective treatment.SHR-A1403 is administered with intravenous infusion
      every three weeks (q3w) for a treatment cycle.Dose limiting toxicities (DLT) observation will
      end after 3 weeks from the start of study treatment(21 days). The dose escalation is designed
      by Modified Toxicity Probability Interval-2 Designs（mTPI-2) and will continue until an MTD or
      preliminary RP2D is identified. 3 patients are enrolled and observed in the initial dose.
      After completing the DLT assessment, the next decision of dose escalation will be performed
      according to the mTPI-2 detailed dose climbing/descending plan. After each decision, 3 other
      patients will be enrolled in the next phase of dose escalation until the maximum number of
      subjects specified in the study protocol or the dose escalation terminated by the Safety
      Monitoring Committee(SMC).

      The study consists of 3 periods: Screening Period (up to 14 days before the first dose),
      Treatment Period, and Follow-up Period (up to 3 months after the last dose of study
      treatment).

      The safety and tolerability of SHR-A1403 will be assessed by ongoing reviews of clinical
      laboratory tests, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status, physical
      examinations, vital signs, ECG, and adverse events (AEs) as defined by the current version of
      the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE
      4.03). Safety will be monitored throughout the study.

      Response assessment will be performed by the end of Cycle 2 (6 weeks after the first
      infusion). Subsequently, post-dose tumor response evaluations will be performed every 6 weeks
      for the first 6 months, then by every 12 weeks thereafter, and at short-term follow up. For
      subjects who discontinue study treatment, tumor imaging should also be performed at end of
      therapy. Tumor imaging will be performed for all subjects as feasible (e.g., may not be able
      to be performed in subjects who withdraw consent or would not be performed in subjects who
      are lost to follow-up) until documented progression of disease, intolerable toxicity,
      initiation of a new antitumor therapy, withdrawal of consent, or the occurrence of death or
      end of study, whichever occurs first.

      Blood samples collected pre-dose and post-dose will be analyzed for PK variables. In general,
      PK data analysis will include, but will not be limited to, time to maximal serum
      concentration (tmax), maximal serum concentration (Cmax), area under the curve from time 0 to
      Day 21 of Cycle 1 (AUC0-21d), and observed terminal half life (t1/2) in Cycle 1; as well as
      concentration (average) (Cavg), area under the curve from time 0 to the end of the dosing
      interval (Day 21) after repeated dosing (AUC0-τ), t1/2, clearance at steady state (CLss),
      volume of distribution during terminal phase (Vz), and accumulation ratio (Rac)
      (AUC0-τ/AUC0-21d) for longer-term analyses.

      Tumor tissue samples will be collected in pre- and post-treatment for additional exploratory
      biomarkers. Tumor samples of Pre-treatment (i.e., Screening) could be obtained for c-Met
      status analysis by IHC through either subject's archived paraffin tissues or fresh
      (preferred) biopsies, and tumor tissue biopsies of post-treatment at C2D8 , pre- and
      post-treatments are optional. In addition, blood samples will also be collected in pre- and
      post-treatment and serum will be prepared for circulatory biomarker (soluble c-Met) analysis
      by ELISA at screening and C2D8; these blood samples are required in the study.
    
  