
    
      Infantile hemangiomas (IH) are benign tumors of vascular endothelium.They are the most common
      tumors of infancy. They occur in about 4% of infants, though early studies were as high as
      10%, probably due to the inclusion of other vascular lesions. The incidence is higher in
      premature infants, Caucasians, and females (by a 3 to 5:1 ratio). Advanced maternal age,
      multiple gestations, and placental abnormalities are also risk factors. IHs have a unique and
      characteristic life cycle consisting of three phases: proliferative, involuting, and
      involuted.

      The majority of IHs do not require any specific treatment other than observation and
      reassurance of the parents. Even tumors that exhibit rapid growth or fiery red skin will
      spontaneously regress and leave behind little to no evidence of their presence. However,
      regular follow-up is important as the potential complications have few clinical indicators.

      Reasons for treatment include dangerous locations (impinging on a vital structure such as the
      airway or eye), unusually large size or rapid growth, and local or endangering complications
      (skin ulceration or high-output heart failure). Hemangiomas exhibiting the aforementioned
      risk factors or complications should be considered for treatment. As hemangiomas are tumors
      of pure angiogenesis, pharmacologic therapy involves angiogenesis inhibition.

      Historically, steroids have been used as the primary treatment for IH. Steroids have been
      shown to be antiangiogenic in a number of in vitro settings and also have shown good
      therapeutic effects clinically. However, the use of steroids may lead to various
      complications including gastroesophageal reflux and growth disorders, although these
      complications are associated with long-term use and high dose. A type of anticancer drug or
      immunomodulator, interferon alfa, may be used for severe IH in cases where patients did not
      respond to steroids. However, interferon alfa also has several possible adverse effects,
      including fever, muscle pain, systemic myalgia, and in severe cases, liver damage, blood
      toxic effects, thyroid hormonal abnormality, and neurological and neurodevelopmental toxic
      effects. Because of concerns about these adverse effects, many guardians of pediatric
      patients prefer to wait rather than accept treatment.

      Propranolol, a nonselective beta blocker, has recently been recognized as an important
      treatment option for hemangiomas. In most centers, it has become first-line pharmacotherapy.
      A child with a nasal capillary hemangioma treated with propranolol for steroid-induced
      cardiomyopathy had regression of his lesion. This revelation led to the publication of
      several more studies supporting this finding. Propranolol is given orally at 2-3 mg/kg/day,
      in two or three divided doses, and discontinued following regression of the lesion. Treatment
      often leads to a consistent, rapid, therapeutic effect with softening of the lesion on
      palpation and color shift from intense red to purple. Propranolol is well tolerated but can
      cause rare side effects such as bradycardia, gastroesophageal reflux, hypoglycemia,
      hypotension, rash, somnolence, and wheezing.
    
  