
    
      The study period considered will be January 2012 - December 2018. From the medical record of
      each patient, the investigators will collect the following data: prenatal history, hernia
      severity, fetal endoscopic tracheal occlusion (FETO) procedure, demographics, respiratory
      insufficiency, and mechanical ventilation, cardiocirculatory insufficiency and
      pharmacological hemodynamic support, pulmonary hypertension and need for pulmonary
      vasodilators, need for extracorporeal life support (ECMO), comorbidities, timing of surgical
      repair, use of prosthetic patch, intra- and post-operative complications, clinical and
      instrumental follow-up, pulmonary function tests, recurrence, death. The confidentiality of
      all data will be maintained.

      Regarding the assessment of the radiographic pulmonary area, two operators (a neonatologist
      and a pediatric radiologist) will independently review all preoperative digital radiograms
      performed within 24 hours of life. For each patient, the radiogram showing the best
      lung-recruitment will be selected. Lung area will be assessed by freehand tracing of the
      perimeter of the thoracic area, as outlined by the diaphragm and the rib cage, excluding the
      mediastinal structures and abdominal contents herniated in the thorax. The only aerated
      portion of the lungs will be considered. The corresponding area will be automatically
      calculated by the software. Three measures will be performed: 1) ipsilateral lung area (cm2);
      2) contralateral lung area (cm2); 3) total lung area (cm2), derived from the sum of the
      preceding two. The agreement between lung measurements performed by the two operators will be
      evaluated to verify the reproducibility of the method.

      Pulmonary function test performed during spontaneous sleeping at the age of 1 year will be
      reviewed. The measurements of VT and RR will be recorded. The predicted value of VT and RR
      will be obtained, and their Z-Score will be calculated using reference equations of a
      population of healthy children. Z-Score is a numerical measure used to express how much an
      observed value deviates from the mean expected normal value in terms of standard deviation.
    
  