
    
      The proposed study will follow patients who were hospitalized in the rehabilitation
      departments at "Bait Balev". Patients who were treated with nutritional supplements by a
      dietitian during hospitalization and received dietary recommendations upon discharge will be
      followed for their adherence with the treatment recommendations. The impact of the level of
      adherence to the nutritional recommendations on health will be assessed.

      C2. Experimental design:

      This shall be a retrospective and prospective cohort study. Patients from the orthopedic and
      neurologic rehabilitation departments, who received nutritional intervention by nutritional
      supplements during hospitalization and were advised to receive nutritional enrichment at
      discharge, will be enrolled to the study. The main criteria for nutritional intervention
      during hospitalization and recommendation for supplements upon discharge include, among
      others, withdrawal of alternative nourishment, underweight, undernutrition, non-voluntary
      weight loss, low protein status and other criteria typical among this population during
      hospitalization. In order to assess the level of compliance with dietitian's recommendations
      upon discharge, only patients who were discharged to their homes will be followed. In order
      to increase the sample size, a retrospective cohort study will be conducted, in which
      patients from the same departments who were discharged in the last 3 months will be followed
      both retrospectively and prospectively.

      Home visits will take place 3 and 6 months after discharge, during which the dietitian shall
      complete a questionnaire measuring the level of patient compliance to the nutritional
      recommendations, and in addition the patient or their legal guardian shall provide anamnesis
      in order to review the effect of compliance on health, functional, nutritional and social
      status (it should be noted that approx. 90% of the patients in the hospital belong to the
      Maccabi Health Care Services group, so the follow up of discharged patients in the community
      will be conducted with Maccabi Health Care Services).
    
  