
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the feasibility of ex vivo expanded mafosfamide-purged CD34-positive cells for
           autologous peripheral blood stem cell or bone marrow transplantation in patients with
           acute leukemia.

        -  Determine the duration of aplasia associated with the use of ex vivo cytokine expanded
           mafosfamide-purged cells in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine, preliminarily, the event-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot study.

        -  Mobilization and stem cell collection: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV and
           filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) or IV once daily for 7-14 days followed by
           leukapheresis to collect peripheral blood stem cells (PBSCs). Some patients may also
           undergo bone marrow (BM) harvest if sufficient PBSCs are not collected. Patients with a
           sufficient number of stem cells or BM (5 x 10^6 PBSC/kg or 3 x 10^8 BM cells/kg) proceed
           to autologous PBSC transplantation (PBSCT) or BM transplantation (BMT).

        -  CD34-positive cell selection and mafosfamide purging: Collected PBSCs and/or BM are
           treated in the laboratory to isolate CD34-positive cells. A minimum of 1 x 10^6
           nucleated CD34-positive BM cells/kg or 2 x 10^6 nucleated CD34-positive PBSCs/kg must be
           available after selection to proceed to mafosfamide-purging. The selected cells are then
           treated in vitro with mafosfamide to purge remaining leukemic cells. One third of the
           mafosfamide-purged cells are then cryopreserved for future use and 2/3 of the
           mafosfamide-purged cells proceed to ex vivo expansion.

        -  Ex vivo expansion: The remaining CD34-positive mafosfamide-purged cells are treated in
           vitro with stem cell factor, G-CSF, and recombinant human thrombopoietin and incubated
           for 12-14 days.

        -  Myeloablative therapy: Patients receive busulfan on days -9 to -6 and cyclophosphamide
           on days -5 to -2.

        -  PBSCT or BMT: Patients undergo autologous PBSCT or BMT using CD34-positive
           mafosfamide-purged cryopreserved cells and ex vivo expanded CD34-positive
           mafosfamide-purged cells on day 0 followed by G-CSF SC or IV once daily until blood
           counts recover.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for at least 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 25 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  