
    
      Psychological distress and poor quality of life are common in Long Term Conditions (LTCs)
      including Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD). Rates of depression are 11-21% in people with IBD
      (pwIBD) with high levels of anxiety in 41%. Additionally, as diagnosis typically occurs at
      15-40 years, educational and employment attainment can be effected and symptoms and medical
      procedures such as diarrhoea and colonoscopies can be stressful and embarrassing. The
      relapsing and remitting nature can also cause uncertainty and fear of social integration.

      Most of the psychosocial literature in IBD has focused on the potential impact of stress and
      recording the prevalence and non-modifiable predictors of depression and anxiety such as
      active disease, hospitalisation, surgery (particularly stoma formation) and unemployment.
      Less research in IBD has investigated potentially modifiable factors known to be related to
      distress and quality of life in other LTCs such as illness perceptions, social support and
      coping strategies, although one study has found a similar association in IBD. This is of
      particular interest due to the potential behavioural and physiological pathways through which
      they could impact on health and quality of life.

      Psychosocial interventions in IBD to date have focused on stress management or Cognitive
      Behavioural Therapy (CBT) to reduce distress and improve quality of life. Although small
      sample studies have shown small to moderate benefits of the interventions, these approaches
      are time consuming and resource intensive such as group or individual therapy. This can
      result in low adherence and retention due to the required time commitment, but more
      importantly are not widely applicable in the NHS due to limited available expertise and in
      particular, their cost. Psychological interventions are most effective when tailored
      specifically to disease-related factors and the patients' developmental stage. Such
      interventions are currently lacking for IBD.

      An alternative to therapist-led intervention is to promote self-management through paper or
      online self-help interventions supplemented by minimal guided support by a health care
      professional. This type of supported, self-directed intervention is cost-effective and has
      shown strongest results when targeted to the needs of specific diseases. There is currently
      no similar self-directed manual for IBD available. This type of supported, self-directed
      intervention can be incorporated into standard care where required, is cost-effective and has
      the potential to support pwIBD to successfully adjust to their LTC for better clinical and
      quality of life outcomes. Although most people will not require intensive psychological
      therapy for debilitating distress, structured support to adjust to the many demands that IBD
      places on people could help to bridge the gap for the 40-50% of pwIBD that show moderate
      levels of distress, improving their quality of life and management of the illness.

      Sample size justification: A sample size of 30 per group is in line with recommendations for
      pilot studies where the aim is to determine the feasibility of a future efficacy study by
      estimating the treatment effect (for a power calculation) and estimating rate of
      non-completion of the intervention. A minimum total sample size of 50 (i.e. 25 per group) is
      recommended to allow for a precise estimate of the pooled standard deviation at the post
      intervention assessment. Increasing the number to 30 per group allows for non-completion of
      up to 20%. Furthermore, a sample size of 30 per group allows for an acceptably precise
      estimate of the non-completion rate; a 95% confidence interval less than +/-11% for
      completion rates of 80% or higher.

      Adults (>18 years) with IBD will be provided with an information sheet and invited to
      participate in the study. Following informed consent and the completion of baseline
      questionnaires, participants will be randomised to receive either intervention + treatment as
      usual (treatment group) or treatment as usual (control group). Randomisation will be
      completed by King's College London Clinical Trials Unit independently of the research team so
      that the researchers remain blind to condition.

      As recommended for a pilot or feasibility study, results will be mainly descriptive and will
      include; proportion of eligible people; consent rate; retention rate. The investigators plan
      on using an intention-to-treat regression analysis and include the pre measure as a
      covariate. This data will allow for effect sizes and feasibility to be determined in order to
      adequately power a full trial of the intervention in a follow-up study. Thematic analysis of
      the qualitative feedback data will be conducted by a member independent of the research team.
    
  