
    
      1. Analysed Populations and Number of Subjects

      Prior to the statistical analysis, 4 populations were defined in line with the study
      protocol:

        1. Population including all randomised subjects (ARS);

        2. Population of all patient with intention to treat (ITT);

        3. Population of patients without serious deviation from the clinical trial plan

        4. Safety population.

      Each analysed population was based on a list of its members. Although the treatment group
      could have generally been different for each patient in a different population (see the study
      protocol and statistical analysis plan), such a case did not occur (as all the patients were
      de facto placed in the group to which they were randomized). Therefore the real treatment
      group is the same as the randomization treatment group for all patients. This fact is not
      discussed further in the document.

      1.1 The ARS population

      Included all patients who were involved in the clinical trial and randomized. The ARS
      population was used for summaries of demographic quantities and other quantities established
      during Visit 1 in order to describe the study population.

      1.2 ITT Population

      In this case, this population was identical to the ARS population. According to the plan, ITT
      was not supposed to include those ARS patients for whom no PI data were available and those
      patients who entered the study repeatedly. However, such circumstances were not detected. The
      ITT population represented the primary analysed population for the assessment of efficacy.

      1.3 PPS Population

      According to the statistical plan, PPS was to include all ITT patients except for patients
      with a serious deviation from the clinical trial plan; a serious deviation includes:

        -  Failure to meet one or multiple participation criteria;

        -  Error in treatment allocation;

        -  Documented use of unauthorized concomitant medication or treatment;

        -  Missing PI0 value;

        -  More than 25% missing PI values.

        -  Serious treatment regimen violation or another serious deviation from the clinical trial
           plan.

      The monitoring reports and discrepancy report implied:

        -  No study subject that has not met a participation criterion has been registered;

        -  No study subject with incorrectly allocated treatment has been identified;

        -  No use of unauthorized concomitant treatment has been documented;

        -  There was no PI0 value missing;

        -  Patients 45, 53 and 94 ended the study early; the number of PI values missing is over
           25% (83%).

        -  The following patients violated the treatment regimen in terms of non-observance of the
           minimum time of sitting on the pad (21, 23, 35, 42, 55, 57, 60, 72, 75, 76, 84, 86, 88).

      Thus there was a serious deviation from the protocol in 16 study subject, i.e. 15.7%.

      The PPS population represented the secondary analyzed population for the assessment of
      efficacy. Its task was to demonstrate the robustness of the main clinical trial results. For
      this reason, comparisons of the tested group efficacy to the control group were used (in
      addition to ITT) in final analyses using PI in order to achieve confirmation of the main
      clinical trial conclusions.

      1.4 Safety Population

      According to the plan, the safety population should have constituted of subjects from ARS,
      except for those with whom all contact was lost immediately after Visit 1 and those who were
      placed (in reality) in one of the tested groups but were not given a pad.A pad was given to
      all patients in the tested groups. All contact was lost with patients 53 and 94 and they were
      eliminated from the safety population. Patients in the safety population were analyzed based
      on the treatment groups they were really placed in, regardless of what group they had been
      randomized to.

      1.6. Overview of Analysed Populations and Patient History (Numbers of subjects in treatment
      groups and analysed populations)

      Dvectis Dvectis No treatment Total Single Double

      ARS population 35 34 33 102 ITT population 35 34 33 102 PPS population 29 25 32 86 Safety
      population 35 33 32 100

      2 Missing Data

      In the ARS population analyses, the missing data were be treated as missing according to the
      plan, i.e. stated in summaries as total numbers of missing data; however, they were excluded
      from the calculations of other statistics. In reality, only the time of sitting on the pad is
      of significance. In all analyses of the PI quantities, the method of imputation of the last
      observed value (Last Observation Carried Forward - LOCF) was used, in accordance with the
      plan. The plans for a situation when the PI1 would be missing were not used since the
      situation did not occur. The use of LOCF generally also leads to a bias but with regard to
      the observed decrease in the PI values during the patient's participation in the study in the
      tested groups, compared to the reference group, such an approach is obviously conservative.
      For evaluation of the Oswestry questionnaire, the use of LOCF was planned primarily at the
      level of individual questions as well as the use of the scoring manual procedure accounting
      for missing values, if any. This procedure was beyond the data administration and statistical
      analysis activities since the questionnaire was evaluated by the investigator, entering only
      the total score in the patient record sheets. If the total score was missing, it was
      processed similarly to the processing of missing values in the ARS population analysis (i.e.
      solely elimination from the analysis).

      3 Sequential and Final Analysis

      The first sequential analysis was performed according to the interim analysis plan and
      resulted in early study stopping due to efficacy. A report of the first sequential analysis
      results is included in a separate document. Then the final analysis was performed, which is
      presented in this report.

      4 Characteristic of Study Subject and Treatment Regimen Compliance

      For the description of the study population within the sequential interim analysis, summaries
      of demographic quantities were calculated and presented, as established before the start of
      the treatment in the scope determined by the statistical analysis plan. The summaries were
      presented for the respective treatment groups (for all 3 treatment groups). The significance
      of the differences in these characteristics was not tested.

      The treatment regimen compliance was evaluated by a calculation of aggregate statistics for
      the average time of the device use in the course of participation in the study.

      For the analyzed quantities, summary statistics were calculated in the respective treatment
      groups and as a total. The analyzed ARS population was used.
    
  