
    
      Historically, women have labored in the upright position and it is only in the twentieth
      century that hospitalization and bedrest have become the standard of care during labor in
      most developed countries. This practice has been especially encouraged in patients laboring
      under neuraxial analgesia (epidural or combined spinal-epidural) because of the possibility
      of lower limb weakness associated with the use of local anesthetic agent.

      Walking during labor has been associated with positive outcomes such as a reduction in the
      duration of labor, reduced incidence of assisted vaginal delivery and reduction of the rate
      of caesarean section in women in upright position compared to those bedridden, without being
      associated with negative effects on mothers' and babies' well-being. Proposed hypothesis to
      explain the reduction in duration of labor are an improved uterine contractility and an
      enhancement of pelvic diameter.

      Impacts of ambulation during labor have also been studied in women with neuraxial analgesia
      but unfortunately, in these studies, a significant proportion of patients allowed to walk did
      not and, if they did, the time spent ambulating was extremely variable.

      The reluctance to allow women to walk during neuraxial analgesia is mainly because of
      concerns of a possible motor block and of orthostatic hypotension. The combination of a low
      dose of local anesthetic agent and of an opioid for CSE has been shown to provide good
      analgesia while minimizing impairment of lower limbs' strength. Since a certain degree of leg
      weakness can occur even with low concentrations of local anesthetic agent, it is recommended
      to evaluate the presence of a motor block before allowing ambulation with neuraxial
      analgesia. For safe ambulation, meeting the following conditions is generally recommended: no
      lower limb weakness, ability to perform straight leg raise and complete hip flexion,
      performance of a partial knee bend, ability to step up on a stool with both legs, trial of
      walking witnessed by a member of the staff.

      The other major concern related to ambulatory neuraxial analgesia is the risk of fall
      secondary to hypotension. Hypotension mainly occurs at initiation of neuraxial analgesia and
      is usually easily treated with small doses of phenylephrine and ephedrine, giving additional
      intravenous fluids and by placing the patient in the full lateral position. Interestingly,
      blood pressure seems to be more stable in the ambulant parturient than in the supine one
      probably due to the reduced incidence of aortocaval compression when standing. Since
      hypotension is mainly seen after initiation of neuraxial analgesia, most studies will allow
      at least 30 minutes after the bolus injection of the local anesthetic agent and blood
      pressure is verified in the erect position before ambulation is allowed.

      In the absence of obstetrical contraindications, walking during labor with neuraxial
      analgesia is safe if a low concentration of local anesthetic agents is used and in the
      absence of motor block and orthostatic hypotension. In addition to these conditions, women
      ambulating must be accompanied by a companion at all times.

      Considering the benefits of the upright position during labor in women without neuraxial
      analgesia, investigators presume that providing neuraxial analgesia that preserves motor
      function and allows the parturient to walk may be of benefit regarding the duration of labor,
      mode of delivery and maternal satisfaction. To this day, no study with a strict protocol for
      walking has addressed the effect of ambulation on obstetrical outcomes.
    
  