
    
      All patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection and acute encephalopathy at presentation will be
      prospectively included in the NEURO-COVD-19 study. This study will collect demographic data,
      clinical examen at prehospital/emergency room and ICU admission (including neurological
      signs), and all ancillary exams performed to identify a cause of neurological impairment.
      Outcome will be evaluated using the Glasgow Outcome Scale score at ICU and hospital
      discharge, and day-90 after ICU admission.

      Acute encephalopathy will be defined as recently stated :

      "1. The term acute encephalopathy refers to a rapidly developing (over less than 4 weeks, but
      usually within hours to a few days) pathobiological process in the brain. This is a preferred
      term 2. Acute encephalopathy can lead to a clinical presentation of subsyndromal delirium,
      delirium, or in case of a severely decreased level of consciousness, coma; all representing a
      change from baseline cognitive status 3. The term delirium refers to a clinical state
      characterized by a combination of features defined by diagnostic systems such as the DSM-5.
      Delirium according to the DSM-5 is defined if criterium A-E are fulfilled: A. Disturbance in
      attention (i.e., reduced ability to direct, focus, sustain, and shift attention) and
      awareness (reduced orientation to the environment). B. The disturbance develops over a short
      period of time (usually hours to a few days) represents a change from baseline attention and
      awareness, and tends to fluctuate in severity during the course of the day. C. An additional
      disturbance in cognition (e.g., memory deficit, disorientation, language, visuospatial
      ability, or perception). D. The disturbances in criteria A and C are not explained by another
      pre-existing, established, or evolving neurocognitive disorder, and do not occur in the
      context of a severely reduced level of arousal, such as coma. E. There is evidence from the
      history, physical examination, or laboratory findings that the disturbance is a direct
      physiologic consequence of another medical condition, substance intoxication or withdrawal
      (i.e. because of a drug of abuse medication), or exposure to a toxin, or is because of
      multiple etiologies. " (Slooter, A.J.C., Otte, W.M., Devlin, J.W. et al. Updated nomenclature
      of delirium and acute encephalopathy: statement of ten Societies. Intensive Care Med (2020).
      https://doi.org/10.1007/s00134-019-05907-4)
    
  