
    
      Ischemic strokes have shown to have long-term impact on functional health apart from their
      acute effects on neurological functioning. Stroke survivors may experience long-term physical
      disability, psychopathological symptoms and cognitive decline. Even though these potential
      consequences are well studied, knowledge on post-stroke trajectories of multidimensional
      functional health according to the Word Health Organization's (WHO) International
      Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF) and their predictors is rare.
      Particularly, there is a lack of studies investigating the trajectories of self-rated health
      and different indicators of functional health in the year post-stroke. Therefore, the current
      study aims to explore trajectories of disability and self-rated health in the year
      post-stroke, and is the first to analyze the relationship between these trajectories.
      Thereby, the study addresses the research question whether changes in disability can be
      predicted by prior self-rated health or changes of self-rated health, and vice versa.
      Moreover, the study examines the correspondence between changes of disability and self-rated
      health in the year post-stroke. Additionally, views on aging and psychological resilience,
      which are relevant to coping processes, are studied as predictors of changes in disability
      and self-rated health. Patients recruited during their stay at the stroke unit will
      participate in one face-to-face interview in hospital and four telephone follow-up interviews
      at 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months and 12 months post-stroke. Moreover, physical functioning will
      be externally assessed during their hospital stay and 12 months post-stroke. To increase the
      knowledge on post-stroke trajectories of multidimensional health is of major importance to
      identify patients at risk for accelerated accumulation of disability. Findings from the
      current study may contribute to the improvement of post-stroke rehabilitation and secondary
      prevention.
    
  