
    
      Fibrovascular tissue induced macular elevation is an important cause of visual loss in
      proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR). There are two main types of macular elevations in
      PDR: traction retinal detachment (TRD) and tractional retinoschisis. These two conditions may
      coexist either in the form of retinoschisis within the detached retina or predominantly
      retinoschisis with a small subfoveal fluid pocket. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) studies
      have shown that in tractional retinoschisis, the inner retinal layer is normal reflective;
      outer layer is less reflective but not optically empty. Bridging columnar tissues are
      frequently observed between the inner and outer layers. Histopathological study by Faulborn
      et al showed adherence of posterior hyaloid membrane to the retina plus vitreous body
      shrinkage might induce retinal elevation with splitting of the outer plexiform layer, leading
      to retinoschisis. The bridging columnar tissues between inner and outer layers of the split
      retina mainly consisted of Muller cells. Although tractional retinoschisis with or without
      retinal detachment has been suggested as the most frequent pattern of tractional macular
      elevation in eyes with proliferative diabetic retinopathy1, and peripheral retinoschisis are
      frequently found during operation for complications of PDR, studies on clinical
      manifestations and post-operative visual prognosis of macular traction schisis are limited.
      Lincoff reported a relatively good prognosis in eyes with tractional retinoschisis after
      vitrectomy. No other large series specifically aimed at this entity can be found.

      In this report, we will retrospectively study the clinical pictures of tractional
      retinoschisis on the macula. Morphological changes and functional outcomes after surgery will
      be discussed. Correlations between visual acuity and specific findings on color fundus
      pictures and OCT will be evaluated. We will also analyze different behaviors of schisis only
      and combined tractional retinal detachment with schisis.
    
  