
    
      DREAM-01 is an early phase 1, open label, dose-escalation and variable osmolarity study to
      compare the safety, pharmacokinetics (PK), pharmacodynamics (PD), and acceptability of 3
      formulations of a tenofovir (TFV) enema. The goal of the study is to identify the dose and
      osmolarity of a TFV enema for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) pre-exposure prophylaxis
      (PrEP) which achieves the desired colonic mucosal mononuclear cells (MMC) tenofovir
      diphosphate (TFV-DP) target concentrations that have previously been shown to confer
      protection from HIV acquisition in men who have sex with men (MSM).

      Each participant will undergo screening to evaluate eligibility. Baseline visit will assess
      safety, PD, and behavioral readout baselines. Three products described below (Product A, B,
      and C) are dosed sequentially as a dose-escalation within each subject. Safety, PK, PD, and
      behavioral readouts are assessed at specified times for one week after each dose, followed by
      a variable washout period before the next escalation dose. Johns Hopkins University (JHU)
      participants only will have SPECT/CT imaging to assess distribution and permeability of
      radiolabeled product. After two of the study product doses (Product A and Product C) and
      their respective sampling periods, a normal saline (NS) solution and ½ normal saline (½ NS)
      solution will be taken at home in the context of receptive anal intercourse.

      Study Duration: Participant accrual will take approximately 9 months and each participant
      will be on study for approximately 4-5 months. Total study duration is about 1 year.

      Study Products: Three study products administered sequentially and estimated to approximate
      TFV 1% gel (Product A), 3 times the concentration and dose of Product A (Product B), and 2
      times concentration and dose of Product B (Product C) as defined below. At JHU only, the
      study product will also be radiolabeled with Technetium-99m-DTPA (99mTc-DTPA) for SPECT/CT
      imaging. Take-home enemas consisting of normal saline (NS) or ½ normal saline (½ NS) will be
      self-administered at home.

        -  Product A: Enema formulation of TFV 1.76 mg/mL (220 mg in 125 mL) in iso-osmolar
           solution

        -  Product B: Enema formulation of TFV 5.28 mg/mL (*660 mg in 125 mL) in iso-osmolar
           solution

        -  Product C: Rectal specific Enema formulation of TFV 5.28 mg/mL (*660 mg in 125 mL) in
           hypo-osmolar solution

        -  Take-home enema to follow Product A: 120 mL of normal saline (NS) solution

        -  Take-home enema to follow Product C: ½ normal saline (½ NS)

             -  Note: the planned 660 mg TFV dose in Product B and C may be adjusted lower or
                higher based on Product A results in order to more closely achieve target
                concentrations - this is indicated by *660 mg, which will be used throughout the
                protocol to indicate the planned, but potentially modified Product B (or C as the
                case may be) dose.
    
  