
    
      Even with increased focus on those experiencing homelessness, the number of homeless families
      continues to rise, with the demand for temporary shelter so high that many cities are unable
      to meet the needs of these families. The majority of these families are headed by single
      mothers, many of whom struggle with substance use and mental health issues. These struggles
      are in addition to meeting the basic needs of themselves and their children. No study has
      documented an effective approach for intervening with homeless substance abusing mothers with
      children. Research attention towards identifying efficacious interventions for this
      population which address the multiple needs of these families is thus considered an important
      focus for reducing significant individual and social costs associated with substance use and
      homelessness. The current study utilizes an ecological systems approach as the theoretical
      base for the proposed treatment. The overarching goals of the current treatment development
      study are to first identify targets and processes of intervention desired by homeless mothers
      and then pilot test a novel manualized intervention focused on improving treatment success of
      this special population. In Stage 1a, information from the multi-method assessment and focus
      groups with N=30 homeless mothers will guide modifications to an integrated intervention that
      includes housing, case management and the Community Reinforcement Approach. The final manual
      resulting from this important study will address the multiple needs of homeless mothers,
      including basic needs and substance use/mental health problems. The intervention will be
      tested in a nonrandomized pilot (N = 15) in which interview and self-report methods will be
      used for data gathering. Follow-up will be conducted at 3 and 6 months post baseline and the
      intervention will be modified based upon the process and outcome analyses. Finally, the
      revised intervention will be tested in Stage 1b in a randomized pilot study involving 60
      women and children assigned to the project intervention (N = 30) or treatment as usual (N=30)
      and followed at 3, 6, and 9 months post-baseline. In the randomized pilot study an effect
      size will be computed for use in informing a larger, randomized Stage II trial. This project
      utilizes existing efficacious models of drug abuse treatment to generate valuable new
      information critical to treatment services delivery for a special population of substance
      abusers. Since homeless substance abusing women and their children are at increased risk for
      a variety of adverse outcomes, improved maternal and child outcomes may produce substantial
      health-care benefits to the women, their children, and society at large. The findings from
      this study will serve as the foundation for the refinement and implementation of a promising
      intervention for drug-addicted homeless women and children that can then be tested for
      efficacy in a Stage II trial.
    
  