
    
      Due to breathing and other motion, tumours, such as breast and lung cancer, as well as their
      surrounding organs (e.g. the heart), move, which poses a challenge for radiotherapy
      treatment. Reducing or even stopping breathing, e.g. by irradiating during inspiration, is a
      way to decrease tumor and organ motion resulting in a reliable target coverage with smaller
      margins. These smaller margins can result in a better sparing of normal tissues. Furthermore,
      in some patients, during inspiration, the heart may move away from the target volume making
      it possible to better spare the heart. Finally, during inspiration, the lung volume is larger
      and the lung density is lower, which can lead to a lower dose to the surrounding normal lung
      tissue. Reduction of radiation dose to normal tissues leads to less radiation-induced
      toxicity. This makes treating breast and lung cancer patients in breath hold (BH) conditions
      an attractive strategy. A BH has to be stable and long enough for the duration of a planning
      CT-scan, cone beam CT (CBCT) scan and treatment delivery. Treatment of left-sided breast
      cancer with radiotherapy in moderate deep inspiration breath hold (mDIBH) is well
      established. Also, in MAASTRO clinic, left-sided breast cancer patients are treated in mDIBH,
      but this is done without any support or control of the breath hold. Standard BH durations in
      RT treatment are around 20 seconds, which is not enough to perform a complete CBCT. The
      health status of lung cancer patients is generally worse compared to breast cancer patients,
      making it more difficult to treat this patient group during breath hold. mDIBH in lung cancer
      patients is therefore not widely used, and not yet performed in MAASTRO clinic. Ventilation
      techniques that can support patients in holding their breath might make it a feasible
      approach in patients with a less favourable performance status, and might increase the
      duration of a breath hold. Nasal High Flow Therapy (NHFT) is a non-invasive system that
      provides controlled oxygen concentrations and low levels of positive pressure via a nasal
      interface. NHFT improves oxygenation in diverse patient groups, and is increasingly used as
      an alternative to mechanical ventilatory support. It has been shown to be a safe device in
      several clinical situations and patient populations, such as COPD patients, but also in
      apneic conditions under general anesthesia. It has however never been used in the context of
      breath hold support, neither has it been used in radiotherapy practice. The investigators
      hypothesize that supporting BH with nasal high flow therapy (NHFT) will allow robust
      radiotherapy treatments of moving targets in a broad patient population allowing for BHs that
      are long enough, stable and reproducible during a whole treatment course.
    
  