
    
      Duration of illness, poor adherence to treatment, gender, smoking habit, obesity, concomitant
      diseases (rhinitis, sinusitis or gastroesophageal reflux) and concomitant psychiatric
      disorders may be responsible for an increase and perpetuation of the inflammatory response as
      well as a decreased response to treatment and may be easily identified clinically.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES: a) analyze how adherence to treatment, using ASK-20 questionnaire and
      prescription count, influences level of asthma control in a sample of patients with severe
      and moderate-mild asthma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES: a) analyze the relation between the level of asthma control according
      to the Asthma Control Test (ACT) score and the fraction exhaled of nitric oxide (FeNO); b)
      analyze the relation between the level of asthma control according to the ACT score and the
      gender. c) analyze the relation between the level of asthma control according to the ACT
      score and smoking habit. d) analyze the correlation between the level of asthma control
      according to the ACT score and obesity. e) analyze the relation between the level of asthma
      control according to the ACT score and concomitant diseases (rhinitis, sinusitis or
      gastroesophageal reflux). f) analyze the relation between the level of asthma control
      according to the ACT score and concomitant psychiatric disorders. g) analyze the relation
      between the level of asthma control according to the ACT score and disease severity under the
      terms proposed by Global Initiative for Asthma (GINA).

      METHOD: This is a observational cross-sectional study that includes a sample made up of 50
      patients with good asthma control and 50 patients with poor asthma control according to the
      Asthma Control Test(ACT).

      DEVELOPMENT OF THE STUDY After signing the informed consent, data will be collected including
      gender, smoking habit, alcohol consumption, environmental and employment factors, weight,
      height, body mass index (BMI), history of atopy, disease severity, rhinosinusitis,
      gastroesophageal reflux and concomitant psychiatric disorders and a standard physical
      examination. Measurement of asthma control with Asthma Control Test (ACT)will be performed.
      Then fraction exhaled of nitric oxide (FeNO)measurement and pulmonary function testing
      (forced spirometry and bronchodilator test) will be performed .

      DEVICES AND MEASUREMENTS: Clinical variables will be collected in a case report form (CRF)
      specially developed for the study. Functional study: The spirometry will be performed
      according to the recommendations of European Respiratory Society using the Jaeger Master Lab
      system.

      Bronchodilator test will be performed with albuterol and ipratropium bromide inhalation
      solution. FeNO levels will be measured of using the Filt's Vario analyzer which allows for
      bronchial or nasal tests, with a flow and volume meter Lilly-type pneumotachograph .
      Adherence to treatment will be assessed with the ASK-20 questionnaire and reviewing the
      number of prescriptions for asthma during the last 6 months.
    
  