
    
      1. To evaluate the efficacy of a shear reducing shoe insole (GlideSoft) in reducing the
           incidence of diabetic foot pathology among high-risk patients. We studied the
           effectiveness of a shear reducing shoe insole to prevent foot ulcers in high-risk
           diabetics with sensory neuropathy, a history of a foot ulcer or a history of a partial
           foot amputation. The study comprised two treatment arms. The first group received
           standard therapy involving standard therapeutic shoes and insoles, patient education and
           regular foot evaluations by a physician. The second group received the same standard
           therapy, but instead of the standard insoles patients used the GlideSoft - a novel shear
           reducing insole. As determined in the Phase I study, the GlideSoft dramatically reduced
           shear forces compared to standard insoles, while performing equally well in reducing
           compressive forces. Patients were followed for 18 months. The primary study outcome was
           for incident foot ulcers. Our hypothesis was that patients who use the GlideSoft will
           have fewer ulcers and that these ulcers will be less severe compared to patients
           evaluated in the Standard Insole Group.

        2. To evaluate changes in pressure and shear reducing capabilities of the two. To evaluate
           changes in pressure and shear reducing capabilities of the GlideSoft and standard
           insoles over the duration of use.

           We measured in-shoe pressures and in-vitro shear forces at the foot-insole interface at
           the beginning of the study and after patients wore the insole for four months or one
           "standard cycle of wear". We used the Novel Electronics, Inc. Pedar in-shoe pressure
           system to measure the interface between the foot and insole and the Shear Force Tester
           (see Phase I report) to evaluate shear forces. We expected that the GlideSoft would
           significantly reduce shear forces and provide equivalent reduction in vertical forces at
           both the day 0 evaluation and day 120 evaluations.

        3. To evaluate patient perceived benefits, satisfaction, and compliance with the 2. To
           evaluate changes in pressure and shear reducing capabilities of the GlideSoft and
           standard insoles over the duration of use.

      We measured in-shoe pressures and in-vitro shear forces at the foot-insole interface at the
      beginning of the study and after patients wore the insole for four months or one "standard
      cycle of wear". We used the Novel Electronics, Inc. Pedar in-shoe pressure system to measure
      the interface between the foot and insole and the Shear Force Tester (see Phase I report) to
      evaluate shear forces. We expected that the GlideSoft would significantly reduce shear forces
      and provide equivalent reduction in vertical forces at both the day 0 evaluation and day 120
      evaluations.
    
  