
    
      Background : De novo acute respiratory failure with moderate to severe hypoxemia is
      associated with high intubation and mortality rates. Under non-invasive ventilation (NIV)
      with a bucco-nasal mask, a high Tidal volume is associated with NIV failure and poor outcome.
      It is suspected that non-control of the Tidal volume may worsen the prognosis of the patient.
      Indeed, it is logical to consider that the physiopathological mechanisms that lead to
      ventilator induced lung injury (VILI) under mechanical ventilation, especially
      over-distension, can in the same way aggravate pulmonary lesions under NIV and even during
      spontaneous breathing. The value of the Tidal volume is available in non-invasive ventilation
      with the bucco-nasal mask, but it is unknown with the use of other non-invasive oxygenation
      techniques : oxygen therapy with the high concentration mask, non-invasive ventilation with
      the helmet, and high flow nasal canula.

      Objectives : The main objective is to compare the Tidal volume received under different
      oxygenation techniques (oxygen therapy with high concentration mask, NIV with bucco-nasal
      mask and with helmet, high flow nasal canula), in patients with de novo acute hypoxemic
      respiratory failure and moderate to severe hypoxemia.

      Methods : All patients admitted in intensive care for de novo acute hypoxemic respiratory
      failure, non hypercapnic, with moderate to severe hypoxemia (PiO2/FiO2 < 200 mmHg) will be
      included. Patients with one of the following items will be excluded : chronic respiratory
      disease, cardiogenic pulmonary edema, hemodynamic instability, coma, contraindication to NIV,
      indication for immediate intubation.

      After inclusion, the Tidal volume will be measured for each technique with the use of
      electrical impedance tomography, in a random order. Randomisation will be carried out by
      using sealed envelopes containing a predetermined order. Each technique will be used for 15
      minutes. For NIV with the bucco-nasal mask, the inspiratory pressure will be progressively
      adjusted to maintain the Tidal volume between 6 and 8 ml/kg of ideal body weight without
      dropping below 7 cm H2O and the positive expiratory pressure will be gradually increased to 5
      cm H2O. For NIV with the helmet, the inspiratory pressure will be progressively increase to
      12 cm H2O and the positive expiratory pressure will be gradually increased to 5 cm H2O. For
      high flow nasal canula,the gas flow will be set at 50 L/minute. FiO2 will be adjusted to keep
      SpO2 above 92%. To convert the thoracic impedance variations into absolute values of Tidal
      volumes, the airway flow signal will be collected with a pneumotacograph during the NIV with
      bucco-nasal mask session. The following data will also be collected : respiratory rate,
      comfort, regional Tidal volume in dependent and non-dependent areas and global inhomogeneity
      index, Pa02, PaCO2 and pH (If an arterial catheter is present). Signed consent will be
      required prior to any inclusion.

      Expected benefits : This study will provide a better understanding of P-Sili and help define
      the place each non-invasive oxygenation techniques in the management of de novo acute
      respiratory failure.
    
  