
    
      The active metabolite of SGI-110 (2'-deoxy-5-azacytidylyl-(3'→5')-2'-deoxyguanosine sodium
      salt), a dinucleotide, is decitabine, an FDA-approved agent for the treatment of
      myelodysplastic syndromes. SGI-110 is resistant to modification by cytidine deaminase, a
      common pathway of decitabine metabolism and deactivation[1]. The molecular weight of SGI-110
      and decitabine are 580 Da and 228 Da, respectively. Therefore, the molar equivalent dose of 1
      mg of decitabine is approximately 2.5 mg of SGI-110. SGI-110's activity was demonstrated with
      the same preclinical pharmacodynamic assays used to demonstrate decitabine's efficacy e.g.,
      re-expression of p15, p16, and MLH1 and induction of fetal hemoglobin, in vivo. In xenograft
      studies, SGI-110 demonstrates promising preclinical activity in both hematologic and solid
      tumors.

      In vitro evidence suggests that SGI-110 has a longer half-life than decitabine in the
      presence of cytidine deaminase. These promising observations suggest that SGI-110 may have
      improved pharmaceutical properties and biological activities that could extend decitabine's
      current clinical utility. SGI-110 has shown to be better tolerated in mice than decitabine
      and is as effective in vivo in inducing p16 expression, reducing DNA methylation at the p16
      promoter region, and retarding EJ6 human bladder cancer tumor growth in athymic mice[2].

      SGI-110 has been developed for subcutaneous administration. SGI-110 is pharmacologically
      active both in vitro and in vivo in a variety of tumor cells and murine xenograft models when
      administered subcutaneously. Treatment is well tolerated via the subcutaneous route in murine
      xenografts. When administered subcutaneously to non-human primates, SGI-110 releases
      decitabine slowly compared to other species, possibly prolonging the effect over longer
      periods. SGI-110 has been developed as a non-aqueous formulation to ensure formulation
      stability.

      SGI-110 has been studied in a first-in-human, single-agent study (SGI-110-01).5 This study
      was a Phase 1/2, dose escalation, multicenter study of two subcutaneous regimens of SGI-110
      in subjects with intermediate or high-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) or acute myeloid
      leukemia (AML). This study had two parts, a Dose Escalation Segment and a Dose Expansion
      Segment. The study evaluated the biological activity, preliminary safety, and efficacy of
      SGI-110 with two dosing schedules in intermediate to high risk MDS or relapsed or refractory
      AML subjects, while the Dose Expansion Segment further evaluated safety and efficacy at the
      recommended dose. The study was based on a 3 + 3 design within each regimen. Eligible
      subjects were randomized to receive 1 of 2 dosing regimens of SGI-110 with the following
      starting doses: Regimen 1: 3 mg/m2/day subcutaneously on Days 1-5 of a 28-day course, Regimen
      2: 6 mg/m2 subcutaneously Weekly x 3 on Days 1, 8, 15 of a 28-day course. The minimum dose
      achieving maximal biological activity or biologically effective dose (BED) for the daily
      regimen was reached at 60 mg/m2 daily on Days 1-5.

      Study disease: MPN

      Philadelphia chromosome negative Myeloproliferative Neoplasms (PHN-MPN) comprise a group of
      myeloid neoplasms with varying clinical, morphologic and laboratory features and a wide range
      of survival. According to 2008 World Health Organization (WHO) classification, the MDS/MPN
      overlap syndromes include chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML), atypical chronic myeloid
      leukemia (aCML), juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia(JMML) and
      myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasm unclassifiable (MDS/MPN-U). In a recent
      retrospective study from MD Anderson Cancer Center, the median survival of patients with a
      diagnosis of MDS/MPN unclassifiable was 12.4 months[3] .There is no effective therapy for
      PHN-MPN and this represents an unmet medical need.

      The MDS/MPN overlap syndromes can present with a wide range of hematological and clinical
      manifestations and individual patients may exhibit a combination of features characteristic
      of both MDS and MPN. For example, while transfusion-dependent anemia is generally present,
      other hematological laboratory abnormalities can range from leukopenia to leukocytosis and
      from thrombocytopenia to thrombocytosis. Unlike with MDS, significant splenomegaly is often
      present in patients with PHN-MPN. Also, patients may have a constellation of constitutional
      findings, including fatigue, weight loss, anorexia, night sweats and other unpleasant
      symptoms that lead generally to poor quality of life. Thus, while improving overall survival
      is a critical goal of therapy, effective therapy for this group of patients will include also
      agents that can be demonstrated to improve as many of the disease-related clinical issues as
      possible.

      Overall Study Design

      This is a single arm, open-label study of SGI-110 in patients with MPN. SGI-110 will be
      administered subcutaneously at a dose of 60 mg/m2 on days 1-5, repeated every 28 days.
      Toxicity will be evaluated using the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
      Active Version 4. The frequency of toxicities per organ system will be tabulated using
      descriptive statistics. All patients who receive any amount of the study drug will be
      evaluable for toxicity.

      Screening and pre-treatment criteria Screening Procedures Screening procedures and tests will
      be performed within 14 days before treatment administration with the exception of informed
      consent, bone marrow biopsy which may be performed within 28 days of the first dose of study
      drug.

        -  Provision of written informed consent. The ICF must be signed and dated by the subjects
           before collection of any samples or performance of any study-specific evaluations.

        -  Complete medical history, including demographics (date of birth, sex, race). A disease
           history, including the date of initial diagnosis and list of prior treatments and
           responses to these treatments, also will be recorded. Concurrent medical signs and
           symptoms must be documented to establish baseline conditions.

        -  Record concomitant medications.

        -  Record all study-procedure related AEs from the time of informed consent and then
           treatment-emergent AEs after the start of study drug administration (Course 1, Day 1)
           through 30 days after the last dose of study drug.

        -  Investigator's confirmation of eligibility. Perform all necessary procedures and
           evaluations to document that the subject meets each eligibility criterion.

        -  Complete physical exam including weight and examination

        -  Vital signs include resting systolic/diastolic blood pressure, resting heart rate,
           resting respiration rate, body temperature and pulse oximetry. Assess after the subject
           has rested in the sitting position for at least three minutes.

        -  ECOG performance status.

        -  12-lead ECG (rhythm, atrial rate, ventricular rate, PR interval, QRS duration, and
           QT/QTc (QtcF), morphology and overall interpretation).

        -  Height.

        -  Sample collection for clinical laboratory tests (hematology, chemistry and urinalysis).

        -  Serum or urine pregnancy test: for female subjects of child-bearing potential only.
           Results must be negative for the subject to be eligible for enrollment into the study.

      Agent Administration

      • SGI-110 administered at dose level of 60 mg/m2 SC daily on Days 1-5 of a 28-day cycle.
      However, treatment delays are allowed per section 6.3.1 SGI-110 is administered by SC
      injection preferably in the abdominal area. The total amount (in mg) of SGI-110 to be
      administered will be determined based on the body surface area (BSA). In calculating the BSA,
      actual heights and weights should be used. There will be no adjustments to "ideal" body
      weight. The institutional standard for calculating BSA is acceptable. Dose adjustment should
      be made for a +/- 10% weight change at the beginning of each cycle The site(s) of SGI-110 SC
      injections will be captured on the dosing CRF. Investigators are prohibited from supplying
      SGI-110 to any subjects not properly enrolled in this study or to any physicians or
      scientists except those designated as sub-investigators on Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
      Form 1572. The investigator must ensure that subjects receive SGI-110 only from personnel who
      fully understand the procedures for administering the study treatment.

      Duration of Therapy

      Duration of therapy will depend on individual response, evidence of disease progression and
      tolerance. In the absence of treatment delays due to adverse events, treatment may continue
      until one of the following criteria applies:

        -  Disease progression to acute leukemia unless, in the opinion of the principal
           investigator, the subject is experiencing clinical benefit from SGI-110 despite
           laboratory evidence of progression to acute leukemia.

        -  Intercurrent illness that prevents further administration of treatment,

        -  Unacceptable adverse event(s)

        -  Participant demonstrates an inability or unwillingness to comply with the medication
           regimen and/or documentation requirements

        -  Participant decides to withdraw from the study

        -  General or specific changes in the participant's condition render the participant
           unacceptable for further treatment in the opinion of the treating investigator.

      Duration of Follow Up

      Participants will be followed monthly for six months after removal from study or until death,
      whichever occurs first. Participants removed from study for unacceptable adverse events will
      be followed until resolution or stabilization of the adverse event. Post-study case report
      forms will capture information including subsequent treatments, response to subsequent
      therapy, and survival.

      Anticipated Toxicities

      Adverse Event List(s) for SGI-110

      The most common AEs suspected by the investigators in Study SGI-110-01 to be related to the
      drug and observed to date in the MDS/AML population are: injection site pain, fatigue,
      nausea, thrombocytopenia, anemia and diarrhea. Based on the mechanism of action of the drug
      and its active form decitabine, myelosuppression (neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, and anemia)
      and the related consequences such as infection (e.g. pneumonia), sepsis, and bleeding are the
      most likely risks for the drug. Mucositis has also been reported.

      Pain and burning at the injection site has been reported that are related to dose and volume
      of injection as well as the speed of injection. Care must be taken to avoid intradermal
      injection. Ice packs will be applied prior to injection of SGI-110 and the drug will be
      injected slowly, over 30-60 seconds. If the injection site events are reported at subsequent
      injections despite slow injection and the use of ice packs, pre-treatment with topical or
      systemic analgesics can be considered.
    
  