
    
      Purpose Currently best clinical practice for the investigation of pulmonary hypertension
      (raised pulmonary pressures) involves patients attending the catheter laboratory and
      catheters being passed under fluoroscopic guidance via the femoral vein to measure right
      heart pressures (and generally also via the femoral artery and aorta to measure left sided
      pressures). Wave intensity analysis using simultaneous pressure and flow measurements gives
      additional information about the upstream and downstream effects on haemodynamics, and we
      propose will lead to a more detailed assessment of the influences both causing and
      exacerbating pulmonary hypertension. Until recently it has not been possible to assess these
      effects formally: the standard technique measures only local pressure.

      Design This protocol will involve passing catheters as per usual practice into the pulmonary
      arteries and aorta. A Combiwire (a standard pressure and flow measurement wire which has been
      available commercially and used worldwide for the past 5 years for making physiological
      measurements in the coronary arteries) will then be advanced approximately 1cm beyond the end
      of the catheter. Participants will have the usual clinical protocol of left and right heart
      catheterisation (and coronary angiography if clinically indicated) and the simultaneous
      pressure and flow measurements will be made in addition. Participants will also have
      noninvasive imaging (echocardiography and, if clinically indicated, cardiac MRI) and serum
      biochemical measures, as per usual clinical practice. They will also undergo cardiopulmonary
      exercise testing to assess their lung and cardiac capacity.

      Recruitment The investigators will recruit patients with pulmonary hypertension from the
      National Pulmonary Hypertension Service who are awaiting right and left heart catheterisation
      studies as part of their routine diagnostic work up. Patients with normal pulmonary pressures
      will be recruited from patients who are on the waiting list awaiting routine cardiac
      catheterisation for the investigation of shortness of breath and chest pain. Recruitment will
      involve a discussion with the patient and printed material that the patient can refer to.
      They will be fully aware of the additional measurements being made, and no therapeutic
      promises will be made.

      Development of Research Proposal Interventional cardiologists, pulmonary hypertension
      specialists, clinical scientists and basic scientists have been involved with the development
      of this protocol. All members have been involved in critiquing the proposal. The
      investigators have also consulted patients who have been involved in previous research
      conducted during angiography regarding the number of hospital visits and additional time
      required during the procedure for data collection.

      Consent All patients will be consented for the study by the research Fellow who will be a
      Cardiology SpR (MBBS, MRCP) or Pulmonary Hypertension Specialist. She will be able to assess
      capacity and understand the ethical principles underpinning informed consent.

      Risks, burdens and benefits The risk of using pressure and flow wires: The wires will be
      advanced approximately 1cm outside the guide catheter that is used in routine clinical
      practice. In the pulmonary artery the wire will be positioned approximately 15cm more
      proximal than where the balloon is inflated during conventional pulmonary capillary wedge
      pressure measurement. In a recently published study of >7000 patients undergoing right heart
      catheterisation, there was only one incidence of pulmonary artery dissection. Damage to the
      arteries will be minimised by using an experienced interventional cardiologist to perform the
      procedures. The investigators have extensive knowledge in making these measurements resulting
      in minimal risk to the patient. To date no patient has had an adverse event secondary to the
      use of the pressure and flow wires in either the pulmonary arteries, aorta or coronary
      arteries. A pilot safety and feasibility study in 23 patients undertaken at the Royal
      Brompton Hospital in both normal subjects and those with pulmonary hypertension of various
      aetiologies showed that measurements of pressure and flow using Combiwires in the pulmonary
      arteries are possible in patients studied and there were no complications.

      Confidentiality The Caldicott Principles for use of identifiable data will be used. In
      accordance with University and NHS policy, to ensure satisfactory integrity both of research
      data and confidential patient information, the procedural data will be stored in anonymised
      form on a fully archived hard disk drive, with additional backup on long term optical storage
      media, while patient identifiable data will be stored on computers located within the NHS
      facility. Linkage between them will be in the form of paper records, which will be retained
      within the NHS premises. If confidentiality needs to be broken we will seek advice from the
      local ethics committee.

      Conflict of Interest We have no conflict of interest. The patients involved in this study
      will be informed via an information leaflet of the results and what they mean at the end of
      the study.
    
  