
    
      Aerobic exercise capacity, in prospective follow-up analyses, is a stronger a predictor of
      morbidity and mortality than other recognised risk factors such as hypertension. Furthermore,
      the most powerful lifestyle factor that on average reduces the risk for development of Type
      II diabetes is arguably increased physical activity. Investigators have clearly demonstrated
      that following many weeks of supervised aerobic exercise training ~20% of sedentary
      volunteers show almost no changes in gold standard measurements of fitness and many more
      demonstrate a poor response. Furthermore at least 25% of people demonstrate no improvement in
      insulin sensitivity in response to aerobic training. Critically, 15% of all subjects
      undergoing a supervised exercise intervention programme (with full compliance) actually
      demonstrated a decline in their insulin sensitivity after exercise training. Extensive
      citations were provided in the original grant application documents.

      A major aim of this project is to identify genomic or molecular predictors for this lack of
      positive benefit ('non-responder'), so that individualised health care strategies and life
      style changes can be produced to fight or prevent metabolic diseases such as obesity,
      diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Identification of 'high responders' to physical training
      forms an additional positive outcome from our research program. Understanding the biological
      basis for our 'highest-responders' will provide enormous insight into the molecular basis for
      positive exercise adaptation and a number of important health and industry related
      opportunities. For example, knowledge that a patient is a high-responder could be used to
      encourage cardiacfailure patients to remain motivated during their rehabilitation. Knowledge
      that a patient was a low responder would enable clinicians to set proper expectations during
      rehabilitation.

      Finally, as part of our research plan investigators will establish the utility of a novel
      time-efficient lifestyle strategy that has a high potential for being integrated into modern
      life.

      Investigators bring together leading EU and North American investigators to study life-style
      determinants of diabetes, obesity and cardiovascular disease. In particular, our workpackages
      are focused on boosting the capacity to diagnose, develop drug-screening solutions and enable
      the application of personalised medicine to the field of life-style determinants of diabetes,
      obesity and cardiovascular disease. Our deliverables include new validated products which can
      define higher risk populations. Investigators will achieve this through the identification
      and validation of molecular predictors that quantify the extent of the health benefits of
      increased physical activity. Optimisation of the prescription of physical activity for the
      treatment of insulin resistance, will contribute to the long term prevention of diabetic
      complications.
    
  