
    
      Thirty percent of Americans are obese. Women are more severely affected than men.
      African-Americans are more severely affected than Caucasians.

      To understand the metabolic consequences of obesity, it is essential to know the rate at
      which free fatty acids (FFA) are released from adipose tissue. Circulating FFA contribute to
      the complications of obesity particularly diabetes and heart disease. As there are sex and
      race differences in the prevalence of all these conditions there may be sex and race
      differences in FFA flux. FFA flux represents the rate at which FFA circulate. FFA flux is the
      result of three processes going on at the same time, (1) the rate FFA are released from
      adipose tissue, (2) the rate circulating FFA are used for energy, and (3) the rate FFA leaves
      the circulation to re-enter adipose tissue. No data is available on whether sex and race
      differences in FFA flux exist. Further, when comparing subjects of different size, sex and
      race, it is unknown whether FFA flux should be corrected for lean body mass or resting energy
      expenditure.

      To determine if there are sex and race differences in FFA flux and to ensure adequate
      enrollment of both African American and Caucasians, this investigation is a collaborative
      effort between the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in Bethesda, Maryland and the Mayo
      Clinic in Olmsted County, Minnesota. The greater Washington, DC, metropolitan area, where NIH
      is located, has a large African-American community whereas over 90 percent of residents of
      Olmsted County are Caucasians. Therefore, sex differences in FFA flux in African Americans
      will be mainly studied at the National Institutes of Health. Sex differences in FFA flux in
      Caucasians will be mainly studied at the Mayo Clinic. But, to confirm the ability to combine
      data from two different sites, some Caucasians will be enrolled at NIH and some African
      Americans will be enrolled at the Mayo Clinic. The results of the two studies will be
      combined to determine if there are race differences in FFA flux.

      At NIH, 50 African-Americans (25M, 25W, age range 18-49 years) and 14 Caucasians (7M, 7W age
      range 18-49 years) will be enrolled. Equal numbers of normal weight, overweight and obese
      subjects will be recruited. As outpatients, participants will be placed on weight maintaining
      diets for two weeks and then admitted for a two-day hospital stay. On each in-hospital
      morning, resting energy expenditure will be measured and stable isotopes infused to measure
      FFA flux. Stable isotopes are naturally occurring forms of elements, which are safe and
      non-radioactive.

      From the study of African-Americans at NIH it will be possible to determine if (a) the rate
      of FFA release in African-Americans is more highly related to lean body mass or to resting
      energy expenditure, and (b) if there is a sex difference in this relationship. Then as
      described above, the results from the Mayo Clinic and NIH will be combined to determine if
      there are race differences in the FFA flux.
    
  