
    
      Management of Patients Randomized to the Control Arm: Subjects randomized to the control arm
      will continue to be followed by their primary care physicians with the recommendation that
      they follow standard guidelines for management of diabetic patients.

      Management of Patients Randomized to the Asymptomatic Screening Arm: Subjects randomized to
      the Asymptomatic Screening arm will undergo initial CT screening in the following fashion:

        -  Subjects with serum creatinine of < 2.0 mg/dl (men) or <1.8 mg/dL (women) will be
           screened using multi-slice CT angiography with contrast.

        -  Those with serum creatinine ≥ 2.0 mg/dl (men) or >1.8 mg/dL (women) will be screened
           without contrast to obtain a coronary calcium score. Further cardiac screening will be
           determined based on these results.

      Subjects Receiving Multi-Slice CT Angiography (serum creatinine of < 2.0 mg/dl (men) or <1.8
      mg/dL (women)): Subjects severe stenosis will proceed to coronary angiography and
      revascularization as needed. Subjects with moderate stenosis will be referred for adenosine
      stress cardiac MRI. If ischemia is detected, they will also be referred for coronary
      angiography. Subjects with either mild stenosis or normal coronary arteries will receive no
      further imaging studies.

      Subjects Undergoing CT Evaluation for Coronary Calcium Scoring (serum creatinine ≥ 2.0 mg/dl
      (men) or >1.8 mg/dL (women): Subjects with coronary calcium scores >100 or >75th percentile
      will be referred for adenosine stress cardiac MRI. If ischemia is detected, they will be
      referred for coronary angiography. Subjects with coronary calcium scores = 0-10 or 11-100 and
      <75th percentile will receive no further imaging studies.

      Medical Management (Only for those patients randomized to the Asymptomatic Screening Arm): In
      addition to the imaging studies and potential coronary revascularization procedures performed
      as described above, all subjects will be placed on one of two medical regimens:

        -  Standard Appropriate DM Care and

        -  Aggressive Risk Factor Reduction Care.

      Standard Appropriate DM Care: Subjects assigned to this form of medical care will be managed
      by their primary physicians. This type of care will consist of targeting the goals proposed
      by Intermountain Healthcare for all patients with diabetes. These include the following three
      targets: HgA1C <7.0%, LDL cholesterol <100 mg/dL and Systolic BP<130 mm Hg. Subjects assigned
      to Standard Care will include all control subjects, as well as all screened subjects with
      either a normal CT angiogram or a coronary calcium score = 0-10.

      Aggressive Risk Factor Reduction Care: Subjects assigned to this form of medical care, in
      addition to standard medical care provided by their primary physicians, will also be managed
      by their primary physicians, but will receive more aggressive risk factor reduction
      management according to a set of guidelines that will be given to the primary physicians.
      This aggressive management strategy, designed to address the increased medical risk among the
      asymptomatic diabetics with detected vascular disease, will consist of more aggressive
      glucose and lipid targets than is in the Standard Care protocols and specific medication
      algorithms designed to accomplish these more aggressive targets.

      Follow-Up After enrollment into the protocol, all subjects will be followed for a minimum of
      one year. Follow-up will occur by telephone at six-month intervals. Outcomes will be
      ascertained by directly questioning the patient and by review of medical records. All primary
      outcomes will be adjudicated by an independent events committee.

      Statistical Analysis Both an intention-to-treat analysis and a by protocol analysis will be
      performed. The intention-to-treat analysis will be the primary analysis and will be defined
      as all those randomized to scan versus all those randomized to control regardless of what
      actually happened. The by protocol analysis will be defined as all of those who actually got
      the protocol scan versus those who did not get the scan. Those who did not get the scan
      includes all those randomized to the control arm. If they went outside of the study and got a
      scan anyway, this will be considered to be for clinical indications and will still be in the
      non-protocol scan group. For those who were randomized to get the scan but never did,
      evaluation of their baseline characteristics will be made and if they did not differ from
      those who actually got the scan or from those who were randomized to control, then they will
      be included the didn't get scanned group.
    
  