
    
      CAD is a challenging affliction which has a high annual morbidity rate in China and the
      world. Severe CAD may lead to compromised cardiac function, decreased exertional capacity and
      poor quality of life (QOL). The most common treatment for CAD is medication, percutaneous
      coronary intervention (PCI) and coronary artery bypass graft (CABG). However, some patients
      had long-term of history with complex severe artery lesions, they are not candidate for redo
      interventional therapy. Cardiac shock wave therapy (CSWT) is an exploring therapy used
      globally for CAD patients, which is known for its safety, non-invasiveness and effectiveness.
      In the previous clinical studies, CSWT can alleviated angina symptom, improved myocardial
      ischemia and increased exertional capacity. Many single arm studies proved its efficacy and
      safety. Our RCT has already finished, and results are in submission processing.

      This is a prospective, single arm, observational study design. CAD patients will be enrolled
      consecutively. The entire treatment period will last 3 months with 9 sessions. CSWT will be
      administered in the first week, follow by a 3-week non-treatment interval. Outcomes are
      assessed as efficacy outcomes and safety outcomes. Efficacy outcomes include symptom (CCS
      score, NYHA classification, nitroglycerin dosage, SAQ questionnaire), exertional capacity
      (6MWT), quality of life (SF-36 questionnaire) and imaging evaluation (myocardial perfusion
      imaging and echocardiography). Safety outcome include the change of serum TNT, CKMB, BNP and
      adverse event (AE) occurrence. Symptom, 6MWT and questionnaires will be evaluated at baseline
      and 13th week, 6th months, 12th months of CSWT. Imaging outcomes will be evaluated at
      baseline and 13th week, 12th months of CSWT. The level of TNT, CKMB and BNP will be tested
      before and 1st week after initiation of CSWT.
    
  