
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety of adjuvant vaccine therapy comprising multi-epitope melanoma
           peptides (MP) and multi-epitope melanoma helper peptides (MHP) emulsified in Montanide
           ISA-51 in patients with resected stage IIB-IV melanoma.

        -  Determine the safety of administering cyclophosphamide before vaccination in these
           patients.

        -  Compare the magnitude of immune response against vaccination comprising MP in
           combination with either MHP or tetanus toxoid helper peptide (TET) emulsified in
           Montanide ISA-51 with vs without cyclophosphamide in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the response rate and persistence of immune responses in patients treated with
           these regimens.

        -  Compare the magnitude of immune response against vaccination comprising TET or MHP with
           vs without cyclophosphamide in these patients.

        -  Compare the response rate and persistence of immune response against vaccination
           comprising TET or MHP with vs without cyclophosphamide in these patients.

        -  Determine the delayed-type hypersensitivity response to the peptide components of these
           vaccines in these patients.

        -  Compare, preliminarily, disease-free survival of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to HLA-type (HLA-A1 positive vs HLA-A2 positive, HLA-A1 negative, or -A3 negative
      vs HLA-A3 positive, or -A1 negative) and participating center (University of Virginia [UVA]
      vs non-UVA). Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive vaccine comprising multi-epitope melanoma peptides (MP) and
           tetanus toxoid helper peptide emulsified in Montanide ISA-51 intradermally (ID) and
           subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 8, 15, 29, 36, 43, 85, 183, 274, and 365.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on day -4. Patients then
           receive vaccine as in arm I.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive vaccine comprising MP and multi-epitope melanoma helper
           peptides emulsified in Montanide ISA-51 ID and SC on days 1, 8, 15, 29, 36, 43, 85, 183,
           274, and 365.

        -  Arm IV: Patients receive cyclophosphamide as in arm II. Patients then receive vaccine as
           in arm III.

      Treatment in all arms continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and
      then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 173 patients will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    
  