
    
      Aims and Hypotheses to be Tested:

      The primary aim of this study is to assess cardiovascular outcomes of children with OSA at a
      mean of 5 years after they had undergone AT, compared to OSA children without surgical
      treatment and children without OSA. The secondary aim is to explore factors associated with
      cardiovascular outcomes in subjects with OSA after AT.

      We hypothesise that (1) children with OSA underwent AT would have lower cardiovascular risks,
      namely lower ABP, better cardiac function, lower carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT) and
      lower carotid arterial stiffness when compared to those with OSA but did not undergo AT, and
      that (2) children with OSA, despite treatment with AT, would have higher cardiovascular risks
      than non-OSA controls.

      Study design: A two-centre prospective case-control follow-up study.

      Sample size estimation:

      We have conducted a pilot study to compare 12 children with residual OSA after AT (defined as
      post-AT OAHI >=3/h) and 12 age-, sex- and BMI-matched non-snoring controls. The results
      showed that children with residual OSA had a higher nighttime systolic BP (NSBP) than
      non-snoring controls (98.9 c.f. 95.6 mm Hg, mean difference = 3.35 mmHg, common SD = 6.54
      mmHg, effect size = 0.51). We have a total of 130 subjects with moderate-to-severe OSA who
      had undergone AT. As the main aim of this study is to assess the treatment effects of AT, we
      will try to recruit as many AT-treated subjects as possible. Assuming a response rate of 70%,
      90 subjects will be recruited. If 45 normal controls were also recruited (case/control ratio
      = 2:1), the study would provide a power of 87% to detect the difference with a 5% type I
      error rate. The minimum number of subjects required to detect the difference with an 80%
      power and a 5% type I error rate are 72 cases and 36 controls if the case/control ratio is
      2:1. A sample size of 90 AT-treated subjects will also provide an 80% power to detect the
      potential effects of pre-AT OAHI and follow-up OAHI on cardiovascular outcomes with medium
      effect size (assuming a partial R-squared of 0.1), while adjusted for age, sex and BMI in
      multiple linear regression model within the AT group.

      Besides, we have also conducted a separate pilot study comparing a group of 18 children with
      moderate-to-severe OSA treated with AT and a group of 18 age-, sex- and BMI-matched children
      with similar OSA severity without AT. The results showed that the nighttime systolic BP in
      the AT group was reduced by a mean of 2.3 mmHg at a 9-month follow-up visit, whereas the
      non-AT group had an increase in nighttime systolic BP by a mean of 2.3 mmHg (mean difference
      = 4.52 mmHg, common SD = 7.34 mmHg, effect size = 0.62). We have a total of 63 candidates for
      AT who had refused to undergo AT. Assuming a response rate of 70%, 45 subjects will be
      recruited. A total of 90 cases (AT-treated) and 45 controls (refused AT) provides a power of
      95% to detect the expected difference with a type I error rate of 5%. The minimum number of
      subjects required to detect the difference with an 80% power and a 5% type I error rate are
      50 cases and 25 controls if the case/control ratio is 2:1. All sample size and power
      calculations were done using G*Power (Version 3.1.9.2).

      Our target is to recruit a total of 180 subjects, comprising of 90 OSA subjects treated with
      AT, 45 non-snoring controls and 45 OSA subjects without AT for this follow-up study. We are
      confident to recruit the target number of subjects as we have been following up the OSA
      patients regularly in out-patient clinic and we also have a sufficient amount of normal
      control subjects for matching and recruitment.

      Methods:

      All participants will have to visit our unit once to undergo anthropometric measurement,
      overnight polysomnography (PSG), 24-hour ABPM, echocardiographic and arterial assessments.
      They will be arranged to come to our sleep laboratory at around 9 am in the morning.
      Twenty-four hour ABPM will be started after resting for 10 minutes upon arrival.
      Echocardiographic and arterial assessments will be subsequently arranged. They will stay
      until the next morning after completion of overnight sleep study and 24-h ABPM. For those who
      are reluctant to complete the whole study protocol, especially for control subjects who may
      not be willing to stay overnight for the sleep study, their symptoms will be documented by a
      self- or parent-report questionnaire (appendix 2), and they will have to come to our unit to
      undergo all the cardiovascular assessments and take the ABP monitor back home and return to
      us the next day when the 24-h monitoring is completed. Those failed to complete all the
      outcome assessments will be excluded.

      Data processing and analysis:

      The AT-treated group will be compared to the refused AT group and the non-snoring controls to
      assess the between-group differences in various cardiovascular outcomes. Student's t tests,
      Mann-Whitney U tests and chi-square tests will be used for the comparisons of normally
      distributed, non-normally distributed and categorical data, respectively. Linear and logistic
      regression analysis will be used to test whether OSA severity at baseline and follow-up and
      AT are associated with continuous (e.g. CIMT) and binary (e.g. hypertension) cardiovascular
      outcomes, respectively, while adjusting for age, gender and body size. Subgroup analysis will
      also be performed within the AT-treated group to explore factors associated with
      cardiovascular outcomes after AT. Particularly, the association of pre-AT and follow-up OAHI
      with various cardiovascular outcomes will be tested. Significance level will be set as 5%.
      All the analyses will be performed using the statistical software packages SPSS (SPSS Inc.,
      Chicago, Illinois, USA).
    
  