
    
      Depression is highly prevalent among patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
      (COPD) and is associated with adverse clinical outcomes. The overall goal of this proposal is
      to examine the impact of inflammation and genetic risk factors on depression in patients with
      severe COPD, and to assess the combined effects of inflammation, genetics, and depression on
      changes in functional outcomes. There is increasing evidence that COPD is associated with
      systemic inflammation that impacts other organ systems. High levels of systemic inflammatory
      markers have also been linked to increased risk of depression in both healthy and chronically
      ill populations. The neurotransmitter serotonin which is involved in the pathophysiology of
      affective disorders is regulated by the serotonin transporter (SERT) that controls reuptake
      of serotonin at brain synapses. Recent studies report that SERT polymorphisms are associated
      with depression, suggesting that variants of this gene may be important in determining
      whether patients with COPD will develop depression during the course of their disease. The
      preliminary data linking SERT polymorphisms with depression and data suggesting a
      relationship between inflammation, depression and COPD strongly argue for a large scale
      prospective study to critically test these relationships. Therefore, the aims of this
      prospective study of patients with moderate to very severe COPD are to: 1) Examine the
      relationship between SERT polymorphisms with depression; 2) Examine the bi-directional
      longitudinal relationship between markers of systemic inflammation (CRP, IL-1ra, IL-6, IL-12,
      TNF-α, and IFN-γ) and depressive symptoms in COPD, and explore the role of exacerbations and
      SERT genotype in this relationship; and 3) Determine the relationship of depression,
      inflammation, and SERT genotype with decline in functional outcomes (six minute walk test
      distance, physical activity measured with accelerometers, dyspnea severity, and health
      related quality of life) in COPD over 2 years. Patients with COPD GOLD Stages II-IV (n=350)
      will be recruited from two clinical sites over 30 months. Assessments at baseline, year 1 and
      year 2 will include: blood samples for genotyping (5-HTTLPR, STin2 VNTR, and rs25331) and
      cytokine assays (CRP, IL-1ra, IL-6, IL-12, TNF-α, and IFN-γ), spirometry, assessment of
      depression, functional capacity (six minute walk test), performance (physical activity
      derived from accelerometry), dyspnea, and health related quality of life (HRQL). We will use
      advanced longitudinal statistical techniques, structural equations modeling and latent growth
      models, to assess the dynamics of change in depression, inflammation, and functional status
      as posited by our models as these processes unfold over time.
    
  