
    
      Mechanical ventilation is needed for most preterm infants to maintain adequate oxygenation
      and ventilation. However the coexistence of lung immaturity, weak respiratory drive,
      excessively compliant chest wall, and surfactant deficiency often contribute to dependency on
      mechanical ventilation during the first days or weeks after birth.

      Prolonged mechanical ventilation is associated with high mortality and morbidities including
      ventilator-associated pneumonia, pneumothorax, and bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD). Each
      additional week of mechanical ventilation is reported to be associated with an increase in
      the risk of neurodevelopmental impairment. Reduction in the need and duration of invasive
      mechanical ventilation may potentially improve outcome of preterm infants.

      Extubation failure has been independently associated with increased mortality, longer
      hospitalization, and more days on oxygen and ventilatory support. It is critical, therefore,
      to attempt extubation early and at a time when successful extubation is likely.

      A recent Cochrane review compared the use of nasal intermittent positive pressure ventilation
      (NIPPV) with nasal continuous positive airway pressure (nCPAP) in preterm infants after
      extubation and found that NIPPV may be more effective than nCPAP at decreasing extubation
      failure.

      The feasibility of NAVA use has been described in neonatal and pediatric patients. Several
      studies cite a decrease in peak inspiratory pressures, improved synchrony in triggering, and
      more appropriate termination of positive pressure support. Some studies have reported lower
      work of breathing, PaO2/FiO2 ratios (partial pressure of oxygen/ fractional inspired
      oxygen)and MAP. In addition, NAVA has been used for patients who "fight the ventilator," and
      the synchrony improves the ability to wean.

      The use of NIV-NAVA in neonates has promise as a primary mode of ventilation to aid in the
      prevention of intubation and also maintaining successful extubation. Early extubation may be
      enhanced with NIV-NAVA of those neonates requiring intubation for numerous reasons. The
      ability to provide synchronous NIV allows clinicians the opportunity to extubate infants
      earlier with increased confidence than with previous post extubation support.

      However there is lack of scientific evidence on extubation failure rates on NI-NAVA. Trials
      comparing NAVA to conventional ventilators with regard to ventilator associated lung injury,
      ventilator associated pneumonia and decreasing duration of time on the ventilator have not
      yet been reported.
    
  