
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine if individuals with residual low-frequency hearing
      in the severe range can develop improved speech perception by combining their residual
      acoustic hearing with electrical processing through a cochlear implant designed to stimulate
      the high-frequency basal and middle turn of the cochlea while preserving useful low-frequency
      acoustic hearing. To accomplish this, we propose to implant individuals with severe hearing
      with a Cochlear® Nucleus™ Hybrid L24 Implant or a Cochlear® Nucleus™ Hybrid S12 in the poorer
      ear. We believe these devices will do less damage to the Organ of Corti structures, than
      longer, more invasive standard cochlear implant electrodes.

      Two different populations will be studied under this IDE.

      Population 1: 15 Adults who have a severe sensorineural hearing loss with a pure-tone average
      (PTA) between 60-90 decibels (dB) hearing level (HL) between 125-1500 Hz and profound loss at
      higher frequencies will be implanted with the Cochlear® Nucleus™ Hybrid L24 Implant. The
      potential subject will present with Consonant-Nucleus-Consonant (CNC) monosyllabic word
      scores between 0-35% in the ear to be implanted and up to 60% understanding in the
      contralateral ear in the best-aided condition.

      Population 2: 30 Children (ages 5-12 years) and adolescents (ages 13-15 years) who have a
      sensorineural hearing loss with a pure-tone average (PTA) between 60-90 dB HL between
      125-1500 Hz and profound loss at higher frequencies will be implanted with the Cochlear®
      Nucleus™ Hybrid L24 Implant or the Cochlear® Nucleus™ Hybrid S12 Implant. Those that have
      hearing thresholds between 60-90 dB HL at 1500 Hz would be implanted with the less invasive
      shorter 10 mm Hybrid S12 in attempt to better preserve the middle frequency range. Those with
      hearing thresholds >90 dB HL at 1500 Hz would receive the longer 16 mm Hybrid L24 electrode.
      The potential subject will present with Phonetically Balanced Kindergarten (PB-K)
      monosyllabic word scores between 0-50% in the ear to be implanted and up to 60% understanding
      in the contralateral ear in the best-aided condition.

      Through the preserved acoustic hearing, we believe the subject will experience better signal
      to noise ratios for speech perception in noise, better localization of sound and an
      improvement music perception. Histological evidence from patients implanted with standard
      arrays and our experience with a short electrode array for implantation of individuals with
      significant residual hearing both support this assumption (Nadol, Shiao, Burgess, Ketten,
      Eddington et al., 2001). The duration of this study will be 2 years (24 months) for adults
      and for 5 years (60 months) in children and adolescents.
    
  