
    
      Heat-shock proteins (HSP) are present within normal and cancerous cells. They are among the
      most ancient molecules in evolution, and are known as protein chaperones because of their
      abilities to bind polypeptide chains to assist in protein folding, transport or turnover.
      Works pioneered by Srivastava's group (Srivastava et al. 1998) have shown that HSPs can
      associate non-covalently with antigenic peptides. Injection of HSP-peptide complexes isolated
      from tumor cells can induce tumor protection against both pre-established tumors and
      subsequent tumor challenge by eliciting specific cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) response
      against a variety of tumors in animals such as sarcoma, lymphoma, melanoma, hepatoma,
      prostate cancer and lung cancer (Tamura et al).

      A previous trial on the role of HSP70 in breast cancer treatment was targeted specifically
      against patients who had widespread metastasis and who had failed all conventional therapy
      including intensive multi-agent chemotherapy with DTEC (decadron, taxol, etoposide and
      cyclophosphamide).

      This pilot study has shown that, (1) HSP70 can be purified successfully from breast cancer
      cells. (2) The yield of HSP70 is extremely variable and cannot be predicted accurately based
      on the size of the tumor because of significant heterogeneity of histology and patient's
      prior history of chemotherapy. (3) HSP70 vaccination is safe and well tolerated.

      Hypothesis and current protocol

      The biggest challenge of cancer management is to control metastasis. It is perhaps more
      obvious in breast cancer than in any other tumor. Breast cancer patients rarely die of
      primary cancer. The tendency of a deadly relapse in distal sites, after years of "remission"
      is the common cause of mortality. Even with newly diagnosed patients who present with stage
      IV breast cancer, complete response can be achieved in more than 40% of patients with the
      current multi-modality approach. However, patients with stage IV breast cancer are "never"
      cured because of the risk of late relapses.

      There are several reasons for the unsatisfactory results of immunotherapy in advanced and
      widespread cancers. First, the tumor burden is too overwhelming. Host defenses are simply
      over powered. Second, patients at this stage usually have significant co-morbidities, which
      prevent optimal immune responses. Third, advanced cancer patients often have a compromised
      functional state of the immune system either quantitatively or qualitatively due to prior
      cytotoxic therapy, radiation therapy, or as a result of active secretion of immunosuppressive
      agents by the tumor cells such as TGF-beta. Finally, there is simply not enough time to mount
      an effective adaptive immune response in these patients.

      Therefore, we hypothesize that immunotherapy with HSP70 is more effective as "consolidation"
      therapy for high-risk patients who are rendered to have only minimal residue disease. To test
      this hypothesis, tumors from patients with high-risk breast cancer will be resected for HSP70
      purification. This will be followed by conventional therapy such as hormonal therapy,
      chemotherapy, radiation therapy, or combined modality treatment. A total of 15 patients who
      are either in complete remission or in stable partial remission after standard therapy, will
      be enrolled to test the hypothesis that HSP70 vaccine will lead to improved tumor-specific T
      cell response in over 40% of patients. As a secondary endpoint, it will be determined whether
      the immunological responses can be correlated with disease-free survival or progression-free
      survival.
    
  