
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose of vandetanib when administered with oxaliplatin
           and docetaxel in patients with advanced cancer of the esophagus or gastroesophageal
           junction. (Phase I)

        -  To evaluate the toxicity of this regimen in these patients. (Phase I)

        -  To determine the progression-free survival of these patients. (Phase II)

      Secondary

        -  To determine the response rate in patients treated with oxaliplatin and docetaxel with
           or without vandetanib. (Phase II)

        -  To determine the overall survival of patients treated with these regimens. (Phase II)

        -  To determine the toxicity of these regimens in these patients. (Phase II)

        -  To determine whether tumor characteristics (e.g., EGFR/ErbB2 expression, activation and
           mutational status of the EGFR and ErbB2 pathway [total and phosphorylated EGFR and
           ErbB2, mutational and FISH analysis] and tumoral expression of HIF1-alpha) may have an
           association with response and outcome. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I, dose-escalation study of vandetanib followed by a
      randomized phase II study.

      Patients are stratified according to histology (adenosarcoma vs squamous cell carcinoma) and
      prior neoadjuvant/adjuvant chemotherapy/chemoradiotherapy (yes vs no). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. Patients in phase I receive treatment as in phase II arm
      I.

        -  Phase II arm I: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 8, oxaliplatin
           IV over 2 hours on day 1, and oral vandetanib (at the maximum tolerated dose determined
           in phase I) once daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 8 courses
           in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with responding
           or stable disease may continue to receive vandetanib beyond 8 courses in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Phase II arm II: Patients receive docetaxel and oxaliplatin as in arm I. Patients also
           receive an oral placebo once daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up
           to 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
           with responding or stable disease may continue to receive vandetanib beyond 8 courses in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients enrolled in phase II submit baseline tumor tissue samples for correlative laboratory
      studies, including analysis of EGFR and ErbB2 by mutational, FISH, and IHC analysis and
      HIF1-alpha expression by IHC analysis.
    
  