
    
      Dizziness is a common complaint. International studies show a prevalence of balance/dizziness
      problems in 10-30% in the population, and in Norway it is reported that 11 % of the
      population have symptoms of dizziness and/or imbalance during the last three months.
      Peripheral vestibular disorders are the most common cause of dizziness presenting in primary
      care. Most people recover within a few weeks , but it is assumed that about 30% of the
      patients do not recover fully from an acute peripheral vestibular disorder and develop
      long-lasting dizziness, often with secondary musculoskeletal pain and anxiety, making it a
      multifactorial syndrome. It is unknown if these secondary complaints are issues that maintain
      or exacerbates the dizziness, or if a high level of musculoskeletal and psychological
      problems may predict future disability.There is a general consensus that exercises labeled as
      Vestibular Rehabilitation (VR) is the most effective treatment for vestibular dysfunction. VR
      exercises involve eye, head and body movements aiming to provoke dizziness, which is a
      prerequisite for adaptation and recovery. However, not all patients will recover from VR, and
      therefore increased attention toward the psychological aspects, targeting how patients think
      about the dizziness has been addressed. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) alone or in
      addition to VR seems to have limited effect. This present study aims to combine an existing
      group treatment targeting body awareness and VR with CBT in order to address both the
      movement provoked dizziness and secondary complaints that patients with long-term dizziness
      often present with.

      Prior to conducting the RCT the feasibility of recruitment procedures, test procedures and
      the interventions (CBT-VR and BI) will be examined in a feasibility study. The study is
      judged as feasible if the participants could complete the testing and adhere to the treatment
      protocols, of they found the intervention appropriate for their complaints, and if the
      primary outcomes improved following the intervention. Eight participants were planned for the
      study.
    
  