
    
      Study Visits:

      If you are found to be eligible and you agree to take part in the therapeutic portion of the
      EMST therapy study, you will be trained how to use the EMST device. This device is designed
      to help strengthen the muscles used for swallowing and coughing. To use this small handheld
      device, you will wear a nose clip to prevent air from coming out of your nose. You will be
      asked to sit upright and take a deep breath, hold your breath for a moment, and then blow
      forcefully into the device until you break the seal.

      You will use the EMST device at home on a 5-5-5 schedule (5 repetitions, 5 sets, 5 days per
      week) for 8 weeks. Using the EMST device should take about 15 minutes each day you train.

      One (1) time each week during these 8 weeks, you will meet with a speech pathologist in the
      Head and Neck Center at MD Anderson. At each visit, you will use the digital manometer to
      re-test how forcefully you are able to exhale and cough. The resistance of the EMST device
      will be adjusted based on each week's measurement.

      Length of Study:

      You will be on study for up to 12 months. Your study participation will be over after the
      follow-up call, described below. You will be taken off study early if you are unable to use
      the EMST device, if the doctor thinks it is in your best interest, or if you are unable to
      follow study directions.

      Follow-Up Visit:

      After 8 weeks of using the EMST device, you will have a follow-up visit.

        -  You will have the same functional testing you had at screening (the modified barium
           swallow and tests of your tongue strength, mouth opening, and ability to exhale and
           cough forcefully).

        -  You will complete the questionnaires and will be asked about your symptoms and quality
           of life.

      Follow-Up Call:

      You will be contacted by phone 12 months after you joined the study to complete 4
      questionnaires about your symptoms, health and quality of life. This call should take up to
      15 minutes.

      This is an investigational study. The EMST device is FDA approved for exercising the muscles
      used in coughing and swallowing. Its use in preventing aspiration in patients who have
      received radiation for head and neck cancer is considered investigational.

      Up to 300 patients will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  