
    
      Back and neck related complaints effect as much as 11% of the U.S. population and are one of
      the most common presenting complaints at health care visits. A small subset of these patients
      receive spine surgery of various types in the hopes of alleviating symptoms that are
      recalcitrant to conservative management. The utilization of spine surgery has been rapidly
      increasing.2 An estimated 413,000 spinal fusions were performed in the U.S. in 2008
      accounting for almost $34 billion in charges.

      Patient satisfaction has become an increasingly important measure of healthcare quality. This
      paradigm shift is evident in the changing reimbursement models used by the Centers for
      Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers
      and Systems (HCAHPS) is a survey-based assessment of patient satisfaction that was initially
      developed in 2002. Currently, HCAHPS provides the ability to compare patient satisfaction
      with the care they receive at various healthcare systems across the country. These scores are
      used as part of a value-based purchasing initiative that can lead to a hospital gaining or
      losing as much as 1.5% of their annual medicare revenue as a result of patient satisfaction
      based incentives. This presents an important opportunity to optimize patient satisfaction in
      order to both improve patient care and preserve hospital income.

      A number of novel text-message based applications have been developed for healthcare use in
      various settings. In the surgical setting text messaging has been used to provide
      pre-operative education modules, as well as to track medication adherence after transplant.
      This study aims to develop and critically evaluate, a text-messaging based patient education
      system aimed at improving patient satisfaction with the post-operative course after spine
      surgery.
    
  