
    
      This is a multicenter, multinational, randomized, double-blind, 2-arm, parallel-group, Phase
      2/3 study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of PCC plus bevacizumab and CA4P versus PCC
      plus bevacizumab and placebo in subjects with platinum-resistant ovarian cancers (prOC).
      Subjects with platinum-resistant, recurrent, epithelial ovarian, primary peritoneal or
      fallopian tube cancer will be randomized 1:1 to receive PCC plus bevacizumab and CA4P or PCC
      plus bevacizumab and placebo. Subjects will be stratified by selected chemotherapy (PLD vs.
      paclitaxel), platinum free interval (< 3 vs. 3 to 6 months from last platinum therapy to
      subsequent progression), and line of therapy (2nd vs. 3rd). This is a 2-part study,
      consisting of a Phase 2, exploratory study (Part 1) followed by a Phase 3, pivotal study
      (Part 2). Both parts of the study will have similar overall design. Approximately 80 subjects
      will be randomized into Part 1 and approximately 356 subjects will be randomized into Part 2.

      All subjects randomized will receive bevacizumab 10 mg/kg intravenously (IV) on Days 1 and
      15, repeated every 4 weeks (q4wk) and PCC with paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 IV on Days 1, 8, 15 and
      22, repeated q4wk, or paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 IV on Days 1, 8, 15, repeated q4wk or PLD 40 mg/m2
      IV on Day 1, repeated q4wk. Subjects in the Treatment Arm will also receive CA4P 60 mg/m2 on
      the same day as bevacizumab (Days 1 and 15, repeated q4wk), while subjects in the Control Arm
      will receive placebo on those days.

      Order of dosing will follow the guidance listed below during this study when bevacizumab and
      CA4P / Placebo are dosed the same day as PCC,

        -  Bevacizumab followed by CA4P / Placebo followed after 1-3 hours by paclitaxel,

        -  PLD followed by bevacizumab followed by CA4P / Placebo Subjects will continue randomized
           treatment until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, investigator decision,
           withdrawal of consent, or sponsor discontinues study for any reason. Subjects will
           undergo tumor assessments (RECIST) at baseline and every 8 weeks and CA-125 levels at
           baseline and every 4 weeks.

      The primary endpoint is PFS. Secondary endpoints include ORR, OS, proportion of subjects who
      remain progression free at 6, 9, and 12 months, and safety. Endpoints will be compared
      between the Treatment Arm and the Control arm. The study duration is estimated to last
      approximately 3 years.

      This study will have 2 parts with the same overall design. Part 1 will enroll up to
      approximately 80 subjects and will include multiple interim analyses to test the safety and
      efficacy assumptions in this specific subject population. Upon meeting certain efficacy
      criteria in Part 1, the protocol will be amended and additional sites added in order to
      enroll an additional 356 subjects into Part 2 of the study. Subjects enrolled in Part 2 will
      be analyzed separately and used as a stand-alone confirmatory efficacy study.
    
  