
    
      Children were assigned randomly into three groups of equal number (A, B and C). Children were
      selected randomly by collecting all names of children that matched the inclusion criteria of
      the study then upload the names and gender using an electronic program (SPSS) which divided
      the sample into three equal groups (A), (B) & (C).

      Group A: this group included fifteen children with spastic hemiplegic CP. Children of this
      group received specially designed program of physical therapy exercises to facilitate
      eye-hand coordination and fine motor to improve VMI, VP and MC, which included: unbutton
      buttons, and button in all again; put the pellets in the bottle as fast as he/she can; place
      the shapes on its form board; build steps, wall, pyramid and a tower from cubes; cut out a
      line, square, triangle, and rectangular shapes on a paper by scissor; string squared cubes
      and lace the holes of strip. The tools used in training program were: button strip, lacing
      strip and its lace, mottle with screw- on cap, markers with different colors, beads and its
      lacing, square cubes, pellets, papers, blunt scissors, colored cubes, different types of form
      board and its shapes. Adjusted chair and table were used to accommodate differences in
      children's body built. Children were trained for 60 minutes per session, three times a week
      for three consecutive months.

      Group B: this group included fifteen children with spastic hemiplegic CP. Children of this
      group received training using the E-Link Upper Limb Exerciser for 60 minutes per session,
      three times a week for three consecutive months.

      Group C: this group included fifteen children with spastic hemiplegic CP. Children of this
      group received the same physical therapy program as conducted for group A, and training with
      E-Link Upper Limb Exerciser as conducted for group B. The training was for 60 minutes per
      session, three times a week for three consecutive months.

      The participated children were assessed by Beery-Buktenica Developmental Test before and
      after the three months of the treatment program. The average time required for evaluating
      each child was 40 min. The assessment and training methods were applied according to the
      instructions provided in the test and equipment manuals, no modifications were necessary.
    
  