
    
      Vitamin B12 has long been suggested to have neural nutrient effect and widely used in
      clinical settings for patients with peripheral nerve injury as well as complementary medicine
      for patients with CNS disorders, including cognitive dysfunction. Evidences showed that,
      although no significant improvement in cognitive function was observed in healthy elderly
      after vitamin B12 supplementation, some studies suggested that patients with pre-existing CNS
      disorder may benefit from Vitamin B12. Post operational cognitive dysfunction (POCD) is
      severe, and long-lasting complication that affects as high as 53% of patients in high risk
      surgeries. Age is an independent risk factor for POCD. Researches have shown that serum
      vitamin B12 level decrease with age, and methylcobalamin (active form of Vitamin B12) content
      in the frontal cortex of aged patients are lower than that of younger patients. However,
      there are no report on effect of preemptive supplementation of vitamin B12 on POCD incidence.
      Therefore, the current research is aimed to explore the preoperative methylcobalamin
      supplementation (500 mg, 3/day for 7 days before surgery) on incidence of POCD. Folic acid
      supplementation is a common companion for vitamin B12 treatment in clinical settings because
      they are in the same methionine cycle, increase of one may result in deficiency of another.
      So we added 5 mg, 1/day of folic acid with methylcobalamin in the treatment group.

      This study will recruit patients more than 65 years old eligible for non-cardiac surgery.
      Patients who participate will take either vitamin B12 and folic acid supplementation or
      placebo for 7 days before surgery. Neuropsychological test battery (NPB) will be tested
      before intervention and at discharge for determination of Post operative cognitive
      dysfunction (POCD). Another group of non-surgical elderly participants will also be tested
      for NPB to account for learning effect in POCD diagnosis. The hypothesis is that preoperative
      vitamin B12 supplementation will reduce the incidence of POCD in elderly patients undergoing
      non-cardiac surgery.
    
  