
    
      Conflicting results have been reported regarding the effect of ankle sprain on the
      proprioceptive sensation of the ankle, peroneal muscle strength and ankle joint laxity in the
      past research studies related to FAI. In spite of controversies regarding etiological factors
      for FAI, balance training has been widely used in sports medicine clinics to treat FAI. Most
      of these studies have focused on the identification of postural control deficits in patients
      with FAI rather than trying to understand the mechanism of balance training on etiological
      factors of FAI.

      Hyper-reactivity of the ankle joint with FAI may be an important factor for the ankle "giving
      way" episode. Patients may develop injury-induced hyper-reactivity for unloading reaction
      through an adaptation to physical conditions of the ankle joint after injury. Clinical
      studies performed with selective nerve blocks along with electrophysiology studies performed
      in animals have led to the generally accepted conclusion that enhanced pain induced by
      peripheral nerve injury is associated with increased spontaneous and evoked discharges from
      injured and/or adjacent uninjured nerves. Persistent primary afferent inputs are believed to
      cause a state of central (i.e. "spinal") sensitization and enhancing responses to sensory
      inputs i.e. hyper-reactivity.

      The ankle "giving way" is a complex phenomenon where any mechanical and neuromuscular factor
      or a combination of mechanical and neuromuscular factors may be at fault including ankle
      hyper-reactivity, joint laxity, proprioceptive deficit, and muscle weakness. The purpose of
      this study is to examine the effect of balance training intervention on the various
      etiological factors of FAI and to develop an objective measurement for physiological features
      related to FAI.

      The study will help us to understand the mechanism of balance training on FAI and help us to
      determine the scope and limitations of balance training on FAI subjects in clinical settings
      to evaluate treatment efficacy.
    
  