
    
      A recent Diabetes UK Position Statement identified several key gaps in the evidence base that
      might help improve mental wellbeing for people with diabetes, one of which was supporting
      people with diabetes and eating disorders. The position statement recommends focusing on
      people in general, citing studies which observe that 30% of women with T1D omit insulin to
      control their weight. However, there is evidence indicating that disordered eating may be
      more prevalent in CYP. A recent meta-analysis found that clinical eating disorders (i.e.
      anorexia and bulimia) and maladaptive eating and dieting practices (fasting, binge eating,
      self-induced vomiting, abuse of laxatives, diet pills or other medications including
      intentional insulin omission - diabulimia) were more prevalent in CYP with T1D (7.0% and
      39.3% respectively) than those without T1D (2.7% and 32.5%).

      Management of T1D places an inherent focus on dietary intake, specifically carbohydrate
      counting, physical activity, regular blood sugar monitoring and correct and timely
      administration of insulin based on these factors. Many high carbohydrate foods can be
      perceived as 'bad' for blood glucose levels and are subsequently avoided or prohibited within
      families. This can lead to tensions between CYP and their parents, where CYP may be chastised
      for eating particular foods or for eating 'forbidden' foods in secret. Additionally,
      treatment and avoidance of hypoglycaemic episodes can add further complexities to a CYP with
      T1D's relationship with food, as they may overeat during hypos or save restricted or
      forbidden foods for hypo treatment. Some CYP may also be discouraged from participating in
      sport activities due to concerns about a potential hypoglycaemic event. Additionally,
      depending on age and pre-diagnosis symptoms of T1D, some CYP may also have experienced
      significant weight loss pre-diagnosis that was quickly regained upon starting insulin
      treatment; this may provide evidence to CYP that insulin causes them to gain unwanted body
      weight.

      Whilst systematic reviews and meta-analyses exist on the prevalence of eating problems and
      diabetes as well as associations between eating problems and glycaemic control, the focus of
      interventions for CYP with T1D has been on the improvement of psychological distress and
      long-term glycaemic control. Although some interventions included in these reviews have
      focused on family therapy, they did not explicitly target disordered eating and none were
      based in the UK. More recently published parenting interventions also do not address
      disordered eating. Therefore, due to this paucity of evidence for existing interventions, the
      evidence-base for interventions for clinical eating disorders not specific to T1D is reviewed
      instead.

      The rationale for focusing on interventions aimed at parents is that parents are more
      responsive to psychological interventions than their offspring. Furthermore, studies have
      highlighted the protective influence of parents for CYP with clinical eating disorders with
      family-based treatments playing a key role in supporting CYP in their recovery. Families are
      a resource in the treatment of eating disorders in CYP and there is mounting evidence that
      supports family-based treatments in both anorexia and bulimia. Mobilisation of the family
      system as a resource and an emphasis on promoting specific change early on in treatment in
      eating disorder-related behaviours have been found to be key elements. The involvement of
      parents is a key recommendation in the NICE guidelines for eating disorders. Additionally,
      the Access and Waiting Times Standard for CYP with eating disorders emphasises the necessity
      of rapid and effective treatment for CYP, along with their families and carers.

      Parent-focused psychoeducation groups can be a useful tool to support early change in the
      treatment of eating disorders. A parent-focused psychoeducation group has been developed at a
      specialist CYP Eating Disorder service with the aim of offering treatment within a timely
      manner that promoted early change. The programme is based on key principles from the
      parenting programme literature and the evidence base for the treatment of eating disorders.
      Emerging evidence from this group indicated significant positive effects and highlighted that
      parents benefitted most from the information about managing their CYP's eating disorder and
      meeting other parents. Another recent evaluation found the group to be an effective source of
      support for parents, improved their confidence and knowledge in managing their child's eating
      disorder and their ability to manage their child's adherence to meal plans.

      Therefore, it is evident that the involvement of parents could be crucial to facilitate
      recovery in CYP with eating disorders. Less specific to eating disorders, a recent review of
      parental interventions to prevent body dissatisfaction or eating disorders in CYP also found
      encouraging results.
    
  