
    
      Background and Significance: Accumulating evidence indicates that sleep quantity (low number
      of sleep hours) and quality (subjective complaint of insomnia) are associated with an
      increased risk of cardiovascular diseases even after controlling for other cardiovascular
      risk factors. The prevalence of insomnia increases with age. Assisting middle-aged and older
      adults manage insomnia is essential to promote sleep, reduce anxiety and depression, and
      reduce the risk of cardiovascular diseases. Two behavioral treatments, stimulus control
      instructions (SCI) and sleep restriction therapy (SRT) are established treatments for
      insomnia. However, both treatments demand commitment to changing one's habits and lifestyle.
      Preferences for treatment have been found to influence adherence to, and outcomes of
      treatment. The study will provide experimental evidence of the extent to which improved sleep
      quantity and quality reduce the risk of cardiovascular diseases, and the SCI and SRT are
      effective in achieving these outcomes. The study is the first to examine satisfaction with
      treatment as the mechanism mediating the influence of preferences on treatment adherence and
      outcomes.

      Objectives: The study addresses substantive and methodological areas of interest to the
      funding opportunity. The substantive objectives are: 1) to examine the direct effects of SCI
      and SRT on sleep (quantity and quality), psychological (anxiety, depression), and physical
      (cardiovascular symptoms and events) outcomes, and 2) to examine the indirect effects of SCI
      and SRT on psychological and physical outcomes, mediated through sleep quantity and quality.
      The methodological objectives are: 1) to compare participants randomized to treatment and
      participants allocated to treatment of choice on attrition, satisfaction with treatment,
      adherence to treatment, and sleep, psychological and physical outcomes; 2) among randomized
      participants, to compare those who receive and those who do not receive the preferred
      treatment on attrition, satisfaction with, and adherence to treatment, and sleep,
      psychological, and physical outcomes; and, 3) to explore the extent to which satisfaction
      with treatment mediates the influence of preferences on treatment adherence and outcomes.

      Design: A two-stage partially randomized clinical trial will be used. Eligible participants
      will be randomized to the random and preference arms of the trial. In the random arm,
      participants will be randomly assigned to no-treatment, SCI or SRT. In the preference arm,
      participants will be allocated to SCI or SRT based on their preferences. Outcome data will be
      collected at 4 time points: pretest, posttest, and 6-month and 12-month follow-up.

      Sample: Non-institutionalized, cognitively intact, adults (> 40 years) will be included if
      they complain of difficulty initiating and/or maintaining sleep (> 30 minutes per night, for
      > 3 nights per week, for > 6 weeks) that is not associated with sleep apnea. A sample of 60
      participants per group, for a total of 300, is required to detect medium effects of the
      behavioral treatments and treatment preferences on sleep outcomes.

      Measures: All outcomes will be measured with established measures. Adherence to treatment
      will be estimated with relevant data from the daily sleep diary. Preferences for, and
      satisfaction with treatment will be assessed with self-report instruments developed by the
      investigators and found reliable.

      Analysis: In addition to descriptive statistics, hierarchical linear models and latent growth
      curve modeling will be used to address the objectives. The analysis will be repeated for
      participants who did and did not report cardiovascular diseases at baseline.
    
  