
    
      Melasma is an acquired form of hyperpigmentation that is seen most commonly on the face,
      characterized by symmetrically distributed brown patches of variable darkness. The
      cosmetically unattractive nature of this disorder has been shown to negatively affect a
      patient's quality of life. Unfortunately, the treatment of melasma is challenging and often
      disappointing. Treatment includes a combination approach with strict sun protection, cosmetic
      camouflage, topical lightening agents, laser therapy, and chemical peels.

      Today, the investigators define chemical peeling as the application of chemical exfoliating
      agents to the skin, which results in destruction of one or more parts of the epidermis and/or
      dermis with subsequent regrowth of these layers. Chemical peels are divided into superficial
      (light), medium, and deep; with superficial peels being the focus of this study. Superficial
      peels penetrate into the epidermis only, and are a safe, widely available and well-tolerated
      treatment modality. These peeling agents include glycolic acid, lactic acid, mandelic acid,
      salicylic acid and trichloroacetic acid, each with unique properties. For instance,
      alpha-hydroxy acids, such as glycolic acid, are known to be hydrophilic, whereas salicylic
      acid is lipophilic and anti-inflammatory.

      As each peeling agent has unique properties, it can be hypothesized that the combined use of
      these agents may result in better clinical outcomes than the use of an agent alone. Prior
      studies have demonstrated that the combined use of these peels are safe and effective in
      improving a variety of skin conditions including acne scars, hyperpigmentation, and
      infraorbital dark circles. Overall however, studies on the combined use of these chemical
      peels in the treatment of melasma are lacking.

      Therefore, the aim of this pilot study is to conduct a controlled comparison of the efficacy
      and safety of a combination peel (glycolic acid and salicylic acid) as compared to glycolic
      acid peel alone in the treatment of melasma.
    
  