
    
      Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have been utilized in the treatment and prevention of
      graft-versus-host disease(GVHD) after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation
      (alloSCT). However, studies on MSC use in alloSCT from haploidentical donors (haploSCT) have
      been limited.

      In this study, the investigators aim 1) to evaluate MSCs' efficacy in GVHD prophylaxis and
      effect on engraftment of the haploidentical graft, 2) to improve the success rate of haploSCT
      by further decreasing GVHD incidence and graft failure rate. With higher haploSCT success
      rates, haploidentical donors would be important alternative graft sources in patients without
      HLA-matched donors.

      Forty patients who present to Ankara University, School of Medicine, Division of Hematology
      with hematological malignancies and have indications for haploSCT will be included in the
      study after informed consent is obtained. MSCs will be procured and isolated from donor bone
      marrows. MSCs will be isolated, cultured, and stored in the good manufacturing practice (GMP)
      laboratory in Ankara University Stem Cell Institute. Donor bone marrow will be harvested,
      four to six weeks prior to transplantation, for MSC isolation and culture. Patients will
      receive either an ablative or non-ablative induction regimen based on their age, diagnosis,
      and the disease status at the time of transplantation. Donor bone marrow will be harvested a
      second time on the day of transplantation and the procured bone marrow graft will be infused
      to the patient the same day. GVHD prophylaxis will include post-transplantation
      cyclophosphamide (Cy) on days +3 and +4 (50 mg/kg/day), tacrolimus, and mycophenolate
      mofetil. Stored MSCs will be infused to the patient on day +6. The endpoints include graft
      failure rate, GVHD incidence, transplant-related mortality, disease-free survival, and
      overall survival.

      The investigators aim to evaluate the utility of MSCs in improving haploSCT results and to
      enhance the reliability and success of haploSCT. Successful transplants from haploidentical
      donors would ameliorate the problem of matched donor paucity in countries with a limited
      number of hematopoietic stem cell donors, such as Turkey, and would establish haploidentical
      donors an alternative donor source for patients without matched donors in Turkey. As
      haploidentical donors may be parents or children, rapid and easy access to donors would
      decrease wait times for alloSCT. Moreover, national current account deficit may be reduced
      through using grafts obtained from haploidentical donors residing in Turkey instead of grafts
      from foreign stem cell/umbilical cord banks.

      In this project, the investigators seek to develop clinical therapy applications in
      concordant with the ambition of "renewal and repair of human cells, tissues, and organs
      through cellular therapy and cellular products" that is included in the The Scientific and
      Technological Research Council of Turkey 1003 Call for Projects.
    
  