
    
      The Parkinson's disease results from dysfunction of the dopaminergic systems, cholinergic,
      serotonergic and noradrenergic, though the neuropathological basic pattern is the change of
      the nigrostriatal pathway, with decreased concentration of dopamine at the level of dopamine
      receptors in the body striatum.

      With still little known etiology in most instances, the Parkinson's disease has as clinical
      signs, symptoms called cardinal engines: resting tremor, bradykinesia, rigidity and postural
      instability. Additionally, patients may exhibit cognitive deficits and emotional changes with
      the progression of the disease.

      The clinical diagnosis is primarily based on the identification of the cardinal motor
      symptoms plus the initial response to levodopa therapy . The literature is unanimous in
      admitting that the use of Levodopa (L-dopa) is the most effective drug for the treatment, and
      its administration the most recommended in satisfactory symptom control.

      In addition to drug therapy, physical therapy is also considered a useful tool for the
      treatment of motor disorders associated disease. Although the speed of the motor of the
      patient learningParkinson's disease is lower than their control group of the same age,
      rehabilitation, these individuals may also acquire motor skills as well as improve their
      performance through practice repetition.

      Although a physical rehabilitation program to be beneficial to improve the activities of
      daily living (ADL) and mobility in patients with Parkinson's disease , it is not yet clear
      how long its effect is sustained. Most clinical trials of physiotherapy in PD were based on
      short-term rehabilitation programs.

      Few studies have been conducted to evaluate the effects of long-term physical therapy in
      Parkinson's disease, but many report the beneficial effects of a short-term rehabilitation
      program, without having to concern monitoring after the physical therapy.

      Thus this study aims to continuously evaluate the behavior of the effects of a physical
      therapy program in patients with Parkinson's disease.

      Knowledge of the time interval which is the decline of the gains from physiotherapy is a
      guiding point to guide the patient regarding their return to service for revaluation, also
      considering the fact that the disease have progressive.
    
  