
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the feasibility in the patients treated with the patient-derived xenografts
      (PDX)-directed therapies in both cohorts (cohort 1 and cohort 2).

      II. To establish mouse xenografts from the mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) tissue samples of
      patients with relapsed MCL.

      III. To determine the activity of a panel of anticancer drugs consistent with the patient's
      clinical history against these MCL cells in vitro.

      IV. To test the best selected in vitro options in the PDX model to create a profile, in rank
      order based on the efficacy of best 3-5 options, of individualized patient treatment options.

      V. To determine the feasibility of predicting the patient's response to therapy using a
      PDX-based strategy.

      VI. To define susceptibility and resistance determinants to the drugs in xenografted tumors.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the objective response (OR) rate (complete + partial responses).

      II. To determine safety and toxicity. III. To determine progression-free survival (PFS).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To correlate detected gene mutations and changes in ribonucleic acid (RNA) and/or protein
      expression with treatment responses.

      OUTLINE: patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

      COHORT 1 (TRADITIONAL COHORT): Patients who have previously received ibrutinib,
      acalabrutinib, PI3K inhibitor ACP-319, or BTK inhibitor BGB-3111 receive treatment through
      ongoing clinical trials at MD Anderson or standard of care. At the same time, previously
      collected tissue is used to develop PDX models and suitable drugs/regimens are tested in the
      PDX models. Patients then receive treatment based on the results of the PDX models through
      another clinical trial or standard of care.

      COHORT 2 (CO-TRIAL COHORT): Patients receive ibrutinib at standard dose and schedule through
      an ongoing MD Anderson clinical trial. Patients that respond to ibrutinib but experience
      relapse or disease progression receive treatment based on the results of the PDX models as in
      Cohort 1 if they are available. Patients who experience relapse after treatment with
      ibrutinib are moved to Cohort I if the PDX models are not ready.
    
  