
    
      In the U.S., about 10% of African Americans have an abnormal hemoglobin gene. About 8% of
      African Americans are heterozygous for Hemoglobin S. In the United States, sickle cell anemia
      primarily occurs in the black population, with approximately 0.2% of African American
      children afflicted by this disease. It may be associated with other hemoglobinopathies as
      well. The prevalence in adults is lower because of the decrease in life expectancy.
      Systemically, the sickle cell anemia variation (SS) produces the most symptoms. With respect
      to the eye, the sickle cell disease mutation (SC) produces the most effects. Overall, the
      sickle cell trait expression (AS) produces the fewest complications.

        -  Among patients with SC or SThal, the incidence of proliferation sickle cell retinopathy
           is 33% and 14% respectively.

        -  Proliferative sickle cell retinopathy is the major cause of vision loss in sickle cell
           disease.

      For sickle cell retinopathy, the commonly used therapeutic modalities include laser retinal
      photocoagulation, retinal cryotherapy, and vitrectomy/membranectomy depending on the severity
      of the disease. The most effective therapeutic modality with minimal postoperative
      complications appears to be scatter laser retinal photocoagulation.

      A single case study of bevacizumab was found to effective in short term regression of
      neovascularization and improving vision after a single injection. Further study with
      ranibizumab is warranted.

      Recent clinical trials (Marina and Anchor) have demonstrated that ranibizumab is effective in
      treating patients with CNV with age-related macular degeneration. Retinopathy in sickle cell
      disease has also been linked to VEGF. Therefore, patients with sickle cell retinopathy should
      respond to ranibizumab therapy.

      This is an open-label single dose, phase I study of intravitreally administered ranibizumab
      in patients with sickle cell retinopathy.

      Consented, enrolled subjects will receive a single open-label intravitreal injection of 0.5
      mg ranibizumab.

      Three subjects from one site in the United States will be enrolled.

      Patients will receive one dose of 0.5 mg ranibizumab administered intravitreally.
    
  