
    
      Keloid scars are characterized by the excessive proliferation of fibroblasts and an imbalance
      between the production and degradation of collagen, leading to its buildup in the dermis.
      Although the genesis of this condition is not yet fully clarified, keloids are known to have
      a genetic component and are related to an increase in the expression of transforming growth
      factor beta (TGF-β). There is no "gold standard" treatment and recurrence is frequent.
      Therefore, novel treatment options are needed. In vitro studies have demonstrated that
      photobiomodulation (PBM) reduces the multiplication velocity and quantity of fibroblasts as
      well as the expression of TGF-β. This is a low-cost, noninvasive therapy with no side effects
      that has proved to be a good tool to complement the most established treatment. Therefore,
      the purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of blue light combined with corticoid
      treatment in the preoperative and postoperative period of keloid removal surgery. A
      randomized, controlled, double-blind, clinical trial will be conducted involving two groups:
      1) Sham (N = 29): intralesional administration of corticoid (IAC) and sham PBM in the
      preoperative and postoperative periods of keloid removal surgery; and 2) active PBM combined
      with IAC (N = 29) in the preoperative and postoperative periods of keloid removal surgery.
      Transcutaneous PBM will be performed on the keloid in the preoperative period and on the
      remaining scar in the postoperative period using blue LED (470 nm, 400 mW, 6.6 mJ per point
      on 10 linear points). The patients will answer two questionnaires: one for the assessment of
      quality of life (Qualifibro-UNIFESP) and one for the assessment of satisfaction with the scar
      (PSAQ). The team of plastic surgeons will answer the Vancouver Scar Scale (VSS). All
      questionnaires will be administered one, three, six, and twelve months postoperatively. The
      keloids will be molded in silicone prior to the onset of treatment and prior to excision to
      assess pre-treatment and post-treatment size. The same will be performed for the remaining
      scar at one, three, six, and twelve months postoperatively. The removed keloid will be sent
      for histopathological analysis for the determination of the quantity of fibroblasts, the
      organization and distribution of collagen (picrosirius staining), and the expression of
      TGF-β. All data will be submitted to statistical analysis.
    
  