
    
      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE: Dry eye disease (DED) may degrade vision that can interfere with
      daily activities including reading, driving, and viewing computer screen. Further, DED is
      associated with decreased productivity, absenteeism from work, depression, post-traumatic
      stress disorder (PTSD), and have an adverse impact on patient's quality of life. A category
      of meditation called Automatic Self Transcending Meditation (ASTM) may help with depression,
      PTSD, and may have a positive impact on quality of life of participants diagnosed with DED.
      ASTM is a class of meditation that helps quiet the mind and induces physiological and mental
      relaxation whilst the eyes are shut. It utilizes a specific sound value (mantra) to draw
      attention inward and permit the mind to experience a restful but alert state of
      consciousness. We will offer patients a specific standardized form of ASTM called Sahaj
      Samadhi Meditation. In this study, we shall measure HRQoL of patients with DED in both ASTM
      and no intervention arms. HRQoL is an essential measure of quality of life related to health;
      it helps physician identify hidden morbidities in clinical care as well as improves
      patient-physician communications. However, majority of current ophthalmic literature
      describes changes in clinical variables with any intervention whilst lacking information on
      HRQoL. The reason for lack of HRQoL data in published ophthalmic literature is likely because
      it is difficult and cumbersome to estimate. Additionally, it is unfortunate that many
      clinicians severely underestimate the added value of HRQoL measurement in routine clinical
      practice. We think there is a high necessity to assess if there is an association between
      HRQoL and routinely measured clinical data. A primary purpose of this study is to assess if
      ASTM confers beneficial effects on HRQoL of DED patients compared to a no intervention arm.
      Additionally, we will assess changes, if any, that ASTM confers on self-reported depression
      and anxiety symptoms as a secondary outcome measure. PRIMARY HYPOTHESIS: We hypothesize that
      in patients with DED ASTM + TAU will lead to significant improvement in HRQoL compared to TAU
      alone from baseline to 24 weeks after the initial ASTM training. SECONDARY HYPOTHESES: We
      hypothesize that in patients with DED 1) HRQoL is associated with regularly measured clinical
      variables 2) ASTM+TAU leads to significant improvement in depression and anxiety symptoms at
      24 weeks compared to TAU alone 3) The beneficial effects of ASTM on all studied variables
      will be sustained at 24 weeks post intervention. STUDY DESIGN: We plan to conduct a
      single-center, single blind longitudinal randomized controlled trial. Research participants
      will be 256 men and women (128 in each group). STUDY RECRUITMENT: Potential participants with
      mild to severe DED between 18 - 75 years of age will be screened - from the office practice
      of Dr. Mather as per inclusion and exclusion criteria - by Dr. Mather at the Ivey Eye
      Institute, London, ON. Letter of information (LOI) will be given to potential participants.
      An ophthalmic examination - offered as a routine care - for each potential participant (i.e.,
      measuring best-corrected Snellen visual acuity (VA) and pinhole acuities) will be conducted.
      QUESTIONNAIRE: Patients will undergo a standardized interview performed by a trained
      interviewer to measure HRQoL using the time trade-off method (TTO) in which potential
      participants will be asked couple of questions about their quality of life such as 1) how
      long you expect to live? and 2) how many of those remaining years of life, if any, you would
      be willing to trade in return for a treatment permitting your current vision in each eye to
      be transformed to permanent perfect vision (20/20) bilaterally?. During the first office
      visit only, also a screening visit, in the interview, patients will be asked demographic
      questions including age, gender, and associated medical conditions, such as concurrent ocular
      conditions, ocular disease other than DED, previous ocular surgery, inflammation,
      intraoperative complications, preoperative ocular pathology, chronic pain, general diseases
      that could affect the immune system, and actual infection. In addition, patients will be
      asked about co-morbidities such as, whether they have high blood pressure, diabetes,
      arthritis, heart condition, stroke, and other non-ocular medical conditions. Further, the
      following self-rated scales will be administered at the first office visit: TTO, Visual
      Function Questionnaire (VFQ-25), the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9), Generalized
      Anxiety Disorder (GAD-7), Canadian Dry Eye Assessment (CDEA), Ocular Surface Disease Index
      (OSDI), and SPEED Dry Eye Questionnaire. RANDOMIZATION: Participants will be randomized to
      either ASTM + TAU or TAU alone equally (1:1) using computer generated randomization numbers
      available at random.org. Concealment of randomization will be ensured by independent staff
      performing randomization using a third-party web based provider
      (http://www.sealedenvelope.com/). Computerized randomization will occur from the clinic of
      Dr. Mather, Ivey Eye Institute in St. Joseph's Hospital, London, Ontario. A telephone number
      will be available for study concerns/queries. Pre-randomized information will be stored using
      unique de-identifiers and downloaded on a secure database. It will not be possible to blind
      participants to intervention status. Outcome assessors and investigators will be blinded to
      treatment. It will not be possible to blind participants or staff providing treatment to the
      intervention status. TREATMENT ARMS: 1. Automatic Self-Transcending meditation (ASTM):
      Following the initial measurements (common to both ASTM and control group), participants in
      the ASTM group will undergo ASTM training in groups of 10 by certified teachers under the
      supervision of one of the study collaborator at a room in St. Joseph's Hospital or at the
      Ivey Eye Institute, 268 Grosvenor Street, London, ON. This involves participating in four,
      90-120 minute sessions each of four consecutive days. This will be followed by weekly 60
      minute follow up sessions for 4 weeks, biweekly sessions for weeks 5- 12 weeks and monthly
      follow-up session for 13-24 weeks. Participants will be required to attend 75% of weekly,
      bi-weekly, monthly follow-up sessions. In addition, participants will be asked to practice
      ASTM at home for 20 minutes twice daily over the study period (24 weeks). Participants will
      be asked to log practice frequency and any other noteworthy observations in the log sheet
      provided to them. Further, the following self-rated scales will be administered by a trained
      rater at the fourth ASTM session (week 0) as well as at weeks 4, 8, 12, and 24: TTO, VFQ-25,
      PHQ-9, GAD-7, CDEA, OSDI, and SPEED Dry Eye Questionnaire. CONTROL INTERVENTION: Participants
      randomized to control arm (Treatment as Usual, TAU) will continue to receive their treatment
      as usual including DED medications. They will follow assessment and study procedures as
      listed below. The following self-rated scales will be administered by a trained rater at
      weeks 0, 4, 8, 12, and 24: TTO, VFQ-25, PHQ-9, GAD-7, CDEA, OSDI, and SPEED Dry Eye
      Questionnaire. Following a duration of week 24 into the study participants in TAU arm will
      also be offered the opportunity to learn ASTM. No study procedures will be applied or any
      other information collected during this period. STUDY RECRUITMENT: We anticipate to recruit
      participants at a rate of at least 2 participants/week over a period of 128 weeks allowing
      attainment of sample size of n=256. There is no obligation for the participants to take part
      in the study; all participation is voluntary. VARIABLE SPECIFICATION: Dependent variable: A
      dependent variable is created based on the HRQoL, an interval scale variable taking values
      between 0.0 and 1.0. Independent variables: Visual acuity in a better-seeing eye, patients'
      demographic characteristics, including age, gender, and associated medical conditions are the
      independent variables. Patients' demographic characteristics, including age, are considered
      as continuous variables. Gender is categorized as male and female and associated medical
      conditions are categorized as "current medical conditions," which includes concurrent ocular
      conditions, inflammation; "other diseases," which includes ocular diseases other than DED,
      chronic pain, general diseases that could affect the immune system, and actual infection; and
      "medical history," which includes previous ocular surgery, preoperative ocular pathology, and
      intraoperative complications. Data Grouping: Based on BCVA, study participants will be
      grouped to visual acuity in better seeing eye (group 1, 20/20 to 20/50; group 2, 20/60 to
      20/100; group 3, 20/200 to no light perception). Better seeing will be used since a
      correlation has been shown between utility score and better seeing eye. These 3 groups were
      chosen since group 1 represents legal driving vision in Canada, group 2 represents moderate
      visual acuity loss, and group 3 represents legal blindness. DATA ANALYSIS: As has been done
      in many other studies, HRQoL will be calculated by dividing the number of years a patient is
      willing to trade in return for improved quality of life by the estimated numbers of years of
      remaining life subtracted by 1.0 as given below: HRQoL(U)=1-(number of years a patient is
      willing to trade in return for improved quality of life)/(estimated number of years of
      remaining life). Mean, standard deviation, and 95% confidence interval for continuous
      variables such as utility value, will be calculated. For categorical variables, visual acuity
      in the better-seeing eye, gender, and associated medical conditions, proportions will be
      calculated. The chi-square test statistic for independence will be used to compare
      unwillingness to trade time in TTO. The unpaired, two-tailed Student t-test will be used to
      evaluate the effect of visual acuity in the better eye in four groups and gender on mean of
      time trade-off utility values. Non-response issues: Non-respondent patients' characteristics
      will be compared with respondent patients,' and if they do not appear to be statistically
      significantly different, then these results will be generalized to the sample and population.
      Data will be analyzed using STATA Software (Version 15.0). The unit of analysis is the HRQoL.
      Univariate and bivariate analysis will be performed for each independent variable against the
      dependent variable to elicit the impact of each factor on the pattern of HRQoL without
      adjusting for the effect of other variables. Models will be deemed statistically significant
      if they are associated with a significant F value (p < 0.01) and if they explain over 15%
      variability of the dependent variable. Only those independent variables that are
      statistically significantly associated with the HRQoL (p < 0.05) will be used for model
      construction. Since the dependent variable is continuous, we plan to use a non-linear
      regression model to assess the effect of each independent variable on the dependent variable,
      while controlling for the confounders. Multicollinearity, high correlation between
      independent variables, and interaction effects will be evaluated for the model. VALIDATION
      ANALYSIS: Validation will be performed on the developed regression model. The collected data
      will be divided into two portions: one portion, called the "main data," will contain 80% of
      the samples of the total collected utility values and its associated data; the other portion,
      called the "test data," will contain the remaining 20%. Validation will be done using test
      data but having the same coefficient values as the main data to calculate the percentage of
      correct cases. Similar regression analysis as described above will be performed for vision
      score measured by VFQ-25, depression score by PHQ-9, anxiety score by GAD-7, CDEA score, OSDI
      score, and SPEED score.
    
  