
    
      The objective of this study is to build NSCLC gene mutation profile in China and find related
      correlation between gene mutation panel and clinical outcome.

      Approximately 600 surgical tissue samples will be collected during operation in Tianjin
      Cancer hospital from 2009-2012, including lung squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma.
      The target area of 295 genes, including lung cancer drive genes, important signal pathway
      genes, drug resistance genes will be detected by New generation Sequencing (NGS) deep
      (average 1000X). This genes was selected from Mutations can guide treatment or as prognosis
      factors in NCCN/FDA/CFDA guideline, related mutations in phase II/III studies and
      NCCN/FDA/CFDA approved in other type tumors and related mutations in phase I or pre-clinical
      studies and can not guide treatment or as prognosis factors.

      All mutations detected in 600 samples are summarized for statistics, calculating the mutation
      proportion in overall population. Clustering analysis is performed according to the main
      drive genes related biological pathways, correlation between gene mutation data and
      categorical clinical variables is performed by Fisher's Exact Test. The Log-rank test will be
      used to explore the relationship between the clinical outcomes (DFS and OS, respectively) and
      gene mutations (present or absent) or each of the clinical features (gender, age, smoking
      status, TNM staging, histology, tumor location, recurrence, number of lymph node metastasis,
      tumor size, postoperative adjuvant treatment, DFS and OS). Then a Cox Proportional Hazards
      model will be constructed to evaluate the effect of multiple variables (genomic and clinical
      features) on DFS, and OS, respectively. Benjamini-Hochberg false discovery rate (FDR) method
      is used to adjust the p-value and calculate the statistically differences. All p values were
      two-sided, and P<0.05 was assumed to be significant.
    
  