
    
      Patients with COVID-19 have a variable disease course and recovery. After the SARS
      coronavirus outbreak in 2003, many patients developed pulmonary fibrosis. Emerging data from
      the COVID-19 outbreak suggests that a substantial number of patient will likely develop
      pulmonary fibrosis. However, much is still unknown (e.g. the percentage of patients who
      develop pulmonary fibrosis, progression of fibrosis). Since we have little knowledge on the
      disease course and long-term complications of COVID-19, it is very important to properly
      monitor patients after hospital admission. An online home monitoring program could be an
      efficient way to monitor disease course of COVID-19 and provide insights in the long-term
      effects of COVID-19.

      In this prospective, observational multi center study we aim to include 150 patients that
      were admitted in the hospital with abnormalities on chest X-ray/HRCT due to COVID-19. Based
      on their clinical status, patients will be either included at time of discharge from the
      hospital or at time of their regular outpatient clinic visit, 6 weeks after discharge from
      the hospital. Patients will be monitored for a period of 1 year after admission, after
      signing informed consent. Home monitoring, consisting of real-time lung function measures and
      PROMs, has been developed and validated for patients with pulmonary fibrosis; home monitoring
      was feasible, FVC measurements were reliable and patient satisfaction was high.

      Patients are asked to fill in a diary once weekly (consisting of Visual Analogue Scales on
      cough, dyspnea, fatigue, general well-being, and temperature and oxygen measurements) and
      measure their lung function (FVC) at home every week with a home spirometer (Spirobank Smart,
      MIR, Italy) (duration + -2 min). The spirometer is connected via Bluetooth with the secured
      app and results can be sent directly to the study team. Patients are instructed to contact
      the hospital using a secured eConsult if they have worsening complaints and/or have a
      decrease in saturation or lung function.

      Patients are asked to fill complete short validated questionnaires (ABC tool, EQ5D-5L,
      Fatigue Assessment Scale and Global rating of change, duration + - 10 minutes) in the app, at
      time of discharge, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months and 12 months after discharge.

      Demographic data, clinical characteristics, lung function results, radiology data and data
      about medication will be collected from the electronic patient file during regular outpatient
      clinic visits.
    
  