
    
      The study investigates the neurobehavioural risks associated with future exploratory space
      missions and their mitigation as part of the isolation and confinement program "SIRIUS"
      (Scientific International Research In Unique terrestrial Station). The overarching objective
      of the study is two-fold.

      The first objective is to investigate the time course and magnitude of eight months of
      isolation and confinement in the spaceflight analog facility "NEK" at the Institute of
      Biomedical Problems (IBMP) in Moscow on brain changes, cognitive performance, and biochemical
      adaptations, and compare these data to a sex- and age-matched control group. To achieve this
      aim, multi-modal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data before and after the intervention to
      assess structural and functional brain changes before, and after the experiment will be
      collected. Furthermore, cognitive performance using a series of computer-based tests will be
      determined and blood and saliva samples to identify biochemical changes associated with brain
      plasticity and learning before, during, and after the experiment will be collected.

      Second, to address the need for sensory stimulation countermeasures during prolonged
      isolation and confinement, the feasibility of a highly immersive and interactive virtual
      environment (VE) to enhance positive affect and mental well-being will be assessed. To
      achieve this aim, the acute physiological and behavioral effects associated with the proposed
      sensory augmentation measure will be quantified (Does VE elicit immediate physiological
      and/or behavioral changes during long-duration isolation and confinement?). It will be
      verified whether there is an adaptation to the experience with repeated exposure bouts (Can
      VE elicit similar physiological and or behavioral responses after the VE exposure has been
      administered recurrently?). The administration rate is optimized relative to crew
      burden/compliance and scientific return (one administration once a month). This will also
      ensure that the approach will not have any chronic effects interfering with the primary
      outcomes of the first objective or any countermeasures foreseen by IBMP. These data will
      provide essential insights about the efficacy of a new, highly immersive, and target specific
      VR-based sensory stimulation augmentation to mitigate some of the risks associated with
      sensory monotony and visual disconnection from Earth during exploration-type missions. The
      two objectives will deliver a highly unique and comprehensive set of integrated neuroimaging
      and neurocognitive tools for the evaluation and ultimately prevention of adverse effects on
      brain plasticity and behavior.
    
  