
    
      Although early stage, localized colon and rectal cancers are associated with 5 year survival
      rates of nearly 90%, only a minority of patients present with localized disease.
      Unfortunately, at the time of their initial presentation, approximately 35% of patients with
      colon or rectal cancer have metastatic disease. Nearly two thirds of these patients with
      stage IV disease have evidence of extrahepatic spread and have a median overall survival rate
      of 8-10 months in the absence of further treatment. Even with the most intensive
      chemotherapeutic regimens, the median overall survival for these patients ranges from 12
      months to 20 months. However, a small subset of patients with stage IV disease has isolated
      hepatic metastatic disease and can undergo resection. The patients with completely resected
      liver metastases enjoy a significantly higher overall five-year survival, which is as high as
      58% in carefully selected patients. Ten-year overall survival has been reported in 22% of
      patients. Despite this improvement, the five-year disease-free survival for these patients is
      at best 35%, with hepatic recurrences occurring in 46%.

      The fact that adjuvant chemotherapy improves the three-year survival rate for stage II
      disease and five-year survival rates for stage III disease implies that it can treat
      micrometastatic disease in some fraction of patients. Because micrometastatic disease is
      likely the cause of the high recurrence rate in patients who undergo liver resection, there
      is a clear biologic rationale for using postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy after liver
      resection. Although this strategy is a common practice in many centers, no convincing data
      that this improves survival have been reported. A large randomized phase III trial (EORTC
      40983) examining this question is currently ongoing and effect on survival has not yet been
      reported. Given that systemic chemotherapy after liver resection remains of unproven benefit
      at the present time, many have wondered if preoperative treatment might have more promise in
      improving recurrence rates.
    
  