
    
      The study was run in Istanbul Provincial Directorate of Social Services Istanbul Prof. Dr.
      Fahrettin Kerim-Nilüfer Gökay Nursing Home Elderly Care and Rehabilitation Center in
      March-June 2019. This study was designed as a self-controlled prospective non-randomized
      study.

      Written informed consent was obtained from all participants. The necessary ethical approval
      for the study was taken from the Medipol University Non-Interventional Clinical Research
      Ethics Comittee This study was planned to be run with 20 healthy nursing home residents. The
      criteria of being included in the study were: being above 70 years of age, scoring at least
      22 points on the Mini Mental Test, not being bound to a wheelchair, being able to walk 20
      meters independently, and that the sensation of the foot sole is at least on the decreased
      protective level compare to Semmes Weinstein Monofilamnet test. The individuals with serious
      loss of eyesight, mental retardation, a schizophrenic background, having walking disorder,
      inconvenient in walking were not included in the study.

      16 healthy aged individuals with the average age of 77.50±5.5 participated in our study. 2 of
      the first 20 participants left the study due to health problems and 2 other participants left
      due to personal reasons which they did not want to declare (Figure 1).

      A homogeneous control group could not be created due to aging, so a control group was created
      with the same participants. The first evaluations of our study were made within two days.
      After the evaluation process, 4 weeks waiting period was given. At the end of this period,
      second measurements were made for two days. Plantar sensory based exercises program lasting 8
      weeks was applied after the second measurements were taken. Post-treatment measurements were
      made for two days after the treatment ended. Measurements were made with MC and the
      physiotherapist working in the nursing home.
    
  