
    
      BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE

      Tinnitus, defined as the perception of sound when no corresponding external auditory stimulus
      exists, is a debilitating condition that is widespread yet difficult to successfully treat.
      It is estimated that between 10% and 15% of the adult population experience tinnitus to some
      degree. Although many people with tinnitus are not disturbed by the sensation, the condition
      is disabling in 0.5% to 2% of the tinnitus population or between 1.4 and 5 million people
      (Bauer & Brozoski, 2006). Additionally, tinnitus is among the most prevalent of
      service-connected disabilities for veterans receiving compensation according to the VA 2010
      Annual Benefits Report, impacting over half a million veterans (US Department of Veterans
      Affairs, 2010).

      The impact of tinnitus on a patient's quality of life can be devastating (Tyler & Baker,
      1983). Many patients report that the intrusive perception of sound - such as ringing,
      roaring, or buzzing - interferes with their ability to relax, sleep and concentrate,
      especially in quiet situations. Many tinnitus patients also report reduced tolerance of loud
      sounds, and will tend to avoid noisy (e.g. social) situations. The disturbing effects of the
      condition can lead to a desperate sense of loss of control.

      Until recently, there has been no treatment that has been clinically validated as
      consistently effective. Despite advances in understanding of the tinnitus condition, such as
      the Neurophysiological Model (Jastreboff & Hazell, 1993), the promise of much improved
      outcomes from treatment has yet to be realized in general clinical practice. Previously
      available treatment options continue to be limited by a lack of clinically consistent
      efficacy, efficiency, and/or user acceptability. Even Tinnitus Retraining Therapy (TRT), the
      most widely advocated practical application of the principles of the Neurophysiological
      Model, has been recently reported to yield only modest outcomes, and to require an extended
      period of time (up to 24 months) to achieve these outcomes for a high proportion of patients
      (J. A. Henry et al., 2005). Notably, some reports (Dineen, Doyle, Bench, & Perry, 1999;
      Hiller & Haerkotter, 2005; McKinney, Hazell, & Graham, 1999; Schmitt & Kroner-Herwig, 2002;
      Tyler, 2004) have questioned whether the acoustic stimulation used in tinnitus management
      programs such as TRT, predominantly consisting of broadband noise generators or hearing aids,
      provides any real incremental benefit over the counseling component of the program.

      Furthermore, hearing aids and noise generators have been shown to provide limited clinical
      benefits when used in tinnitus management programs (Hiller & Haerkotter, 2005; Moffat et al.,
      2009), and these technologies are further limited by problems with user acceptability. Many
      tinnitus sufferers report that they find hearing aids intolerable to wear due to their
      decreased sound tolerance together with the unpredictability of amplified ambient sounds.
      Similarly, many people fitted with noise generators find the sound they produce unpleasant to
      listen to for the extended periods each day for which their use is recommended. As a result,
      for both hearing aids and noise generators, return-for-credit and "left-unused-in-the-drawer"
      rates are very high (J.A. Henry, Schecthter, Nagler, & Fausti, 2002; Hiller & Haerkotter,
      2005).

      Recent research into the pathogenesis of tinnitus has emphasized the role of neurological
      changes that result from damage to the auditory system (Tyler, 2005). These changes include
      the brain's adaptive response to auditory starvation (leading to increased sensitivity in the
      system), the initial perception of sound, and the systems within the brain that determine the
      person's attention and reaction to it.

      The Neuromonics Tinnitus Treatment Program (NTTP) takes into account the neural plasticity
      that underlies tinnitus and targets the neurological changes that cause it. It utilizes an
      acoustic stimulus that combines music with an embedded neural stimulus, which are spectrally
      modified and customized for each patient's hearing and tinnitus profile. By accounting for a
      patient's hearing loss, the NTTP provides a broadband neural stimulus to stimulate the neural
      pathways that are "starved" due to auditory damage and/or hearing loss. The NTTP stimulus
      also positively engages the limbic system to reduce the stress caused by the tinnitus.

      A key benefit of the customization process is that it allows the stimulus to be used at a
      comfortably low listening level. By allowing for intermittent, momentary perception of the
      tinnitus within a pleasant and relaxing listening experience, it desensitizes the patient's
      reaction to the tinnitus, thereby leading to long-term reduction in tinnitus disturbance.

      The NTTP has been clinically proven in civilian populations to : (1) reduce symptoms early in
      treatment, in particular, provide relief from the disturbing effects of the condition, (2)
      treat the neurological causes associated with tinnitus, (3) provide long-term relief and
      improvements in quality of life, and (4) be convenient and noninvasive.

      The NTTP has been the subject of a series of published clinical studies with civilian
      subjects (P. B. Davis, 2005; P. B. Davis, Paki, & Hanley, 2007; P.B. Davis, Wilde, & Steed,
      2002; P. B. Davis, Wilde, Steed, & Hanley, 2008; Hanley, Davis, Paki, Quinn, & Bellekom,
      2008), which have demonstrated that it yields better results, more quickly, more
      consistently, and with an intervention that is more acceptable to the patient than prior
      approaches. Included among these clinical studies was a comparative study (P. B. Davis et
      al., 2008) that showed that the Neuromonics Tinnitus Treatment generates significantly
      greater and more consistent improvements in tinnitus symptoms than a treatment comprised of
      counseling plus broad band noise ('white noise') and better outcomes than counseling-alone.

      While the efficacy of the NTTP has been demonstrated, it remains an expensive and somewhat
      time-consuming treatment strategy. A previous study (Karch, Hill, Casto, Nedostup, & Staton,
      2014) indicated that a COTS sound therapy may also be an effective way to treat tinnitus.
      Preliminary analysis of subjective tinnitus measures from Karch (2014) indicates that the
      NTTP strategies were effective at reducing the negative effects of tinnitus (i.e. reduction
      in subjective effects of tinnitus as measured by the Tinnitus Reaction Questionnaire (TRQ),
      tinnitus awareness time, and tinnitus disturbance time). Similar results were seen with a
      COTS group, with statistically significant differences in pre- and post-treatment measures of
      TRQ and tinnitus awareness. Analysis of clinical measures associated with tinnitus suggest no
      differences between pre- and post-treatment on the masking level required to cover tinnitus
      or the level of loudness discomfort associated with tinnitus for either group. However, due
      to the small sample size and unequal groups, comparisons between the treatments in the Karch
      et al. study (2014) should be made cautiously.

      MILITARY RELEVANCE

      Tinnitus is among the most prevalent medical complaints soldiers have when returning from
      Operation Iraqi Freedom/ Operation Enduring Freedom (OIF/OEF). Soldiers with clinically
      significant levels of tinnitus often suffer from anxiety, depression, sleep disruption, and
      difficulty concentrating. Currently, there is no standard tinnitus treatment protocol in the
      military system and limited clinical efficacy on the NTTP and COTS tinnitus treatment
      supported by a controlled study. The proposed research will attempt to definitively establish
      the value of the NTTP in a military setting.

      The study stresses the return-to-duty of Soldiers experiencing severe tinnitus that might
      otherwise prevent these Soldiers from deploying with their units. Retention of a fit force
      and improved quality of life for active-duty Soldiers are important issues associated with a
      successful approach to the treatment of tinnitus.

      OBJECTIVES/SPECIFIC AIMS/RESEARCH QUESTIONS

      The objective of the study is to determine the effectiveness of individualized sound stimuli
      used in a FDA classified tinnitus masker device, the Neuromonics, Inc. Oasis™.

      Research Question: Is there a difference in clinical outcomes for tinnitus patients treated
      with the NTTP compared with the same treatment using a placebo-control device? The
      placebo-control device is otherwise identical to the NTTP device except that the sound
      stimuli are not matched to the patients' audiograms and tinnitus profile and are not
      specifically designed to promote relaxation. Assignment of tinnitus patients to the treatment
      and placebo groups is performed off site and the experimenters have no information on group
      assignment.

      Hypothesis: In the Active Duty, Reserve, and National Guard military and recently separated
      veteran populations with complaints of tinnitus, the NTTP group will have significantly
      improved tinnitus clinical outcomes in comparison to placebo-control group at 6 months.
      Clinical outcomes are described in Section B5.4 and Table 1 below.

      Null Hypothesis: In the Active Duty, Reserve, and National Guard military and recently
      separated veteran populations with complaints of tinnitus, the NTTP group will have tinnitus
      clinical outcomes statistically indistinguishable from the placebo-control group at 6 months.
    
  