
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      A varicocele is the most common detectable factor in infertile men (found in approximately
      40% of men with infertility) and varicocelectomy is the most commonly performed surgery to
      treat male infertility. Despite a large body of literature demonstrating a beneficial effect
      of varicocele repair on male fertility potential, there is significant controversy about the
      true effects of varicocelectomy mainly due to the paucity of randomized trials. The present
      controversy has led many clinicians to dismiss the diagnosis (varicocele) altogether and
      instead, offer alternative treatments to the couple. These alternative therapies include a
      variety of unnatural, invasive and costly assisted reproductive techniques such as in vitro
      fertilization. In-vitro fertilization is in widespread use in the world: in 2002 over 117,000
      IVF cycles were performed in the USA with over 1% of newborns in that country being conceived
      with IVF. One of the major indications for the use of IVF is male factor infertility. The
      number of infertile couples (in whom the man has a varicocele) presently treated with
      assisted reproduction is unknown, but is probably at least as high as that undergoing
      varicocelectomy. Approximately 4500 varicocele repairs are performed in Canada yearly
      (reference: Canadian Health Institute).

      The investigators propose a randomized controlled trial on the surgical treatment of
      clinically detected varicoceles to determine if varicocelectomy results in improved fertility
      compared to observation alone. This will answer the question about the utility and the role
      of varicocelectomy in the management of infertile men with a varicocele.

      RESEARCH QUESTIONS:

        1. Primary Question:

           Among infertile men with clinically detectable varicoceles, does varicocelectomy improve
           the pregnancy rate over a 6-month period compared to observation alone?

        2. Secondary Questions:

             1. Among infertile men with clinically detectable varicoceles, does varicocelectomy
                improve sperm parameters (concentration, motility, DNA integrity) over a 6-month
                period compared to observation alone?

             2. Among infertile men with clinically detectable varicoceles, does varicocelectomy
                increase serum testosterone levels over a 6-month period compared to observation
                alone?

             3. What is the rate of post-operative complications (recurrence, clinical hydrocele
                formation and testicular atrophy) after varicocelectomy?

             4. What is the average time (days) off work after varicocelectomy?

      DESIGN ARCHITECTURE:

      The investigators propose to conduct a multi-centered, randomized controlled trial comparing
      varicocelectomy to observation alone in infertile men with moderate to large, clinically
      detectable varicocele.

      ACCRUAL AND DURATION OF STUDY:

      To identify a 10% difference in pregnancy rates between the varicocelectomy and control
      groups we will enroll a total of 300 men (randomized to immediate surgical varicocelectomy or
      observation alone) and follow these men for 6 months. We anticipate that we will complete
      recruitment in 3 years. Limiting the study to 6 (rather than 12) months will encourage more
      couples to participate and is ethically responsible in an era where effective alternative
      therapies (e.g. IVF) are available.

      SIGNIFICANCE:

      The demonstration that varicocelectomy is superior, or not, to observation alone will have a
      great impact on the treatment of male infertility and on the treatment of the infertile
      couple as a whole. In addition, the results of this study would have a tremendous financial
      impact on Canadian Health Care. The results would allow for appropriate use of present
      treatments and resources for at least 10,000 couples annually in Canada. The results of this
      study would also impact on the management of infertile couples worldwide.
    
  