
    
      There will be an open-label two arm clinical trial with participants randomised to Biktarvy
      or Symtuza with equal probability. Study treatment will last for 48 weeks.

      Baseline - Following confirmatory HIV testing potential participants will have a appointment
      with a study doctor. Full medical check and medical history undertaken. Patients will be
      offered opportunity to participate in the study. To avoid unnecessary visits and in line with
      the study aim of getting patients on treatment rapidly patients can consent on the same day
      that HIV diagnosis is confirmed to them. Treatment to be initiated following appointment in
      line with test and treat procedure. Samples will be taken (if not available from previous
      days) for all initial required tests.

      Participants will be given baseline questionnaires that they can return on week 2 visit.

      Week 1 call - Call to check drug adherence, adverse events and patient wellbeing.

      Week 2 visit - Appointment with study doctor to review all results from initial tests.
      Following undertaken: viral load; vital signs; adverse events; adherence assessment.

      Week 4, 12, 24, 48 Follow-up visits - Full medical review undertaken at each visit including
      safety blood tests.

      Following undertaken: viral load; adverse events; adherence assessment; questionnaires;
      samples taken for secondary and exploratory objectives. Week 48 visit will be the end of
      study treatment period.

      Follow-up visit - up to 30 days after the week 48 visit there will be a follow-up visit to
      complete final medical assessment and final adverse events reporting.

      Samples will be collected from participants further to those required for stated objectives
      to be retained for future research into HIV infection.

      We will also collect and clinical data cohort of data on all patients newly diagnosed with
      HIV during a set window.

      Clinical data will be collected from their first year after diagnosis.
    
  