
    
      Study Outline Study 1, as described herein, will assess the three hypotheses, i.e., health
      benefit, neurological recovery, and mobility benefits, in the context of regular dosing of
      exoskeleton walking in a clinical setting. These studies will be conducted at three study
      sites, Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville TN, the James A. Haley Veterans
      Hospital in Tampa FL, and the Mayo Clinic in Rochester MN. All study sites will conduct an
      identical study protocol. The study will involve 24 non-ambulatory and poorly-ambulatory
      individuals with incomplete and complete SCI (i.e., 8 subjects at each site). In this study,
      "poorly ambulatory" is defined as persons with functional independence measure (FIM) gait
      score of 2 to 6 who may be able to walk short distances with or without braces and stability
      aid, or may be able to walk with assistance of one person, but whose primary means of
      mobility is a manual or power-operated wheelchair. Of the 24 individuals, half will be
      individuals with motor-complete injuries (i.e., American Spinal Injury Association Injury
      Scale, AIS, A or B), and half with motor-incomplete injuries (i.e., AIS C or D). As described
      subsequently in the Study Procedures section, the study will assess the therapeutic and
      functional effects of exoskeleton walking over an 8-week period of treatment, where the
      treatment consists of 3 walking sessions per week, each approximately 1.5 hours in duration
      for a total of 24 walking sessions. Therapeutic effects will be assessed via a number of
      measurements recorded primarily at study start, at the 4-week study midpoint, at the 8-week
      completion of treatment, and in a follow-up session, 8 weeks following the conclusion of
      treatment.

      Study 2 will add 10 channels of functional electrical stimulation (FES )to the Indego
      exoskeleton , which include the quadriceps, hamstrings, gastrocnemius, and tibialis anterior
      muscle groups of each leg, in addition to a pair of trunk muscle channels. The nature of
      stimulation is fully consistent with standard-of-care FES units, although the timing and
      amplitude of the leg muscle stimulation is adjusted automatically by the exoskeleton, in a
      manner similar to the automated adjustment of stimulation in FES-aided cycling devices (also
      a standard intervention).
    
  