
    
      According to one source of 2004 data, approximately 13% of pregnant women reported smoking
      during the last 3 months of pregnancy. This is a major public health concern because smoking
      during pregnancy can lead to pregnancy complications and serious health problems in newborns,
      including a 50% increase in risk of low birth weight. The effect of tobacco exposure on
      infant birth weight may have long-term consequences, as fetal growth appears to be a
      predictor of coronary heart disease later in life. Pregnant women participating in clinical
      trials are less likely to disclose that they are smoking because of a desire to please study
      researchers. Therefore, a way to test for nicotine exposure is needed to accurately determine
      the number of pregnant women who smoke and the number of women who quit smoking during
      pregnancy.

      A new biomarker of nicotine metabolism, the ratio of trans-3'-hydroxycotinine to cotinine
      (3-HC:C), may be an accurate estimate of nicotine exposure from tobacco.
      Trans-3'-hydroxycotinine and cotinine are both byproducts of nicotine that are excreted in
      the urine. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of the 3-HC:C ratio as
      a measure of prenatal tobacco smoke exposure between the first and third trimesters of
      pregnancy and to examine the use of the 3-HC:C ratio in relation to infant birth weight. In
      addition, changes in the 3-HC:C metabolism during pregnancy will be analyzed according to
      different racial and ethnic groups.

      This study will enroll pregnant women who participated in the New England SCRIPT study, which
      drew from a predominately low-income, multi-ethnic population. There will be no study visits
      specifically for this study. Study researchers will analyze participants' SCRIPT study data
      from four surveys collected at baseline, during the third trimester, and 6 weeks and 6 months
      following childbirth. Researchers will analyze the following study data: smoking behavior,
      attitudes toward smoking, self-reported smoking status, number of cigarettes smoked per day,
      use of the assigned smoking cessation materials, and infant birth weight. Demographic
      information, including the participant's age, race and ethnicity, years of education, age of
      the fetus at study entry, and smoking practices of other household members, will also be
      examined. Urine samples collected from participants during the SCRIPT study will be analyzed
      for the 3-HC:C biomarker. This current study will use a new technique, liquid
      chromatography/atmospheric pressure ionization tandem spectrometry, to measure both cotinine
      and hydroxycotinine levels in the urine samples.
    
  