
    
      Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC) is a rare inherited condition
      characterised pathologically by fibro-fatty replacement of myocytes usually (but not
      exclusively) within the right ventricle. The clinical consequences of this process are
      usually re-entrant ventricular arrhythmias which may be fatal and ARVC consequently is the
      third most common cause of sudden cardiac death in the young. Diagnosis involves imaging,
      electrocardiography, myocardial biopsy and genetic testing. Task Force criteria for the
      diagnosis have been established. Nevertheless the condition can be difficult to diagnose (or
      exclude), especially in less advanced disease, a common scenario in individuals with a family
      member suffering from the condition. To complicate the situation further, we and others have
      published recent reports suggesting that other infiltrative conditions within the heart
      especially sarcoidosis, may fulfil Task Force criteria, leading to a false positive
      diagnosis. This is a particular concern since the natural history and treatment options for
      these conditions are very different.

      Sarcoidosis is a granulomatous disorder of unknown cause, predominantly affecting the lungs,
      reticuloendothelial systems and skin. Cardiac involvement at autopsy is found in up to 25% of
      affected individuals although clinical manifestations are only present in approximately 5%.
      Isolated cardiac sarcoidosis, without manifestations in other systems is rare. The
      non-caseating granulomas frequently infiltrate left ventricular & septal myocardium although
      right ventricular involvement also occurs. Granulomas and resulting scar formation can cause
      conduction disturbances, cardiac failure and ventricular arrhythmias. Sudden death is not
      uncommon. Myocardial biopsy confirms the diagnosis but because of the patchy nature of the
      granulomatous process, the test is only positive in 50% of the affected individuals. Other
      investigations used to help make or support the diagnosis include echocardiography, MRI,
      electrocardiography, PET, and corroborating evidence from high resolution CT chest and skin
      biopsy. However, imaging findings may lack specificity for a precise aetiology. Cardiac MRI
      identifies areas of myocardial scar or fibrosis, which is the final step in the disease
      process. Although patterns of fibrosis have been well described in ARVC and cardiac
      sarcoidosis, significant overlap exists between these two diseases with regard to the exact
      location of fibrosis: for example ARVC can affect either or both ventricles. Typically,
      although affecting predominantly the RV, in advanced stages there is also a well described
      pattern of mid-wall patchy fibrosis in the basal infero-lateral wall of the left ventricle
      and sometimes in the inter-ventricular septum. Conversely, sarcoidosis typically affects the
      LV, and when fibrosis is found, the location is in the septal or infero-lateral territories.
      In sarcoid, RV enlargement can occur either due to granulomatous involvement within the RV
      myocardium, or secondary to the pulmonary hypertension associated with lung involvement.
      Cases of sarcoidosis where the RV is involved may be more difficult to diagnose: The RV
      enlargement and reduction in function overlap significantly with the Task Force Criteria for
      the CMR diagnosis of ARVC, furthermore, the pattern of late gadolinium enhancement is not
      sufficiently specific to guide the diagnosis to either ARVC or Cardiac Sarcoid with RV
      involvement.
    
  