
    
      The goal of this proposal is to improve HCV (hepatitis C virus) treatment uptake among
      current and former injection drug users (IDUs) by testing an innovative, primary care based
      HCV Group Evaluation and Treatment UPtake (HCV GET-UP) intervention. IDUs make up the
      majority of the 4 million Americans chronically infected with HCV, and up to 90% of HIV+ IDUs
      are infected with HCV. In the U.S., HCV is the leading cause of end-stage liver disease and
      hepatocellular carcinoma, and the most common indication for liver transplantation. Without
      imminent action, mortality from HCV-related disease is projected to triple over the next
      decade and HCV-related deaths have already surpassed deaths related to HIV.

      While past HCV therapies have been relatively ineffective, new oral treatment regimens with
      direct-acting antivirals are substantially more efficacious, with few side effects, and cure
      rates as high as 100% for both HCV+ and HIV/HCV+ individuals. Importantly, successful HCV
      treatment has been associated with decreased mortality. Unfortunately, there are significant
      gaps along the HCV care cascade that prevent patients from ever realizing the benefits of
      these revolutionary medications. Approximately 10% of all HCV+ patients, and even fewer IDUs,
      have ever initiated HCV treatment.

      Given the ease and efficacy of the new HCV medications, investigators have an unprecedented
      opportunity to treat IDUs within medical settings that they are already accessing, such as
      primary care clinics. Community-based primary care clinics, such as Federally Qualified
      Health Centers (FQHCs), are abundant throughout the US and serve populations at high risk for
      HCV, such as IDUs; studies show an HCV prevalence rate of approximately 8% in FQHCs almost 5
      times greater than the general population. Over the past year at Montefiore Medical Center,
      investigators have piloted onsite HCV treatment at one FQHC and treated nearly 50 patients
      (81% former or current IDUs) with direct-acting antivirals, with 93% cure rates.

      Despite high HCV cure rates for those treated in primary care at our FQHC, only a small
      minority of eligible patients has initiated treatment. Though onsite treatment reduces
      obstacles related to specialty referral, patient level barriers to HCV evaluation and
      treatment uptake still exist. IDUs in particular often have limited HCV knowledge, as well as
      low perceived vulnerability to poor HCV-related health outcomes, low self-esteem and poor
      self-efficacy, high levels of perceived stigma, and mistrust of healthcare providers. These,
      as well as other barriers, prevent many IDUs from ever initiating HCV evaluation or starting
      the treatment uptake process. Investigators therefore propose to test an HCV Group Evaluation
      and Treatment UPtake (HCV GET-UP) intervention to improve HCV medical evaluation and
      treatment uptake for HCV and HCV/HIV IDUs within an FQHC. Group-based interventions, often
      familiar to IDUs, provide social support and encourage behavior change, which together
      promote enhanced engagement in care. Group-based care can also allow efficient delivery of
      health-education and medical treatment. Informed by the Information-Motivation-Behavior (IMB)
      model. Investigators hypothesize that a group-based HCV intervention, HCV GET-UP, delivered
      in an FQHC already accessed by patients, will improve HCV treatment uptake by: (1) providing
      HCV education; (2) increasing motivation by minimizing stigma, and addressing competing
      priorities and social norms; and (3) increasing self-efficacy and related behavioral skills.
      Investigator propose the following specific aims:

      Aim 1: To assess the feasibility and acceptability of HCV GET-UP. Investigators will pre-test
      HCV GET-UP by conducting two group interventions (each consisting of 4 weekly sessions; 8
      participants in each intervention group). Investigators will assess feasibility by examining
      process measures, and acceptability using a brief, self-administered questionnaire after each
      of the 4 sessions. Investigators will also conduct focus groups after the entire 4-session
      intervention. Investigators will then refine HCV GET-UP based on these findings.

      Aim 2: To conduct a pilot randomized controlled trial of the efficacy of HCV GET-UP for
      improving HCV treatment uptake in an FQHC. Investigators will enroll 96 HCV+ or HIV/HCV+ IDUs
      and randomize them 1:1 to HCV GET-UP plus onsite treatment in primary care (intervention)
      versus onsite treatment alone (control). Our primary outcome is HCV treatment uptake, and
      secondary outcomes will include HCV medical evaluation, HCV treatment completion, and HCV
      cure.

      Aim 3: To determine potential moderators and mediators of the impact of HCV GET-UP on HCV
      treatment uptake, using a sequential explanatory design. First, Investigators will perform
      exploratory quantitative analyses to determine if there are specific patient characteristics
      (demographic, clinical) that moderate the intervention effect, and if there are mediators
      (reduced stigma, peer support, increased self-efficacy) of HCV GET-UP's impact on treatment
      uptake. Second, investigators will perform semi-structured interviews with 20 participants
      randomized to HCV-GET UP to explore potential moderators/mediators deduced from quantitative
      analyses.
    
  