
    
      Compare the effect of conventional physiotherapy techniques with the management of
      thoracoabdominal rebalancing in postoperative myocardial revascularization surgery patients.
      It is a randomized pilot trial in which patients who have undergone myocardial
      revascularization surgery at the Institute of Cardiology of Rio Grande do Sul will
      participate in the study.

      The study will include individuals over 35 years of age who have myocardial revascularization
      surgery with prescribed physiotherapeutic treatment, and will be excluded from patients whose
      patients were intubated and / or remained in mechanics for more than hours or, still, who
      required non-invasive mechanical norms before or during the collection period.

      The work will be submitted to the Research Ethics Committee at the Cardiology Institute of
      Porto Alegre (CEP-ICFUC). All study participants will receive clear explanations regarding
      the research, and those who accept to participate in the study voluntarily, will sign the
      informed consent form, in two copies, one being made available to the participant and the
      other to researchers. Participants will not be paid, nor will they receive any assistance
      during or after the end of the survey (466/12).

      The benefits of this research will be given in better conducts that prevent or reduce
      complications and / or respiratory discomfort as well as accelerate the patient's recovery,
      aiming at hospital discharge more quickly.

      Patients selected for the control group (conventional physiotherapy) will be exposed to
      respiratory physiotherapy techniques such as vibrocompression, passive manual expiratory
      therapy, acceleration of expiratory flow, fractional inspiration in times, diaphragmatic
      breaths and aspiration when necessary, and patients selected for the group intervention, will
      be submitted to the handling of the thoracoabdominal rebalancing as abdominal supports and /
      or in the ileo-costal space, inspiratory aid, scapular waist release, thoracic swing, release
      of the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles together with aspiration if any need.

      The research presents minimal risk for the participants, which are related to the measurement
      of variables and / or application of conventional physiotherapy techniques such as
      vibrocompression, acceleration of expiratory flow, passive manual expiratory therapy that may
      suggest some discomfort or pain when touching the chest in a sensation of pressure and
      vibration.

      It is expected that patients submitted to the handling of thoracoabdominal rebalancing have
      lower scores on the pulmonary complications scales, Downes and Raphaelly respiratory
      discomfort scale and, consequently, show improvement in the other variables.
    
  