
    
      For Organ Procurement Organizations (OPO) to be successful, they must be able to obtain
      consent for organ donation. Despite donor registries, first person consent, and the sharp
      rise in living donation, transplantation medicine continues to rely on the donation of organs
      from deceased individuals. Most of these requests are made to the deceased's next of kin. Of
      all the activities performed by OPOs, obtaining consent to donation is the most important
      activity as it facilitates all other aspects of the organ procurement and transplantation
      process. Moreover, communicating with families about the option to donate in a way that
      provides them with sufficient information to make an informed decision is essential to OPO
      success in obtaining consent. Our study tested an intervention strategy that addresses this
      critical aspect of obtaining consent to organ donation.

      From 2003 - 2007, we tested the Communicating Effectively about Donation (CEaD) intervention
      as part of the Early Referral and Request Approach model (ERRA) (HRSA grant # R39 OT01126).
      The intervention demonstrated significant promise as the analysis of our data indicates an
      increase in the consent rate of 32.2% and taught OPO staff requesters communication skills
      that enable them to make effective requests to donor-eligible families. Training involved a
      series of simulated scenarios, and the intent of the CEaD intervention is to increase the
      number of organs available for transplantation through improved consent rates by
      incorporating a systematic approach to training staff for the crucial task of communication
      about organ donation with family decision-makers.

      In our recently completed study (HRSA grant#), we examined the efficacy and generalizability
      of the CEaD in diverse geographic sites and to compare two conditions of delivering the CEaD.
      The experimental design tested: (1) the overall efficacy of the CEaD intervention on consent
      and (2) whether the more cost-saving "autonomous" condition is clinically equivalent to the
      "assisted" condition in terms of the final outcome of consent to donation. The major outcome
      measures were: 1) success in achieving relational communication with donor families and, 2)
      consent to donation.

      The major goals of this study were to provide OPOs with the tools to assess and train OPO
      staff on a sustained basis. Specifically, we:

        1. Packaged the CEaD as a self-teach tool so that OPOs can provide basic and continuous
           training for OPO staff requesters in the use of effective communication techniques when
           making requests to donor-eligible families.

        2. Tested the effectiveness of the CEaD training program to increase consent rates,
           regardless of implementation condition, in a sample of OPOs. Our sub-hypotheses included
           the following:

           H2a: When compared to the 12 month pre-intervention control period, the
           post-intervention period (after implementation of the CEaD) would be associated with a
           greater percentage of requests that use the preferred communication techniques with
           donor-eligible families.

           H2b: When compared to the control period, the overall consent rate during the
           post-intervention period will be significantly greater than the consent rate during the
           control period.

        3. Tested whether OPOs are able to implement the CEaD assessment and training intervention
           using two methods for implementation. The two implementation methods tested were: 1) a
           completely autonomous method in which the OPO does not employ any outside assistance to
           implement the module, and 2) an assisted method whereby trained outside consultants play
           a role in helping the OPO implement the CEaD. OPOs will be randomized to one of these
           two conditions: 1) autonomous CEaD; and 2) assisted CEaD.

      H3a: The autonomous CEaD implementation groups will not be as effective as the assisted CEaD
      implementation groups as measured by preferred communication techniques with donor-eligible
      families.

      H3b: The autonomous CEaD implementation group will not be as effective as the assisted CEaD
      implementation groups when controlling for the method of delivery for CEaD as measured by
      consent rates.

      The study 'subjects' included the 9 OPOs and their staff (n=273) who make requests to
      families of deceased donor-eligible patients (termed 'OPO Requesters'). All OPO staff who
      request organs from families were invited to participate in the study. We obtain written
      informed consent from each participating requester before we administered surveys. Each
      survey instrument reminded OPO staff that they are free to withdraw from the study at any
      time and that the information provided by them was kept strictly confidential. Using a random
      number generator, requesters were randomized on the OPO level to account for the differences
      in OPO size, scope, and organizational structure. A total of 218 requesters were randomized
      to the autonomous condition, and 55 were randomized to the assisted condition.

      Intervention The intervention tested two methods of using the Communicating Effectively about
      Donation (CEaD) intervention. The CEaD taught OPO staff requesters communication skills using
      a series of simulated scenarios and was designed to allow requesters to make effective
      requests to donor-eligible families. The training materials were made available on a secure
      website (www.ceadtraining.org; user name: test; password: test). We compared two methods of
      training: 1) using the training materials supplemented with simulators to practice the
      communication skills (assisted) or, 2) viewing the training materials along with a workbook
      (autonomous). The purpose of this design was to ascertain whether OPOs are capable of
      successfully employing the CEaD training program on their own, without incurring the added
      cost of hiring outside consultants.

      Description of the Communicating Effectively about Donation (CEaD) Training Program The CEaD
      intervention was not just a generic communications intervention, but one specifically and
      uniquely tailored to the problem of making requests for organ donation to families of
      deceased patients. The intervention was also designed to provide OPO requesters a basic
      framework for the request conversation. The CEaD trains requesters to make effective requests
      to donor-eligible families by allowing requesters to learn and practice relational
      communication skills using a series of scenarios. These scenarios, created in consultation
      with our partner OPO, involved the use of simulated patients (SPs), who played the role of
      bereaved family members faced with the opportunity to donate a loved one's organs. Based on
      our previous study, we developed four training scenarios, the first an uncomplicated
      scenario, the second an African-American family, the third a pediatric patient whose parents
      are divorced and at odds, and the fourth a donation after cardiac death (DCD) case. Each
      scenario allows the requester to use basic requester skills including framing donation
      positively, using statistics to explain donation benefits, engaging the family in a
      discussion of their values, probing and responding to family fears or misinformation about
      donation, and attending to family's emotional needs. The scenarios also allowed requesters to
      work through increasingly more challenging donation situations and to encounter specific
      issues such as the dysfunctional family, minority families, and families whose opinions about
      whether or not to donate are divided.

      The scenarios focused on training requesters to use the following communication skills:

      (1) assessing families' and patients' beliefs and values regarding organ donation; (2)
      assessing families' readiness to hear about organ donation; and, (3) using communication
      skills, such as listening, responding empathetically, and dealing with ambivalence, when
      dealing with grieving families.
    
  