
    
      Despite cisplatin chemoradiation, 40-50% of women with locally advanced cervical cancer will
      die from their disease. The evaluation of new chemoradiation regimens have since included
      cisplatin to further build on its current success. In one year, Nelfinavir will be off patent
      and become a potential cost effective therapy. HIV Protease inhibitors are now being explored
      as potential therapies in oncology. The repositioning of HIV protease inhibitors,
      specifically nelfinavir in cancer therapeutics, is based on three facts. First, recent
      studies show that HIV protease inhibitors are established broad-spectrum anti-cancer agents
      that work through pleiotropic mechanisms such as by down-regulating activated mitogenic
      signaling pathways, and activating the immune response with Nelfinavir being the most potent
      [7]. Second, HIV protease inhibitors including nelfinavir can target specific viral antigens.
      Nelfinavir has been shown to target Human Papilloma Virus (HPV)-transformed cervical
      carcinoma cells via inhibition of E6-mediated proteosomal degradation of mutant p53 [8].
      Thirdly, Nelfinavir has radiosensitizing properties through inhibiting the PI3K/Akt signaling
      pathway as demonstrated in vivo and in vitro in head and neck and pancreatic cancers models
      [9].

      Nelfinavir is currently being evaluated as a radiosensitizer in head and neck and pancreatic
      cancers in phase I/II clinical trials. Brunner et al. (2008) recently completed the first
      phase I trial of nelfinavir added to chemoradiation for locally advanced pancreatic cancer
      [16]. Investigators treated 12 patients with advanced pancreatic carcinoma with Nelfinavir
      1250 mg orally twice daily starting 3 days before radiation therapy and continued until the
      last day of radiation. They found no significant toxicity attributable to nelfinavir and
      observed a response rate of 50% versus 30% in historical controls. There were 5 of 12
      patients with grade 3 hematologic toxicities (4 with leukopenia and 2 with thrombocytopenia).
      There were 3 of 12 patients with grade 3 GI toxicity (including abdominal pain, nausea,
      vomiting). There were no grade 4 drug related toxicities [16]. There were grade 1/ 2
      toxicities including hematologic (thrombocytopenia, anemia, neutropenia), gastrointestinal
      toxicities (nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain), and elevated transaminases which
      were approximately 70%. Ten of 12 patients completed therapy. Complete responses were
      observed in 5 patients and partial responses were observed in 5 of 10 patients. Overall, the
      addition of Nelfinavir added minimal additional toxicity. Determination of a dose for
      biologic activity was not performed [14].

      In summary, HIV protease inhibitors have a very broad spectrum of anti-tumor activity and can
      inhibit proliferation and/or cause death in the majority of cancer cell lines tested in a
      dose-dependent manner [7]. Nelfinavir has been found to be the most potent anti-tumor agent
      among the HIV protease inhibitors. As a result, several clinical trials are investigating
      Nelfinavir as a chemotherapeutic agent with and without concurrent radiation therapy in
      varied disease sites including rectal, head & neck, glioblastomas, pancreas, renal cell,
      non-small cell lung cancer, liposarcoma, and gliomas. The NCI is also investigating
      Nelfinavir as single agent chemotherapy in advanced and recurrent solid tumors [15].

      As Nelfinavir has both cytotoxic and radiation sensitizing effects, it is an ideal agent to
      use in combination with cisplatin-based chemoradiation in locally advanced cervical cancers.

      In this study, patients with clinical stages IIA, IIB, IIIA, IIIB, IVA cervical carcinoma
      limited to the pelvis will receive twice daily oral Nelfinavir (NFV) and weekly IV cisplatin
      in combination as radiosensitizers with daily whole pelvic external beam (Mon-Fri) followed
      by intracavitary radiation brachytherapy.
    
  