
    
      This is a phase II study of dasatinib, a targeted biologic agent, known to inhibit Src. It is
      difficult to assess outcome in phase II adjuvant trials because there is no measurable
      disease to evaluate efficacy and there are many variables that could confound comparing
      survival of subjects on trial to historical controls. Therefore, after a fresh frozen tumor
      tissue sample is obtained for genomic analysis, we plan to treat subjects with neoadjuvant
      dasatinib and then measure tumor response to therapy prior to surgery. Resected tumor will
      also be assessed for pathologic response as well as for changes in genomic expression
      patterns.

      Subjects will be treated with neoadjuvant dasatinib 70 mg PO twice daily for 3 weeks, with a
      mandatory minimum of 3 days (72 hours) off of study drug prior to surgical resection. Imaging
      studies will be done pre-treatment and pre-surgery to assess radiologic response to therapy.
      The surgical specimen will be evaluated for pathologic response. A tumor tissue sample will
      be obtained from the surgical specimen for genomic analysis and will be evaluated for changes
      in genomic expression profiles.

      Patients whose tumors have a response to neoadjuvant dasatinib therapy might benefit with
      better cancer control if they receive a potentially therapeutic course of adjuvant dasatinib.
      Patients that have at least a 15% decrease or better objective response, without evidence of
      progression to neoadjuvant dasatinib (per tumor evaluation pre-surgery) or pathologic
      response (as defined as ≥30% tumor necrosis or cell death) to neoadjuvant dasatinib therapy
      will be eligible to receive dasatinib 70 mg twice daily for 90 days after the completion of
      standard adjuvant therapy or after recovery from surgery if no standard adjuvant therapy is
      given. Patients will be followed for approximately 30 days after the last dose of dasatinib
      to assess toxicity.

      Response will be evaluated in Src regulated and Src deregulated cohorts of tumors. If
      responses to neoadjuvant dasatinib occur, then accrual to either or both cohorts will be
      expanded. If there are no responses to neoadjuvant dasatinib in the cohort groups, then
      accrual to either or both cohorts will be stopped. The results of this study may be useful in
      designing future studies in early stage NSCLC using dasatinib alone or in combination with
      chemotherapy.
    
  