
    
      Trial Objectives and Purpose:

        1. To establish normal limits of diameter of hepatic vein, hepatic artery and portal vein
           according to age, weight, height and gender.

        2. To establish normal waveform pattern in ultrasound Doppler assessment of hepatic vein,
           hepatic artery and portal vein. (Qualitative analysis)

        3. To establish normal limits of flow parameters assessed by ultrasound Doppler in hepatic
           vein, hepatic artery and portal vein according to age, weight, height and gender.

      Trial Design:

      A prospective cross-section observational study.

      Recruitment of study subjects:

      Patients attending Hong Kong Children's Hospital for clinically indicated USG examination
      will be invited to participate in this study under specific inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Treatment of subjects:

      Recruited subjects will proceed to the clinically indicated USG study they are referred for
      first. After the clinically indicated USG study is completed, additional USG & Doppler
      assessment of hepatic vasculatures will be performed, taking an additional 5 - 10 minutes.

      All examinations will be done using a Philips EPIQ 5G ultrasound machine. Curvilinear or
      linear probe will be used depending on subjects' physique. Size measurements, qualitative and
      quantitative Doppler assessment of hepatic vein, hepatic artery and portal vein will be made
      and recorded.

      Statistical method to be employed:

      Continuous variables will be tested for normality by Shapiro-Wilk's test. Simple statistics
      including mean and standard deviations (+/- 2 SD) will be used to determine normal ranges for
      age.

      Comparisons will be done by student's t-test. Relations between height, weight and gender
      with vessels diameter will be tested by Pearson correlation.

      Linear multiple regression analysis will be utilized with vessels diameter as the dependent
      variable.

      Number of subject to be enrolled (observation study): 300

      Rationale:

      Sample size = (Standard normal variate)2 X (Standard deviation)2 / Presicion2 Sample size =
      1.962 X 22 / 12 Sample size = 15.37

      Standard normal variate = 1.96 at 5% Type I error Standard deviation = up to 2mm (from prior
      study of portal vein diameter) Precision = 1mm

      In view of aim of determining age corrected normal range of vessels diameter in children, a
      much bigger sample size will be obtained to improve accuracy.

      Target to include 300 children in this study.

      Age groups:

      Around 30 cases for each of the following age groups:

        1. 0 - 1 years old

        2. 1 - 2 years old

        3. 2 - 4 years old

        4. 4 - 6 years old

        5. 6 - 8 years old

        6. 8 - 10 years old

        7. 10 - 12 years old

        8. 12 - 14 years old

        9. 14 - 16 years old

       10. 16- 18 years old
    
  