
    
      Primary Objective To measure the effect of mungbean based test meal on iron status (defined
      by body iron stores, calculated as the ratio of ferritin and serum transferrin receptor) of
      school age children (6-10 years) with and without the consumption of guava, a vitamin C rich
      fruit, distributing in school feeding program for seven months.

      Three weeks before the trial available children (6-10 years) in selected schools will be
      screened for eligibility of the study on the basis of medical health questionnaire. Deworming
      will be done at least 20 days before the start the feeding trial with a single dose of
      Albendazole (400 mg), that will be given again after three months. These 300 children will be
      assigned to three groups (100 children each group). Group-1 will be served with the normal
      school feeding program (SFP) meal (see annexure-1) and this group will also serve as control
      group for the study. Group-2 will be served with mungbean test meal (see annexure-2) and
      group-3 will be served with guava fruit in addition of mungbean test meal. Meals to all
      children will be provided for six days in a week up to seven months. All meals will be served
      at mid morning (11.00 am to 11.30 am). Effect of intervention will be assessed in terms of
      iron status of children.

      This study will be carried out in two government schools of Mangali village belong to Hisar-1
      block of Hisar district Haryana state with the close supervision of Chaudhary Charan Singh
      Haryana Agriculture University, Hisar.

      Children having severe anemia (Hb <7.0 g/dl) will be excluded from the trial and referred for
      medical treatment.

      Subjects will be recruited that comply with the following criteria:

        -  School children (6-10) years of age,

        -  enrolled in selected primary schools,

        -  Informed consent obtained from at least one parent or guardian,

        -  Children should be apparently healthy; i.e. have no pre-existing medical conditions or
           be receiving chronic medication,

        -  Should not be allergic / hypersensitive to any of the ingredients of the test meal,
           Should not consume mineral/vitamin supplements.

        -  If the child consume supplements he/she will be asked to stop taking the supplements two
           weeks before the study and during the study.

      A total of two blood samples will be taken from the participants, one at the start of the
      study, and second at the end of the study. With each sampling 7ml blood will be taken by an
      experienced technician. Blood will always be drawn in the morning between 7.30 and 9.00am at
      particular school by the well trained technician. Hemoglobin in whole blood, serum ferritin
      (Sf), serum transferrin receptor (sTfR), serum CRP and AGP will be analysed to compare the
      iron status. Body iron stores will be calculated with the formula by Cook et. al. All
      analysis will be carried out at the same time for both samples of baseline and after
      intervention at St. John hospital, Bangalore. Therefore serum samples of baseline will be
      stored for seven months at - 800c temperature. The CV of intra-assays and inter-assays will
      be, monitored. Blood samples will not be destroyed after completion the study they will be
      kept for up to 5 years.

      Iron status will be compared in children belonging to three different groups in pre and post
      conditions, using above mentioned iron status indicators. Height and weight of the children
      will also be measured at pre and post of the intervention study. The primary outcome of this
      study will be body iron stores calculated with the cook formula.

      Secondary outcomes will be prevalence of iron deficiency, anaemia, and difference in
      haemoglobin concentration and plasma concentrations of ferritin, and soluble transferring
      receptor in the two treatment groups. Anemia will be defined as a hemoglobin concentration
      <11.5g/L and iron deficiency will be defined as an SF concentration <12µg/l. The cut-off for
      normal CRP and AGP are defined at <5mg/L and <1g/L(12), respectively. Anthropometric indices
      will be calculated using WHO (2006) (10) Child growth standards. Being stunted, underweight
      or wasted will be defined by Z score <-2SD for height-for-age, weight-for-age and
      weight-for-height respectively.
    
  