
    
      A sample size of 50 women (25 in each group) are required to reliably estimate the
      distributions of serum and red blood cell folate. Thus, to account for drop outs or loss to
      follow up, a total of 60 women (30 in each group) will be recruited.

      Aim 1: To establish the mean ± standard deviation change in serum folate, red blood cell
      folate, and unmetabolized folic acid levels in each group following supplementation with
      (6S)-5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid or folic acid for 16-weeks of pregnancy. Exploratory
      analyses will be to measure differences in folate forms and folate binding protein in
      breastmilk.

      Aim 2: To determine participation recruitment and retention rate, the most effective
      recruitment strategies for this population, and adherence to study protocol (to inform a
      definitive trial).

      Women may undergo informed consent process anytime <21 weeks gestation. Once participants
      indicate that they are interested in participating in the trial, the participant will be
      given a study ID, and a baseline visit will be scheduled.

      The baseline visit will occur between 8-21 weeks gestation, and will involve discontinuation
      of current folate/prenatal vitamin supplementation, review and signing the informed consent
      form (a scanned copy will be shared with the participant), randomization to a folate group,
      provision of study supplements, completion of a baseline questionnaire, completion of a food
      frequency questionnaire, measurement of weight and height, and a small blood draw (12ml).

      Intervention: total time: 16 weeks. Participants will supplement daily with the folate and
      prenatal vitamin supplements. The research coordinator will call the participants half way
      through the intervention period to serve as a reminder and answer any questions, which will
      enhance protocol adherence.

      The endline visit will occur between 24-37 weeks gestation, and will involve collecting any
      remaining supplements (for capsule counts), a weight measurement, and a small blood draw
      (12ml), and completion of a short endline questionnaire.

      Optional continuation of study: After the endline visit, women who are planning to breastfeed
      will have the option to continue supplementing with the study supplements until approximately
      1 week postpartum, at which time they will provide a small (3 mL) breastmilk sample. The aims
      of this collection will be to measure difference in folate forms (including total proportion
      of unmetabolized folic acid) and breastmilk folate-binding protein.
    
  