
    
      Purpose The purpose of the study is to determine whether the eating window of a
      time-restricted eating protocol affects changes in body composition. It is hypothesized that
      the afternoon group will have better adherence to their experimental protocol and have
      greater changes in body composition.

      Sample The sample will include 20 healthy adult participants ranging in age from 18-25 that
      volunteer to participate in the study. Participants will be required to have a body mass
      index above 26 (BMI=weight(kg)/height(m)2). All individuals must give written informed
      consent in order to participate in the study. Exclusion criteria include a history of
      intermittent fasting in the past 6 months, diabetes, or pregnancy and BMI less than 25.9.

      Procedure Inclusion/exclusion criteria will be explicitly stated throughout the recruitment
      process. Potential participants will be recruited through advertising using posters placed
      through the University of Westerns campus as well as via presentations in classrooms (using
      the information from the advertising flyers). Individuals who email Bryce Knapp will be
      invited to a meeting to discuss the study. After the evaluation and information meeting, the
      individual will be given up to 3 days to determine if they want to participate and give their
      informed consent. See attached form in the consent section of the ethics application.

      Measurement: All individuals will have their body composition measured. Body composition will
      be measured using air displacement densitometry "Bod Pod". Measurements will be taken twice
      prior to the intervention and twice on successive days post-intervention. Individuals will
      also be asked to fill out a biweekly modified dialysis diet and fluid non-adherence
      questionnaires (DDFQ) with added checkboxes to record which days they complied with the
      required protocol and 2 questions regarding any struggles the participants experienced. This
      will be used to assess the adherence to the protocols.

      Protocol: 20 participants matched for BMI will be assigned to one of two groups. The two
      groups will be assigned an eating period of 6am-2pm or 2pm-10pm and instructed not to ingest
      calories outside of their respective eating window. The interventions will last 4 weeks with
      individuals being asked to comply to their eating window a minimum of 5 days per week. This
      will be measured using the modified DDFQ. All testing will be completed by Bryce Knapp under
      the supervision of Dr. Lemon. The changes in fat mass will be analyzed using a 2-way ANOVA
      and the adherence will be measured using an independent t-test.
    
  