
    
      "Adventure programming is the use of experiential and challenging approaches to education,
      recreation, life skills and counseling. It is the use of new, unique and relevant activities
      to supplement conventional learning processes. Adventure-based activities are tailored to
      achieve desired outcomes related to specified learning objectives. The core purpose is to
      intensify learning and insight by focusing on the process that occurs during challenging
      activities."

      Adventure Based Therapy (AT) is a unique approach to traditional therapy strategies. AT is
      based on the philosophy of "experiential education", which is defined as "learning by doing,
      with reflection". The idea of experiential learning is based on the belief that learning is a
      result of direct experience, and learning is most effective when multiple senses are actively
      involved. By increasing the intensity of the mental and physical demands of learning, one can
      be fully engaged in the learning by simultaneously stimulating all sensory systems.
      Psychological research on information processing indicates that multi-sensory processing
      increases cognitive activity such as problem solving, processing of an experience, and
      memory. AT combines physical activity, social empowerment, and problem solving skills into a
      multi-sensory experience.

      Recent literature suggests that AT can benefit patients' recovery. For example, preliminary
      work suggests that AT is effective in reducing feelings of hopelessness, guilt, and shame,
      and may increase empathy. Self-concept, self-confidence, and subjects' well-being have also
      been shown to be improved by AT. The concept of AT stems from the idea of team building
      exercises, and the notion that through participation patients experience increased group
      cohesion, therapeutic alliance, and communication and negotiation skills. Here, we will
      assess these variables in patients with mood disorders participating in AT using an extensive
      assessment battery. In addition, we will follow patients longitudinally to assess the
      durability of these effects.

      The present research will be a pilot study designed to modify the protocol for the main
      trial. We will assess engagement in treatment by exploring participants' actual experiences
      and how they attribute meaning to their involvement in the therapeutic adventure based
      program. A qualitative research design that uses the Grounded Theory method will be used.
      Grounded Theory promotes a focus on individuals in real life situations and local social
      contexts. Qualitative interviews give participants the opportunity to have their voices or
      stories included in research studies as well as contribute to the development of effective
      treatment interventions. Feasibility of the trial will be determined by analyzing resource
      and economic utilization throughout the pilot.
    
  