
    
      The most commonly performed surgical procedure requiring general anesthesia in the pediatric
      population is myringotomy and placement of pressure equalizing tubes in the middle ear. It is
      performed in otherwise healthy children with chronic middle ear fluid collections and
      infections. In these cases, general anesthesia is accomplished by inhalation of a volatile
      anesthetic gas, which induces unconsciousness and analgesia for the approximately 10 minutes
      it takes to perform the procedure. A requirement of the procedure is lateral neck rotation by
      the anesthesiologist managing the airway. This enhances surgical visibility (Fig 1). However,
      a well-known clinical consequence of lateral neck rotation is development of upper airway
      obstruction with subsequent hypoxemia.1 Anesthesiologists routinely counteract this problem
      by placement of an oral airway device or application of CPAP, or both. Nevertheless,
      intervening hypoxia often necessitates temporary halting of the procedure and resumption of
      the neutral neck position until hypoxemia abates. This study will determine the anatomical
      mechanism for upper airway obstruction during lateral neck rotation and will elucidate the
      effects of administration of CPAP on this obstruction.

      This study will use an MRI imaging technique that has been used recently at CHOP by Drs.
      Raanan Arens and Soroosh Mahboubi to study the three-dimensional characteristics of the upper
      airway in children. This methodology, which was developed at the University of Pennsylvania
      and CHOP, utilizes fuzzy connectedness-based automatic segmentation that allows visualization
      of the upper airway in a correct anatomical orientation as it relates to airflow.2,3 This
      technology has been successfully applied to anesthetized children without any apparent
      adverse effects (see IRB # 2003-2-3189).

      An additional evaluable patient will be photographed during elective bronchoscopy with
      general anesthesia to correlate the MRI images with images visualized clinically.
    
  