
    
      The DECART study is a pre-post, two round, randomized controlled study of a nationally
      representative sample of 330 primary care physicians randomly assigned to a control or one of
      two intervention arms. Once eligibility is determined and providers are enrolled in the
      study, they will be asked to complete a questionnaire describing their practice and
      professional background. They will then care for a total of 6 CPV® simulated patients. The
      simulated patients will be adults aged 30-75 and present with various clinical conditions and
      potential drug interactions. The design and intervention consists of two rounds with an
      intervention among two thirds of the participants.

        -  Round 1 (Baseline Assessment): Providers in both the control and intervention groups
           will care for 3 CPV simulated patients using their standard practice approach, to
           evaluate their awareness of DDI interactions and associated variability in caring for
           patients at risk for DDIs.

        -  Intervention/DD! Education: Approximately 3 weeks after CPV Round 1 is complete, the
           intervention arms will receive Aegis test education materials, consisting of: 1)
           on-demand, online video on the Aegis DDI test, 2) example test results, 3) example case
           study, 4) clinical care reference guide, and 5) test overview.

        -  Round 2 (Post-Educational Intervention Assessment): Approximately 3 weeks after the
           intervention, all providers in the control and intervention arms will receive another 3
           simulated patients to care for to determine if their awareness has changed and if their
           practice has improved. In the post--educational assessment, one-half of intervention
           participants will have access to Aegis DDI test results for their patients to help guide
           their decision making. The other half will have the option of receiving test results if
           ordered. Control physicians will continue to their standard practice approach.
    
  