
    
      While there are no differences in oncologic principles (no touch technique, proximal vessel
      ligation, lymphadenectomy) between laparoscopic right colectomy with IIA and EIA, potential
      advantages of IIA are: (1) no need for extensive mobilization of the transverse colon to
      reach the abdominal wall; (2) performing the anastomosis away from the abdominal wall may
      lead to reduced rates of superficial site infection; (3) a shorter incision for the specimen
      extraction may be associated with clinical benefits such as less pain and lower rates of
      superficial site infections; (4) laparoscopic visualization during the creation of the IIA
      may reduce unrecognized twisting of the terminal ileum mesentery, and (5) the ability to
      remove the specimen through any type of incision, with subsequent reduced risks of incisional
      hernias in case of Pfannenstiel incision when compared to midline or off-midline incisions.

      Some retrospective and heterogeneous studies comparing perioperative outcomes after
      laparoscopic right colectomy with EIA and IIA have been published in the last decade,
      reporting controversial results. Furthermore, the results of recent metanalyses are
      challenged by the heterogeneity and the poor quality of the published studies. Lastly, no
      comprehensive economic evaluation of the two procedures have been performed yet.

      Consecutive patients with right colon tumors are included in a randomized controlled trial.
      This is a single Institution prospective randomized controlled trial comparing the outcomes
      in patients undergoing laparoscopic right colectomy with IIA or EIA for right colon neoplasm.
      Eligible patients will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to undergo either laparoscopic IA
      or EA according to a list of randomization numbers with treatment assignments. This list will
      be computer generated. An Internet application will allow central randomization.

      Cost analysis will be based on the following costs: surgical instruments (including re-usable
      trocars and disposable tools), operative room, routine postoperative surgical care, diagnosis
      and treatment of postoperative complications. Operative room costs include healthcare
      personnel, medications, and structure costs. To calculate the cost of each postoperative
      complication, the following items will be assessed: laboratory and microbiology analysis;
      medical, technical, and diagnostic services; surgical and therapeutic interventions;
      medications; prolonged hospital stay, and outpatient clinic follow-up. The mean length of
      hospital stay of uncomplicated patients will be the basis to calculate the prolonged hospital
      stay in each patient with complication. In patients who will develop multiple complications,
      resources used to treat each complication will be recorded separately.
    
  