
    
      All women with breast cancer have to face, at any age, to numerous issues linked to cancer
      (incertitude, recurrence anxiety...) and to physical and psychosocial side effects of
      treatments which can degrade their life quality. However, young women (<45 years at
      diagnostic) have to face specific issues related to their age (early menopause, withdrawal of
      pregnancy projects, education of young children). Moreover, treatment consequences can alter
      patient's life quality and can persist in time (fatigue, pains, chemotherapy, sexuality,
      induced menopause for example). Overall, young patients have a lesser life quality, greater
      emotional distress and vulnerability and have more difficulties to establish adapted
      adjustment strategy compared to elder women.

      The role and importance of relatives, particularly partners, during cancer pathology is
      incontestable. However, few empiric and consensual data exist on the impact of cancer
      diagnostic on partners, especially when women are young at initial diagnostic. Nevertheless,
      available data underline the importance of the supporting partner during breast cancer
      disease.

      Cancer also disturbs conjugal relationship. For example, life quality of patient influence
      strongly the life quality and mental well-being of her partner. Moreover, the intimate
      relation with the partner could play an important role in healing after breast cancer.
      Numerous authors underline the importance of focus on the couple instead of patients alone or
      partners alone with a dyadic approach where dyad member's reactions will be interdependent.

      Thus, study of dyadic adjustment of couples where a member is facing cancer pathology at
      young age is indubitably innovative and present a real scientific and clinical interest. More
      precisely, KALICOU 3 study will focus on the impact of intrapersonal and interpersonal
      emotional skills of patients and partners on individual and dyadic adjustment.
    
  