
    
      The study will be a prospective, randomized study of patients undergoing clinically-indicated
      coronary angiograpy in the New York University (NYU) Langone Medical Center cardiac
      catheterization laboratory. Patients will be randomized to one of two coronary angiography
      protocols: (1) Coronary anatomy visualized under fluoroscopy, documented using the
      fluoroscopy-save function, and further visualized using cinematography only when higher
      quality is necessary (fluoroscopy-save technique) versus (2) Coronary anatomy visualized and
      documented using cinematography alone (standard technique). The primary outcome will be a
      measure of radiation exposure to the patient, surface peak skin dose, as measured by the
      Gafchromic XR RV3 film strip, which is placed under the patient's back during the procedure.
      Other outcome measures will include radiation output recorded by the fluoroscopy machine,
      amount of contrast used, and quality of angiograms performed. To determine if the quality of
      the angiograms performed using the fluoroscopy-save technique is non-inferior to the standard
      technique, one extra picture will be taken at random using the mode that the study was not
      randomized to. For example, in the fluoroscopy-save group, a picture that was not visualized
      under cinematography during the study will be repeated and documented under cinematograpy. In
      the standard group, a picture will be repeated and documented using the fluoroscopy-save
      function. These 2 pictures from each study will then be collated and put together in no
      particular order with all identifiers removed. These single pictures will be read by 2
      interventional cardiologists not involved in the study in a blinded fashion. The degree of
      coronary artery disease as determined by these 2 readers will be compared between the
      fluoroscopy-save picture and cinematography picture.
    
  