
    
      It has been reported that 5-10% of patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention
      (PCI) have concomitant AF. Most of those patients have an indication for OAC therapy to
      prevent stroke or systemic thromboembolism, and also for APT to prevent ischemic cardiac
      events, particularly myocardial infarction (MI) due to stent thrombosis (ST). However,
      combined use of OAC and APT is associated with increased risk of major bleeding. Thus, we
      need to balance the risk for stroke or systemic thromboembolism and coronary events against
      the risk for bleeding complications.

      The AF guidelines of European Society of Cardiology (ESC) published in 2010 recommended
      vitamin-K antagonist (VKA) monotherapy as life-long antithrombotic therapy after 12 months of
      combined use of VKA plus APT in AF patients undergoing coronary stenting. Single APT with
      either aspirin or clopidogrel is the commonly used APT regimen in non-AF patients beyond
      1-year after PCI-stenting. No APT coverage after coronary stenting was reported to be
      associated with increased risk for ST. It has not yet been thoroughly clarified whether VKA
      monotherapy is equally effective as single APT in the prevention of ST, although several RCTs
      have shown that VKA was more effective than aspirin for the secondary prevention of ischemic
      cardiac events in post-MI patients mostly untreated with coronary stent, and recent
      observational studies have suggested the safety of VKA monotherapy beyond 1-year after
      PCI-stenting. Nevertheless, there have been no RCTs focusing the safety of VKA monotherapy
      for AF patients in the chronic phase of PCI-stenting.

      Also, because phase-3 RCTs comparing warfarin and non-VKA OAC (NOAC) in the prevention of
      stroke or systemic embolism in AF patients showed no significant difference in the incidence
      of MI during follow-up, the consensus document of ESC published in 2014 recommended OAC
      monotherapy with either VKA or NOAC as life-long antithrombotic therapy beyond 1-year after
      coronary stenting for AF patients. However, there have been no RCTs or observational studies
      demonstrating the safety of NOAC alone beyond 1-year after PCI-stenting.

      Accordingly, we planned a prospective randomized controlled open label trial comparing OAC
      alone versus OAC plus single APT in AF patients beyond 1-year after PCI-stenting. AF patients
      receiving OAC with either warfarin or NOAC in combination with single APT with either aspirin
      or clopidogrel, who underwent PCI-stenting more than 12 months ago, are eligible for the
      study. Patients are randomly assigned to OAC alone (intervention arm, discontinuing single
      APT) or OAC plus single APT (control arm, no change in antithrombotic therapy).

      The patient enrollment period is approximately 3 years and follow-up duration is at least 1
      year. Therefore, the anticipated mean follow-up duration is approximately 2.5-year.
    
  