
    
      Rationale:

      Well over 100 million family members worldwide are affected by the addictive behaviour
      (alcohol, drugs, etc.) of a relative, which has a highly stressful impact on these affected
      family members (AFMs). Although AFMs may not suffer from a diagnosable mental health
      condition, their experiences of living with a drinker makes them vulnerable to physical and
      mental ill-health, including mood and substance use disorders, trauma, and stress related
      conditions. Studies in India on the impact of substance use demonstrate high burden in AFMs,
      disruptions in family routine, finances, interactions and leisure, and spouses being 'worried
      about their husband's habits', primarily alcohol consumption. Using evidence-based
      interventions, AFMs can be helped to reduce their symptoms and improve methods of coping. One
      such intervention is the 5-Step Method (developed in the UK) and is being used in developed
      countries, with studies demonstrating significant positive effects. Supporting Addiction
      Affected Families Effectively (SAFE) is a research project to contextually adapt the 5-Step
      Method (in India). The project entails a Pilot Randomised Controlled Trial (RCT) evaluating
      SAFE delivered by lay counsellors in comparison with Enhanced Usual Care (EUC). The study
      involves preliminary testing of the intervention consistent with the pre-evaluation phase of
      the Medical Research Council's framework for complex interventions.

      Research questions:

      The objectives of the study are to evaluate the effectiveness, feasibility and acceptability
      of the SAFE intervention, for family members affected by a relative's alcohol use, in Goa,
      India. Corresponding to these objectives, the research questions in the primary research
      publication are: 1. Primary question: a) Is the SAFE intervention superior to EUC in reducing
      psychological and physical symptoms in family members affected by a relative's alcohol use,
      at 3 months' post enrolment? 2. Secondary questions: a) Is the SAFE intervention superior to
      EUC in reducing coping behaviors in family members affected by a relative's alcohol use, at 3
      months' post enrolment? b) Is the SAFE intervention superior to EUC in reducing impact on
      family members affected by a relative's alcohol use, at 3 months' post enrolment? c) Is the
      SAFE intervention superior to EUC in improving social support for family members affected by
      a relative's alcohol use, at 3 months' post enrolment? The research questions in the
      secondary research publication are: a) What are the treatment experiences of the family
      members affected by a relative's alcohol use? b) What is the preliminary feasibility of the
      SAFE intervention, delivered by lay counsellors to family members affected by a relative's
      alcohol use? c) What is the acceptability of the SAFE intervention, delivered by lay
      counsellors to family members affected by a relative's alcohol use?

      Design:

      Parallel arm, single blind, pilot RCT of the SAFE intervention compared with EUC for family
      members affected by their relative's alcohol use, in Goa; and a nested qualitative study. 50
      AFMs each will be recruited in the intervention and control groups.

      Study setting and target population:

      The study will be conducted in Goa (India; population=1.4 million people). Unlike most of
      India, Goa has easily available and cheap alcoholic drinks, and a more liberal, 'wet' culture
      towards drinking and this is reflected in lower abstinence rates. The prevalence of current
      drinking (past one year) in Goa, amongst men from the community is 39%, amongst primary care
      male attenders is 59%, and amongst male industrial workers is 69%. The target population
      includes family members (e.g. parents, spouse/partner, siblings, grandparents) affected by
      their relative's drinking.

      Recruitment:

      AFMs will be recruited by 1) referrals from community gatekeepers (e.g. community health
      workers, self-help group members, village council members), 2) referrals from professionals
      who come into contact with people with alcohol-related problems or their AFMs (e.g.
      psychiatrists, priests), and 3) self-referrals resulting from media (e.g. advertisements) and
      word-of-mouth publicity. Once the AFM is referred or identified, there will be an initial
      meeting during which the lay counsellors will implement the following procedures: 1) Confirm
      participant eligibility to enter the trial, 2) Obtain informed consent, 3) Administer
      baseline assessments, and 4) Assign participants to either SAFE or EUC, based on the
      randomisation list.

      Baseline measures:

      Baseline measures include: 1) Socio-demographic questionnaire, 2) Symptom Rating Test (SRT):
      assessing the extent of mild-to-moderate physical and psychological ill heath, 3) Coping
      Questionnaire (CQ): measuring ways of coping in the AFM, 4) Family Member Impact
      Questionnaire (FMI): measuring extent and type of impact on the AFM, and 5) Alcohol, Drugs
      and the Family Social Support Scale (ADF-SSS): assessing the perceived functional social
      support needs of AFMs. The SRT, CQ, FMI, ADF-SSS have been selected as: they have been used
      in other studies exploring the 5-Step Method, have developed from decades of work with AFMs,
      and measure the key underpinning theoretical constructs in the Stress-Strain-Coping-Support
      model on which the 5-Step Method is based. All these measures have been validated previously
      and will have undergone adaptation for use in the local context during the ongoing formative
      research.

      Randomisation:

      Consenting eligible participants will be randomized to receive the intervention or EUC. An
      independent data manager will generate a randomisation list to avoid any bias in treatment
      allocation. Research assistants will use Sequentially Numbered Opaque Sealed Envelopes to
      randomize the participants individually, to maximize allocation concealment.

      Intervention and Enhanced Use Care:

      The intervention to be tested will be a contextually adapted version of the 5-Step Method,
      which is based on the principles of the Stress-Strain-Coping-Support model. The 5 steps
      include: 1) Exploring stresses and strains, 2) Providing relevant information, 3) Exploring
      and discussing coping behaviors, 4) Exploring and enhancing social support, and 5) Ending
      sessions and exploring additional needs, and further sources of help. The intervention will
      be delivered in settings based on convenience of the participant (home, health centre, etc.).
      In the study setting, usual care for AFM is no care at all as detection rates are extremely
      low. EUC for the control group includes an information leaflet on the nature and impact of
      alcohol use, and existing treatment options for AFMs.

      Interventionists:

      SAFE will be delivered by lay counsellors, i.e. community members with no mental health
      qualifications. Eligible lay counsellors will undergo rigorous training and supervision in
      the delivery of the intervention and only those who achieve pre-determined competency
      standards will be selected to deliver the intervention.

      Outcomes and process indicators:

      The effectiveness of the intervention will be assessed at 3 months, through the primary
      outcome measures (SRT), and secondary outcome measures (CQ, ADF-SSS and FMI), administered by
      research assistants. Process indicators will be collated including number of patients
      screened and completing the intervention; number, frequency and duration of intervention
      sessions; and number of lay counsellors trained and achieving competency.

      Nested qualitative study:

      The qualitative study is to explore AFMs' experiences of SAFE and its perceived impact, and
      lay counsellors' experiences in delivering SAFE. The primary methods of qualitative data
      collection will be in-depth interviews and focus group discussions. The participants for the
      qualitative study will be recruited after the completion of the end-point assessments of the
      study, utilising a purposive and maximum variation sampling strategy.

      Strategies to minimise bias:

      The investigators and research staff will be blind to the treatment allocation. The following
      procedures will be implemented to ensure blinding: 1) The 3-month outcome assessments will be
      administered by research assistants who will have had no previous engagement in the study,
      and will be 'blind' to the treatment allocation, to avoid bias in the assessment of the
      outcomes. 2) To minimise unmasking: a) the primary outcome assessment will be administered
      prior to all other assessments; b) during the training of the research assistants, it will be
      emphasised that there is genuine scientific equipoise about the intervention versus EUC; c)
      participants will be requested not to disclose their allocation status to the research
      assistants during the assessment. 3) The baseline data will be anonymised during the analysis
      stage. During the study, the blind may be broken in circumstances where the participant
      experiences any harm/risk of harm, and knowledge of the treatment allocation status is
      crucial for further management.

      Analyses:

      Baseline comparability of randomized groups: Baseline characteristics of enrolled
      participants will be compared between treatment arms and overall, summarized using mean and
      standard deviation, median and interquartile range or numbers and proportions as appropriate.

      Outcome analyses: STATA will be used for data description and the main inferential analysis.
      The primary analyses will be intention-to-treat at the 3-month end-point. Any missing outcome
      data will be imputed by multiple imputation, using baseline characteristics on STATA.
      Secondary analyses at the 3-month end point be complete case analyses adjusted for baseline
      values associated with drop out from outcome evaluation.

      Process evaluation: Process evaluation will be used to assess quality of implementation in
      the trial, and identify contextual factors associated with variation in outcomes. Process
      indicators will be summarized in a CONSORT flow chart which will include recruitment and
      consent rates. Initial analyses will compare baseline characteristics of individuals who
      consented and did not consent, and participants who completed outcome assessments and did not
      complete assessments. The routine monitoring data will be summarised in a descriptive manner.

      Qualitative analysis: The qualitative data from interviews will be coded independently by two
      researchers, and themes will be identified and further analysed using the thematic analysis
      framework.

      Overall, the data arising from the outcome and process evaluations will be triangulated for a
      comprehensive understanding of the study data.

      Host institute:

      Sangath (Goa) is the coordinating centre for the study (http://www.sangath.com/index.php).
      Sangath is a community-based Non-Governmental Organisation, working across various states in
      India, on research in mental health problems across the lifespan. Sangath has achieved global
      recognition in mental health research, given its focus on innovative solutions in mental
      health care in low resource settings; and has a track record of conducting successful
      psychosocial intervention-based RCTs.

      Ethics:

      The study is planned, conducted and reported in accordance with the Helsinki Declaration and
      Good Clinical Practice guidelines. Ethical approval has been sought from the Sangath
      Institutional Review Board (IRB) and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).
    
  