
    
      Classic management of patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D) by endocrinologists consisted of
      carrying out a visit every 3-6 months in which HbA1c, microalbuminuria and a notebook with a
      variable number of annotated controls had been reviewed. In an accelerated way, the
      management of T1D has clearly been modified with the irruption of new technologies. Devices
      such as insulin bolus calculators, continuous glucose sensors, or continuous insulin pumps
      have been appeared and improved. In last months, continuous glucose monitors (CGM) for
      patients with T1D have been included in public funding in some cases. This fact is also
      associated with a considerable increase in the number of patient data, and new parameters to
      analyzed have appeared, with the same importance as HbA1c. Thus, percentage of time in
      optimal glycemic range, percentage of time in hypoglycemia, coefficient of variation of
      glycemia, or the mean glycemia are new parameters that the investigators have now been
      included in the follow-up.

      The handling of such amount of data has mainly two repercussions: on the one hand, if these
      data are well analyzed it is easier to make changes in the treatment, which can conduce to a
      better disease management such as an improvement in metabolic control or a reduction in
      hypoglycemia number events. On the other hand, in routine clinical practice it has been found
      that the fact that patients have higher number of data raises more doubts about theirs
      treatment and other aspects of their disease, which motivate a greater number of
      consultations, usually telephone or unscheduled, generating a greater delay in the
      consultation, occupying spaces assigned to the emergency room or in time slots assigned to
      other patients.

      In this way, telemedicine could be very useful in T1D management. These new devices allow
      data to be downloaded on secure digital platforms that make it possible for the doctor to
      have all the patient's blood glucose data without the presential visit of patient to
      hospital. Some of these platforms also allow safe communication channels between doctors and
      patients (teleconference, chats). The main benefit that telemedicine can provide is that
      allow doctors have a very narrow control, unacceptable in routine practice, which allows to
      interpreted the large volume of data that is generated and to do treatment recommendations,
      which can improve the metabolic control of the patient.

      To date there are few studies on telemedicine in T1D. In this regard, a systematic review
      reported promising data in terms of HbA1c reduction in 3-6 months interventions, although it
      do not allow a robust conclusion due to the heterogeneity of the intervention in included
      studies, the absence of a control group and the small number of patients included2.

      Furthermore, the benefits of telemedicine in management of T1D may go beyond the improvement
      of metabolic control. It must be considered that most T1D patients are young people of
      working age and that in some areas such as "l´Alt Penedès" there is an important geographical
      dispersion.

      Thus, telemedicine could reduce trips to hospital with benefits on quality of life and reduce
      indirect costs such as travel costs, lost working hours, etc. In this sense, the Coyote
      study, carried out in the United States with a sample of 40 T1D subjects between 18-25 years
      of age, demonstrated that telemedicine was capable of improving the quality of life and
      saving 6 hours on average between travel to hospital, medical visit and return to work or
      university1. It should be noted that this study, which is considered a benchmark in its
      field, did not have a control group nor did it study changes in metabolic control.

      On the other hand, being able to establish virtual contact channels between the patient and
      the doctor with a quick response from the doctor can be reflected in a reduction in the
      number of unexpected visits or contacts with the Emergency Department. Finally, it must be
      considered that virtual visits, although they are more frequent than face-to-face ones, are
      shorter and therefore the total time that doctor spends with the patient does not have to be
      superior to conventional management.

      Hypothesis: Use of telemedicine in patients with T1D allows a closer control of their disease
      that results in a improve of metabolic control without increasing the number of face-to-face
      visits.
    
  