
    
      Expanded Access for Lorenzo's Oil in X-linked Adrenoleukodystrophy to Intermediate Size Group

      Introduction/Rationale: A diet that consists predominantly of long-chain monounsaturated
      fatty acids has been demonstrated to reduce the levels of very long chain fatty acids (VLCA)
      in individuals with X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD). VLCFA are the primary biochemical
      abnormality in this genetic disorder and have been implicated in the pathogenesis of the
      cerebral disease. It has been demonstrated in an open study that reduction of VLCFA for more
      than a year is protective for childhood cerebral disease.

      The purpose of this expanded access proposal is to transition an open label study presently
      ongoing in boys between the ages of 18 months and 13 years of age to an expanded access
      study. The reason for this transition is lack of funding for the investigator to continue to
      support this as a study. A study requires investigator involvement including the assistance
      of research associates to monitor and track outcomes, perform neuropsychological assessments,
      monitor adverse events, and coordinate periodic evaluations.

      A move to expanded access would decentralize the coordination and monitoring of evaluations
      which are clinically indicated even for participants who are not participating in a study.
      This role would be undertaken by the treating physician.

      Data collected in such an open study could serve as safety material for a later filing.

      Study Population:

        -  Males with X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy; see inclusion/exclusion criteria below.

      Procedure:

        1. Individuals who wish to obtain oil will submit clinical documentation of diagnosis to
           Dr. Gerald Raymond. This will be either elevated very long chain fatty acids (VLCFA) or
           DNA diagnosis of a mutation.

        2. Identify a provider who will be responsible for the supervision of the diet. It is
           suggested that this be an individual who is experienced in managing individuals on a
           special diets such as a biochemical geneticist or neurologist with experience in ALD.

        3. Studies required before prescription (It is important to emphasize that while many of
           the following are performed solely for the use of Lorenzo's oil, the costs of these
           investigations and consults will be the financial responsibility of the participants.)

             1. Baseline VLCFA, complete blood count with platelets, and comprehensive metabolic
                panel

             2. Nutrition consult with a determination of daily calories. Thirty percent of
                calories will be provided by lipids and 2/3 of these lipid calories will be
                provided by long chain monounsaturated fatty acids (Lorenzo's oil). This
                nutritional evaluation will include the following.

           i. Present body parameters including weight, height, and BMI ii. Calculated daily
           calories and other nutritional needs for growth. iii. Calculation of percent of diet as
           lipids and amount of oil to be consumed daily iv. Instruction in diet restriction and
           monitoring of said diet. v. Recommend supplements. vi. Instructions in providing diet
           recall vii. Suggestions for maintaining and improving compliance. c. An MRI and adrenal
           testing are clinically indicated and will be required as part of expanded access.

        4. Clinical research forms (CRF) will be designed for the baseline and follow up
           information for uniformity of documentation.

        5. Upon receipt of this information, Dr. Raymond will provide an authorization of the
           prescription to the supplier, Nutricia N.A.

        6. Monitoring while receiving oil will consist of the following

             1. VLCFA; Complete blood count (CBC), and Comprehensive metabolic panel every 3 months

             2. Nutrition consult yearly.

             3. Magnetic Resonance Imaging of the brain will be performed every 6-12 months

             4. Appropriate monitoring of adrenal function.

             5. CRFs' will be forwarded every three months for all active participants on a
                January, April, July, October schedule

             6. The identified provider will be responsible for providing this information to Dr.
                Raymond's office. Failure to provide this information will result in withholding of
                authorization and no dispensing of the product.

             7. No more than 3 months' supply of the product will be authorized or shipped at a
                time.

             8. In the event of development of thrombocytopenia, Lorenzo's oil will be suspended
                and glyceryl trioleate (GTO) substituted for one month and then reintroduced as
                half dose of Lorenzo's oil followed by incremental increases as tolerated. We have
                previously used 80,000 platelets as a lower limit and would recommend this as
                providing an adequate margin of safety.

        7. Adverse events will be tracked and if resulting in hospitalization or death will be
           reported as required to the sponsor and FDA in the required period of time.

      Otherwise all reported adverse events will be tabulated and reported in the yearly IND
      report.

      Adverse events will include conversion of normal MRIs to those demonstrating cerebral disease
      and any interventions including bone marrow transplantation or gene therapy which are
      presently the only options to halt cerebral disease.
    
  