
    
      This is a prospective, open label, phase one study to determine the safety and tolerability
      of a single intravenous dose of Human Umbilical Cord Tissue Derived Mesenchymal Stromal Cells
      (hCT-MSC) in adults with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). hCT-MSCs are manufactured from
      umbilical cord tissue donated by healthy mothers delivering full term babies via Cesarean
      Section. The cells are extracted from the cord tissue, expanded and cryopreserved (frozen).
      One dose of 2x10^6 cells/kg (maximum of 10 x 10^7) will be administered intravenously to each
      participant in this study.

      It is hypothesized that immune dysregulation and/or abnormal neuronal connectivity that
      adversely affects normal brain development may cause core symptomatology observed in
      individuals with ASD. Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) have demonstrated a multitude of
      immunomodulatory effects which are thought to be carried out via paracrine and trophic
      signaling. While MSCs modulate the immune response, MSCs themselves have low immunogenicity
      (the body does not have a strong immune reaction against them) and they do not permanently
      engraft in the recipient.

      Adults ages 18 to 35 years with ASD will be eligible to participate. All participants will
      have a screening visit that includes clinical evaluation to verify the diagnosis of ASD,
      cognitive abilities, ASD symptom level, and confirmation of eligibility.

      One dose of 2x10^6 cells/kg (maximum of 10 x 10^7) will be administered intravenously to each
      participant at a baseline visit. Participants will be admitted to the infusion center on the
      day of their baseline visit and vital signs (heart rate, blood pressure, temperature,
      respiratory rate) will be measured. Participants may require some sedation prior to IV
      placement if they are unable to remain still or cooperate. A peripheral IV will be placed and
      prior to the infusion, premedications (Benadryl, Solumedrol, 0.5mg/kg each) will be
      administered. The hCT-MSCs product will be administered intravenously over 30-60 minutes.
      Pulse oximetry will be monitored continuously throughout the infusion and IV fluid
      maintenance will be given. Participants will be discharged after 1 hour, providing all vital
      signs are at their baseline and they are asymptomatic with no evidence of toxicity.
      Participants will be evaluated the day after the infusion to assess for any infusion-related
      adverse reactions or complications. A phone call or email to the participant or legally
      authorized representative to assess safety of the infusion will occur 7-10 days after the
      infusion. Remote follow up will occur 3 months and one year after infusion. Participants will
      return to Duke six months after infusion for repeated testing and safety follow-up. The
      Medical and Behavioral History Questionnaire assessing adverse events will be obtained at
      baseline, 3, 6 and 12-months.

      The main endpoint is safety, for which acute infusion reactions, incidence of infections, and
      markers of alloimmunization will be assessed. Key secondary endpoints will include
      ASD-specific outcome measures to describe any changes in autism symptoms after product
      administration. Exploratory analyses will include measures obtained by EEG, eye-tracking,
      pupillary light reflex, computer vision analysis, and tactile stimulation.
    
  