
    
      Atrial Fibrillation (AF) is the most commonly occurring sustained arrhythmia in clinical
      practice. AF is a serious disorder associated with an increased risk of stroke, morbidity and
      mortality, and the number of patients is estimated to double within the next 4 decades. The
      currently available antiarrhythmic drugs have limited efficacy and are associated with
      serious side effects of which potentially lethal ventricular proarrhythmias are one of the
      major concerns. Thus, there is a large unmet clinical need for efficacious and safe
      antiarrhythmic drugs for the treatment of AF.

      The classical orientation of antiarrhythmic therapy has been to modulate cardiac ion channels
      (sodium, potassium or calcium) or the autonomic nervous system. However, numerous
      experimental and clinical studies have suggested that cardiac conduction slowing and impaired
      gap junction intercellular communication (GJIC) are important in the pathogenesis of cardiac
      arrhythmias, including AF. General conduction slowing or the presence of small islands of
      intra-atrial conduction block resulting from a decreased gap junction conductance, altered
      gap junction expression and heterogeneous spatial distribution of gap junctions may provide
      turning points for the multiple waves, and thereby promote re-entry of impulses. In
      recognition of this, several authors have proposed gap junction modulation as a potential new
      target in the treatment of AF. GAP-134 is an antiarrhythmic dipeptide that has demonstrated
      in vitro and in vivo efficacy in mouse and dog models of arrhythmia. GAP-134 has no apparent
      proarrhythmic activity or hemodynamic compromise and does not show any significant binding in
      a panel of >60 different receptors and ion channels. If determined to be safe and effective
      the indication sought for GAP-134 will be the prevention of post operative atrial
      fibrillation.
    
  