
    
      All ARDS patients will be treated according to a strictly defined protocol. Each patient will
      receive a standardised sedation with sufentanil, midazolam and atracurium. Tidal volume was
      adjusted on 6ml/kg of ideal body weight based on the height of each patient. Positive End
      Expiratory Pressure (PEEP) will be settled at the highest possible level (from 5 to 18cmH2O)
      without exceeding a plateau pressure below 30cmH2O. The oxygenation goal will a pulse
      oximeter saturation above 88%. Ventilation parameters will be adapted to the results of
      arterial blood gas samples realised 3 times a day.

      Refractory patients will be defined by a PaO2/FiO2 ratio below 120 and will be eligible for
      "rescue techniques" like HFOV, prone position, nitrous oxide, Extra Corporeal Membrane
      Oxygenation (ECMO). Clinician choice for each technique will be unguided but if any rescue
      technique will be used prior to HFOV, patient will be not eligible for the study. All the
      patients will be monitored by a transpulmonary PiCCO technique. In every case, a femoral
      artery catheter (20cm, 5 French Pulsiocath, Pulsion Medical System) will be used for
      recording pressure and thermodilution signals via the PiCCOplus device V6.0 (Pulsion Medical
      System, Munich, Germany) using a venous central catheter.

      Patients meeting the inclusion criteria after 12h of standardised ventilation will be placed
      under HFO-V and closely monitored by arterial blood gas sample, PiCCO-derived measurements
      and transthoracic echocardiography (primary and secondary outcome measures detailed later
      on).

      HFOV failure will be defined by PaO2/FiO2<70 or hypercapnia > 55mmHg after optimisation of
      the HFO-V settings. In case of HFO-V failure, nitrous oxide will be used in first place as a
      complementary technique. In case of inefficacy, the investigators would switch to any other
      technique, causing the exclusion of the protocol.

      HFOV weaning technique is also standardised : FiO2 will be lowered gradually 10 percents by
      10 percents until 40% is reached. Then, the mean pressure will follow the same gradual
      lowering (2cmH2O by 2cmH2O until 24cmH2O). Once these two thresholds are reached, a HFOV
      weaning attempt will be realised with standard ventilation.

      The investigators will also report any therapeutics that may influence hemodynamic
      measurements such as fluid challenge, diuretics, norepinephrine and sedation.
    
  