
    
      Exercise induced-bronchoconstriction (EIB) is a transient narrowing of the airways that
      occurs during or shortly after strenuous exercise. The prevalence of EIB in asthmatic
      patients is estimated around 30-50%, but EIB can also occur in individuals without asthma
      (especially children, army recruit forces, and elite athletes). Controversy remains about the
      causative mediators in the bronchoconstrictive response. Technological advancement in mass
      spectrometry has opened new avenues in the quantitative measurement of small endogenous
      metabolites in biological fluids (including urine and blood), which may provide insights into
      the pathophysiology of EIB and direct future therapeutic targets.

      Utilising novel techniques in the analysis of inflammatory mediators in urine and blood, this
      study aims to conduct the most comprehensive analysis of mediator release during EIB to date.

      Participants will attend a screening visit during which they will complete an exercise
      challenge (to determine the presence of EIB). A skin prick test will also be conducted to
      establish the atopic status of the participants. Following the screening visit, patients with
      EIB will be invited to complete a randomised cross-over study, where they will perform two
      further exercise challenges on separate days: one while inhaling temperate dry air, and one
      while inhaling hot humid air (the latter is known to inhibit EIB). Lung function and
      breathing discomfort will be recorded, and urine and blood samples will be collected, before
      and at various time points after exercise. As a control condition, participants will also
      attend one visit during which no exercise will be performed.

      Participants aged 18-50yr, with diagnosed asthma and/or EIB, will be included in the study.
      12 participants will complete 4 visits (lasting between 90 min and 4.5h). The study will take
      place on Brunel University London campus, Uxbridge. Urine and blood samples will be sent to
      the Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden for analysis.
    
  