
    
      Background:

      Autonomic dysfunction, namely increased sympathetic drive and reduced vagal tone, may
      participate in the pathogenesis and complications of the MetS. Weight loss and aerobic
      exercise are first-line therapeutic strategies that are known to be beneficial in lowering
      blood pressure, enhancing insulin action and preventing the development of type 2 diabetes.
      However, there is a paucity of data regarding their effects on sympathetic nervous system
      (SNS) activity. In a recently completed Pilot study in 22 MS subjects we demonstrated that
      moderate dietary weight loss (7% of initial body weight) is associated with marked reductions
      in whole-body norepinephrine spillover rate (by 43%, P= 0.005) and muscle sympathetic nervous
      activity (MSNA, by 15%, P=0.01). In the proposed project we wish to extend these observations
      by evaluating the clinical benefits of aerobic exercise and weight loss maintenance.

      Aims:

        1. To determine whether dietary weight loss in combination with aerobic exercise (WL + EX)
           is more beneficial than dietary weight loss alone (WL) in reducing SNS activity and
           improving cardiovascular and metabolic parameters in middle aged men and women with
           abdominal obesity and a diagnosis of the MetS.

        2. To investigate the determinants of achieved weight loss, with a focus on the roles of
           SNS activity, b2-adrenoceptor polymorphisms, resting metabolic rate, plasma and
           interstitial adipocytokines.

        3. To determine whether clinical benefits during active weight loss (negative energy
           balance) are sustained after a 4-month weight loss maintenance program and to
           investigate the determinants of successful weight loss maintenance (as above).

        4. To examine the inter-relationships between SNS activity, insulin sensitivity, metabolic,
           anthropometric and haemodynamic parameters.

      Subjects:

      Sedentary men and women (n= 66) aged 45 to 65 years with a body mass index of 26 to 39 kg/m2,
      who fulfil Adult Treatment Panel III criteria for the MetS.

      Study design:

      Randomized, controlled, parallel design comparison of:

        1. WL;

        2. WL + EX; or

        3. Control (no treatment).

      Investigations will be performed at baseline, and at the end of 3-month lifestyle
      intervention, and a 4-month weight-maintenance program (WL and WL + EX groups).

      Diets:

      A modified version of the 'DASH' diet will be used at different caloric levels.

      Exercise:

      Bicycle riding, performed for 40 minutes on alternate days at a moderate intensity of 65% of
      maximum heart rate. Compliance will be assessed by VO2 max measurements.

      Investigations:

      SNS activity measurements (multiunit and single-unit microneurographic recordings of MSNA,
      whole-body norepinephrine spillover, and abdominal adipose tissue and skeletal muscle
      interstitial noradrenaline concentration determined by microdialysis) will be made before and
      during an oral glucose tolerance test, together with haemodynamic (calf blood flow measured
      by venous occlusion plethysmography) measurements. Changes in fat mass will be quantitated by
      DEXA scan. Metabolic measurements will include resting metabolic rate, insulin sensitivity,
      lipid profile, non-esterified fatty acids, plasma and interstitial adipokines/cytokines.

      Clinical significance:

      The proposed project will provide novel information about whole-body and regional sympathetic
      activity; the determinants of sympathetic activity and the relative clinical benefits of
      active weight loss, weight loss maintenance and aerobic exercise in middle-aged MetS
      subjects.
    
  