
    
      Cross-modal plasticity refers to the concept that the cortex normally responsive to one
      sensory modality, when deprived of its usual input, becomes responsive to inputs from other
      sensory modalities. In blind subjects, the visual cortex processes somatosensory and auditory
      information. A recent functional imaging study found that verbal memory recall and verb
      generation significantly activated the primary visual cortex in early blind humans. The
      magnitude of occipital activation was positively correlated with subsequent performance on
      verbal memory and verb generation tasks. These results raised the untested hypothesis that
      the primary visual cortex may be the neural substrate mediating superior verbal memory
      performance in early blind individuals. The purpose of this protocol is to test this
      hypothesis.

      The first experiment will identify the magnitude of activation in cortical areas associated
      with successful verbal memory encoding and retrieval, and with verb generation, in blind
      individuals and sighted controls. The expected outcome is increased involvement of the visual
      cortex in the early blind group. In the second experiment, we will test the hypothesis that
      disruption of activity of the activated visual cortex (using TMS) will have deleterious
      effects on verbal memory encoding and verb generation in early blind subjects, but not in
      late blind subjects nor sighted controls. The TMS experiment is necessary to identify a
      cause-effect link between occipital activation and improved memory performance.

      Experiment 1: We plan to study early blind subjects, late blind subjects and sighted controls
      during encoding into and retrieval from episodic verbal memory, and during verb generation,
      using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). The primary outcome measure will be the
      number of voxels significantly activated in primary visual cortex in early blind subjects vs.
      late blind subjects and sighted controls. Experiment 2: We plan to apply rTMS over left
      primary visual cortex, left prefrontal cortex, and a control site during encoding of words
      into and retrieval of words from episodic memory (primary task), and during a verb generation
      task. Sighted volunteers, early blind and late blind subjects will be studied. The primary
      outcome measure will be performance on a memory test during rTMS applied to different sites
      in the different groups. This investigation is important because it can provide novel
      evidence on a hierarchically high function of the primary visual cortex in the blind.
    
  