
    
      The study will be a repeated-measures design, with a lagged control group, allowing within-
      and between-subjects analysis. The primary outcome variable is motivation for rehabilitation
      (Motivation for traumatic brain injury rehabilitation questionnaire - MOT-Q). Secondary
      measures include measures of awareness (Awareness Questionnaire - AQ) and behaviour change
      (The Pittsburgh Rehabilitation Participation Scale - PRPS, and participation statistics).
      Tertiary outcomes are the assessment of the feasibility of the preparatory material as an
      intervention, completed by BIRT staff (Structured Assessment of Feasibility measure - SAFE).

      Primary participants will be recruited from a brain injury inpatient unit in Glasgow provided
      by Brain Injury Rehabilitation Trust (BIRT), and information recorded from case notes. This
      will include demographics, information about the brain injury, a cognitive profile, and
      participation statistics relating to attendance in their BIRT rehabilitation programme.
      Primary and secondary outcome measures (MOT-Q, AQ) will be completed.

      Participants will then be randomly stratified (by time since admission, and motivation for
      rehabilitation) into two groups; intervention and control. All participants will view the
      preparatory video in a 1:1 delivery by a member of BIRT staff every 2-3 days over a period of
      4 weeks, with the control group on delayed exposure of 2 weeks. During the delay period, the
      control group will continue to receive routine care from BIRT rehabilitation staff. BIRT
      staff will record the number of videos scheduled and watched by each participant.

      Primary and secondary outcome measures (MOT-Q, AQ) will be completed by inpatient
      participants again mid- and post-trial to allow exploration of effects by within-group
      comparisons, and between-group comparison with control group.

      Staff participants will complete the AQ and PRPS pre- and post-trial. Routine participation
      statistics recorded by staff will be gathered pre- and post-trial. Additionally, staff will
      evaluate of the feasibility of delivering the protocol, by completing the SAFE questionnaire
      post-trial.
    
  