
    
      Increased arterial blood pressure (HT) in chronic conditions is a major risk factor of
      cardiovascular morbidity and premature mortality. HT is diagnosed in 30-45% of global adult
      population and this number is still growing. The primary aim of the study is to define the
      prevalence of arterial hypertension and risk factors of its development in an unselected
      group of Polish men from the region of Warmia and Mazury, considered as one of the most
      unprivileged in terms of social and employment status in Poland. Polish men life expectancy
      at birth is 74 years and is lower as polish women life expectancy at birth by 8 years. The
      difference in Western Europe is 5 years (79 male vs. 84 female)
      (https://www.statista.com/statistics/274514/life-expectancy-in-europe/).

      The study protocol is approved by the Ethics Committee of the Regional Medical Chamber of
      Warmia and Mazury in Poland. The study are conducted according to the Good Clinical Practice
      guidelines. Each participant signs an informed consent and be coded with unique ID. As a
      pivotal part of the ProM project, arterial blood pressure have to be measured in agreement
      with the ESH/ESC guidelines in randomly selected male subjects. Participants will complete
      coded and standardized questionnaire and received a referral for free blood and urine tests.

      In serum will be tested: glucose, creatinine and lipid profile; microalbuminuria and
      creatinine were measured in urine, urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio (UACR) will be
      calculated. Estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) will be calculated according to the
      MDRD formula. 1-2 ml of serum will be frozen at -80C degree.

      Results of analyses will be saved by indexing with ID code only, personal data with
      individual IDs will be saved in additional file. All hard copy will be archived in secure
      room with coded electronic key.

      The investigators plan to repeat the measurements in 5 years in follow-up study.

      ProM aims to investigate the prevalence of arterial hypertension as well as to increase the
      interest in its prevention and treatment in men from the region.
    
  