
    
      The purpose of this research project is to investigate the use of an oesophageal cooling
      probe as a new and potentially better method of oesophageal protection for AF ablation
      patients compared to standard care. This is the multi-centre version of the recently
      completed single-site study (IRAS ID: 253844). This multi-centre version is required to
      confirm if the oesophageal cooling probe is definitively superior to standard care in
      protecting AF ablation patients and to clarify the extent of this protection.

      At present, the method of protection is limited余 an oesophageal temperature monitoring probe
      is inserted whilst the patient is under general anaesthesia and we simply measure the
      temperature during ablation, stopping if temperatures markedly increase, which may suggest
      significant oesophageal thermal injury. This method is unreliable as the temperature probe
      does not sit well in the oesophagus and is often too far away from the area requiring
      monitoring. The probe is difficult to place as it can coil.

      The design of the project is in the form of a randomised controlled trial like the
      single-centre study, so participants will have a 50:50 chance of being allocated to the study
      group receiving the new oesophageal cooling probe or the standard care (or control) group,
      receiving the oesophageal temperature monitoring probe.

      The patient is blinded to the result of the randomization, to avoid bias/placebo effect.

      If enrolled to the study group, the oesophageal cooling probe will be used- called the
      ensoETM probe. This is a smooth medical-grade silicone multi-lumen oesophageal probe (the
      device has a CE mark and is designed for the purpose of oesophageal insertion and cooling)
      that allows water irrigation in a closed loop system, when connected to an external console.
      If the console cools the irrigated water (this is controlled by manual up/down buttons
      depending on what temperature is desired), the oesophageal probe is then cooled also, which
      allows local oesophageal wall temperature to be controlled. Oesophageal cooling via the
      ensoETM probe can then counteract any transmitted thermal energy from the ablation. This
      probe is already in clinical use in critical care patients where it can control body
      temperature, if the probe is left in situ for purposely extended hours or days. It is
      therefore already known to be safe余 it also has a good safety profile in the context of AF
      ablations based on experience from the single-centre study (IRAS ID: 253844余 in press-
      doi:10.1093/europace/euaa276). In the single-centre study, all participants had endoscopic
      examination after their ablation to review the oesophagus, and no device/probe related
      abrasive trauma was seen.

      The procedure is normally done under general anaesthetic so the participant will not be aware
      of this and will not be subjected to any sensation of pain or discomfort. The probe is soft
      and much gentler than the camera probe that we normally have to insert during the catheter
      ablation procedure (the camera probe or transoesophageal echocardiography, TOE- is part of
      standard care), so the study authors are of the opinion that this additional precautionary
      measure does not itself increase the patient's risk or exposure to harm.

      After the procedure, all participants (study or control) will have an endoscopy camera
      between 12-72 hours after the catheter ablation procedure to review for degree of oesophageal
      thermal damage caused by ablation, if any. (Please note: A biopsy is NOT part of this
      research protocol余 this is simply a diagnostic camera.) The endoscopist is also blinded to
      the result of the randomization to avoid bias during reporting of the endoscopy result. The
      short time window between ablation and endoscopy camera follow up means that it can be done
      at the same admission as the ablation procedure itself, this is advantageous for the patient
      as both the ablation treatment and the follow up camera can be completed in 1 hospital
      admission. The endoscopy camera result is explained to the patient on the day and if any
      further action required. The timing is also advantageous to minimise separate hospital
      attendances in the Covid-19 era.

      After this, normal/standard care clinic follow up of the patient will be adhered to but as
      part of the trial, at the first clinic follow up, participants in both groups will be asked
      about any lingering gastro-oesophageal symptoms and we will make a record of this, for the
      study. The patient is still blinded to the results of the randomization at the time of
      reporting their symptoms during recovery, if any. This is to avoid bias/placebo effect.

      The research project does not create any areas of ethical concern as the soft oesophageal
      cooling device/probe is of gentle design, specifically made to sit in the oesophagus.
      Especially when compared to the TOE probe that we normally use as part of standard protocol
      for an AF ablation procedure. The patient will also not be aware of this step at all as the
      procedure is conducted under general anaesthesia. The device is appropriately CE marked and
      used for the indication of body cooling via the oesophagus and protection. Even in standard
      care, an oesophageal temperature monitoring probe is required, so effectively, this study
      simply randomizes the patient to either the new probe or the standard of care one, during
      their AF ablation.

      There is one additional follow up the participant is required to have, as part of this trial:
      the endoscopy camera (regardless of if randomised to study or control group). The endoscopy
      camera will be completed by 12-72hrs post catheter ablation procedure. The purpose is to
      review any areas of inflammation or thermal injury in the oesophagus that may alter clinical
      management but this specific information will also be used during study analysis of the 2
      randomized groups after the study has completed. An endoscopy camera is considered to be a
      low risk day case procedure that takes 20 minutes to complete. The risk of this camera test
      causing any damage itself is <0.5%. A TOE probe/any other oesophageal probe used during the
      ablation procedure is similar to the endoscopy probe so apart from the participant having to
      attend an additional appointment after their ablation, the overall risk to the patient is not
      significantly increased.

      The follow up endoscopy camera may be slightly uncomfortable in the beginning but it is not
      painful, is straightforward and relatively quick- this will be explained in the beginning
      during the recruitment process so the potential participant has an accurate idea of what to
      expect from the endoscopy camera and if they are happy to be enrolled. There is added benefit
      to the patient from this follow up, as the endoscopy camera will confirm to the patient about
      any oesophageal injury from ablation and if any treatment is required. If no injury, this can
      help to reassure the patient before they go home. Lastly, the follow up clinics will be as
      normal for the participant, only that we will ask specifically for any ongoing
      gastrooesophageal symptoms as well. We will make a record of this.

      The study authors reviewed the steps involved with this study design and conclude that no
      major ethical or legal issue has been identified. The summary of the steps involved here
      hopefully clarifies our viewpoint. From a management perspective, our centre is designed to
      conduct catheter ablation procedures for AF with general anaesthetic cover. We have
      experience and acquired the necessary equipment from the oesophageal cooling device company
      and have appropriate device management protocols and storage space in place. External funding
      for the project has been secured to cover for the additional cost of the oesophageal cooling
      devices. The endoscopy department at our centre is also equipped and supportive of our study
      and are able to conduct the additional follow up endoscopy tests post ablation. They are
      already accustomed to endoscopy test requests from our department, due to strong clinical
      indication, post catheter ablation.

      Lastly, we have conducted this proposed research trial at a single-site setting to great
      success and with excellent safety record with no probe-related trauma and we did not
      encounter any new or unexpected issues or difficulties. We obtained good patient feedback
      from the single-centre study. This same trial will run at 5 sites across the UK
    
  