
    
      1. Specific aims

             1. To evaluate the clinical success of implants placed in posterior maxillae with
                limited residual bone height (2mm to 8 mm) using OSFE with or without simultaneous
                grafting

             2. To study the influence of simultaneous grafting on the clinical success of dental
                implants in posterior maxillae using OSFE

             3. To observe the bone changes in the elevated space under sinus with or without
                grafting.

           The null hypothesis is that the application of simultaneous grafting has no significant
           advantage in terms of clinical success. Spontaneous bone formation can be observed with
           implants placed using OSFE without grafting.

        2. Background and significance

      Posterior maxillae commonly pose a challenge for successful dental implants due to the poor
      bone quality and insufficient bone quantity. Efforts have been made to allow successful
      implant placement in the posterior maxilla subject to limited bone height under the sinus.
      Approaches available now include the application of tilting implants, short implants, sinus
      floor elevation technique, etc. The osteotome sinus floor elevation (OSFE) technique, first
      introduced by Tatum in 1986, has been proved to be a predictable procedure. For OSFE, access
      to the sinus membrane is achieved through a crestal approach. Therefore, compared with window
      technique, OSFE is considered to be less invasive and less traumatic while having a
      limitation with regard to the residual bone height. According to the consensus conference in
      1996, OSFE technique should be limited to RBH ranging from 7mm to 9mm. However, with the
      improvement of implant design and surgical technique, the high predictability of implant
      therapy has encouraged re-evaluation of this limitation. Favorable results have been reported
      with more compromised sites even with RBH of around 4mm. Moreover, there is controversy
      regarding the necessity of a grafting material in order to maintain the space for new bone
      formation. In a previous pilot study, 42 implants was placed in posterior maxillae with OSFE
      without bone grafting materials. The RBH ranged from 4mm to 8mm (average 6.36mm). The 5-month
      result also demonstrated predictable results.

      But to date, there is still insufficient data regarding the clinical results of the implants
      in posterior maxilla with OSFE technique without grafting and it still remains to be
      elucidated the necessity of grafting with OSFE. And the lack of well-designed RCTs makes the
      level of evidence relatively low. In this context, therefore, the applicants attempt to
      assess the clinical success of dental implants placed in posterior maxillae using OSFE with
      or without grafting and to observe the endo-sinus bone changes specially for RBH of only 2mm
      to 8 mm.

      C. Methods

      Randomization Subjects will be allocated to the two groups using the random numbers table.
      Allocation will be equalized every 20 cases. One research assistant will perform the
      randomization.

      Study visits and procedures Pretreatment Assessment (Baseline) History-taking and consent
      taking: A detailed examination should be taken to make sure that the subject should fulfill
      the inclusion criteria. The subject will read through and sign the consent form.

      Examination: A detailed dental examination should be performed to assess the intended implant
      site, which should include the dimension of the edentulous site, the status of mucosa and the
      status of adjacent teeth.

      Baseline: A panoramic radiograph and an cone-beam CT should be taken to assess the
      pretreatment bone height under sinus.

      Surgical procedure (Surgical Day):

      Local infiltration anesthesia is used for all the subjects. A midcrestal incision, with
      mesial and distal releasing incisions extending well up into the buccal fold is performed and
      a full-thickness muco-periosteal flap is reflected. A round bur (Φ2.3 mm) is first used to
      mark the implant positions. Then, a minimal pilot drilling (Φ2.2mm) is performed to the depth
      approximately1 mm away from the sinus floor boundary according to the depth taken from the
      panoramic radiograph or CT scan. The cortical part of the implant bed is further widened to
      either Φ3.5mm forΦ4.1mm implants or Φ 4.2mm for Φ4.8mm implants. At this stage, the integrity
      of the sinus membrane is examined using the Valsava manoeuvre. Then the elevation of the
      maxillary sinus is achieved using Φ2.8mm osteotome by light malleting to achieve the initial
      sinus upfracture and is developed with osteotomes of increasing diameters gradually till the
      final depth.

      For group1 , the autogenous bone chips harvested during the drilling procedure was mixed up
      with Bio- Oss®. And the mixture is placed into the 'socket' by osteotomes when elevating the
      sinus membrane until the final depth.

      No grafting materials will be used for group2. No profile drill is used for any of the cases.
      The implants are placed in the prepared osteotomy site using a hand ratchet without tapping.
      All implants are placed in sites using a nonsubmerged technique and in a one stage procedure.

      Postoperative treatment Amoxicillin (Xinya Co., Shanghai, China, 500mg, 4 times a day for 7
      days) and metronidazole (Xinyiwanxiang, Shanghai, China, 400mg, 3 times a day for 7 days)
      will be used. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents are prescribed for post-surgical
      analgesia. 0.12% chlorhexidine oral rinse was prescribed for 60 seconds 5-6 times a day for
      14 days. Sutures were removed after 1 week.

      Patients were not allowed to use any removable prostheses during healing period. Patients
      should avoid blowing the nose during the healing period.

      Prosthetic Procedure (Prosthetic Day) The implants are allowed to heal for 6 months.
      Porcelain-fused-to-gold prostheses are attached to the implants 7 to 10 days after impression
      taking.

      Follow-ups The subjects will be recalled for follow-up visits at 3 months, 6 months, 1 year,
      2 years, 3 years, 5years and 10 years after surgery for clinical and radiographic
      examination.

      Parameters examined

      Radiographic parameters:

        1. Baseline: Pretreatment bone height under sinus at the implant site (mesial and distal)

        2. Surgical Day: Implant protrusion length (mesial and distal)

        3. Prosthetic Day and Follow-ups: Endo-sinus bone gain (mesial and distal)

        4. Prosthetic Day and Follow-ups: Crestal bone level (mesial and distal)

      Clinical parameters:

        1. Surgical day: Schneiderian membrane integrity

        2. Follow-ups: Post-operative complications (e.g. nose bleeding, infection)

        3. Follow-ups: Implant mobility

        4. Follow-ups: Probing depth Data collection Radiographic data: A panoramic and intra-oral
           radiograph will be taken at follow-up visits. For intra-oral radiograph, parallel
           technique will be applied. One experienced staff at the department of radiology will be
           responsible for taking these radiographs. The parameters will be measured using the
           specialized software.

      Clinical data: Dr. Huan-Huan Jiang and Dr. Shi-Chong Qiao, who are blind to which group the
      subjects belong to, will be responsible for clinical data collection.

      Statistical analysis ANOVA will be performed for the success rates of the 3 groups. The
      criterion for significance was set at α=0.05 and β=0.20. The ANOVA is non-directional.
      Descriptive statistics will be used for the radiographic parameters.
    
  