
    
      Once enrolled in the study, subjects will receive evaluations and testing to determine if
      they meet the necessary criteria for admission into study treatment. Subjects will not be
      responsible for the costs of any evaluations or tests conducted as part of this study.

      First, subjects will receive a psychiatric and medical evaluation by the study psychiatrist
      to see if she/he has any psychiatric or medical illnesses that would interfere with their
      ability to participate in this study. These evaluations may take up to an hour to complete.
      In addition, subjects will be asked to participate in a psychiatric interview designed to
      determine the child's diagnosis and current problem areas. The subject's parent will also be
      asked to fill out psychiatric questionnaires. The interview and questionnaires may take up to
      4 hours to complete.

      Second, urine and blood samples will be needed for routine tests two times during this study
      (before any study related tests are done, and at the end of the study). Two teaspoons of
      blood will be drawn each time. The urine sample will be analyzed in order to assess kidney
      function and to screen for the presence of drugs (such as cocaine, marijuana, heroin, etc.).
      A positive drug screen would result in the inability of the child to participate in this
      study. Drug screen results will be kept confidential. In addition, an electrocardiogram will
      be performed to determine heartbeat.

      Lastly, a pregnancy test will be conducted on the urine sample if the child is female and has
      reached puberty. The child should not be in this study if she is pregnant or a nursing
      mother. A positive urine pregnancy test would cause the child to be removed from the study.
      If the child is sexually active, she must be using an effective method of birth control
      during her participation in this study. Acceptable methods of birth control are oral
      contraceptive medications (the administration of which must be parentally supervised), IUD,
      depot medication and tubal ligation.

      Subjects will be assigned by chance to receive either the active medication (Galantamine) or
      placebo (sugar pill) for 12 weeks, much like the flip of a coin. Neither the parent/child nor
      the investigator will know which of the two treatments the child is receiving. The child has
      a 50% chance of being assigned to receive placebo during the study or the active medication,
      Galantamine, during the study.

      The child will need to be seen weekly by the study psychiatrist for the first 4 weeks of the
      twelve-week study, and every other week for the remaining weeks of the study. During these
      visits the study psychiatrist will ask the parent for feedback on his/her child's condition
      and any changes that may be related to the medication, including possible side effects, such
      as nausea and headaches, and will check the child's condition. The psychiatrist will also
      record his/her weight. These study visits will generally last approximately 30 minutes.
    
  