
    
      Intravenous iron administration in CHF patients with absolute or functional iron deficiency
      could correct their anemia, thus improving cardiac function judged by ejection fraction and
      NYHA functional class. If true, enhancement of cardiac output will increase oxygen delivery
      to tissues, including renal cortex. This might improve the renal functions and slow the rate
      of progression of CKD reflected by the slope of decline in glomerular filtration rate (GFR).

      Since erythropoietin synthesis is located in peritubular fibroblasts from outer renal cortex,
      which is the most affected area during chronic hypoxia, increasing renal blood flow after
      anemia correction is expected to restore optimal erythropoietin production and normalize
      plasma Epo levels.

      The primary objective is to assess the efficiency of intravenous iron therapy in the
      management of mild to moderate anemia associated with chronic heart failure NYHA III class
      and concomitant moderate chronic kidney disease.

      The secondary objectives are to determine if the correction of anemia in these patients
      affects the cardiac function, the rate of progression of CKD and the plasma erythropoietin
      levels.

      The study will be conducted in accordance with the Declaration from Helsinki and Tokyo, with
      the amendments from Venice (1983), after the approval by the local ethics committee.

      The total observation period will be of 28 weeks, with a pre-study phase (selection,
      randomization of subjects) 4 weeks.The study period will last 24 weeks, with a possible
      extension to 48 weeks, depending on the results of this first phase.

      200 anemic patients with chronic heart failure class NYHA III and concomitant stage 3 chronic
      kidney disease will be enrolled, after obtaining their written informed consent.

      All patients will be evaluated for the inclusion and exclusion criteria at enrollment and at
      each visit during the pre-study phase. Only patients fulfilling all the requested criteria at
      all evaluation moments will be enrolled. The enrolled subjects will be centrally randomly
      assigned in a 1:1 ratio into two study groups.

      Group I (treatment group): Subjects assigned to this group will receive intravenous iron
      (ferric sucrose product Venofer® 2%, 5mL/ampoule) in a starting dose of 200mg (2 ampoules)
      diluted in 150mL 0.9% NaCl solution, over 60 minutes, once a week for the first four
      administrations, and then every other week until hemoglobin levels reach 12g/dL. Then, iron
      dose will be adjusted to 1 ampoule at 2-4 weeks interval, as needed to maintain these levels
      with serum ferritin ≤500ng/mL.

      Iron administration will be discontinued if serum ferritin will exceed 500ng/mL, and will be
      restarted with a reduced dosage (1 ampoule at every 2-4 weeks) once serum ferritin decrease
      below this value.

      Conventional treatment for CHF will be continued as needed. Group II (control group):
      Subjects assigned to this group will continue their conventional treatment for CHF as needed,
      without iron supplementation.

      No other anti-anemic medication will be administered in either group during the study period.

      Subject's visits will take place at two weeks intervals in the first 12 weeks of the study
      phase and at 4 weeks apart thereafter. At each visit will be recorded, according to the
      schedule, data concerning physical examination, including signs of CHF, hematological and
      iron status, renal function, concomitant medication and adverse events.

      Parameters recorded at the time of first iron administration will serve as baseline
      determination.

      The completion of the study will be declared when 200 subjects will complete the whole
      observation period, according to the above protocol.
    
  