
    
      The study will be open to any patient meeting the inclusion / exclusion criteria, scheduled
      for intraperitoneal cystectomy or cyst destruction using Plasmajet, corresponding to a benign
      organic cyst requiring surgical treatment according to current recommendations.

      It will proceed as follows:

        -  Recruitment of patients during the preoperative consultation. The information form will
           be given to the patient.

        -  The day before the intervention: Inclusion proposed to the patient after re-explanation
           of the objectives and the progress of the study, submission of the consent form for the
           patient to sign. Realization of an ultrasound with count of antral follicles, and
           description of the ovarian cyst (size, aspect, IOTA criteria). Performing a blood test
           with AMH measurement to assess the preoperative ovarian reserve.

        -  The day of the intervention: Intraoperative, injection at the end of the procedure of a
           bolus of indocyanine green intravenously. Studied through an infrared camera system -
           the SPIES system (KARL STORZ GmbH & Co. KG, Tuttlingen, Germany) - fluorescence within
           the ovary will bring out the vascularization of the area of cystectomy or destruction of
           the cyst. Evaluation of the degree of fluorescence (between 0 and 4, on the model of a
           Likert scale) carried out at the area of cystectomy or destruction of the cyst. Then,
           the second evaluation technique using the METAMORPH software will assign a raw and
           objective score according to the fluorescence visualized. The 2 evaluation results will
           be compared with each other.

        -  Postoperatively: there will be no special clinical or biological monitoring. If
           undesirable effects related to Indocyanine Green occur, they will be noted.

        -  After discharge, as part of her standard follow-up for short-term desire for pregnancy:
           she will have a postoperative consultation planned 1 month after the intervention,
           followed by examination at 6 months and 12 months with an ultrasound for evaluation CFA
           and blood work with AMH.

      Any natural pregnancy will be noted.
    
  