
    
      This is a randomised controlled trial with intra-patient comparison (bilateral study) in
      which study patients will be randomized by a medical statistician to the implantation of the
      toric intraocular lens (IOL) (model MX60T, Bausch & Lomb) in one eye and the non-toric IOL
      model MX60 plus LRI in the fellow eye.

      During pre-operative examination, the patient will undergo:

        -  An ophthalmic examination including slit lamp biomicroscopy and retinal examination;

        -  Uncorrected and best-corrected visual acuity (UCVA and BCVA): monocular and binocular;

        -  Optical biometry with IOLMaster (Carl Zeiss Meditec);

        -  Orbscan corneal topography (Bausch and Lomb Orbscan IIz Corneal Analysis System);

        -  Quality of Vision (QoV) questionnaire score). It is a validated, Rasch-adjusted
           questionnaire in which patients are asked to rate 10 dysphotopsia items illustrated by
           standard photographs, scoring each item (0, 1, 2, 3) in relation to how frequent,
           severe, and bothersome their symptoms are (30 items in total).

        -  Catquest 9-SF cataract visual disability questionnaire. It is a Rasch-adjusted cataract
           visual disability questionnaire that asks patients to rate difficulty with a range of
           vision-related daily activities.

      The appropriate cylinder power of the MX60T toric-IOL as well of its axis of implantation
      will be calculated with the calculator provided by the manufacturer Bausch + Lomb
      (https://trulign.toriccalculator.com).

      Subsequently, the patient will undergo cataract surgery with IOL implantation under local
      anaesthesia.

      The temporal self-sealing incision, injection of viscoelastic substance, capsulorhexis,
      phacoemulsification, irrigation/aspiration of cortical material and injection of viscoelastic
      substance into the capsular bag will be performed as standard procedure.

      According to randomisation, each patient will receive the implantation of the MX60T toric-IOL
      in one eye and the MX60 non-toric IOL combined with limbal relaxing incisions (LRI) in the
      fellow eye.

      The eye that will receive the toric-IOL will have the horizontal meridian marked
      preoperatively at the limbus in the sitting position with a blue marking pen and insulin
      syringe.

      The IOL will be implanted via injector into the capsular bag using the manufacturers'
      recommended IOL loading and injection technique.

      The toric-IOL will be rotated in the capsular bag so that the axis markers on the IOL will be
      aligned to the limbal markings (planned axis). Then, the viscoelastic substance will be
      aspirated thoroughly from the eye. Final refinement of axis position of the IOL will be
      undertaken after removal of viscoelastic material from the capsular bag to ensure that
      irrigation/aspiration of viscoelastic does not move the lens off axis.

      The fellow eye will receive a temporal or an on-axis incision with limbal relaxing incision
      with a 600µm single-use steel blade combined with the MX60 non-toric IOL
      (http://www.lricalculator.com).

      The interval between the first and second eye surgery will be recorded. The location and
      length of the LRIs will be made after calculation according to the Donnenfeld nomogram
      (www.lricalculator.com).

      After one hour postoperatively, a photo of the toric-IOL in retroillumination will be taken
      to evaluate if IOL is on axis.

      At six months and twelve months after the surgery performed in the second eye, patients will
      undergo assessement of:

        -  autorefraction;

        -  unaided and best-spectacle corrected visual acuity (monocular and binocular),

        -  optical biometry;

        -  corneal topography;

        -  photo of the toric-IOL in retroillumination (to evaluate if IOL is on axis);

        -  Catquest 9-SF cataract visual disability questionnaire;

        -  Quality of Vision (QoV) questionnaire score;

        -  Overall satisfaction with vision rating questionnaire (only at 6 months and 12 months).
           It will be obtained by asking patients to rate whether they were very satisfied,
           satisfied, neither satisfied nor unsatisfied, unsatisfied, or very unsatisfied.

        -  Dysphotopsia questionnaire. They are 4 questions regarding dysphotopsia symptoms: "Since
           your surgery, have you noticed any" halo, glare or dazzle, unwanted images, or shadows?
           Patients were asked to respond by indicating whether they had not experienced these
           symptoms at all ("none") or found them "barely noticeable," "annoying," or
           "debilitating."

      Statistical analysis will be performed using SPSS for Macintosh software (version 20.0,
      International Business Machines Corp.). Normality distribution will be tested with the
      Shapiro-Wilk test; data will be considered normal if the p value is less than 0.05. The
      central tendency and statistical dispersion of each parameter will be recorded as the mean
      and standard deviation (SD) for normal data and as the median and interquartile difference
      for nonparametric data. The coordinates of keratometric cylinders and the centroids will be
      calculated according to the Alpins method. Double-angle polar plots will be used to display
      the astigmatism analysis (Excel 2011 for Macintosh, Microsoft Corp.).

      The Student t test for paired samples and the Wilcoxon signed-rank test will be used for
      normal and nonparametric data, respectively, to compare the 2 related samples.

      A statistically significant difference will be defined as a p value less than 0.05.

      Any adverse event will be recorded.
    
  