
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of
      AT-101 (R-(-)-gossypol) when combined with cisplatin and etoposide in patients with advanced,
      refractory solid tumors and/or extensive stage small cell lung cancer (ES-SCLC). In addition,
      to determine the MTD or RP2D of AT-101 when combined with cisplatin, etoposide, and Neulasta.

      II. To evaluate the toxicity and tolerability of AT-101 in combination with cisplatin and
      etoposide in patients with advanced, refractory solid tumors and/or ES-SCLC. In addition,
      evaluate the toxicity and tolerability of AT-101 with cisplatin, etoposide, and Neulasta.

      III. To evaluate the antitumor activity of this combination per tumor measurements using the
      Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of AT-101 as a single agent and in combination with
      cisplatin and etoposide in plasma.

      II. To perform pharmacodynamic studies (genotyping of drug metabolizing enzymes, gene
      expression, and proteomics of drug-related pathways) on archived blood samples from patients
      treated with AT-101 in combination with cisplatin and etoposide.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of R-(-)-gossypol.

      Patients receive oral R-(-)-gossypol twice daily on days 1-3, cisplatin intravenously (IV)
      over 60 minutes on day 1*, and etoposide IV over 30 minutes on days 1*-3. Treatment repeats
      every 21 days for up to 6 courses during the dose escalation and 4 courses in the expanded
      extensive stage small cell lung cancer cohort, in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood samples are collected on day 1 of courses 1 and 2 for pharmacokinetic analysis,
      biomarker assays, and correlative studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 30 days.

      [Note: *Cisplatin and etoposide will be started on day 2 during course 1; they will be given
      on day 1 during all subsequent courses.]
    
  