
    
      Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) accounts for approximately 25% of all cases of leukemia
      diagnosed in the Western hemisphere. First-line chemotherapy regimens induce complete
      remissions in 55-75% of patients. However, between 50% and 70% of patients who achieve
      remission will relapse. Current therapy for patients refractory to initial therapy or who
      relapse within 6 months of remission is unsatisfactory because complete remission rates are
      low and remission duration is brief. New drugs with novel mechanisms of action may be more
      beneficial than the currently available ones. Tipifarnib represents a new class of oncology
      drugs which have a specific cellular target (inhibition of the farnesyl transferase protein),
      one of the components of the Ras oncogene, as its specific mechanism of acton. It is believed
      that inhibition of this protein will lead to a decrease of cellular proliferation or cell
      death. This is an open-label, multicenter, non-comparative phase 2 study investigating the
      efficacy and safety of farnesyl transferase inhibition with tipifarnib administered orally as
      a single agent, twice daily, for the first 21 days of every 28 day cycle. Patients are
      enrolled by disease status into two cohorts; Cohort 1 includes patients with relapsed AML and
      Cohort 2, patients with refractory AML. All patients will be treated for a sufficient length
      of time to determine response to study medication (effectiveness) by evaluating the rate of
      complete remission (CR) or complete remission with incomplete platelet recovery (CRp),
      duration of complete remission, time to disease progression and progression-free survival,
      overall survival, and to characterize clinical benefit and quality of life (QOL). The safety
      profile of tipifarnib will also be determined in patients with refractory of relapsed AML..
      The patients will receive six tablets (100 mg each) of tipifarnib twice daily for 21 of 28
      day cycles (7 day rest period between cycles). Patients may receive tipifarnib until disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs.
    
  