
    
      Video-assisted feedback (VAF) is an educational method used by educators in various areas of
      medicine. It is possible to gain technical and non-technical skills for practical
      applications such as cardiopulmonary resuscitation and surgical procedures . VAF is an
      objective proof of an individual's performance because by giving feedback it provides non
      debatable, accurate, real-time data. By allowing awareness on certain issues it helps
      correcting the mistakes . Studies have shown improvement in clinical skills after VAF .

      Inaccurate or incomplete control of anesthesia equipment before use is associated with
      serious postoperative morbidity and mortality risk. For this reason, a number of control
      methods have been developed before the anesthesia application. This is one of these methods
      that checklists are created and repeated in intermittent periods.

      American society of anesthesiologists (ASA) published a guideline to improve patient safety
      in 2008 . This guideline is summarized as mentioned below.

      ASA Checklist:

      1.Verify Auxiliary Oxygen Cylinder and Self-inflating Manual Ventilation Device are Available
      & Functioning 2: Verify patient suction is adequate to clear the airway 3: Turn on anesthesia
      delivery system and confirm that ac power is available 4: Verify availability of required
      monitors, including alarms. 5: Verify that pressure is adequate on the spare oxygen cylinder
      mounted on the anesthesia machine 6: Verify that the piped gas pressures are ≥ 50 psig 7:
      Verify that vaporizers are adequately filled and, if applicable, that the filler ports are
      tightly closed. 8: Verify that there are no leaks in the gas supply lines between the
      flowmeters and the common gas outlet 9: Test scavenging system function. 10: Calibrate, or
      verify calibration of, the oxygen monitor and check the low oxygen alarm.

      11: Verify carbon dioxide absorbent is not exhausted 12: Breathing system pressure and leak
      testing. 13: Verify that gas flows properly through the breathing circuit during both
      inspiration and exhalation.

      14: Document completion of checkout procedures. 15: Confirm ventilator settings and evaluate
      readiness to deliver anesthesia care. (ANESTHESIA TIME OUT)

      Ten anesthesia residents will be included in this study. Preoperative evaluation in terms of
      general anesthesia will be completed for a patient before anesthesia induction. After
      receiving informed consent from the patient resident will complete the preparations by
      checking the above-mentioned list (anesthesia machine, operating room desk, monitorization
      methods, aspirator systems, operating room gas systems, waste systems and other anesthesia
      equipment) then induction will be started. All these steps will be recorded with a camera
      system. Once the anesthetic application is completed and all stages are recorded, the video
      records will be evaluated in terms of ASA guideline. Before the second phase of the study,
      the resident will be informed about the guideline by a staff. Then induction of general
      anesthesia in another patient will be recorded at all stages. Once the anesthesia application
      is complete, the camera record will be monitored. Differences and developments or possible
      similar mistakes between the records will be discussed. After evaluating the records -twice
      for each resident- the applicability and effectiveness of the VAF training course will be
      investigated in the direction of the results of 20 records, before and after VAF.

      The aim of the study is to assess the compliance of anesthesiology and reanimation residents
      with the ASA guideline in Kocaeli Derince Training and Research Hospital.
    
  