
    
      Each participant will receive standard monitoring (ECG, SpO2, SBP, BIS, urine output,
      temperature). More detailed hemodynamic monitoring will be obtained by Edwards Lifesciences
      ClearSight system (CO, CI, SV, SVI, SVV, SVR, SVRI).

      TCI Propofol and Remifentanil will be the agents of choice for induction and maintenance in
      anesthesia and cisatracurium will be used for neuromuscular blockade for intubation.

      Protective mechanical ventilation will be chosen (7ml/kg IBW) with a Respiratory rate to
      obtain a PaCO2 of 35-40 mmHg. PEEP will be changed for the best PaO2/FiO2 ratio and FiO2 of
      choice will be 0.5.

      The radial artery catheterization will be applied for direct blood pressure measurement and
      arterial blood gas sampling ( pH, PaO2, PaCO2, HCO3, BE, Osmolality, Lactic acid, Hb,
      Glucose, Na, K will be measured).

      The jugular bulb ipsilateral to the craniotomy site will be catheterized for receiving blood
      samples for blood gas analysis. The following oxygenation and metabolic parameters /
      derivates will be measured or calculated: SjvO2, pH, PjvO2, PjvCO2, HCO3, BE, Osmolality,
      Lactic acid jv, Hb, Glucose, Na, K, AjvDO2, AjvCO2, O2ERbr, eRQbr, AjvDL, and LOI.

      The osmotic agent will be administered 20 minutes before dura matter incision. Before the
      dura mater opening the subdural space pressure will be measured and relevant CPP will be
      calculated. Brain Relaxation Score will be assessed by the neurosurgeon.

      Phases

        -  T0: 5 minutes before administration of the osmotic agent

        -  T15: 15 minutes after administration of the osmotic agent

        -  T30: 30 minutes after administration of the osmotic agent

        -  T60: 60 minutes after administration of the osmotic agent

        -  T90: 90 minutes after administration of the osmotic agent

        -  T120: 120 minutes after administration of the osmotic agent

        -  T180: 180 minutes after administration of the osmotic agent

        -  T240: 240 minutes after administration of the osmotic agent Blood samples for measuring
           S-100b will be collected at phases T0, T240 and 12 hours after osmotic agent
           administration.

      Postoperative complications, length of ICU stay, GOS-E (Glasgow Outcome Scale) and other
      neurological deficits will be recorded.
    
  