
    
      Prior research has not established an evidence-based model of transitional care for seriously
      ill SNF patients (and their caregivers) who transfer from SNF to home-based care.
      Connect-Home, the intervention to be tested in this study, will use existing nursing home
      staff and community-based nurses to deliver transitional care in SNFs and the patient's home.

      The feasibility, acceptability, and estimated efficacy of Connect-Home was demonstrated in a
      pilot test of pre-discharge elements of Connect-Home (N=133 patients and their caregivers).
      Compared to controls, intervention participants were significantly more prepared for
      discharge (higher scores on Care Transitions Measure-15) and they more frequently received
      individualized plans for continuing care at home. Virtually all SNF staff participants (97%)
      recommended the intervention for future use, demonstrating its acceptability. The objective
      of this study is to test the efficacy of Connect-Home for seriously ill patients discharged
      to home and their caregivers.

      In this trial, intervention participants will receive the Connect-Home intervention; the
      intervention has two steps. While the patient is in the SNF, nurses, social workers and
      rehabilitation therapists will create an individualized Transition Plan of Care and prepare
      the patient and caregiver to manage the patient's serious illness at home. Within 24 hours of
      the time that the SNF patient discharges to home, a Connect-Home Activation Nurse (Activation
      RN) will visit the patient at home; the Activation RN will help the patient and family
      caregiver implement the written Transition Plan of Care. The Connect-Home intervention will
      focus on six key care needs: (1) home safety and level of assistance; (2) advance care
      planning; (3) symptom management; (4) medication reconciliation; (5) function and activity;
      and (6) coordination of follow-up medical care. In this trial, the control participants will
      receive usual discharge planning in the SNF only. Usual discharge planning for SNF patients
      includes assignment to an interdisciplinary team that develops discharge instructions for the
      patient to follow at home with oversight by a physician. Usual care does not include a
      structured home visit after the patient discharges to home.

      Patient and caregiver outcomes will assessed in 7, 30, and 60 days after the patient
      discharged from the SNF to home. Outcomes assessors will be blinded to study group.
    
  