
    
      This study will be a randomized phase III for patients with newly diagnosed co-deleted 1p/19q
      anaplastic glioma or high risk low grade glioma. The trial will only enroll patients with
      1p/19q co-deletion. This study includes two arms as described in the "Arms" section. A
      dynamic allocation procedure will be used to allocate an equal number of patients to
      different arms (Arms A:B = 1:1). This procedure will balance the marginal distributions of
      the stratification factors among arms. The stratification factors that will be used are
      cooperative groups (EORTC vs. all North American groups), age (≤ 50 vs. > 50), performance
      score (ECOG 0-1 vs. 2), and tumor grade (anaplastic glioma vs. low grade glioma).

      The primary goal is to determine whether patients who receive radiotherapy with concomitant
      temozolomide (TMZ) followed by adjuvant temozolomide (RT + TMZ --> TMZ) (Arm B) have a
      marginally better progression free survival (PFS) as compared with patients who receive
      radiotherapy followed by PCV chemotherapy (RT --> PCV)(Arm A).

      Secondary Goals:

        1. Time to Progression - To determine whether patients who receive (RT + TMZ --> TMZ) have
           a significantly longer time to progression (clinical or radiographic progression) as
           compared with patients who receive radiotherapy followed by adjuvant PCV chemotherapy
           (RT --> PCV).

        2. Correlation between exploratory biomarkers and survival - To determine whether there is
           a difference in survival based on t(1;19)(q10, p10) translocation status and MGMT
           promoter hypermethylation status.

        3. Descriptive Comparisons of Additional Secondary Endpoints - To perform descriptive
           comparisons of additional secondary outcome endpoints, including overall survival,
           objective tumor response, prognostic factor analysis and quality of life.

        4. Toxicity - To determine the toxicity of the treatment in each arm and perform
           descriptive comparisons.

        5. Neurocognitive and Quality of Life (QOL) Effects - To determine the neurocognitive and
           QOL effects in patients treated on this protocol and correlate these results with
           outcome endpoints.

        6. Banking of Biospecimens and Neuroimaging Studies - To store blood products (i.e.,
           plasma, DNA and buffy coat), tumor tissue and MRI/CT images for future scientific
           investigations.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 12 weeks for 1 year, then
      every 4 months for 2 years and then every 6 months until progressive disease or until the end
      of study participation.
    
  