
    
      1. Study Objectives

           The primary objective of this study is to examine the effect of dopamine infusion and
           dopamine-2 receptor blockade on pulmonary capillary blood volume, diffusion, and the
           hemodynamic variables of pulmonary artery pressure, cardiac output, and pulmonary
           vascular resistance during exercise. Secondarily, this study will examine the effect of
           dopamine infusion and dopamine-2 receptor blockade on exercise tolerance.

        2. Background

           To meet the increased oxygen demand required for exercise, pulmonary diffusing capacity
           (DLCO) must increase in order to avoid a drop in arterial oxygenation and early exercise
           termination. Enhanced DLCO during exercise is achieved by expanding pulmonary capillary
           blood volume (Vc) and diffusing membrane capacity (Dm) through recruitment and
           distention of the pulmonary capillaries, effectively increasing the surface area for
           diffusion. Recruitment and distention of the pulmonary capillaries decreases pulmonary
           vascular resistance (PVR), increasing pulmonary blood flow (Q) while limiting the rise
           in pulmonary artery pressure (PAP) with exercise.

           In health, pharmacological interventions are not believed to affect PAP during exercise.
           However, dopamine, a pulmonary vasodilator, may help to regulate PAP during exercise.
           Specifically, dopamine appears important for a normal cardiovascular exercise response,
           as Metoclopramide (pulmonary dopamine-2-receptor antagonist) decreases maximal Q and
           exercise tolerance (1). These results suggest that dopamine may modulate Vc during
           exercise via pulmonary smooth muscle regulation, subsequently affecting PVR, PAP, Q and
           exercise tolerance. However, how dopamine regulates DLCO, Vc, Q, and exercise tolerance
           is unknown.

           Purpose: The purpose of this study is to examine the effect of a dopamine agonist and a
           dopamine-2-receptor antagonist on DLCO, Vc, PAP, PVR, Q, and exercise tolerance.

           Hypothesis: It is hypothesized that dopamine will increase Vc, leading to a reduction in
           PVR and a corresponding decrease in PAP. This response will allow an increase in DLCO,
           Q, and exercise tolerance relative to control. Conversely, Metoclopramide
           (dopamine-2-receptor antagonist) will attenuate the increase in Vc as well as the
           reduction in PVR, leading to an increase in PAP. In this condition, DLCO, Q, and
           exercise tolerance will be reduced.

        3. Methods

      Study Overview: This study will utilize a randomized, double-blind crossover design where
      healthy subjects will have measurements performed at rest and 2 workloads (60% and 85% of
      previously determined VO2peak) with either intravenous dopamine (2µg/kg/min), dopamine
      receptor blockade (20mg oral Metoclopramide), or placebo (order randomized). Data will be
      collected across 5 different days over a 2-3 week period. Day 1: Pulmonary function and
      graded exercise testing to exhaustion. Day 2-4: Vc determination at rest and exercise with
      either intravenous dopamine, dopamine receptor blockade, or placebo (order randomized).
      Following a brief period of rest, time to exhaustion trials at 85% of VO2peak will be
      performed to characterize exercise tolerance. Day 5: Evaluation of PAP via cardiac ultrasound
      at rest and during exercise with either intravenous dopamine, dopamine receptor blockade, or
      placebo (order randomized).

      Pulmonary Function & Cardiopulmonary Exercise Test: Subjects will undergo a graded exercise
      test to volitional exhaustion to characterize aerobic fitness (VO2peak) and a standard
      pulmonary function test to characterize lung function parameters.

      DLCO and Vc measurement during exercise: DLCO and Vc will be measured using the multiple
      oxygen tension DLCO breath-hold method (2) at rest and during cycling exercise at 60% and 85%
      of VO2peak. Over different three days, participants will be randomized to each of the
      following conditions: 1) dopamine (2 μg/kg/min intravenous) and a placebo pill, 2)
      metoclopramide (20 mg oral) and intravenous saline, or 3) intravenous saline and a placebo
      pill. During each workload, subjects will perform a DLCO breath-hold maneuver for six
      seconds, repeated three times during exercise at differing oxygen tensions (0.21, 0.40, 0.60;
      workload and oxygen tension randomized) allowing for calculation of Vc and Dm. Trials will be
      spread over several days to ensure no CO buildup. DLCO will be corrected for hemoglobin, and
      we have considerable experience in performing these tests.

      Pulmonary Artery Systolic Pressure (PASP), PVR, and Q: Doppler echocardiography (PASP) will
      be used as a non-invasive estimate of PAP in all dopamine conditions. PASP will be evaluated
      at rest and during exercise, and this method has been used successfully by our group and
      others in previous investigations(3,4). Total PVR will be evaluated by dividing PASP by Q at
      any given workload. Q will be evaluated using the Physioflow® Impedance Cardiography
      (Manatec® Biomedical). When compared to direct Fick methods, impedance cardiography provides
      an accurate determination of Q at rest and during exercise.

      Hemoglobin: Since DLCO will be corrected for hemoglobin concentration, a small sample of
      blood will be collected via finger prick at rest and during exercise and analyzed for
      hemoglobin concentration using a hand-held Hemoglobin measurement device (HemoCue 201+,
      HemoCue AB, Angelholm, Sweden).
    
  