
    
      Artificial labour induction is a medical intervention used in the interest of the mother or
      unborn child, aimed at provoking birth by inducing uterine contractions artificially, leading
      to cervical effacement and dilation. The purpose is to end the pregnancy in the interest of
      the mother and/or foetus.

      According to the latest results of the Perinatal Enquiry (2016), induced labour rates total
      around 22% of pregnancies (767.000 births in 2017) in all maternity clinics. For the
      university hospitals of Nimes and Montpellier, with Level 3 maternity units (thus requiring a
      higher rate of inductions), this represents 515 and 550 pregnancies respectively (2017
      figures).

      There are several methods of inducing labour: use of a cervical ripening balloon (a medical
      device with which the onset of labour is provoked mechanically), vaginal inserts containing
      prostaglandins or intravenous perfusion with oxytocin combined with water-breakage. These
      labour-induction methods may be used alone or in succession depending on the evaluation of
      the cervix using the Bishop score as a reference. Each method has its own benefits and risks.

      There is variability between establishments in the protocols used for cervical ripening.

      The Nimes and Montpellier centres both use the same methods, but with different sequences.

      Studies are mainly devoted to evaluating each method individually in terms childbirth by
      vaginal delivery and duration of labour.

      Maternal satisfaction, which is a rarely studied multifactorial evaluation, is correlated
      with women's psychological outcome. A bad experience during childbirth appears to increase
      the risk of post-partum (PP) psychological disorders.

      Considering the current literature available, although there have been trials comparing two
      isolated labour-induction methods, like the study by Probaat (Jozwiak et al., 2013), which
      compared obstetrical and neonatal outcomes with the cervical ripening balloon and the
      prostaglandin insert, none of these studies investigated their impact on maternal
      satisfaction. Although there have been a few studies evaluating maternal satisfaction at
      childbirth, there have not been any evaluating satisfaction during artificial
      labour-induction in a pragmatic situation.

      The aim of our study was therefore to evaluate the impact on semi-immediate maternal
      satisfaction under pragmatic, real-life conditions depending on the various possible
      induction scenarios (both in terms of the number of methods used, from 1 to 3, and the
      possible combinations when at least 2 or more methods were used ).
    
  