
    
      Background: Macrosomia at term is associated with increased maternal and neonatal morbidity,
      including a higher rate of shoulder dystocia and cesarean section (CS). Induction of labor
      (IOL) has been suggested as a means to prevent further fetal weight gain and therefore to
      reduce possible neonatal and maternal complications which are related to fetal weight.

      Working hypothesis and aims: The aims of this study are: 1) to determine whether or not IOL
      improves maternal and neonatal outcome in large for gestational age babies, 2) to determine
      maternal satisfaction from the labor and delivery process in both study groups. Our working
      hypothesis is that IOL will reduce the shoulder dystocia and CS rate of LGA\macrosomic babies
      at term.

      Methods: Patient from 38+0 - 40+3 gestational weeks estimated fetal weight 3800 - 4500 gr
      will prospectively and randomly allocated into two groups: IOL (group I) and expectant
      management (group II). Women with diabetes, a previous cesarean delivery, or other
      contraindications for vaginal delivery or candidates for IOL for other reasons will be
      excluded from the study. Outcome variables will include shoulder dystocia, brachial plexus
      injury, bone fractures, cephalhematoma, intraventricular hemorrhage, cesarean delivery and
      other neonatal and maternal variables.

      Expected results: IOL will reduce the shoulder dystocia and CS rate of LGA\macrosomic babies
      at term.

      Importance: This randomized, prospective multicenter study addresses a prevalent clinical
      question which does not have an accurate answer in the medical literature. Current guidelines
      rely on small numbered patients, and are over 15 years old studies.

      Probable implications to Medicine: This study will establish the right management for
      LAG\macrosomic babies at term, IOL or expectant management for spontaneous labor.
    
  