
    
      120 ASA physical status I to III patients, ages 18 to 75, who are to undergo supratentorial,
      infratentorial or skull base tumor resection will be included in this randomized control
      study. The Preadmission Testing is done for the most part in the same day the patient has an
      ENT clinic appointment or just Anesthesia preadmission screening date. This is the day that
      patient will come to the clinic for pre-admission testing, days before the plan procedure.
      They will meet with Anesthesiology department clinician. Having the consent process started
      in the preadmission Clinic with Anesthesiology clinician will be better for the patient to
      process and understand the information about the study before agreeing to participate. If the
      patient is only coming In the ENT Clinic then the patient will be approached about the study
      in the ENT clinic. At the day of the surgery if the patent have any additional question or
      any unclear information, the PI or the Co-PI will answer before the patient signing the
      consent. Patients who are pregnant, undergoing emergency, neurovascular, or trigeminal nerve
      pain procedures, those unable to give informed consent, or who were extremely debilitated
      (ASA physical status IV or V) in liver or renal failure will be excluded from the study. A
      mini mental status exam will be performed on the day of surgery before the patient presents
      to the operating room. All patients will receive a general anesthetic consisting of propofol
      2 mg/kg intravenously (IV) and fentanyl 2 mcg/kg IV induction of anesthesia followed by
      maintenance anesthetic consisting of desflurane 5% to 6% end tidal concentration. All
      patients will be given rocuronium 0.1 mg/kg/IV or succinylcholine 1.0 mg/kg IV to facilitate
      intubation along with a 70/30 mixture of air in 02. Patients will be assigned via a computer
      generated randomization table before surgery to receive one of two anesthetic techniques
      perioperatively.

      Group 1 patients will be given an infusion of remifentanil 0.15-0.25 mcg/kg/min as part of
      their intraoperative anesthetic regimen. The infusion will be maintained until the end of
      surgery and will be discontinued upon emergence. Prior to emergence, 100-200 mcg of fentanyl
      will be titrated for additional analgesia after emergence.

      Group 2 individuals will receive an identical anesthetic without the addition of
      remifentanil.. They will also be given methadone 0.2 mg/kg IV at the beginning of the
      anesthetic. A lidocaine bolus of 1.5 mg/kg will be given with induction of anesthesia
      followed by an infusion of lidocaine at 2 mg/kg/hr until the end of surgery.
    
  