
    
      A European observational retrospective bottom-up cost of illness study will be designed based
      upon a sample of patients with asthma. Investigators will be general practitioners.

      They will have to enrol a sample of patients with asthma.

      The level of asthma control will be evaluated with 2 methods:

        -  Firstly by using the auto-test Asthma Control Test (TM - QualityMetric Incorporated)
           which allows to assess the level of control on a 4-week period by distinguishing
           controlled and uncontrolled patients ;

        -  Secondly by using the GINA's asthma control criteria to measure the level of control in
           the last 3 months. The GINA classification will allow ranging patients in 3 groups
           (controlled, partly controlled and uncontrolled patients) and comprises a measure of
           lung function using a peak expiratory flow measurement (PEF) or a spirometric
           examination.

      The study design will necessitate only one visit per patient with a retrospective data
      collection over a three-month period. This period is the maximum possible retrospective
      duration to avoid memory biases.

      A questionnaire will be filled-up by the general practitioner. Data collected during the
      visit will be demographic data, medical history of patients, physician and paramedic's
      visits, treatment, diagnosis and lab tests, hospitalizations, rehabilitation, and absence
      from work during the last three months. A PEF or a spirometric result will be also requested.
      Patients will have to complete the Asthma Control test (TM - QualityMetric Incorporated)
      questionnaire. To assess the quality of life, patients will also have to complete the EQ-5D
      questionnaire.

      As the time horizon of the asthma control concept is one month or shorter, the cost analysis
      will be first done taking into account this duration (the cost will be compared with the
      Asthma Control Test (TM - QualityMetric Incorporated) score), and secondly, on the three
      months period (the cost will be compared to the GINA's criteria).

      To take into account seasonality, the overall population of patients will be enrolled in four
      quarterly waves. The data collection will therefore require one full year.

      All the data collected will be centralized, captured and analyzed. Costing will be done using
      both societal and payer perspectives without any discounting. Results will be provided by
      period and by asthma control level and according to the patient profile (age, sex, etc.).

      The number of patients needed to be enrolled was calculated taking into account the precision
      of the average cost estimate in the lower size group (i.e patients with optimal control) for
      each period in each country. In each country, at least 380 patients will be enrolled per wave
      to obtain a total population of 152 patients with optimal control. Overall, 3,040 will be
      enrolled all over the study year.
    
  