
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of bortezomib when given in combination with
           rituximab, cyclophosphamide, and prednisone (R-CP) in patients with relapsed or
           refractory indolent B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders or mantle cell lymphoma. (phase
           I)

        -  Determine the frequency and duration of complete and partial responses in patients
           treated with two different treatment regimes. (phase II)

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate the progression-free survival, event-free survival, and overall survival of
           patients treated with this regimen. (phase II)

        -  Evaluate the toxicity profile of this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I dose-escalation study of bortezomib followed by a phase II
      randomized, multicenter study. Patients in phase II are stratified according to disease
      (mantle cell lymphoma vs indolent B-cell lymphoproliferative disorder vs transformed
      lymphoma).

        -  Phase I: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV and rituximab IV on day 1, oral prednisone
           on days 2-6, and bortezomib IV on days 2 and 7. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 8
           courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of bortezomib until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 1 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV and rituximab IV on day 1, oral
                prednisone on days 2-6, and bortezomib IV (at the MTD determined in phase I) on
                days 2, 5, 9, and 12. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 8 courses in the
                absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV and rituximab IV on day 1, oral
                prednisone on days 2-6, and bortezomib IV (at the MTD determined in phase I) on
                days 2 and 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 8 courses in the absence of
                disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 1 month, every 4 months for 2
      years, and then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  