
    
      The recurrent laryngeal nerve (RLN) carries motor fibers that innervate both the abductor
      (PCA, opener) muscle and adductor (closer) muscles of the vocal folds. Damage to the nerve
      compromises both of these functions and arrests the vocal folds in a near-closed position. In
      case of BVFP, voice tends to be functional but airway embarrassment is often severe enough to
      warrant tracheostomy to relieve inspiratory stridor and dyspnea.

      If spontaneous recovery from nerve injury does not occur within one year, it is likely the
      patient will be chronically paralyzed. In such instances, long-term tracheostomy could be
      considered. Unfortunately, permanent tracheostomy is known to have the complications of
      tracheal stenosis, chronic infection, and psycho-social impairment. For this reason,
      laryngeal surgery is offered to enlarge the airway and restore breathing through the mouth.
      These procedures, such as arytenoidectomy and cordotomy, where a portion of the larynx is
      surgically resected to enlarge the airway, also have inherent complications.

      Although they represent the standard of care, they adversely affect voice and may compromise
      airway protection during swallowing. Further, they cannot provide sufficient airway to permit
      significant aerobic activity. The limitations associated with these current therapies have
      prompted investigation into a more physiologic, dynamic approach to rehabilitation:
      reanimation of the paralyzed PCA muscle by functional electrical stimulation (FES).
      Stimulation would be applied to the PCA muscle during the inspiratory phase of respiration to
      open the vocal folds. During noninspiratory phases, stimulation would cease and the vocal
      folds would passively relax to the midline to allow for normal voice production and airway
      protection in swallowing. Based on the research the investigators have conducted, the
      investigators expect patients would benefit from bilateral pacing through implantation of the
      neurostimulator by restoring normal ventilation, without negatively affecting the patient's
      voice or swallowing ability.

      The investigators are collecting data in this study to show that this procedure is an
      effective means of a surgical approach for implantation of device with insertion and
      anchoring of the electrode leads. Incidence of complications both intraoperatively and
      postoperatively will also be collected and assessed. Any complications will be addressed
      according to current standard practice under the supervision of the operating surgeon. The
      device should produce an airway that will allow patients to breathe without a tracheostomy
      tube in place. Patients will be monitored for adverse events and managed accordingly.
    
  