
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of morbidity, mortality, and disability in
      not only developed, but also developing countries. There are well-established interventions
      such as lifestyle modification and drug therapies, i.e., aspirin and low-dose diuretics, that
      along with their consistent use, can help alleviate these burdens if the practicalities of
      how to deliver such care to large numbers in resource-poor settings at low cost can be
      resolved. One particular cost-effective approach for secondary prevention of CVD is to
      identify and manage individuals at high CVD risk in order to prevent or delay events. This
      approach has been tested in the rural Andhra Pradesh Cardiovascular Prevention Study in India
      and is currently being implemented in rural areas of northern China in the China Rural Health
      Initiative funded by NHLBI.

      This project aims to address the highly prevalent problem of CVD in even more remote and poor
      areas of China and India that have received only minimal attention so far, specifically
      Tibet, China and Haryana, India. This pilot project will be a cluster-randomized controlled
      interventional trial that will include a total of 15 villages in 6 townships in Gongbujiangda
      County and 12 villages in 6 townships in Linzhou County in Tibet, China and 12 villages in
      the state of Haryana in India. The study will last for one year. The villages will be
      randomized to receive either the intervention package or usual care. At baseline,
      village-wide screenings will be done to identify high-risk individuals in the selected
      villages who will then be followed throughout the study to about one year.

      The interventional model will make use of a highly simplified cardiovascular disease
      management plan targeting lifestyle modification and utilization of basic drug regimens to
      help overcome the barriers in prevention and management of CVD in these areas with extremely
      limited economic and natural resources, minimal public awareness to the problem, and a lack
      of trained healthcare professionals.

      Electronic blood pressure monitors will be used in all villages to measure the blood
      pressures of these individuals. However accuracy of the electronic blood pressure monitor
      measurements needs to be considered due to Tibet's high altitude. A study to validate and
      calibrate the selected blood pressure monitor model in both plains and high altitude areas
      will thus be undertaken using the validation procedure published by the European Society of
      Hypertension (ESH) to ensure accuracy.
    
  