
    
      The majority of HIV-1 infected patients in resource rich countries receive the tenofovir
      prodrug tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) as part of their combination antiretroviral
      therapy (cART). Long-term exposure to TDF can be associated with an accelerated estimated
      glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) decline and proximal renal tubular dysfunction (PTD, see
      definition below). The current practice in patients in which TDF related renal toxicity
      becomes apparent is to substitute abacavir (ABC) for TDF. However, ABC is contraindicated in
      patients with HLAB57*01 and has been associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular
      disease in large HIV cohort studies, but not in randomized clinical trials. Recently, a new
      tenofovir prodrug, tenofovir alafenamide (TAF) was developed by Gilead Sciences and is
      available in a coformulation with emtricitabine (FTC). Due to the targeted delivery of
      tenofovir inside the CD4 positive cell by this prodrug, only 25 mg TAF is needed for the same
      antiviral effect observed in patients taking 250 mg of TDF and this lower TAF dose leads to
      90% lower serum levels of tenofovir. In recently completed phase III studies in which
      patients with a normal kidney function where included, this lower tenofovir exposure in
      patients on TAF was shown to prevent off-target renal and bone toxicity in comparison with
      patients taking TDF. However, whether an already established TDF related renal toxicity in a
      HIV patient can be reversed after a switch to TAF, remains to be shown.

      Objective:

      To study the renal safety when HIV patients with TDF related renal toxicity switch to TAF
      compared to the current practice of switching to ABC.

      Study design:

      96 week open label multicenter randomized non-inferiority clinical trial.

      Study population:

      HIV-1 infected adults, suppressed HIV-RNA <50c/mL on a TDF containing antiretroviral regimen,
      with signs of TDF related renal toxicity as indicated by an accelerated eGFR decline.

      Intervention:

      Replace TDF with TAF (intervention arm) or ABC (control arm).

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      Primary endpoint:

      Recovery of renal dysfunction in the TAF arm versus the ABC arm at 48 weeks after the switch
      from TDF to TAF or ABC using the time to the first eGFR within 75% of the eGFR at the time of
      TDF initiation.

      Secondary endpoints:

      See below
    
  