
    
      Project Background: Diabetes, hypertension, and dyslipidemia are chronic diseases that can
      lead to heart attack and stroke, and require interventions at patient and organizational
      levels to promote sustainable lifestyle and medication changes for cardiac risk reduction
      that are costly. Group intervention has emerged as a potentially cost-saving patient-centered
      approach to help achieve the necessary lifestyle and medication changes for the treatment of
      some chronic diseases, but its efficacy in absence of direct physician participation is not
      well demonstrated in diabetes. Our preliminary data have shown that our pharmacist-based,
      group diabetes management program at the Providence VAMC has achieved significant
      improvements in glycemic control and variable success toward improvement in blood pressure
      and lipid control in type 2 diabetic patients, through education, behavioral intervention and
      aggressive pharmacotherapy in 4 weekly group sessions. However, we do not know the long-term
      sustainability of this intervention, the exportability, the costs to the VA and the
      health-related quality-of-life implications of patients enrolled in our programs.

      Project Objectives: To assess whether a non-physician-based, group diabetes behavioral and
      pharmacotherapy intervention program for 12 months will: 1. improve cardiac risk factors, 2.
      improve health-related quality-of-life, 3. add only minimal institutional cost; when compared
      to usual care in veterans with type 2 diabetes.

      Project Methods: We propose a 3-site randomized-controlled study to test the efficacy of a
      pharmacist-based, group diabetes behavioral and pharmacotherapy intervention program
      (treatment arm) for 13 months vs. usual care (control arm) in achieving cardiac risk
      reduction in type 2 diabetic patients with Hemoglobin A1c >7% and at least one other cardiac
      risk factor such as smoking, hyperlipidemia or hypertension not at national guideline
      recommended goals. The interventions in the treatment arm will consist of two phases. Phase 1
      (intensive intervention) consists of weekly group sessions of education by a nurse, a
      physical therapist, and a dietician; and behavioral modification and medication titration by
      a clinical pharmacist targeting the control of glycemia, smoking, blood pressure, and lipids
      for 4 weeks. Phase 2 consists of quarterly booster sessions for 1 year to prevent relapse.
      Patients in the control arm will continue on usual care. Our study endpoints will be the
      difference between the 2 groups after 13 months of study enrollment in: 1) hemoglobin a1c,
      blood pressure, LDL cholesterol and smoking 2) health-related quality of life (SF-36V)
      scores, and 3) healthcare costs from the VA perspective. A total of 250 patients will be
      enrolled from 3 VAMC sites and followed for 13 months.
    
  