
    
      Purpose and design

      This study will trial the use of smartphones and apps as memory aids with patients who have
      memory problems. There have been some case study reports in the literature but the
      investigators would like to use this study to investigate how feasible it is to offer these
      kinds of support within an NHS memory aids service.

      Recruitment

      Patients (and their relatives/carers, where relevant)will be recruited from those already
      referred to the Memory Aids Service run within the Neuropsychiatry and Memory Disorders
      Clinic at St Thomas's Hospital, within the South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust. It
      is made clear in the Participant Information Sheet (one for patients and one for
      relatives/carers) that participation is voluntary and if patients do not want to take part,
      they will still receive personalised help and advice in the Memory Aids Service.

      Inclusion/Exclusion

      This project will be offered to patients who own their own smartphone; the project is unable
      to support costs of buying smartphones for patients and paying for any data usage. Patients
      who do not have smartphones will still receive memory aids support, but instead will receive
      help as is standardly given using other memory aids.Patients will be excluded if they do not
      have adequate levels of English or motor skills to use the apps.

      Consent

      Patients will be identified as possible participants during their routine memory aids
      assessment clinic visit by a member of the clinical care team. Only those with capacity to
      consent will be invited to take part. Those interested in taking part will be given a patient
      information sheet at the end of their assessment appointment (as will their relatives/carers
      where relevant) and the study will be briefly explained orally. Patients (and their
      relatives/carers) who do decide to participate will sign the consent form at the beginning of
      their next Memory Aids appointment and it will be stressed that participation is voluntary
      and they can withdraw at any time.

      Confidentiality

      Access to clinical data (pre- and post- intervention memory, mood, functioning, goal and
      carer stress scores, neuropsychological test scores and interview transcripts) will be
      restricted to those in the clinical care team until data is fully anonymised. Patients will
      be asked for consent for their data to be used for the study and a specific point on the
      informed consent form should be initialled to allow this.

      Risks, burdens and benefits

      The investigators hope that patients will find benefits in using smartphones as memory aids.
      The investigators will pay for any apps that are selected to use with them and offer
      instructions. Use of electronic aids and alarms on phones is well practised within the
      existing memory aids service. This project adds a semi-structured interview and follow-up
      phone call and therefore a limited burden for research participants and in some cases their
      relatives/carers. Since the intervention is non-invasive, the risk to participants is very
      low.
    
  