
    
      Up to 125 participants will be recruited for this study. Investigators will recruit
      individuals who use a wheelchair for a majority of mobility (>40 hours per week), who are
      over 18 years old, who do not have a history of heart or lung conditions that could become
      worse with up to 6 back and forth transfers to a mat table, and who can independently
      transfer to and from a surface within 30 seconds without use of their legs.

      This study will require two visits that will take approximately 2 hours total to complete.
      Subjects will be asked to fill out a series of questionnaires so that investigators can
      collect demographic information (i.e. age, race, diagnosis, date of diagnosis, handedness,
      and preferred leading arm for transfers), their weight, and information about arm pain.
      Physical exams qualifying shoulder and wrist pathology will also be completed. Subjects will
      then be asked to perform up to six back and forth transfers to a mat table.

      Following this, subjects will be randomized into two groups; one group that will receive
      transfer training immediately, and one group that will receive the transfer training after
      the follow up visit (control).

      Subjects in the immediate transfer training group will receive training about about proper
      transfer techniques. After training, they will then complete the repeated transfer portion of
      the protocol a second time. Subjects will be instructed to practice the new skills they
      learned and then return within 7 days to complete only the repeated transfer portion of the
      protocol.

      Subjects in the delayed transfer training group will be instructed to return within 7 days.
      Subjects will complete the repeated transfer portion of the protocol a second time. Subjects
      will then receive training about proper transfer techniques and after complete the repeated
      transfer portion of the protocol a third time.
    
  