
    
      Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) is a new strategy for the prevention of HIV infection. It
      involves providing antiretroviral medications-those that treat HIV infections-to people
      before they are exposed to HIV. In clinical trials of PrEP, several of which are currently
      under way, accurate measurements are needed of how much exposure participants have to the
      PrEP medications. Current methods, such as self-reports of medication adherence or pill
      counting, can lead to inaccurate readings of PrEP exposure because participants may forget to
      take pills and individual differences may affect levels of exposure. Measuring PrEP exposure
      levels in hair yields an objective marker of exposure that is not subject to self-report
      errors and that takes into account individual differences. This study will test the use of a
      hair sample for assessing the level of exposure to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF), an
      antiretroviral medication, in people not infected with HIV.

      Participation in this study will last 9 months. Participants will undergo baseline testing
      and then will be randomly assigned to begin one of three conditions, based on dosing
      schedule: receiving TDF 2, 4, or 7 days per week. All participants will complete each of
      these dosing schedules, but the order in which they are completed will be randomly assigned.
      Each dosing schedule will last 6 weeks, with a break of several weeks between them. During
      each dosing schedule, study staff will confirm that participants are taking each scheduled
      dose by watching them take the pills on weekdays and calling them on weekends. Follow-up
      visits will occur at Days 1, 21, and 42 of each dosing schedule. During the baseline and
      follow-up visits, the following will be completed: an HIV rapid test; counseling about HIV
      prevention; a brief physical exam; a talk with a staff member about health, symptoms, and
      other medications; a blood draw, which will be used for several tests; collection of a urine
      sample and pregnancy test; and optional donation of a sample of pubic hair. On the last day
      of each dosing schedule, a small sample of hair will be cut from each participant's scalp. An
      additional follow-up visit will occur after participants complete 4 weeks of the 7-day dosing
      schedule. This visit will last 24 hours and will involve collection of additional blood
      samples.
    
  