
    
      Background & aim: Pancreatoduodenectomy carries high morbidity rates even in high-volume
      centers. Postoperative complications often preclude or delay adequate oral nutrition and
      nutritional support may be required. However, the role of perioperative nutritional
      supplementation in well-nourished patients remains controversial. There are not any standard
      protocols for nutritional support after major upper gastrointestinal surgery in these
      patients and postoperative nutritional regimens depend mainly upon surgeon's or center
      preference.

      Patients undergoing pancreatoduodenectomy often begin oral intake a week after operation and
      enteral or parenteral nutrition is used to cover the daily caloric requirements during this
      period, although their role still remains questionable. The safety of early oral nutrition
      has been confirmed in the majority of gastrointestinal procedures. However, pancreatic
      surgeons are quite reluctant to advance oral diet within the first postoperative week after
      pancreatoduodenectomy due to fear of anastomosis breakdown or delayed gastric emptying
      syndrome. These two postoperative nutritional regimens, early oral vs. early enteral
      nutrition, have not been sufficiently evaluated in a prospective, randomized study.

      Material and Methods: 96 patients undergoing pancreatoduodenectomy will be randomized to
      receive early enteral nutrition (EN group) or early oral nutrition (PerOs group). The EN
      group will receive standard enteral diet administered through a nasojejunal tube. The enteral
      nutrition will be started on the 1st postoperative day and increased daily by 20-40 ml up to
      the estimated level. The PerOs group will receive oral diets beginning from the 2nd
      postoperative day and oral intake will be advanced as tolerated.

      Purpose: The purpose of this study is to compare the influence of early enteral and oral
      nutrition on postoperative course and complications after pancreatoduodenectomy.
    
  