
    
      Cerebral autoregulation is defined as the whole of regulatory mechanisms that maintains a
      constant cerebral blood flow (CBF) during changes in cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP).
      Cerebrovascular resistance adjusts when CPP changes in order to keep CBF constant. In
      contrast with this concept of pressure-mediated autoregulation, it is suggested that cerebral
      autoregulation is focused on maintaining homeostasis of the cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen
      (CMRO2). We assume that both flow and pressure contribute to the regulation of CMRO2.

      Assessment of cerebral oxygenation - Cerebral oxygen saturation will be monitored with
      near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). NIRS allows simple, continuous and non-invasive
      measurement of cerebral oxygen saturation (ScO2)and primarily cerebral venous saturation.
      Cerebral oxygen saturation will be monitored with a FDA-approved devices: INVOS 5100
      (Somanetics Corporation, Troy, MI, USA).

      To study the effects of changes in pressure and in flow, we need a condition where we can
      alter these variables separately and in a controlled manner. Therefore this study will be
      performed during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). Pressure will be varied with the
      administration of routinely used vasoactive substances, while flow will be varied by altering
      the pump flow manually. We hypothesize that if we change one parameter (pressure or flow), a
      compensatory mechanism will preserve the CMRO2 homeostasis, with no change in ScO2. On the
      other hand, if we change both pressure and flow, we expect a significant effect on cerebral
      oxygen saturation. With 20 % changes in pressure and/or flow, we expect a change in NIRS
      values of approximately 5 %. Previous studies showed that this kind of reduction is well
      tolerated by the brain. This means that the proposed changes are within the normal
      physiological range, and will have no adverse effects.
    
  