
    
      Novel drugs such as lenalidomide (an immunomodulatory drug; IMiD) have markedly improved the
      prognosis of multiple myeloma patients. Over the recent years, lenalidomide is increasingly
      used as part of first line therapy, typically until the development of progressive disease.
      These lenalidomide-refractory patients can be treated with several regimens. However, these
      regimens frequently contain proteasome inhibitors which are associated with neuropathy
      (bortezomib) or cardiovascular complications (carfilzomib). These proteasome inhibitors also
      need to be administered subcutaneously or intravenously in the hospital, once or twice per
      week. Also these regimens have limited efficacy in lenalidomide-refractory patients. This
      indicates that there is still an unmet medical need for new treatment options for patients
      who develop lenalidomide-refractory disease. These new treatment regimens should be active
      and safe without induction of neuropathy or cardiovascular side effects Moreover, an all oral
      regimen is frequently preferred by patients.

      Iberdomide plus low-dose cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone

      Available data indicates that the Cereblon E3 ligase modifying drug (CELMoD) iberdomide
      (CC220) is pharmacologically distinct from lenalidomide and pomalidomide with a higher
      potency against Cereblon, leading to differentiated antitumor and immunostimulating effects.
      Since iberdomide plus dexamethasone is active and well-tolerated in heavily pretreated
      patients including those with lenalidomide/pomalidomide-refractory disease, this two-drug
      regimen forms a new platform to which other agents can be added. The combinations of
      bortezomib, carfilzomib, or daratumumab plus iberdomide and dexamethasone are currently being
      evaluated.

      Investigators have shown that low-dose cyclophosphamide can be effectively combined with the
      IMiDs lenalidomide and pomalidomide. These combinations are effective and are well-tolerated.

      To address the unmet medical need for new treatment options for lenalidomide-refractory MM
      patients, the investigators aim at further improving the efficacy of IMiD/CELMoD plus
      dexamethasone combination therapy in terms of response and progression-free survival, by
      adding low-dose cyclophosphamide to the iberdomide-dexamethasone backbone (IberCd). This
      all-oral regimen will be tested in a lenalidomide-refractory patient population with 2-4
      prior lines of therapy. The goal of this trial is to investigate the efficacy and safety of
      the IberCd combination in multiple myeloma patients who have refractory disease or a relapse
      after prior treatment with lenalidomide. Besides, various correlative studies will be
      performed during this trial including immune monitoring.
    
  