
    
      Minority women are grossly underserved and suffer poorer quality of life during and after
      treatment for breast cancer. Despite this greater need, interventions designed to foster
      adaptation to disease among such women are scarce. Our recent randomized trial tested the
      efficacy of a 10-week multi-modal, group-based, cognitive behavioral stress management (CBSM)
      intervention delivered in a university setting among women with breast cancer who recently
      completed adjuvant treatment. Using a panel of psychological, physiological, and physical
      indicators of adaptation, the investigators examined whether the intervention facilitated
      "recovery" or adaptation after adjuvant therapy for breast cancer had been completed. CBSM
      intervention participants showed improvements in multiple indicators of psychosocial
      adaptation (fewer intrusive thoughts, lower anxiety, less social disruption, less negative
      affect, more positive affect, greater benefit finding, and higher levels of positive states
      of mind), physiological adaptation (decreased cortisol and increased cellular immune function
      and Th1 cytokine production) and physical adaptation to disease (less fatigue and improved
      sleep quality). Many of these findings held at 3 and 9 month follow-ups. As with most
      psychosocial oncology research, participants in the randomized trial were mostly non-Hispanic
      White women. Whether or not the results of that trial are generalizable to the larger
      population that includes minority women needs to be tested.

      The proposed research aims to translate this University-based, CBSM intervention into a
      format that will be acceptable and effective in a community setting. The investigators will
      target our efforts toward low-income African American women, (n=120 after attrition)
      diagnosed with breast cancer (all stages of disease). Participants will be randomized to
      10-week CBSM intervention or an attention time-matched Enhanced Breast Cancer Wellness and
      Education (CW) active comparison-control condition and monitored for 6 months afterward.
      Outcomes include: (a) acceptability of the intervention, (b) psychosocial adaptation, (c)
      physical symptom clusters, (d) economic implications and (e) an objective indicator of stress
      (diurnal salivary cortisol). The main goal is to test whether a successful stress-management
      intervention can be effectively implemented in natural settings in the community and will be
      acceptable to a community-dwelling, low-income population of African American women with
      breast cancer.

      Specific Aim 1: To examine the acceptability of an empirically-validated stress management
      intervention in community-dwelling low-income African American women with breast cancer.

      Specific Aim 2: To test the prediction that participants randomized to CBSM intervention show
      significant improvements in indices of psychosocial adaptation (i.e., cancer-specific
      distress, quality of life) relative to women randomized to a CW attention control condition
      across the study period.

      Specific Aim 3: To test the prediction that participants randomized to CBSM intervention show
      significant improvements in indices of physical symptom clusters relative to women randomized
      to a CW attention control condition across the study period (physical symptom clusters
      include pain, sleep, fatigue).

      Specific Aim 4: To test the prediction that women randomized to a CBSM intervention versus CW
      attention control condition have better economic outcomes across the study period (as
      measured by faster return to work, fewer sick days, fewer health care visits).

      Specific Aim 5: To test the prediction that participants randomized to CBSM intervention show
      significant improvements in indices of physiological adaptation relative to women randomized
      to a CW attention control condition across the study period by examining diurnal salivary
      cortisol as objective measure of stress.
    
  