
    
      Patient imaging

      At the imaging session, the patient will be asked to sit on the chair and put her/his chin on
      the chin-rest and the height of the chair will be adjusted accordingly. Before turning on the
      light source, the patient will be asked to wear the safety goggles and open her/his mouth
      while the probe is slowly moved inside the oral cavity. At this point, by looking at the
      superficial oral tissue, we will find regions in the oral cavity with superficial changes.
      When such regions are found, OCT images of these regions will be taken. Imaging of each
      location is expected to take about 3 to 4 minutes (including the time required to find the
      region of interest, acquisition of structural, Doppler and speckle variance images, and the
      time between each of these processes). After this, the patient can close her/his mouth and
      rest for couple of minutes. The same procedure will be performed on another site of
      complication. The 3-4 minute imaging procedure is repeated 3 to 5 times (depending on the
      patients' ability to keep the mouth open), after which the patient is dismissed and the
      sterile probe cover will be disposed. All the acquired data will be stored in a computer
      which is kept in a locked office. The data will be processed within the week after the
      imaging session so that structural, Doppler and speckle variance images of the imaged sites
      of complication can be compared.

      During imaging, structural OCT real-time images are shown on the monitor to facilitate the
      task of finding the region of interest and keeping track of the patient's movements and move
      the probe accordingly. During the Doppler or speckle variance imaging (approximately 7
      seconds each within the 3-4 minutes interval mentioned before), the patient is asked to keep
      as still as possible, in order to avoid any motion artifact in the OCT images.

      Note that time frame for this study is 1 day, since subjects are only imaged once with no
      follow-up assessments.

      Imaging healthy volunteers

      The imaging session of the volunteers takes between 30 to 60 minutes. The imaging procedure
      of these healthy volunteers is very similar to that explained for the patients; however, all
      the acquired OCT images of this group would be of healthy oral tissue.

      Note that time frame for this study is 1 day, since the volunteers are only imaged once with
      no follow-up assessments.

      **Important note: The aim of this study is to compare the images from patients with those of
      healthy volunteers and show that there are specific changes in the structural and vascular
      features of the patients (due to radiation toxicity) when compared to the volunteers. So, the
      comparison is done between the two cohorts of the study.

      Data analysis

      For the healthy volunteers, the gathered OCT data will be processed to form structural,
      Doppler and speckle variance images of healthy oral tissue to serve as a reference. The same
      procedure will be performed on late oral radiation toxicity patients to reconstruct
      structural, Doppler and speckle variance images of the site of oral complications. Then, the
      images of healthy volunteers and patients will be compared in terms of the layer thickness,
      the back-reflection properties of each layer, and the size and profile of blood flow of the
      microvasculature. In order to compare these two sets of images quantitatively, certain
      metrics will be defined based on the images of the healthy volunteers. All these quantitative
      comparisons of healthy oral tissue and tissue with radiation complication will be used to
      form an OCT atlas of oral radiation toxicity. Moreover, white-light images of the regions of
      OCT study will be taken in order to serve as a reference for the superficial complications
      caused by radiation.
    
  