
    
      Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a major public health concern as it is the most common inherited
      blood disorder in the US, affecting over 100,000 persons.(1) This disease predominantly
      affects African Americans, occurring in 1 out 365 African American births. Sickle cell
      disease causes intermittent extremely painful vaso-occlusion events, which lead to
      multi-organ damage, significant morbidity and early mortality - and resulting in increased
      healthcare utilization with estimated annual United States healthcare costs of 786
      million.(2,3) To date, there are very few strategies for reducing pain, preventing organ
      dysfunction, and improving quality of life for persons with SCD leading to a disproportionate
      disparity in care. For this reason, there is a critical need to develop novel approaches to
      promote health and longevity while enhancing quality of life among persons with SCD.

      Exercise capacity and cardiorespiratory fitness are important predictors of cardiovascular
      outcomes and overall survival; however, adults with SCD have severely reduced levels of
      fitness, with less than 50% of expected compared to the general population. (4) Since
      cardiopulmonary disease accounts for 40% of the mortality in adults with SCD, enhancing
      physical activity with regular exercise is one potential method for improving survival,
      reducing poor Cardiovascular disease (CVD) outcomes, and improving quality of life for adults
      with SCD.(5,6) Evidence-based exercise interventions in rheumatoid arthritis, an
      inflammatory, chronic disease with similar sequelae to SCD, have shown that exercise
      interventions can increase quality of life, reduce pain, and improve CVD outcomes.(7-9)
      Currently, a paucity of research on the benefits of exercise for SCD exists and this is a
      critical barrier to overcome to both understand the role of physical fitness SCD and to
      develop evidence-based recommendations to guide exercise in SCD. Only one small study of an
      exercise intervention program in France has reported exercise to be safe, effective, and
      reverse SCD-related muscle vasculature damage but long term data in larger populations are
      needed.(10) Therefore, there is a need to conduct more studies in the United States and to
      develop an evidence-based exercise program for adults with SCD that integrates patient
      perspectives, can be broadly implemented among different settings, and is physically safe. To
      address this unmet need, the central hypothesis of this proposal is that an evidence-based
      exercise intervention informed by the needs and preferences of adults with SCD will be
      feasible, acceptable, and tolerable in a cohort of adults with SCD. Our long-term goal is to
      develop a safe and effective exercise intervention to promote sustainable physical activity
      in SCD and to guide exercise recommendations for SCD which currently do not exist. Therefore,
      we propose to adapt an evidence-based exercise intervention for adults with SCD informed by
      culturally- relevant and biologic factors and pre-test the adapted exercise program in a
      small sample of adults with SCD.

      Outcomes: The primary outcome will be to collect preliminary data on feasibility,
      acceptability, and tolerability of the exercise intervention. Rates of recruitment and
      retention will be measured to assess feasibility. Acceptability will be measured through
      attendance, engagement, and qualitative feedback. Tolerability will be measured by the
      ability for participants to complete the exercise program without adverse events.
    
  