
    
      1. Patient selection All hand referrals vetted by Mr Lawrie or Miss Miller, those for
           dorsal wrist ganglia sent a letter of invitation and patient information. Patients
           responding to the letter with interested given an appointment at a special trial clinic.

           Contact details will be provided to allow any issues to be clarified discussed before
           attendance at clinic if the patient desires.

        2. Assess eligibility/ enrolment in study - clinic visit 1

             1. All patients assessed by the chief investigator Mr David Lawrie (DFML) or Miss
                Katharine Hamlin (KH).

             2. Clinical assessment of presence of ganglion.

             3. Ensure not meeting exclusion criteria.

             4. If eligible and willing to complete study commitments discuss study and answer
                questions.

             5. Once we are happy the patient has understanding of the study and its risks then the
                patient will be asked if they wish to enrol or if they would like more time to
                consider.

             6. If they are willing to participate they will then be offered treatment in the same
                visit or a return visit

        3. Intervention - clinic visit 1 or 2

             1. Check understanding and continuing desire to participate in study if 2nd visit.

             2. Complete consent form.

             3. Patient fills out a PEM score and demographics collected on SOS (Surgical Outcomes
                System - Arthrex).

             4. Randomisation.

             5. If in PRP group 15ml blood sample taken with Arthrex ACP double syringe and
                processed (see processing instructions in Appendix.9.

             6. Aspiration.

             7. If in PRP group - Injection of PRP (the same volume as aspirated).

             8. Pressure dressing with gauze, wool and crepe for 48 hours.

        4. Adverse event screening/ management Patients are offered two options at the treatment
           visit.

      1. Routine review at 10 - 14 days at the clinic or 2. Telephone review at 7 days by Miss
      Katharine Hamlin who will have performed the procedure.

      On telephone review if the patient is entirely happy that there are no concerns then follow
      up will proceed by email or telephone as below.

      If any concerns are raised, or if the patient desires, a face to face review will be arranged
      ideally within 24 hours but no longer than 72 hours. Recurrence or other outcomes will not be
      assessed at this time.

      5. SOS/ Email/ Telephone interview - 1 (6 weeks)

      a) Ganglion questionnaire b) PEM score c) Note any adverse events

      6. SOS/ Email /Telephone interview - 2 (12 months)

        1. Ganglion questionnaire

        2. PEM score

        3. Note any adverse events
    
  