
    
      1. Tumor vasculature Profound differences exist between vascular endothelium and
           surrounding stroma of normal tissues and tumors. Tumor vasculature is extremely
           disorganized and tortuous. Vascular shunts are frequent, and distinguishing arterioles
           from venules can be challenging. Apart from the architecture, the blood flow itself is
           strikingly altered: it can be sluggish, sometimes stationary or even reverse. The
           endothelium in tumors proliferates rapidly and contributes to active angiogenesis. The
           direct contact of the tumor endothelium with the host's blood pool makes this site a
           unique target for selective drug delivery.

        2. L19 Fibronectin (FN) is a broadly present soluble constituent of plasma and other body
           fluids. FN usually exists as a dimer formed by two nearly identical (approximately 250
           kDa) subunits covalently linked near their C-terminus by a pair of disulfide bonds. Even
           though FN molecules are the product of a single gene, the resulting protein can exist in
           multiple forms that arise from alternative spicing of pre-mRNA that can generate up to
           20 variants in humans. Splicing occurs in 3 regions of the FN gene, leading to inclusion
           or exclusion of either one of the two type III repeats, named EDB and EDA. The 91 amino
           acid sequence of EDB is identical in mice, rats, rabbits, dogs and humans.
           EDB-containing FN is dispensable during embryogenesis, but is thought to play a
           modulating role in the growth of connective tissues. In adults, EDB-FN is highly
           expressed in normal tissues during angiogenesis, but not in mature vessels. Furthermore,
           EDB-containing FN is abundantly found in solid tumors. It is mainly produced by tumor
           cells and deposited in the subendothelial extracellular matrix of solid tumors and
           hematological malignancies.

           L19 is the single chain (scFv) human antibody that specifically targets EDB-FN. Antibody
           fragments in small scFv formats are useful and versatile tools with various advantages
           including rapid blood clearance and easy manipulation for antibody engineering. The L19
           antibody has been shown to recognize and target EDB-FN in vivo both in animal models and
           patients. In past years, the L19 antibody has been conjugated with numerous agents,
           including therapeutic radionuclides, and cytokines.

        3. Interleukin-2 Cytokines are a heterogeneous group of soluble small polypeptides or
           glycoproteins exerting pleiotropic or redundant effects promoting growth,
           differentiation, and activation of normal cells. Cytokines produced by immune cells may
           have pro- or anti-inflammatory and immune-modulatory activities. In malignant diseases,
           cytokine production and release can be affected by the tumor itself and/or therapeutic
           interventions. Cytokines may also display potent anticancer activities, but are
           frequently hampered by treatment-related toxicities prohibiting dose-escalation to
           therapeutically effective concentrations.

           Interleukin-2 (IL2) plays an essential role in the activation phases of both specific
           and natural immune responses. Even though it has no direct cytotoxic effects on cancer
           cells, it can induce tumor regression by stimulating a potent cell-mediated response. As
           such, IL2 is one of the treatment options in metastatic renal cell carcinoma patients.

        4. L19-IL2 In order to overcome toxicity while simultaneously delivering therapeutic doses
           of IL2 to the tumor issue, the elegant option of combining the anti-EDB scFv L19
           antibody with IL2 was pursued. It has been shown that the L19-IL2 conjugate mediates the
           selective delivery and accumulation of IL2 at tumor endothelial cells, where the EDB
           antigen is expressed during angiogenesis, leading to a dramatic increase of the
           therapeutic efficacy of IL2. In the first preclinical study, 80% of the xenograft tumors
           (including teratocarcinoma and small cell lung cancer) tackled with L19-IL2 were
           subsequently composed of connective and necrotic tissue. At the same time an increase in
           the levels of interferon-gamma and of cytotoxic lymphocytes, macrophages and natural
           killer cells was found. These histological and therapeutic effects were underlined in a
           orthotopic pancreatic cancer model treated with the antibody-cytokine conjugate. One
           year later, this response percentage was repeated in Ramos lymphoma xenografts treated
           with L19-IL2 and the anti-CD20 antibody rituximab whereby a complete remission lasting
           for more than one year was found in 4 of the 5 mice treated.

      In a recent phase I/II clinical trial, the use of L19-IL2 was proven safe in a variety of
      stage IV malignancies with a recommended dose of 22.5 Mio IU. Furthermore, it was safely
      combined with dacarbazine in stage IV melanoma patients maintaining the same recommended dose
      level. In the first study, the overall objective response rate was reported to be 51% after
      two cycles, and in the second this rate was 28% with one complete response still ongoing 21
      months after treatment initiation.

      At present, three phase I/II clinical trials on L19-IL2 alone or in combination with
      chemotherapy for patients with metastatic melanoma (ClinicalTrials.gov numbers: NCT01055522
      and NCT01253096) and pancreatic cancer (ClinicalTrials.gov number: NCT01198522) are ongoing.

      Summary Study Design

      Details on SABR:

      Prescribed dose is risk adapted to the metastatic localization and closeness to organs at
      risk (in accordance with local protocol of MAASTRO clinic). Patients will receive a dose
      schedule of 1 x 30 Gy, 3 x 15-20 Gy; 5 x 12 Gy; 8 x 7.5 Gy; to the 80 % or 100 % isodose
      which should encompass the periphery of the PTV as closely as possible. Maximum dose is not
      restricted but volumes with a dose higher than 105% must be located within the gross tumor.
      The minimum dose allowed is EQD2α/ẞ10 =60 Gy, an ablative dose with EQD2iso=≥ 87.5Gy10 should
      always be the objective. Treatment will be delivered with intensity modulated arcs
      treatments.

      Step -1: Assessment of the toxicity of 10 Mio IU of L19-IL2 (n=3-6); this step is only chosen
      when dose-limiting toxicity occurs in Step 1.

      Administration of 10 Mio IU of L19-IL2 given on day 1, 3 and 5 of each 21-day cycle (max. 6
      cycles) via i.v. bolus injection starting within one week after completion of SABR.

      Toxicity will be scored at every intravenous (i.v.) drug administration and on day 7, 14 and
      21 of the cycle, according to the CTCAE4.0 scoring system. Hematology, liver and kidney
      function will be controlled on day 1, 3, and 5 prior to L19-IL2 administration, and on day 7,
      14 and 21.

      When in 0/3 patients a toxicity of grade 2 or more has occurred step 1 is considered safe. If
      in 1/3 or more patients a grade 2 or more toxicity has occurred, 3 more patients will be
      included in this step. If another grade 2 or more toxicity occurs in 1/3 or more patients,
      the study will be stopped. When at maximum 1/6 patients experience grade 2 toxicity, this
      step will be considered safe. When step 1 is considered safe, step 2 will be initiated.

      Step 1: Assessment of the toxicity of 15 Mio IU of L19-IL2 (n=3-6) Administration of 15 Mio
      IU of L19-IL2 given on day 1, 3 and 5 of each 21-day cycle (max. 6 cycles) via i.v. bolus
      injection starting within one week after completion of SABR.

      Toxicity will be scored at every i.v. drug administration and on day 7, 14 and 21 of the
      cycle, according to the CTCAE4.0 scoring system. Hematology, liver and kidney function will
      be controlled on day 1, 3, and 5 prior to L19-IL2 administration, and on day 7, 14 and 21.

      When in 0/3 patients a toxicity of grade 2 or more has occurred step 1 is considered safe. If
      in 1/3 or more patients a grade 2 or more toxicity has occurred, 3 more patients will be
      included in this step. If another grade 2 or more toxicity occurs in 1/3 or more patients,
      the study will be stopped. When at maximum 1/6 patients experience grade 2 toxicity, this
      step will be considered safe. When step 1 is considered safe, step 2 will be initiated.

      Step 2: Assessment of the toxicity of 22.5 Mio IU of L19-IL2 (n=3-6) Administration of 22.5
      Mio IU of L19-IL2 given on day 1, 3 and 5 of each 21-day cycle (max. 6 cycles) via i.v. bolus
      injection starting within one week after completion of SABR.

      Toxicity will be scored at every i.v. drug administration and on day 7, 14 and 21 of the
      cycle, according to the CTCAE4.0 scoring system. Hematology, liver and kidney function will
      be controlled on day 1, 3, and 5 prior to L19-IL2 administration, and on day 7, 14 and 21.

      When in 0/3 patients a toxicity of grade 2 or more has occurred step 1 is considered safe. If
      in 1/3 or more patients a grade 2 or more toxicity has occurred, 3 more patients will be
      included in this step. If another grade 2 or more toxicity occurs in 1/3 or more patients,
      the study will be stopped. When at maximum 1/6 patients experience grade 2 toxicity, this
      step will be considered safe. When step 1 is considered safe, step 2 will be initiated.

      Step 3: Expansion cohort of the maximally tolerable dose (n=10) Administration of the
      maximally tolerable dose of L19-IL2 given on day 1, 3 and 5 of each 21-day cycle (max. 6
      cycles) via i.v. bolus injection starting within one week after completion of SABR.

      Toxicity will be scored at every i.v. drug administration and on day 7, 14 and 21 of the
      cycle, according to the CTCAE4.0 scoring system. Hematology, liver and kidney function will
      be controlled on day 1, 3, and 5 prior to L19-IL2 administration, and on day 7, 14 and 21.
    
  