
    
      Expanding access to children's mental health care is a critically important global health
      challenge. There is a substantial gap between who would benefit and those who receive care.
      Task-shifting has been one widely used approach to closing care gaps for other health
      challenges. However, alternative models for mental health care delivery targeting school-aged
      children, including task-shifting, are rare. Classroom teachers are uniquely positioned to
      deliver children's mental health care in a transdiagnostic task-shifting model.

      TeaLeaf (TEAchers LEAding the Frontlines) is a research program based in the Darjeeling
      Himalayas with the goal to develop, test, and scale alternative and combined models of
      education and mental health care that leverage classroom teachers and synergies between the
      fields of education and child psychiatry to improve the lives of children with mental health
      struggles. A novel mental health program (Tealeaf-Mansik Swastha) has been developed with the
      aims to (i) improve access to evidence-based mental healthcare for children, (ii) improve
      children's mental health outcomes, and (iii) improve children's wellbeing, development, and
      academic functioning. Through this intervention teachers are empowered to incorporate simple,
      easy-to-use yet evidence-based mental health techniques in their everyday interaction with
      targeted students. This model shifts the paradigm of care from difficult to access episodic
      intervention to ongoing, therapeutic interactions occurring through their day.

      Formative and pilot studies have demonstrated that teachers can deliver evidence-based mental
      health care with fidelity, and that this approach is broadly acceptable to stakeholders, and
      an early signal for effectiveness. In the present study, an evaluation of efficacy will be
      coupled with an embedded qualitative exploration of context and process. Evaluating efficacy,
      implementation processes of the program, and the context in which it occurs will generate
      valuable insights into how children's mental health care can best be delivered in
      resource-limited settings.

      The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the efficacy of teacher-delivered
      transdiagnostic mental healthcare for school-aged children in resource-limited primary
      schools. The primary hypothesis is that children receiving the Tealeaf intervention will
      demonstrate improved mental health compared to children receiving Enhanced Usual Care (EUC).
      Secondary objectives are: 1) to evaluate the efficacy of the intervention with regards to
      children's daily functioning, academic achievement, and school attendance; 2) to explore the
      influence of culture and social context on intervention implementation and efficacy; 3) to
      evaluate implementation processes in order to understand how and why change may occur; and 4)
      to explore the locatedness of the site of intervention within the larger historical and
      socio-cultural context.

      The study will be conducted as a SW-CRCT. Within the four-year TeaLeaF trial, a prospective
      3-year sub-study has been defined. The original protocol was modified to include this
      sub-study [TeaLeaF(+); registered at Clinical Trials Registry - India (CTR-T)] due to the
      emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic. TeaLeaF(+) is a 3-year SW-CRCT with a similar structure
      and analysis plan to TeaLeaF but prospectively defined to begin in 2021. This sub-study will
      facilitate adjustment in the light of many changes in the broader context arising as a result
      of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and associated school closure.

      The study setting is the rural Darjeeling Himalayas, a region of the state of West Bengal in
      India. The primary site of the intervention will be rural, low-cost community private
      schools. Low-cost private schools (rather than government schools) were chosen for this study
      because 1) this is the setting where the highest proportion of children in rural Darjeeling
      are educated, 2) implementation is more likely to occur with fidelity and quality in this
      setting, and 3) this setting represents a better environment for assessment of intervention
      efficacy.

      The analysis for the primary outcome (mental health status) and secondary outcomes (daily
      functioning, academic achievement, and school attendance) will be conducted as a comparison
      between the intervention arm (Tealeaf) and control arm (EUC) within the context of the
      stepped wedge framework. The primary analysis will be based on child-level data for children
      receiving targeted intervention and will be a comparison of mean scores at endline.

      A secondary analysis, utilizing a similar approach will be conducted to compare outcomes
      among a representative subsample of children not selected for targeted intervention between
      trial arms. An additional secondary analysis will be used to compare children selected to
      receive intervention with this representative subsample within each trial arm.

      Additional analyses will be conducted for the following pre-specified subgroups: 1)
      gender/sex, 2) age (<=; >=8 years old) and 3) baseline mental health status. The
      investigators will also conduct a series of pre-specified exploratory analysis on sub-scales
      or domains for the main outcome measures. A cost-analysis will be performed to estimate the
      resources required to deliver Tealeaf and EUC.

      All analysis will be conducted for both the 4-year TeaLeaF trial and the 3-year post-COVID
      sub-study [Tealeaf(+)]

      The overarching goals of the embedded qualitative study will be to explore the effect of
      cultural and social context on intervention implementation and efficacy, how and why changes,
      may occur, and the culture, context, and community in which the study occurs. Grounded
      research techniques will be used to understand the participant's views and experiences in
      their context and to shed light on how 'process' aspects of the Tealeaf intervention are
      impacting communities, teachers, children, and families in a specific cultural context.

      To that effect, the qualitative research will not be based on hypothesis testing. Rather it
      will be driven by the scientific standards of advanced qualitative methods (ethnography and
      participant observation) where iterative learning and reflection drive data collection and
      analysis. For this research, a subsample of schools will be selected through stratified
      purposive sampling. Within each school, in-depth longitudinal direct observation and
      interviews (and as needed focus groups) with school principals, teachers, parents,
      caregivers, and children enrolled in the study. This will be supplemented with field notes,
      process documentation, and data arising from project monitoring.

      This trial is the first to evaluate the efficacy of teacher-delivered transdiagnostic mental
      healthcare for school-aged children in primary schools of a low-to-middle income county. The
      results of this study are expected to contribute to the limited evidence base for alternative
      models of children's mental health care in low-resource settings.

      During the first year of the trial (2021), the study team will only use the first primary
      outcome measure, Mean Difference on the Achenbach System of Empirically Based Assessment
      (ASEBA) Teacher Report Form Total Problem Scale for the following reasons:

        1. There is no control group to compare against

        2. There is no EUC condition

        3. During the 2021 year, we are most interested in identifying any confounding of primary
           outcome during COVID
    
  