
    
      -  A blood draw and an electrocardiogram (EKG). The blood draw will check levels of
           testosterone, dihydro-testosterone, estradiol, and Vitamin D. Pre-study blood-work will
           also include a complete blood count (CBC), basic metabolic panel (BMP/CHEM8) and liver
           function test (LFT) if any of these labs were not drawn within 1 month prior to the
           transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURBT).

        -  Bladder tumor sample that is stored in the Department of Pathology will have additional
           tests run on it to confirm study eligibility and to test for certain cell markers.

        -  After 1 month following the original TURBT, subjects will begin therapy with
           enzalutamide. The study drug will be administered orally at a dose of 160mg daily for 12
           months.

        -  Subjects will be monitored for adverse reactions or side effects from enzalutamide at
           scheduled office visits.

        -  If the bladder tumor is classified as being "intermediate risk", regularly scheduled
           office visits will occur at 2 months post-operatively (i.e., 1 month after starting
           enzalutamide), and then again at post-operative months 3, 6, 9 and 12, as is part of the
           usual standard of care.

        -  If the bladder tumor is classified as being "high risk" and the subject receives BCG
           therapy, then the office visits will occur on a slightly different schedule to conform
           to the standard of care for this type of disease. Subjects in this group typically start
           their intravesical BCG instillations 4-6 weeks post-operatively. Therefore, the subjects
           will be seen approximately 1 month following the initial TURBT, and will begin therapy
           with enzalutamide at that time, as described above. Subjects will be on study drug at
           least 7 days prior to the initiation of BCG therapy, which will occur once a week for 6
           weeks. Similar to the subjects in the intermediate risk group, the subjects receiving
           BCG will also be seen 1 month after initiation of enzalutamide therapy to ensure there
           are no adverse reactions to the study drug. Following this visit, they will be seen
           again at the time of the post-BCG cystoscopy, which occurs 1 month after your 6th
           instillation. Subjects will be seen again at the 3, 6, 9 and 12-month post-BCG
           cystoscopy office visits, as part of routine care.

        -  Repeat blood work (CBC, BMP and LFTs) will be checked 1 month after starting
           enzalutamide (approximately 2 months post-operatively). For subjects with intermediate
           risk bladder cancer, these labs will be checked again at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months
           post-operatively (as per the regularly scheduled office visits). For the high risk
           patients receiving BCG therapy, these labs will be checked again at the 1, 3, 6 and
           9-month post-BCG office visits (per the regularly scheduled office visits for these
           patients).

        -  An EKG will be obtained at baseline (before starting the study drug), but will also be
           re-checked at approximately 6 months (half-way through therapy with enzalutamide) to
           ensure there are no signs of worsening cardiac disease while on the study drug.

        -  A cystoscopy will be done every 3 months as part of the standard of care for bladder
           cancer follow-up. Lesions suspicious for tumor recurrence will be biopsied as per usual
           standard of care. If a recurrence is documented, subjects will discontinue use of
           enzalutamide.

        -  For subjects scheduled to undergo therapy with BCG, additional tests will be run on the
           urine samples that subjects will already be providing in the Urology office as part of
           the standard of care.
    
  