
    
      The effect of early versus traditional hospital discharge on maternal outcome for women
      undergoing elective cesarean section

      Randomized clinical trial

      Protocol of a thesis for partial fulfillment of master degree in obstetrics and gynecology

      Postgraduate Student: Hebatallah Saad Sedky Mohamed Degree: M.B.B.Ch., faculty of medicine-
      Alexandria university (2013)

      Co-DIRECTOR: Prof. Dr. Ahmed Hamdy Nagiub Abdulrahman Academic Position: professor of
      Obstetrics and Gynecology Department: faculty of medicine- Ain Shams University

      Co-DIRECTOR: Dr. Mohamed Esmat Abbas Shawky Academic Position: Lecturer of Obstetrics and
      Gynecology Department: faculty of medicine- Ain Shams University

      What is already known on this subject? What does this study add? The rate of cesarean
      delivery is increasing, in developing countries, its rate ranges from 13 to 47% of all cases
      of delivery (Gibbons et al 2010). Current practice is to discharge women from hospital 24-48
      hours after cesarean delivery, however in some rural areas there is a common practice of
      earlier discharge. The effect of earlier discharge on women health is controversial. The
      present study will investigate the possibility of earlier discharge to reduce the cost of
      hospitalization and postoperative care, increase the turnover rate of obstetric hospitals and
      improve maternal outcome.

      Many studies were concerned by early discharge of patients as there is evidence for
      colorectal surgery suggests that enhanced recovery programmes can reduce hospital stays by
      0.5-3.5 days compared with conventional care (Fiona Paton et al 2014).

      The average hospital stay following Cesarean delivery in most hospitals is 2 to 4 days (Tan
      et al 2012). Hospitalization allows close monitoring of women and early discovery and
      management of complication. Early discharge would, therefore, be a disadvantage and may delay
      identification and treatment of maternal and infant morbidity (National Institute of Health
      2011). In contrast, several studies concluded that early discharge after Cesarean delivery is
      not associated with maternal readmissions (Brown et al 2011) and is associated with more
      maternal satisfaction and lesser cost (Umbeli et al 2010) and will decrease burden on medical
      facilities, increase turnover of obstetrics, reduce the cost of postoperative care, reduce
      rate of hospital acquired complications and Improve maternal neonatal relationship.
    
  