
    
      Liver cirrhosis has been historically classified as a single histopathologic entity, as it is
      considered to be the latest fibrosis stage; however it is well known that cirrhosis
      encompasses different degrees of clinical severity. Advanced liver fibrosis and cirrhosis are
      commonly associated with portal hypertension, which is due to increased hemodynamic
      resistance of the liver leading to an increase in portal venous pressure. Portal hypertension
      leads to the development of esophageal varices associated with a high risk of bleeding,
      ascites and renal dysfunction. The definite diagnosis of portal hypertension is based on the
      measurement hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG), which is an indirect measure of portal
      pressure. This technique is invasive and not widely available. Portal hypertension may also
      be associated with a decrease in portal venous flow/velocity due to a higher parenchymal
      resistance to flow, and an increase in hepatic arterial flow secondary to an arterial buffer
      response that can be measured with phase-contrast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). According
      to the researcher's recent data, the increased vascular pressure observed in portal
      hypertension affects liver and spleen stiffness as well as other viscoelastic properties
      measured with advanced 3D MR elastography, which may potentially be used as biomarkers of
      portal hypertension.

      In this proposal, the researchers would like to validate noninvasive imaging biomarkers based
      on a short multiparametric MRI protocol for the quantification of changes in viscoelastic
      properties and flow metrics in the liver and spleen in relation to portal hypertension. This
      protocol could potentially be integrated in routine clinical MRI exams, and could
      significantly reduce the cost of care by decreasing the need for HVPG measurement, upper
      gastrointestinal endoscopies, and could provide a novel risk stratification scoring system of
      liver disease and portal hypertension based on MRI. This will be a highly significant
      progression in patients with liver disease.
    
  