
    
      The overall objective in this project is to study how nutrition influences frailty and
      physical function in home-dwelling elderly.

      The study will seek to answer the following hypotheses (RCT):

        1. Sarcopenia as measures by SPPB, grip strength, antropometry and gait speed is
           significantly associated with nutritional status and intake of protein in frail elderly.

        2. A supplement of 3000mg of marine peptides pr. day in 12 months in the intervention group
           will improve the score on SPPB and other sarcopenia-related outcomes like grip strength,
           antropometric measures or gait speed compared to the placebo group.

      To supplement the results of the RCT, interviews will be performed with selected participants
      to answer the following question:

      - How do frail elderly describe their own nutritional status and need of help from municipal
      health care service related to nutrition? The data collection will be made in the
      participants' home at baseline and after 6 and 12 months. The patients will complete the
      Short Physical Performance Test (SPPB), Grip Strength measurement and anthropometric
      measurements (weight, height, calf circumference and mid-arm circumference). Assessment of
      nutritional status will be made by Mini Nutritional Assessment (MNA). Seafood intake and
      protein intake will be assessed by a food frequency questionnaire based on previously used
      and validated questionnaires. Daily energy intake will be estimated by a 24-hour multiple
      pass recall of food intake. Health related quality of life will be assessed by the EQ-5D-5L
      questionnaire (EuroQol). In addition, the participants will be asked to take blood tests to
      be analyzed for vitamin D, nutritional and inflammation markers.

      Sample size and statistical power calculation The main outcome of this study is physical
      performance, measured on a 12 point ordinal scale; the SPPB. In accordance to previous
      studies, a clinical meaningful change in score on this scale is 0,4 - 1,5 points. Based on
      mean values and SD from the mentioned study, power was computed with SPSS (IMB) Power Sample
      for t-test of independent samples. The criterion for significance (alpha) has been set at
      0,050 and the test is 2-tailed. With a sample size of 39 in each of the two groups, the study
      will have a power of 80% to yield a statistically significant result. This computation
      assumes a difference between groups of 0.9 points. As the participants are frail and of old
      age, we expect a dropout/missing frequency of 20 %, thus we should have 50 participants in
      each group.

      Statistical analyzes The null hypothesis is that there is no difference between intervention
      and control group, in change of physical performance across multiple test attempts. Linear
      mixed model will be used to detect differences in treatments across multiple test attempts.
      Linear mixed model and ordinal regression models will be used to explore the relationship
      between nutrition and physical performance at baseline.

      In-depth interviews Interviews will provide a deeper understanding of potential results in
      the RCT. Fifteen to twenty participants will be selected to the interviews by purposeful
      recruitment, based on results from the RCT study. The interviews will be transcribed and
      analyzed using qualitative content analysis.

      Ethical consideration This project was approved by the Regional Committee in Ethics in
      Medical Research in Mid- Norway. The investigators do not anticipate this project causing any
      harm or discomfort to the participants, and will make sure that our participants participate
      in the study voluntarily. Participants will be given both oral and written information about
      the study twice before they give their consent to participate. First, they will receive
      information from their home care nurse, and if they agree to receive a call or visit from the
      researcher, they will have the opportunity to ask questions before signing the written
      consent. Participants not receiving municipal health care services sign their consent at the
      first visit. Furthermore, they will be informed about the possibility to withdraw from the
      study without any consequences at any time.

      The project will have considerable benefits for this patient group. Increased knowledge of
      the nutritional status and protein intake in the patient group may facilitate nutritional
      interventions to prevent loss of physical function, potentially leading to increased
      independence and delayed need of residential institution. Results from the RCT may be
      transferable to other patient conditions where muscle atrophy is expected, e.g. inactivity
      after injuries, bed rest after surgery, or in intensive care units.
    
  