
    
      Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most common endocrinopathy affecting women of
      reproductive age. The pathogenesis of PCOS is not fully understood. The intestinal microbiota
      are believed to be associated with the development of insulin resistance and obesity, and
      therefore contributing to the development of PCOS. Incresed permeability of the intestinal
      mucosal barier and absorbtion of lipoproteinase (LPS) from G (-) bacteria promotes chronic
      inflammation and may lead to insulin resistance.

      The microbiome consists of a complex community of microorganisms that live in the digestive
      tract. Intestinal microflora is colonized by various microorganisms, with the largest groups
      consisting of the Firmicutes, Bacteroides, Actinobacteria and Proteobacteria. Intestinal
      microflora has a beneficial effect on the host by competing with pathogenic bacteria,
      protecting the inegrity of the intestinal mucosal barier and stimulating the immune system.
      Some human gut microorganisms are involved In fermenting dietary fiber into short-chain fatty
      acids (SCFAs), such as acetic acid and butyric acid, which are then absorbed by the host. The
      most beneficial species of microbiota are Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium.

      Approximately 50-60% of women suffering from PCOS are obese. It is known that lifestyle
      modification and body mass reduction improves endocrine parameters and restores ovulatory
      menstrual cycles in most patients. Currently, the use of probiotics and prebiotics is playing
      an increasingly important role in the treatment of obesity through the modulation of
      intestinal microflora.

      The objectives of the study are based on the following assumptions:

        1. Insulin resistance and compensatory hyperinsulinemia are important aspects in the
           pathogenesis of PCOS and co-morbidity of cardiovascular disease.

        2. Aberrations in the intestinal microflora are associated with the development of obesity
           and insulin resistance.

        3. Dietary modification combined with probiotic supplementation improves endocrine and
           metabolic profiles in women with PCOS.
    
  