
    
      Studies of chronic kidney disease has conventional hemodialysis and physical therapy
      exercises as the most relevant interventions in the treatment and maintenance of the quality
      of life of these patients, but recent studies have shown significant results also in training
      with whole body vibration, especially for muscle strengthening, balance and quality of life
      of patients with different diseases. However, there are no studies in the literature
      analyzing whole-body vibration in patients with chronic renal failure.

      Objective: To evaluate the effectiveness of wholy body vibration in patients with renal
      disease in the final stage in the interdialytic period.

      Materials and Methods: A clinical trial randomized, triple-blind (patient, appraiser and
      statistics) controlled and supplied with random distribution. The study will be conducted in
      Cardiopulmonary Therapy Physical Therapy Laboratory of the Federal University of Pernambuco
      (UFPE). The sample is calculated from a pilot study to be carried out previously. The pilot
      study will be 20 subjects, 10 patients in each of the two groups.

      In intervention patients will be randomly assigned to one of two groups: platform and
      platform sham. Training twice a week for 3 consecutive months. The evaluations will be
      conducted in two periods: before and after the intervention. The assessment tools are
      included: the isokinetic dynamometer to evaluate the maximal voluntary isometric contraction
      of the knee extensors, the Biodex Balance System to evaluate the static and dynamic body
      balance, the quality of life questionnaire specific for Chronic Renal patient - Kidney
      Disease Quality of Life - short Form (KDQOL-SFTM), and the 6-minute walk test to assess the
      functional capacity of the patient.

      Expected results: It is expected that training in vibrating platform can promote patient
      compliance, since it requires less physical effort for implementation and greater comfort in
      the application, thus allowing the sedentary patients and / or less active can benefit , thus
      minimizing the harmful effects of physical inactivity associated with pre-existing kidney
      problems.
    
  