
    
      Smoking and drinking are the most common addictions in this country and frequently co-occur.
      Among persons who smoke and drink, there appears to be a robust dose-response relationship,
      with heavier drinking associated with heavier smoking and vice versa. Additionally, smokers
      who are more alcohol dependent often report that smoking is a common way to cope with the
      urge to drink.

      Research has shown that there is a high prevalence of unmet substance abuse treatment need
      among adult Emergency Department (ED) patients. As many as 46% of ED patients have recently
      consumed alcohol and a significant number of the 31.6 million ED injury related visits are
      alcohol related. The prevalence rate of tobacco use among ED patients is reportedly as high
      as 40% and contributes to significant morbidity and mortality.

      For many the ED is the only place they can access medical care. Although most
      medically-underserved individuals never seek out specialized treatment for smoking or
      drinking, each year over 120 million people visit an ED. Since an ED visit may be a patient's
      only point of contact with the health care system, it represents an important opportunity not
      only to treat their emergent needs, but to screen and provide this vulnerable population with
      appropriate alcohol and tobacco use interventions.

      The intervention, built upon the Brief Negotiated Interview (BNI) model, aims to help
      patients reduce harmful drinking and smoking and will be initiated during an ED visit
      followed by 3 follow up COMBINE counseling telephone sessions post ED visit.

      The specific aims of the proposed project are to:

      Aim 1: To develop an effective brief intervention for smoker- drinkers that is feasible and
      acceptable for patients treated in the emergency department

      Aim 2: To identify barriers to treatment engagement and factors that facilitate successful
      engagement in alcohol and smoking cessation treatment
    
  