
    
      Before Surgery:

      If you agree to take part in this study, before you have the abdominal radical trachelectomy
      surgery, the following information will be recorded during one of your regular clinic visits:

        -  Your race and date of birth.

        -  Your complete medical and surgical history, including the date of your diagnosis and
           your diagnosis before surgery.

        -  Your weight, height, and body mass index.

      During and After Surgery:

      During and after surgery, the following information will be gathered from your medical record
      or you will be asked:

        -  If there was any blood loss during surgery.

        -  How long the surgery lasted.

        -  If there were any complications during the surgery.

        -  If you needed any blood transfusions.

        -  What type of instrument was used for preventing or sealing blood loss.

        -  How long you stayed in the hospital.

        -  If you experienced any infections within 1 month after surgery.

        -  If you experienced any complications within 1 month or later than 1 month after surgery.

        -  The length of time it took to recover your bowel and urinary function.

        -  If you received any treatments for cancer after surgery, such as radiation therapy,
           chemotherapy, or hormonal therapy.

      Once a year for up to 5 years, if you return for an annual routine follow up visit, the
      results of any pap smears you have had will be collected.

      Once a year for up to 5 years, you will also be asked the following questions about your
      health and fertility, either by mail or during a regular clinic visit:

        -  What is the status of the disease?

        -  Did you want to get pregnant in the last year?

        -  Did you attempt to get pregnant?

        -  Did you become pregnant? If so, how you became pregnant and the outcome of the
           pregnancy? If not how long did you try to become pregnant and did you try any form of
           assisted reproduction?

      Questionnaires:

      You will complete 4-5 questionnaires at each of the following times:

        -  Within 2 weeks before your surgery.

        -  At 4-6 weeks after surgery

        -  At 6 months after surgery.

        -  At 1 year after surgery.

        -  Once a year for the next 4 years.

      These questionnaires will ask about your physical health, mental and emotional health, pain,
      vitality, social functioning, general health, quality of life, and sexual functioning. It
      will take about 15 minutes to complete 5 questionnaires. If you do not receive your follow-up
      care at MD Anderson, the questionnaires will be mailed to you at the above time-points with a
      prepaid return envelope. Mailed questionnaires will be returned to the study chair in an
      envelope marked CONFIDENTIAL with NO RETURN ADDRESS on the return envelope. Your name will
      not appear on the questionnaires or return envelope. Instead, a code will be used (on the
      questionnaires only) that will connect the questionnaires with your medical record. Only the
      study chair or study coordinator will have access to the code document. The document is kept
      in a locked filing cabinet and/or password protected computer. All responses will be stored
      in a locked office.

      Length of Study:

      You will be on study for up to 5 years. If the disease returns, you will be taken off study.
    
  