
    
      Overview: In this observational study, we will have a sample of approximately 20 patients on
      chronic thrice weekly HD self-monitor their weight gain and blood pressure during the
      interdialytic intervals for one week. Demographics, anthropometrics, HD prescription and
      treatment information will be recorded. Study participants will complete four questionnaires
      at the first study visit and will then be provided medical grade scales and a blood pressure
      monitor, and will be asked to prospectively record weight changes and blood pressure at home
      four times a day for one week using a logbook.

      Patients with significant residual urinary volume and diabetes mellitus will not be
      recruited, the latter to remove the bias of blood glucose in determining osmotic thirst.

      Home Body Weight Monitoring Study participants will be asked to perform daily home body
      weight monitoring for the duration of the whole study with medical grade scales. Study
      participants will be asked to monitor their body weight four times per day: upon waking up,
      between 12:00 and 2:00 pm, between 6:00 and 8:00 pm and at bedtime. Participants will be
      asked to wear similar clothing for all measurements. Monitoring will start after the first HD
      session of the week until the first HD session of the following week.

      Home Blood Pressure Monitoring Study participants will be asked to perform daily home blood
      pressure monitoring for the duration of the whole study with a validated, automated device.
      Participants with an arteriovenous fistula or graft will be asked to measure blood pressure
      on the arm without the arteriovenous fistula or graft. Study participants will be asked to
      monitor blood pressure four times per day, concomitantly with their body weight. Study
      participants will be asked to record three consecutive blood pressure measurements in a
      sitting position, after 5 minutes of rest in a quiet room. Monitoring will start after the
      first HD session of the week until the first HD session of the following week.

      Daily Reminders Study participants will be given the option to receive a daily reminder phone
      call for the duration of the whole study, to encourage compliance to the self-monitoring
      procedures and to encourage reproducibility (e.g. by wearing similar clothing at each
      measurement) to weighing procedures. The phone calls will be made from an in-hospital office
      phone by either the research coordinators or the Ph.D. student attached to this study,
      following a script. Participants can decline the option of receiving daily reminders.

      Scored Sodium Questionnaire Dietary sodium intake will be estimated with the Scored Sodium
      Questionnaire (SSQ)12 on the first study visit, a 10-item food frequency questionnaire to
      screen for high sodium intake in CKD. A cut-off value of 65 will be used to identify patients
      with high sodium intake.

      Dialysis Thirst Inventory The Dialysis Thirst Inventory (DTI) is a questionnaire developed by
      Bots et al.13 It is a seven items questionnaire that quantifies the perception of thirst.
      Each item has a five-point Likert type scale (never = 1, to very often = 5). The scores are
      summed and provide a DTI score ranging from 7 (no thirst) to 35 (very thirsty). The items are
      the following: (1) Thirst is a problem for me. (2) I am thirsty during the day. (3) I am
      thirsty during the night. (4) My social life is influenced because of my thirst feelings; (5)
      I'm thirsty before dialysis. (6) I am thirsty during dialysis. (7) I am thirsty after
      dialysis. This questionnaire will be administered on the first study visit.

      Xerostomia Inventory The validated Xerostomia Inventory (XI) consists of 11 items, each with
      a five-point Likert type scale (never=1, to very often=5) to evaluate xerostomia, that is a
      feeling of dry mouth.14 Examples of items from the XI are "My mouth feels dry...", "I have
      difficulty in eating dry foods..." and "I sip liquids to aid in swallowing food." The
      responses to the 11 items result in an individual XI score for each participant that can
      range from 11 (no dry mouth) to 55 (extremely dry mouth). This questionnaire will be
      administered on the first study visit.

      Minutes to Recovery after HD This is a clinically validated, simple question, as published by
      Lindsay et al.15 The question is: "How long does it take you to recover from a dialysis
      session?", to which participants are free to respond by providing exact times to approximate
      estimates such as "half a day". The final answer will be converted to minutes for analysis
      purposes. Responses to this question were reported to be highly reproducible over time and
      correlated with several quality of life questionnaires, mainly pointing towards physical
      wellbeing rather than mental health. Furthermore, this measure was sensitive enough to show
      differences in recovery time between different HD prescriptions (standard vs daily vs
      nocturnal HD). This question will be administered on the first study visit.

      Urine collection When applicable, participants will be asked to collect and record their
      urine volume on the last day of the long interdialytic interval (Sunday for
      Monday-Wednesday-Friday patients, Monday for Tuesday-Thursday-Saturday patients).
      Participants will be provided a disposable urine collection container for this purpose. After
      completing the collection and recording the total urine volume, the participants will dispose
      of the urine themselves.

      Concomitant Medications Throughout the study, all participants will continue to take all
      medications as prescribed by their clinical care team and will follow any changes to their
      medication as seen fit.
    
  