
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the objective response rate to sorafenib tosylate (sorafenib) in children
      with relapsed or refractory rhabdomyosarcoma, Wilms tumor, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), or
      papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To further define and describe the toxicities of sorafenib administered on an oral,
      twice-daily continuous schedule.

      II. To further characterize the pharmacokinetics of sorafenib in children with refractory
      cancer.

      III. To estimate the progression-free survival on sorafenib for rhabdomyosarcoma, Wilms
      tumor, and hepatocellular carcinoma and compare to a group of patients enrolled on selected
      closed Phase II studies of Children Oncology Group (COG).

      IV. To assess the biologic activity of sorafenib on vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)
      and soluble vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (VEGFR-2) in peripheral blood
      samples. (Exploratory) V. To evaluate the presence of BRAF mutations and RET/PTC
      rearrangements in patients with PTC. (Exploratory)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to diagnosis
      (rhabdomyosarcoma vs Wilms tumor vs hepatocellular carcinoma vs papillary thyroid carcinoma).

      Patients receive sorafenib tosylate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for up to 24 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo blood sample collection at baseline and periodically during study for
      pharmacokinetic studies, and VEGF and VEGFR-2 analysis by ELISA. Previously collected
      formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue samples, from patients with papillary thyroid
      carcinoma, are also analyzed for BRAF mutation and RET/PTC rearrangements by PCR.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 5 years.
    
  