
    
      Once you are enrolled in the study, you will receive treatment, evaluations and follow up
      care for your type of cancer as determined by your treating physician according to clinical
      judgment and standard of care for your clinic. All treatments that you receive will be
      recorded, including all surgeries and chemotherapy given before or after PBRT. Treatment
      outcomes, like how you respond to treatment, side effects, and progression of your cancer
      will be collected as the information becomes available. A study coordinator or research nurse
      at your clinic will perform a chart review annually to update your status in the database.
      The study doctor will request any new data within the past year from you or your doctor.

      We will be collecting the following data for the Registry:

      At Screening: The following data will be collected from the time of diagnosis and initial
      staging:

        -  Patient demographics, date of birth, gender, race, zip code and insurance status

        -  Date of diagnosis

        -  Histologic or clinical diagnosis and staging relevant to diagnosis

        -  Imaging studies obtained and tumor measurements

        -  Lab evaluations which include routine blood tests, hormone levels, and any relevant lab
           results needed to assess you and baseline and follow-up visits

        -  Referring physician contact information

      Treatment Data Collection: The following data regarding treatment will be collected:

        -  Treatments received before radiation therapy, including surgery, chemotherapy, dates and
           numbers of cycles, results of chemotherapy if available

        -  Dates and doses of radiation treatment

        -  Side effects observed

        -  Any treatments you received at the same time as proton radiation therapy

      Follow-up Data Collection: The following data will be collected either as it comes in or
      annually following completion of your radiation therapy treatment:

        -  Disease and survival status

        -  Hospitalization, surgeries or other procedures

        -  New diagnoses of medical conditions

        -  Any lab results, including x-rays

        -  Medications you are taking

        -  Late side effects such as hearing loss, hormonal issues, any cardiac issues

        -  Development of any new types of cancers

        -  Dates of treatment after radiation therapy

        -  If you discontinued radiation therapy

        -  Laboratory/physician/dental or psychological evaluations

        -  Use of special services in school (IEP, FM hearing system, one on one tutor, special
           education) We would like to keep track of your medical condition for the rest of your
           life. We would like to do this by contacting you or your doctor once a year to see how
           you are doing. Keeping in touch with you and checking on your condition helps determine
           the long-term outcomes of individuals treated with proton beam radiation therapy.

      In addition to research personnel at MGH, there are others that may have access to the data
      collected. This includes:

        -  Other research doctors and medical centers participating in this research, if applicable

        -  Outside individuals or entities that have a need to access this information to perform
           functions relating to the conduct of this research. For instance copies of your imaging
           studies and treatment plan will be stored at MIMcloud. MIMcloud is a service offered
           through MIM Software Inc, a privately held company, that provides diagnostic imaging
           data management services.
    
  