
    
      The pilot is a prospective cohort study. Approximately 100 participants and their identified
      people who assist with two or more ADLs/IADLs will be assessed for DSI prevalence and DSI
      impact on communication. A sub-cohort of 10 participants with DSI will be provided a hearing
      intervention and followed for 4-6 weeks to assess the over-the-counter hearing intervention
      program's impact on communication among a DSI population and its identified people who assist
      with two or more ADLs/IADLs.

      Recruitment will be based at the Wilmer Eye Institute (East Baltimore location) LVR clinic.
      Recruitment efforts will focus on older adults (≥60 years) with English proficiency attending
      the LVR clinic. Caregivers will be identified based on self-report assistance with at least
      two ADLs and/or IADLs.

      The hearing intervention, for the sub-cohort of 10 individuals with DSI and their identified
      people who assist with two or more ADLs/IADLs, consists of instruction and best-practices
      provided by an occupational therapist on the utilization of a handheld amplifier (SuperEar
      SE9000). Prior to the LVR session with the handheld amplifier, individuals with DSI will
      complete a daily functioning (ADLs/IADLs) questionnaire (a measure of LVR success). The
      occupational therapist will give participant a handheld amplifier (SuperEar SE9000) and
      provide instruction on device use and best-practices (i.e. reducing background noise) to
      improve communication for the patient-caregiver pairs.

      Participant-caregiver pairs will utilize the device and communication strategies over a
      4-6-week period between LVR visits. Upon return, pairs will complete semi-structured
      interviews to elicit information about utilization (successes, barriers), impact on
      communication, and open qualitative feedback. Participants and caregivers will complete
      post-intervention functioning questionnaire and Zarit Burden Interview, respectively.
    
  