
    
      The NIRS monitor will record information from the patient until he/she has been in the CICU
      for about 24 hours. The monitoring consists of small sticky pads placed on the child's
      forehead and trunk. These work like the pulse oximeter (oxygen monitor) that has been used
      for for the child already, but have a more sensitive detector.

      NIRS data will be recorded in the operating room and in the CICU for all babies in the study.
      The NIRS values can be seen by the surgical and anesthesia teams in the operating room for
      all babies in the study. Once the patient is in the CICU, the NIRS values will be visible to
      the CICU team only if he/she is assigned to the intervention group. If he/she is assigned to
      the control group the NIRS values will not be visible to the CICU team. Currently, use of the
      NIRS monitor is not standard care in the CICU.

      For half of the children in the study (intervention group) the team will follow a carefully
      designed plan on how to react to any changes seen. For the other half of the children
      (control group) the team will respond to any changes seen according to their standard
      practice. For the control group NIRS monitoring will occur in the operating room but not in
      the CICU. By using two groups, the investigators can compare the NIRS recordings. In this way
      the investigators will find out if blood supply to the tissues is altered.

      No standard monitoring or treatments will be withheld from the patient.

      Some extra urine tests will be taken in the 24 hours following surgery. They will be taken
      from the catheter inserted into the patient's bladder, as is standard for all heart surgery.
      No genetic tests will be done.

      The patient will have usual medical care following the 24 hours of the study. The
      investigators will use the hospital's electronic notes to collect further information. This
      will include medications, routine labs and vital signs. The investigators may also call the
      family 60 days after surgery with a few simple questions about the patient's current state of
      health.
    
  