
    
      Background:

      Plasma arginine vasopressin (AVP) measurement is recommended for the differential diagnosis
      of diabetes insipidus and polydipsia. However, AVP measurement is cumbersome. AVP is derived
      from a larger precursor peptide along with copeptin, which is a more stable peptide directly
      mirroring the production of AVP. Copeptin can be assayed readily in plasma.

      Aim: To evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of copeptin levels in the diagnosis and differential
      diagnosis of diabetes insipidus.

      Design: Prospective, observational multicenter study.

      Setting: Department of Endocrinology, University Hospital of Basel

      Patients: Patients with suspected or known central (complete or partial), nephrogenic
      (complete or partial) or psychogenic diabetes insipidus undergoing a standardized water
      deprivation test.

      Intervention: All patients with suspected or known diabetes insipidus will undergo an
      overnight water deprivation test and a standardized water deprivation test, as routinely
      performed in the diagnostic evaluation of diabetes insipidus. Plasma AVP and copeptin will be
      measured at baseline (8 am before start of thirsting), and hourly during the water
      deprivation test.

      Study hypothesis: Copeptin levels will provide a better diagnostic accuracy in the diagnosis
      and differential diagnosis of diabetes insipidus as compared to AVP measurement.

      Analysis: We will study 5 groups of patients: A) Patients with complete central diabetes
      insipidus, B) Patients with partial central diabetes insipidus, C) Patients with complete
      nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, D) Patients with partial nephrogenic diabetes insipidus and
      E) Patients with psychogenic diabetes insipidus. All groups will consist of 10 patients based
      on the following assumptions: Based on pilot studies we assume that patients in group A) will
      have copeptin values of 2.5 ± 1.0; Group B) 3.0 ± 1.0, Group C) 15.0 ± 5; Group D) 6 ± 2.0
      and Group E) 4.0 ± 1.0 pmol/L. This results in a power of 90% to detect a difference in
      copeptin levels of 0.8pmol/L between the closest two groups, i.e. patients with partial
      central Diabetes insipidus and patients with psychogenic Diabetes insipidus.

      Significance: The measurement of copeptin will allow a better discrimination of patients with
      diabetes insipidus, especially for the discrimination of partial central and nephrogenic and
      psychogenic diabetes insipidus.
    
  