
    
      Since 2015, the management of anterior acute ischemic stroke (AIS) involves endovascular
      treatment with mechanical thrombectomy (MT). This urgent, difficult and uncomfortable
      procedure in frail patients requires multidisciplinary care ideally involving neurologists,
      interventional neuroradiologists and anesthesiologists.

      Two anesthetic strategies are currently used: pharmacologic sedation in spontaneous
      ventilation or general anesthesia with tracheal intubation. General anesthesia provides
      strict immobility, protects the airway and avoids emergency intubation in case of severe
      procedural complication (notably vomiting and aspiration). Sedation is a frequently used
      alternative because of (1) a rapid execution which could reduce delay to reperfusion, (2) a
      lower risk of blood pressure drop that may compromise cerebral blood flow in the penumbra
      area, (3) the theoretical capacity to assess neurological status during the procedure and (4)
      the supposed risk of complications associated with mechanical ventilation and intravenous
      anesthestics on brain metabolism. Nevertheless, sedation exposes to dramatic complications in
      case of patient agitation and movements.

      The choice of the ideal anesthesic management is still lacking. Old retrospective studies
      seemed to favor sedation with worst neurological outcome associated with general anesthesia.
      Nevertheless, these datas suffered methodological issues with selection bias: more severe
      patients based on NIHSS score were rather treated with general anesthesia and blood pressure
      was not controlled. Recent studies that demonstrated the benefit of MT did not include a
      specific anesthetic protocol and none of the studies currently available included a blood
      pressure management protocol that appears to be an essential component of cerebral perfusion.
      A subgroup analysis of the MR Clean study, including patients with an identical initial NIHSS
      score, did not find benefit from MT in patients with general anesthesia compared to those
      receiving sedation. Finally, authors concluded that performing a MT under general anesthesia
      would significantly lengthen the reperfusion delay and nullify the benefit of MT.

      The prospective, randomized, single-center SIESTA trial, conducted in 150 patients with an
      anterior circulation AIS, found no difference in the early neurological improvement (primary
      endpoint), assessed on the change in NIHSS score between admission and the 24th hour, between
      the conscious sedation group and the general anesthesia group. There were a tendency for a
      better 3-month neurological outcome in the general anesthesia group (37% vs 18% of patients
      with a Modified Rankin score of 0-2 in the general anesthesia and conscious sedation groups
      respectively), but it was not possible to conclude due to a lack of statistical power.

      Due to the increasing number of patients eligible for endovascular MT and the potential
      implication of these two anesthetic management on the functional outcome, a study comparing
      general anesthesia and sedation during a MT seems essential as specified in the recent
      updated American Stroke Association guidelines.

      The objective of this study is to assess whether sedation or general anesthesia during
      endovascular treatment with mechanical thrombectomy is associated with a difference in
      morbidity (neurological outcome and peri-procedural complications), in anterior circulation
      AIS.
    
  