
    
      Aspiration of gastric contents into the lungs in surgical patients is a rare, but serious
      adverse event. Because a proper preoperative fasting is mandatory before anesthesia to
      prevent this severe complication, patients undergoing elective surgery have traditionally
      asked to fast overnight to ensure that their stomachs are empty. However, it is difficult and
      uncomfortable for patients not to eat or drink, particularly for those scheduled for surgery
      later in the day. Fasting may lead to thirst, hunger, anxiety, and tiredness, along with the
      potential for hypoglycemia and dehydration. Moreover, prolonged preoperative starvation
      triggers a metabolic response that precipitates gluconeogenesis and increases the organic
      response to trauma [7,8] and leads to delayed recovery after surgery. Avoiding inordinate
      fasting before surgery markedly reduces postoperative insulin resistance which has beneficial
      effects on postoperative glucose and protein metabolism.

      Current guidelines by the American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) recommend a minimum of
      6 hours after a light meal (toast and clear fluid) and 8 hours if the meal includes fried or
      fatty foods. In the era of evidence-based medicine, however, these fasting recommendations to
      keep a patient in preoperative fasting of 6-8 hours after the intake of solid meal are
      derived from survey opinions solicited from 470 active members of the ASA membership despite
      insufficient literature.

      Recent studies have shown that real-time ultrasonography can provide reliable information
      about the nature (clear fluid, solid, or none) and volume of gastric content, being a
      non-invasive, inexpensive and safe method. The ultrasonographic measurement of antral
      cross-sectional area (CSA) is used for the assessment of gastric emptying in diabetic or
      dyspeptic patients and clinical investigations in obstetrical anesthesia. Thus, we designed
      this study to evaluate scientifically the gastric emptying time of solid meal using serial
      sonographic assessment in healthy volunteers. (Especially, there was no study to evaluate the
      gastric emptying time of a rice-based meal.) The objective of this study was to confirm or
      confront the minimum fasting time required for adequate gastric emptying for a rice-based
      meal (Asian foods), according to the suggestion of current guideline.
    
  