
    
      Pancreatic cancer is characterised by aggressive growth, treatment resistance and an
      extremely poor prognosis. In subjects with locally advanced or metastatic disease, the median
      survival is approximately 6 - 11 months and 2 - 6 months, respectively. The currently
      accepted treatment for this disease in EU is gemcitabine which supplanted treatment with 5-FU
      after it was shown that median survival duration was marginally improved (4.41 and 5.65
      months respectively, p = 0,022). The reported median survival time for subjects treated with
      single-agent gemcitabine in randomized phase III studies ranged form 4.9 to 7.2 months.
      Despite these improvements in the treatment of pancreatic cancer, the prognosis remains very
      poor. Lenalidomide (Revlimid®) belongs to a proprietary class of compounds called
      immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs). IMiDshave both immunomodulatory and anti-angiogenic
      properties which could confer antitumour and antimetastatic effects. Lenalidomide has been
      demonstrated to possess anti-angiogenic activity through inhibition of bFGF, VEGF and
      TNF-alpha induced endothelial cell migration, due at least in part to inhibition of Akt
      phosphorylation response to bFGF.In addition, lenalidomide has a variety of immunomodulatory
      effects. Gemcitabine (Gemzar®) is a synthetic pyrimidine nucleoside analogue that is used as
      standard treatment of advanced pancreatic cancer. Beside the cytotoxic activity of
      gemcitabine, accumulating evidence has indicated that the product promote specific anticancer
      immune responses that contribute to the therapeutic effects of conventional
      therapy.Down-regulation in survival rate of pancreatic cell lines has more recently been
      observed, when treated with lenalidomide and gemcitabine in sub-optimal concentrations.Those
      data supports a hypothesis of a potential hyper-additive affect of the treatments given in
      combination. Therefore lenalidomide and gemcitabine should be of major interest to explore
      for combination therapy.

      This is a phase I/II open-label, multi-center study. It will consist of a phase I
      dose-finding part and a phase II part during which subjects will be treated at the MTD
      established during phase I. Lenalidomide will be administered by a stepwise dose-escalation
      schedule in the phase I part. Thus, the primary endpoint in the phase I part is to determine
      the MTD and safety of the regimen lenalidomide and gemcitabine as first-line treatment in
      subjects with advanced pancreatic cancer.In the phase II part, primary endpoint is to
      evaluate the immunomodulatory effects of lenalidomide in combination with gemcitabine in the
      same patient population.
    
  