
    
      The study was designed as a single-blind randomized controlled trial with one control and two
      intervention groups. The aim of the study was to investigate the effect of labor dance and
      music used in the active phase of labor on perceived labor pain and fear of childbirth.

      The hypotheses of our study are as follows:

      H1: The labor dance used in the active phase of labor has an effect on reducing the perceived
      labor pain.

      H2: The music used in the active phase of labor has an effect on reducing the perceived labor
      pain.

      H3: The labor dance used in the active phase of labor has an effect on reducing the fear of
      childbirth.

      H4: The music used in the active phase of labor has an effect on reducing the fear of
      childbirth.

      H5: The labor dance is a more effective method in reducing the labor pain perceived in the
      active phase of labor compared to music.

      H6: The labor dance is a more effective method in reducing the fear of childbirth in the
      active phase of labor compared to music.

      There were three groups in the study: the dance group (D) which involved pregnant women who
      performed the labor dance; the music group (M) involving pregnant women who were exposed to
      music; the control group (C) which included pregnant women who were administered routine
      hospital practices. The sampling included pregnant women who met the inclusion criteria and
      agreed to participate in the study. D; The pregnant women performed labor dance when the
      cervical dilatation reached 4-5 cm. The dance was performed in the company of music played
      through headphones. The labor dance lasted 30 minutes. M; The pregnant women listened to
      music for 30 minutes when the cervical dilatation reached 4-5 cm. They took any position they
      wanted while listening to music. C; No intervention was made to relieve the labor pain and
      reduce the fear of childbirth in the control group of the study. They were administered
      routine hospital applications.The study data were collected using a Personal Information
      Form, the Labor Monitoring Form, the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), and version A of the Wijma
      Delivery Expectancy Questionnaire (W-DEQA). After the pregnant women were randomly assigned
      to groups, the personal information form was filled in. The perceived pain and fear of the
      pregnant women in group D and group M were measured and recorded prior to the intervention
      (when cervical dilatation reached 4-5 cm). A 30-minute long intervention was administered in
      groups D and M. The pain and fear measurements were repeated soon after the intervention, 30
      minutes and 60 minutes after the intervention. On the other hand, the pain and fear
      assessments in the control group were made when the cervical dilatation reached 4-5 cm. The
      assessment of the perceived pain and fear in controls who were administered routine hospital
      practices were repeated 30 minutes after the first measurement, after 60 minutes, and after
      90 minutes .
    
  