
    
      Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), a noninvasive neuromodulation technique,
      applied to the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) can reduce depressive symptoms and
      improve cognitive control in major depressive disorder (MDD). Such findings suggest
      modulation of top down prefrontal-limbic circuits, which are functionally distinct from
      ventro-limbic networks and include reciprocally connected DLPFC and dorsomedial anterior
      cingulate cortex (dACC). However, substantial variation in tDCS response is observed in MDD.
      This may be due to imprecise stimulation protocols and suboptimal engagement of the neural
      circuits mediating antidepressant response. Methods that optimize electrode placement and
      account for individual variation in anatomy and that map current flow directly in the brain
      may inform the mechanisms and potential clinical utility of tDCS. A new tDCS technique, high
      definition (HD) tDCS, offers more focal stimulation than conventional tDCS (C-tDCS). The
      degree to which C-tDCS or HD-tDCS engage dorsal prefrontal-limbic neural circuits is unknown,
      yet is vital for understanding, confirming and subsequently improving possible therapeutic
      effects. Innovative MRI techniques that are able to map tDCS currents in vivo and that track
      changes in regional cerebral blood flow occurring with tDCS over time can provide direct
      evidence of neural effects. Based on a) theoretical modeling of tDCS current flow, b) studies
      showing hypo-metabolism, decreased CBF or activity in dorsal prefrontal-limbic networks, c)
      modulation of these regions with treatment, and, c) our prior results showing significant
      relationships in between change in dACC rCBF and clinical response to electroconvulsive
      therapy (ECT), an established brain stimulation treatment, we will test for the tDCS
      engagement and modulation of the DLPFC and dACC using tDCS current mapping performed in vivo
      and perfusion MRI. MRI-guided neuronavigation will be used to optimize and standardize
      electrode placement for DLPFC stimulation.

      In this trial, using HD-tDCS that optimal target engagement of DLPFC and larger rCBF changes
      in the DLPFC and dACC compared to C-tDCS in the first part of the trial, we will define
      relationships between target engagement and change in mood and behavior. Patients with
      moderate to severe MDD (N=100, n=50 in each group) will be randomized to Active or Sham left
      anodal DLPFC HD-tDCS. Patients will complete MRI scans including tDCS current mapping and
      pCASL as well as two functional imaging tasks probing cognitive control and emotion
      negativity bias, recruiting prefrontal-limbic circuitry, before and after completing a 12-day
      trial of 20-minute tDCS sessions.
    
  