
    
      The primary objective of the phase lb portion of this study was to determine the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD )and/or recommended phase ll dose (RPIID) of oral panobinostat in
      combination with a fixed dose of 5-Aza in adult patients with International Prognostic
      Scoring System intermediate-2 (IPSS INT-2) or high risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS),
      Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML), or Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML).

      The primary objective of the phase llb portion of this study was to assess preliminary
      efficacy of treatment with the panobinostat and 5-Aza combination at the RPIID relative to
      treatment with single agent 5-Aza through the assessment of composite CR (complete response
      (CR) or CRi or bone marrow CR).

      In the phase lb phase of the study, the patients received escalating oral doses of
      panobinostat commencing in Cycle 1. The starting dose for panobinostat was 20 mg/day
      administered orally commencing on Day 3. Each treatment cycle consisted of 28 days (4 weeks).
      In each cycle, panobinostat was administered twice in Week 1 (Day 3, Day 5), thrice in Week 2
      (Day 8, Day 10, and Day 12) and once in Week 3 (Day 15), with no dosing in Week 4. Successive
      cohorts of patients received escalating doses of panobinostat until the MTD/RPIID was
      determined. The dose of 5-Aza was fixed at 75 mg/m2/day for 7 days in Week 1 of each cycle.

      After the MTD/RPIID was determined, enrollment in the Phase Ib part was closed and the Phase
      IIb part of the study commenced. Ongoing patients from the Phase Ib part continued their
      treatment at the assigned dose level according to the regimen and schedule for the Phase Ib
      part.

      Once the RPIID was defined in Phase Ib, additional 80 patients were to be enrolled into the
      Phase IIb part of the study and randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio receiving the RPIID of
      panobinostat plus 5-Aza (investigational arm) or single agent 5-Aza (active control arm). The
      treatment schedule for the investigational arm was the same as that for the Phase Ib. Single
      agent 5-Aza (active control arm) was administered according to the locally approved label
      (75mg/m2 daily for 7 days). Patients continued treatment until disease progression,
      unacceptable toxicity or consent withdrawal, whichever came first.
    
  