
    
      Hyperglycaemia is present in 40-60% of patients with acute ischaemic stroke and adversely
      affects survival and outcome. This effect is independent of stroke severity or pathology, and
      is most striking in patients without recognised diabetes, in whom the odds of death are
      increased threefold, and the chance of poor functional outcome by 40%. Hyperglycaemia remains
      a powerful independent predictor of outcome even in the face of thrombolytic drug therapy.

      The adverse effect of hyperglycaemia is hypothesised to be consequent to increased provision
      of substrate to hypoperfused tissue that is metabolising anaerobically, with resultant tissue
      accumulation of neurotoxic lactic acid. In animal models of stroke, hyperglycaemia causes
      increased tissue lactic acidosis and increased recruitment of ischaemic tissue in the
      peri-infarct region into the final infarct. Infarct volumes are higher in hyperglycaemic
      animals, and conversely, reducing blood glucose reduces infarct volume. Although clinical
      observational studies suggest protocols that incorporate blood glucose monitoring and control
      to be beneficial, and trials are ongoing to define the impact of routine treatment to
      maintain euglycaemia, the basic pathophysiology of stroke in relation to blood glucose has
      not been well defined in man. Preliminary studies confirm a relationship between blood
      glucose and lactate concentration in hypoperfused brain tissue but it is unknown whether
      brain lactate is reduced by control of blood glucose, and whether doing so will impact on
      stroke evolution. It has also been found that infarct volume increases more in hyperglycaemic
      patients treated with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA).

      MRI permits non-invasive and serial study of acute stroke pathophysiology. In addition to
      brain structure, MRI can define tissue viability (cytotoxic oedema seen on diffusion-weighted
      imaging, DWI), brain perfusion (bolus-tracking perfusion imaging, PI), vascular integrity (MR
      angiography, MRA) and tissue metabolism (1H MR spectroscopy, MRS). In acute middle cerebral
      artery (MCA) occlusion, evolution of cerebral damage has been defined with these techniques.
      The volume of hypoperfused tissue on PI initially exceeds the DWI lesion, and, over time, the
      DWI lesion expands to finally incorporate the majority of the PI lesion. The region of tissue
      with normal DWI but abnormal PI is thought to correspond to the "ischaemic penumbra", the
      region where hypoperfusion causes electrical failure of neurones with progression to
      infarction over time due to adverse metabolic and neurochemical events. The fate of the
      penumbra may be determined by treatment - e.g. it is salvaged by thrombolysis - and it is
      this penumbral region that is vulnerable to hyperglycaemia-related lactic acidosis.

      Glucose lowering with insulin is an inexpensive, and widely applicable treatment. However,
      current clinical trials are compromised by uncertainty over the ability of treatment to
      influence pathophysiology, and have necessarily relied upon a "best guess" for treatment
      duration. Definition of the biological basis for insulin treatment by MRI criteria and
      comparative data for different treatment durations would strengthen and inform any positive
      effect from clinical trials, or prevent premature abandonment of this therapeutic modality
      should trials be neutral.
    
  