
    
      For the purpose of this randomized, controlled, open-label study, women will be selected from
      those undergoing in vitro fertilization treatments with a long protocol prescription. This
      study will compare two treatment groups, one using Marvelon, the other using the NuvaRing.
      Patients on Marvelon will be taking the medication for a period ranging from 14 to 21 days.
      This period will be determined by the administrative nurse. In contrast, patients in the
      NuvaRing group will be inserting the vaginal ring for a period specified by the
      administrative nurse, ranging from 14 to 35 days.

      During the medical consultation, the couple will be assessed and a primary or secondary
      infertility diagnosis will be established. Before treatment starts, the couple will have to
      undergo a series of tests as per the standard of care in order to allow a diagnosis to be
      made and to determine whether In Vitro Fertilization is the right treatment. The couple will
      receive all the information they need on an In Vitro Fertilization cycle. If the patient is
      eligible for In Vitro Fertilization cycle according to initial assessment of the physician,
      the patient will be informed by the physician about the research project. After a period of
      consideration and once their questions have been answered, the couple will sign a consent
      form to start In Vitro Fertilization treatment under the study protocol

      After signing the consent form, if the subject is eligible for the research project, the
      research nurse will meet with the patient. The study will be explained in detail and all
      questions will be answered. In addition, the nurse will record any information on the
      patient's medical history including medical history, medication and any previous surgery. The
      subject will be screened for eligibility prior to randomization. Once the subject is deemed
      eligible and is interested in participating in the study, the research nurse will meet with
      the subject in order to sign the informed consent form and to determine the randomization
      group she will be participating in. In order to determine which group will be allocated for a
      subject, a randomized envelope will be given to the patient containing the patient number
      will be opened to assign her to one of the two groups - either the Marvelon or the NuvaRing
      group. She will open it on site The randomization will be carried out using an envelope
      system to be identified initially by its randomization number. The envelopes will be prepared
      in advance in such a way that nobody can know their content.
    
  