
    
      Hypothesis: at diagnosis of T2DM, a 4 month course of oral polychemotherapy (POLYCHEM), by
      engaging multiple glucose lowering mechanisms, results into euglycemia and, after suspension,
      in T2DM remission in a clinically significant higher number of patients when compared to
      standard diabetes care (SDC).

        -  Diabetes remission: simultaneous nondiabetic values of fasting glucose, 2-hour glucose
           (after OGTT) and HbA1c for at least 12 months with no pharmacologic/surgical treatment
           of diabetes.

        -  Complete remission: all values of fasting glucose, 2-hour glucose and HbA1c are within
           the limits of normal glucose regulation; otherwise, remission is partial.

        -  Hyperglycemia remission as in diabetes remission, but duration<12 months.

      A POLYCHEM (metformin, pioglitazone, sitagliptin and empagliflozin) will be used to improve:

        1. Insulin sensitivity of endogenous glucose output (EGO) and peripheral (muscle) glucose
           uptake (PGU);

        2. Beta cell function;

        3. GLP-1 and GIP bioavailability. To these effects, the direct glycosuric action of EMPA is
           added; EMPA effects on alpha cell and liver (increased glucagon secretion and EGO), may
           be, at least in part, counterbalanced by SITA and MET/PIO, respectively. Increased heart
           failure events with PIO may be, at least in part, counteracted by EMPA.

      In many patients POLYCHEM should result in stable euglycemia, with negligible risk of
      hypoglycemia, and the number of patients in T2DM remission should be much higher than with
      MET+SU. The underpinning is that euglycemia reverses the detrimental effects of glucose
      toxicity and glucose regulation can be maintained in the nondiabetic range.

      If the invesigators hypothesis is proved, POLYCHEM would be a convenient, simple and
      relatively unexpensive strategy to induce remission in a great number of patients with newly
      diagnosed T2DM. Novel, more efficacious goals of therapy could be introduced. Duration of
      remission is expected to delay the processes which result into the T2DM related risk of
      tissue damage. At the patient acceptance level, the trade off between the full T2DM burden
      (diabetes, its care and the risk of its complications) and the risk of T2DM relapse should
      favor the latter. At the society level, achieving a durable remission in a substantial number
      of these patients should attenuate, or even annull, the rises in prevalence, burden and tolls
      of "active" T2DM.

      Patients with newly diagnosed (i.e. less than 6 months) T2DM will be recruited in the
      Diabetes Outpatient Clinics and will provide informed written consent before participation.
      After a screening visit (V0), patients will be randomized 1:1, with center stratification
      through web-based data collection (eCRF), to receive POLYCHEM or SDC with standard lifestyle
      intervention in both.

      In both arms, patients will undergo planned visits at week 0 (V1), week 16 (V2), week 28
      (V2B, limited to a small patient number) and week 68 (V3), after at least 3 days of drug
      washout. Patients will perform weekly a 6-point home blood glucose profile. Between week 17
      and week 66, if a patient in hyperglycemia remission relapses, V3 will be anticipated, after
      which the patient will be treated as in SDC and will be re-evaluated at week 68 in visit V3B.

      Visit procedures:

        -  V0: assessment of patient eligibility , including medical history, physical examination,
           and lab exams, if needed.

        -  V0S: between V0 and V1; signature of informed written consent and randomization.

        -  V1, V2, V3 and V3B: assessment of anthropometry, ambulatory blood pressure and heart
           rate, WBC, fasting glucose, HbA1c, lipids, AST, ALT, creatinine, lipase, urine analysis,
           microalbuminuria, insulin, C-peptide, glucagon, GLP-1, GIP, OGTT with measure of 2-hour
           glucose, quality of life (QoL), and, only in V1, blood for DNA collection (the last for
           post hoc studies).

        -  V2B: fasting glucose, HbA1c, OGTT with measure of 2-hour glucose.

      POLYCHEM-ARM: After V1, patients will start POLYCHEM (MET titrated to 1000 mg b.i.d., PIO 15
      mg b.i.d., SITA 100 mg q.d., EMPA 10 mg q.d.) for 16 weeks, at the end of which (V2) patients
      in hyperglycemia remission stop drug therapy, the others are transferred to SDC. Patients
      with MET intolerance will be treated with PIO+SITA+EMPA only.

      SDC-ARM: After V1, patients will continue their SDC for 16 weeks, at the end of which (V2)
      patients in hyperglycemia remission stop drug therapy, the others continue SDC.
    
  