
    
      Discovering and disseminating effective methods to improve the quality of treatment services
      for adolescent substance use (ASU) within the national behavioral healthcare system is an
      urgent public health priority. Despite the strong legislative and policy focus on quality of
      care evident in the Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2009 and the
      Affordable Care Act of 2010, recent comprehensive reports underscore the enduring "quality
      chasm" between behavioral treatments proven in controlled research versus those commonly
      practiced in usual care. ASU treatment quality in particular is considered mediocre to
      inadequate, due to a host of factors headlined by the absence or modest quality of
      evidence-based services, along with inadequate provider training, little quality monitoring,
      inattention to data-driven decision-making, and ineffective system-level policies for
      promoting existing quality mandates.

      Family-based services (FBS) are a prime candidate for upgrading the quality of the ASU
      treatment system. FBS comprise both family participation in services, the systemic parameters
      wherein family members are included in assessment and treatment activities; and family
      therapy techniques, the specific interventions that clinicians use to directly target family
      members and family functioning for change. FBS have reached the highest levels of empirical
      validation for ASU, posting an exemplary record of success in comparison to alternative
      evidence-based treatments as well as usual care, and FBS produce the largest average effect
      sizes by a large margin. Due in large part to this extensive evidence base, FBS have long
      been strongly endorsed by federal agencies, national associations, and policy-making groups.
      There is also incentive from ASU clinical providers and payers to deliver FBS, which are now
      approved for treating ASU and disruptive behavior disorders by federal and private insurance
      plans and regulatory agencies that govern licensed treatment providers. FBS are also widely
      endorsed by therapists treating youth in routine care. Thus there is impetus from all corners
      to expand FBS implementation in usual care for ASU.

      There are several well-documented barriers to dissemination of manualized FBS models,
      including the cost and complexity of delivering these models in everyday settings. In
      addition, for FBS to fulfill their potential to enhance the quality of ASU treatment in usual
      care, FBS implementation must be supported by effective quality assurance (QA) procedures
      designed to ensure that FBS are delivered with fidelity, that is, to the target population,
      by appropriately trained providers, and in accord with specified procedures. The time is
      propitious for developing such procedures in the current healthcare market, which is
      incentivized to establish reliable standards for quality care. First, there is growing demand
      for innovative quality indicators of behavioral treatment that assess appropriateness and
      potential effectiveness of care. Conventional quality indicators capture broad principles of
      behavioral care such as treatment assignment, retention and follow-up rates, referrals for
      ancillary care, and client safety. However, the emerging quality-of-care implementation
      framework advocates that fidelity to evidence-based treatments itself be considered a quality
      indicator. Second, in order to properly monitor treatment fidelity in usual care, there is
      urgent need to develop quality metrics that can reliably and pragmatically measure fidelity
      in front-line treatment settings. The implications of emerging scientific and policy mandates
      for improving treatment quality are clear with regard to FBS for ASU: Pragmatic QA procedures
      for ensuring high-fidelity FBS need to be developed, and these procedures need to be anchored
      by reliable FBS fidelity metrics.

      This study will develop pragmatic QA procedures designed to promote FBS adoption and quality
      in ASU treatment systems using a measurement feedback system (MFS). MFS is a performance
      feedback loop in which a given quality indicator is continuously monitored by the clinician
      to gauge case progress and support clinical decision-making. MFS feedback loops usually take
      the form of easy-to-digest data reports that provide summary appraisals of individual client
      progress on selected indicators in comparison to a desired benchmark. To date MFS has been
      used in mental health care to enable monitoring of client outcomes primarily-for example,
      therapists tracking weekly client-report depression scores compared to age-adjusted norms on
      a depression inventory. With adults, utilizing MFS has led to impressive gains in outcomes
      with diverse samples: preventing early treatment failure, reversing symptom deterioration,
      and enhancing overall outcomes. MFS research on youth is in its early stages but growing
      rapidly, with strong enthusiasm about reaping comparable benefits. Importantly, clinicians
      trained in MFS develop positive attitudes toward it.

      MFS successes for client outcomes have generated enthusiastic support for the value of
      developing complementary MFS procedures that provide measurement Training along with
      data-based Feedback on implementation: MTFS-I. Due to streamlined administration procedures
      and emerging evidence, MTFS-I has been labeled a promising QA strategy with broad
      dissemination potential for youth. MTFS-I has already been incorporated into manualized QA
      procedures to bolster fidelity to several varieties of manualized treatment; in a few of
      these instances, feedback reports contain data input from therapists on fidelity indicators.
      One study found that MTFS-I for clinician-reported session content during youth therapy
      increased the likelihood and rapidity of addressing that same content in future sessions. In
      keeping with primary goals of the R34 mechanism, this study will test a pragmatic MTFS-I
      designed to improve the quality of FBS implementation in ASU treatment sites. The MTFS-I will
      draw on technology from existing feedback systems, but also, be the first to target
      system-level FBS delivery for ASU. The four MTFS-I components, described in C4, are designed
      to increase the extensiveness (i.e., amount and frequency of) FBS implementation.
    
  