
    
      Healthy term newborns commonly undergo painful procedures even if they do not need intensive
      care. Heel lance for neonatal screening is the most frequent standardized painful procedure
      performed in these newborns. Until recently, analgesics were rarely administered to neonates
      because it was believed that they were less sensitive to pain than more mature infants but
      current studies suggest that newborns are able to perceive pain. Regardless of the available
      evidence, appropriate systematic analgesia in common painful procedures in neonates is far
      from adequate.

      Painful stimuli in neonates may have short-term physiologic (increase in intracranial
      pressure, increase in heart rate or decrease in oxygen saturation) and behavioural
      consequences (cry, eye squeeze); as well as long-term consequences (altered of pain response
      in later infancy). Different non-pharmacological methods of analgesia, such as sucrose,
      skin-to-skin contact (SSC), breastfeeding(BF) or music10, have been used to reduce pain in
      neonates undergoing venipuncture or heel lancing, and different physiologic pathways to
      explain the underlying mechanism have been proposed.

      A variety of valid and reliable pain assessment instruments have been developed over the past
      decades. Yet, behavioural pain assessment remains challenging and controversial due to the
      lack of a gold standard for neonatal pain expression. The Neonatal Infant Pain Scale (NIPS)
      and the Premature Infant Pain Profile (PIPP) were selected by an international consensus
      neonatal pain group for acute procedural pain in neonates.

      Our main objective was to investigate the analgesic effect (measured with NIPS) of
      breastfeeding in addition to SSC versus other methods of non-pharmacological analgesia during
      blood sampling through heel lance in healthy term neonates. Furthermore, the influences of
      non-pharmacological methods on crying time, percentage of crying while sampling, heart rate,
      number of attempts and time of sampling were studied.

      METHODS

      Protocol

      This randomised controlled trial was performed on 136 healthy term newborns in the maternity
      ward of a tertiary hospital. The inclusion criteria were as follows: healthy term neonates
      (37-416 weeks of gestation) confirmed through a routine physical exam during the first 24h of
      life, wish to breastfeed and absence of feeding during the previous 60 minutes. Exclusion
      criteria were as follows: maternal use of opioids, birth in general anesthesia, artificial
      feeding, previous capillar or venous sampling, and previous admission to the neonatal unit.

      Written informed consent was asked to parents during consultation. Study protocol and
      informed-consent forms were approved by the local ethics committee.

      Intervention

      Participating neonates were randomly assigned to four groups: group 1, breastfed with SSC
      (n=35); group 2, receiving oral sucrose with SSC (n=35); group 3, being held in SSC (n=33);
      or group 4, receiving oral sucrose (n=33). Randomisation was by closed envelopes and nurses
      and parents were masked to the randomization group but not blinded to the treatment
      assignment. In group 1 (BF+SSC), neonates dressed with a diaper were held in prone, in SSC
      with the mother; BF was started at least 5 minutes before heel lance and maintained during
      sampling. In group 2 (sucrose + SSC), neonates were held in prone between the mothers' breast
      at least 5 minutes before sampling and 2 ml 24% sucrose was given with a sterile syringe in
      the mouth 2 minutes before heel lance. In group 3 (SSC), neonates were held between the
      mother's breast as in group 2, but no sucrose was given. In group 4 (Sucrose), 2 ml 24%
      sucrose was administered through a sterile syringe in the mouth 2 minutes before heel lance
      to neonates laid on supine on a cot; the procedure was done in the presence of the mother.
      Mothers were allowed to speak or touch their babies in all the groups. The standardized
      procedure of heel prick in our hospital is such as described in group 4.

      Throughout the duration of the test, babies were continuously recorded with a video camera at
      least 2 minutes before sampling and 2 minutes after the procedure. The heel was warmed up by
      a glove with lukewarm water at least 2 minutes before the sample. Heel lance was made with an
      automated piercing device for routine neonatal screening for congenital disorders at 48 hours
      of life. Heart rate was monitored by a pulse oximeter (Radical MasimoSet Datascope, Masimo
      Corporation, Irvine, CA) set on the infant's hand or foot. Hear rate was measured
      continuously but special attention was given to three time points: t0 (2 minutes before
      sampling); t1 (the highest value of the first 10 seconds after heel prick); and t2 (2 minutes
      after the procedure).

      Blood sampling was performed through a standardized procedure by five experienced nurses, who
      obtained 5 dried spots of blood collected on a filter paper card. If the sample was not
      enough to complete all of the dried spots on the filter card, a new heel lance was practiced
      in few seconds. In this case, neonates were assessed for NIPS measure only after the first
      heel lance; secondary outcomes were evaluated during the whole sampling. Crying time was
      defined as the duration of crying while sampling. Percentage of crying was defined as the
      ratio between crying time while sampling and time of the procedure.

      Pain scale

      The NIPS scale is a validated 6-indicator scale for the assessment of acute pain in
      neonates11,13. It measure movement of arms and legs, breathing patterns, cry, facial
      expression and state of arousal. Score ranges from 0 (no pain) to 7 (severe pain). NIPS score
      <4 means no pain-mild pain. NIPS score ≥4 means moderate-severe pain. NIPS score was measured
      at three time points: NIPS0 (2 minutes before sampling); NIPS1 (the highest value of the
      scale in the first 10 seconds after heel prick); and NIPS2 (2 minutes after the procedure).
      NIPS2 was not recorded if sampling had not finished at this time point. This took place in
      one newborn (2,8%) of group 1, five (14,2%), six (18.1%), and five (15.1%) of group 2, 3 and
      4 respectively. NIPS was measured by three researchers who watched the videos: one expert
      neonatologist (Observer 1) and two young paediatricians (Observers 2 and 3). Coincidence was
      90.8% (95% CI 87.8-93.8) between observers 1 and 2; 75% (70.5-79.5) between observers 1 and
      3; and 78.7% (74.7-82.9) between observers 2 and 3. Consequently, only data of the expert
      neonatologist is shown.

      Statistical Analysis

      A sample size of 67 infants in each group was calculated to achieve a power of 80% with an α
      of 0.05 to detect a 0.5-point difference in the NIPS score (assuming SD=1). We decided to
      make a mid-point analysis when half of the neonates were recruited in order to detect if any
      of the analgesic methods was better than the standard procedure, and thus modify our clinical
      practice.

      Results were expressed as mean ± standard deviation (SD). Categorical variables were analysed
      with the χ2 test and the Fisher test. We compared mean between groups with the t-test, ANOVA
      test and Bonferroni test. We used Mann-Whitney U test, non-parametric ANOVA and
      Kruskal-Wallis to compare median between groups. The SPSS v.14.0 software package was used to
      perform all statistical analysis (SPSS Inc. IL, USA). A p-value of 0.05 was considered a
      statistically significant level of difference. The analysis of the main objective was
      conducted on an intention-to-treat. Secondary objectives were analysed according to protocol.
    
  