
    
      Consecutive adult patients who were admitted with TBI, blood samples were taken once written
      informed consent obtained. Initial evaluation on admission was performed simultaneously by
      ICU physician and a neurosurgical resident by means of a detailed physical and neurological
      examination. Demographic characteristics and vascular risk factors (hypertension, diabetes
      mellitus, hyperlipidemia, and peripheral ischemic disease) were recorded in details. Also,
      Routine blood tests, including full blood count, coagulation tests, glucose level, renal and
      hepatic function tests, total protein, and albumin levels; chest radiography were done.

      CT scan will be performed in all the cases for the confirmation of TBI. Glasgow coma scale
      (GCS) was assessed on admission and recorded and assessed daily to evaluate prognosis.
      Patients were monitored by BP, ECG, and Pulse oximetry. All patients received standard
      medical treatment which included anti-edema measures mannitol 20%, 0.25-0.5 g/kg over 20 min,
      (not exceeding a total of 2 g/kg of body weight in 24 h) in patients with symptoms of raised
      intracranial pressure, and other supportive therapy for the treatment of concurrent illnesses
      such as hypertension and diabetes mellitus.

      Biochemical Assessments:

      Blood samples from TBI patients were collected immediately at the time of admission to the
      ICU and 24 hours later. Samples were centrifuged at 2500 RPM for 15 minutes and obtained
      serum samples were stored at -20oC.

      IMA was measured by the colorimetric method and results were presented in absorbance units
      (ABSU).

      Data collection

        -  Patients' characteristics: age, gender, BMI, cause of ICU admission.

        -  IMA will be measured at time of admission to ICU and 24h later

        -  Other data collections:

             -  Hear rate (HR), systolic blood pressure,central venous pressure (CVP), body
                temperature. All hemodynamic parameters were measured and recorded at time of
                admission and every 2 hours for 24 hours

             -  Length of ICU stay

             -  28-day mortality

             -  Troponin I level on admission.

             -  GCS at admission and daily till mortality or discharge
    
  