
    
      Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has dramatically improved prognosis and lowered
      morbidity and mortality rates for HIV infected patients. However, significant drug
      toxicities, difficulties with patient compliance to HAART regimens, and development of drug
      resistance highlight the need for less toxic, immune-based strategies. Aldesleukin is a
      synthetic protein that can increase CD4 counts; it is currently approved by the Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) for use in patients with metastatic melanoma and renal cell carcinoma.
      Previous studies of aldesleukin in HIV infected patients indicated that increased CD4 counts
      can persist for years after aldesleukin administration, and aldesleukin given with HAART may
      also lead to significant lowering of viral load. This study will examine the immunologic
      effects of intermittent cycles of aldesleukin administered with and without HAART as compared
      to no therapy in HIV infected patients.

      This study will last approximately 31 months. Participants will be randomly assigned to one
      of three groups at study entry. Group A will receive no aldesleukin or HAART. Group B will
      receive aldesleukin under the skin twice daily for 5 consecutive days every 8 weeks for 3
      cycles, then as needed to maintain CD4 counts at or above a goal level. Group C will receive
      aldesleukin under the skin twice daily for 5 consecutive days every 8 weeks for 3 cycles,
      then as needed to maintain CD4 counts at or above a goal level; Group C participants will
      also take HAART for 3 days prior to the start of each aldesleukin cycle, throughout the 5-day
      aldesleukin cycle, and for 2 days after the end of each aldesleukin cycle (for a maximum of
      10 days with each aldesleukin cycle). HAART will not be provided by the study. Some Group B
      and C participants may take part in additional cycles of aldesleukin if they meet certain
      study criteria.

      All participants in this study will have at least 8 study visits; these visits will occur at
      study entry and Weeks 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, and 32. Blood collection will occur at all visits
      and will include tests for CD4 count and viral load. Groups B and C will have additional
      blood collection within 4 days prior to the start of each aldesleukin cycle. On the last day
      of each aldesleukin cycle, Groups B and C will be assessed for toxicities, adverse events,
      and adherence to the aldesleukin daily injections; they will also have another blood
      collection. Group C participants will have an additional blood collection for HIV genotyping
      after they have completed their third aldesleukin cycle. Extended follow-up visits will occur
      approximately every 4 months for an additional two years. Blood collection will occur at
      these visits and will include tests for CD4 count, viral load, and other laboratory tests.
    
  