
    
      In the latter part of the 1990's, testing for Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae
      infections was revolutionized by the introduction of nucleic acid amplification tests (NAATs)
      which achieve greater sensitivity than traditional culture methods by exponentially
      replicating the nucleic acid of these organisms. The specimens collected for NAATs are easier
      to transport and NAATs permit collection of less invasive specimens for testing (i.e. voided
      urine or patient-collected vaginal swabs for women rather than urethral or endocervical
      swabs). Despite their somewhat higher costs, these tests have been found to be preferred by
      patients (because specimens can be collected less invasively), by clinicians (because of both
      their ease of collection and increased sensitivity), and to permit expanded screening both in
      traditional clinical settings and at outreach sites where testing has not typically been done
      in the past.

      NAATs have been cleared by FDA for testing of genital specimens (cervical and male urethral
      swabs and urine), but the performance of NAATs has not been adequately evaluated for
      diagnosis of C. trachomatis and N. gonorrhoeae infections occurring at rectal or pharyngeal
      sites of sexual exposure. Increasing numbers of heterosexual individuals might be engaging in
      orogenital or rectal sexual activity, especially adolescents and young adults who might view
      such exposures as less risky with respect to pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases
      (STD) than penile-vaginal intercourse. Pharyngeal and rectal exposures, often without use of
      condoms, are relatively common among MSM. Recent demonstration of resurgent sexually
      transmitted diseases and unsafe sexual practices among men-who-have-sex-with-men (MSM),
      including those who are infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), provides an
      especially strong public health imperative to the need for careful evaluation of NAATs with
      pharyngeal and rectal specimens.

      The primary aim of this study is to compare the performance of the three NAATs that are
      available commercially to test pharyngeal and rectal specimens for C. trachomatis and N.
      gonorrhoeae infections with culture, the current method of choice, and with each other. In
      order to enroll adequate numbers of individuals with such infections, the study will be
      conducted during a 3-year period in a STD clinic and two HIV care clinics located in
      Birmingham, AL. Enrollment will be confined to individuals who are at high risk for genital
      C. trachomatis or N. gonorrhoeae infection, or who give a history of orogenital or rectal
      sexual exposures. An effort will be made to balance enrollment of heterosexual individuals
      and MSM, but resource limitations require that sample sizes be based on combining these
      subgroups.

      No adequate criterion-standard for pharyngeal or rectal infections exists due to the
      probable, but poorly defined, low sensitivity of the current standard, culture. Fortunately,
      the 3 NAATs employ different C. trachomatis and N. gonorrhoeae molecular targets and methods
      of nucleic acid amplification. By including all 3 NAATs plus culture in the study,
      combinations of the results of culture and a NAAT or of two NAATs can be utilized to take
      advantage of the likely independence of testing errors among truly uninfected subjects to
      construct more satisfactory criterion standards for infection for the purpose of estimating
      and comparing their sensitivities and specificities. A secondary aim of the study will be to
      compare this methodological approach, utilizing a traditional statistical and clinical
      epidemiological approach, with alternative methods that have been more widely used but
      strongly criticized by statisticians and clinical epidemiologists and with newer methods
      designed to meet these criticisms and to be more efficient than the traditional statistical
      approaches.
    
  