
    
      Single arm, monocentric trial to assess the safety and the progression-free survival related
      to the combined treatment of dendritic cell vaccine loaded with autologous tumor homogenate
      and temozolomide in patients operated for glioblastoma and then treated with standard
      radiochemotherapy (according to Stupp regimen).

      The experimental treatment consists of an induction phase with 4 weekly doses of dendritic
      cell vaccine (10x10exp6 cells) intradermally administered (weeks 1-4), followed by a
      maintenance phase consisting of 28 days cycles with vaccine administration (start on week 7)
      and adjuvant temozolomide (150-200mg/m2/day) assumed orally from day 1 to 5 q28 (start on
      week 5). The combined maintenance treatment will continue until disease progression,
      unacceptable toxicity or withdrawal of consent by the patient, or up to a maximum of 1 year
      of treatments. After disease progression or the end of maintenance phase, is foreseen a
      one-year follow-up phase for each subject.

      Primary objectives are clinical activity and safety of the study treatment. Secondary
      objectives are the evaluation of the prognostic role of the positive Delayed-Type
      Hypersensitivity (DTH) skin test after at least four vaccine administrations, the OS and the
      immunological efficacy of the study treatment. A series of exploratory objectives will be
      also assessed on samples from patients who participate to this optional part of the trial.

      Simon's two-stage design (Simon, 1989) will be used for the sample size calculation.

      A planned interim analysis will be done after the recruitment of the first 9 evaluable
      patients for toxicity and for efficacy.

      If study will not be stopped due to lack of safety or efficacy, a total of 28 evaluable
      patients will be enrolled for the trial.

      Time to events (PFS and OS) will be calculated with the Kaplan-Meier method and the analysis
      was performed on the eligible population. For the primary objective, the proportion of
      patients without progression at three months from leukapheresis date will be evaluated. The
      proportion of patients experiencing vaccine-related grade ≥ 3 adverse events (AEs) during the
      treatment will be inferred by means of the two-sided Clopper-Pearson, or a more appropriate
      one, 95% confidence interval. Descriptive statistics will be used to assess the extent of the
      secondary endpoints.
    
  