
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the clinical response rate in patients with locally advanced squamous cell
           carcinoma of the head and neck treated with neoadjuvant pemetrexed disodium and
           oxaliplatin.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the pathological complete response in patients who undergo surgical
           resection or post-induction biopsy.

        -  To assess toxicity of therapy, including the assessment of quality of life, fatigue, and
           head and neck cancer-related symptoms.

        -  To predict response and toxicities based on pharmacogenomics, genomics, and proteomics.

      OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, open-label study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups
      based on resectability of disease (resectable vs nonresectable).

        -  Group I (resectable disease): Patients receive pemetrexed disodium IV and oxaliplatin IV
           over 2 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 4 courses. If patient
           progresses before receiving 4 courses of treatment, treatment will be discontinued and
           patient will proceed to surgery.

      After completion of pemetrexed disodium and oxaliplatin, patients undergo surgical resection
      of disease.

        -  Group II (nonresectable disease): Patients receive treatment as in group I. If patient
           progresses before receiving 4 courses of treatment, treatment will be discontinued and
           patient will proceed to concurrent chemoradiotherapy.

      After completion of pemetrexed disodium and oxaliplatin, patients undergo concurrent
      chemoradiotherapy.

      Blood samples are collected at baseline and periodically during study for biomarker and
      pharmacokinetic studies.

      Quality of life is assessed prior to each course of therapy and at 4-6 weeks after the last
      course.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 3 years.
    
  