
    
      Implementation will be conducted at a single site, the Chinese Consolidated Benevolent
      Association of New England (CCA)). All subjects will consent to participate prior to
      continuing with study involvement as documented below.

      Recruitment and Consent:

      A convenience sample of a maximum of 60 participants (30 people per arm) will be recruited by
      placing ads in local newspapers, flyers at CBOs, local businesses, WeChat, and word of mouth.
      Interested individuals will call a dedicated voicemail box at Boston College and leave their
      contact information. A trained, bilingual member of the research team will contact interested
      individuals to obtain verbal consent for administration of the preliminary screening tool. If
      preliminary inclusion criteria are met, participants will be invited to an in-person
      secondary screening, where if deemed eligible to participate, signed informed consent for
      overall study participation will be obtained by a trained member of the study team in the
      participants' preferred language of communication (Mandarin or English). A $50 gift card will
      be offered to all enrolled participants.

      Study methods:

      Participation: After the consenting and initial (baseline) survey administration, assignment
      to the experimental or control group will be determined using a randomization list generated
      by a random number generator in R software. Both groups will meet on separate days and times
      to avoid contamination effects.

      All participants will attend an orientation session to provide hands-on training on using the
      FitBit, and social networking platform (SNS) (as applicable).

      A 2-week tech calibration period with one-on-one training with study staff will allow
      participants to acclimate to the FitBit, learn to use its features, and ask questions.
      Baseline FitBit data will be collected and monitored via Fitabase (a widely used and secure,
      research data management platform specific to FitBit data). This baseline data will allow the
      PI to generate an individualized walking prescription.

      After this instructional trial period, all participants will be instructed to use the
      step-tracker's features to monitor their daily steps and progress towards meeting their
      individualized walking goals. All participants will attend 8 weekly educational sessions at
      the community center. Each day, those in the Enhanced Walking condition will receive 1-3
      motivational messages related to physical activity and health; a monitoring protocol and
      database to document SNS interactions will be established. The Walking Only condition will
      not receive motivational messages through the SNS platform.

      Surveys will be administered at study completion (8 weeks) and follow-up (12 weeks). FitBit
      data will be continually monitored throughout the study duration. A weekly adverse
      questionnaire will be administered by study staff in-person or via telephone when
      appropriate.

      Follow-up outcomes: At the end of the study, participants from the experimental arm will be
      asked to attend a post-participation session where they will participate in a semi-structured
      interview to glean their experiences in using the SNS platform to promote physical activity.

      Semi-structured interview questions will be posed to all clients who volunteer to participate
      in an interview session as part of the study. The interviews will be held at 4 weeks after
      the end of the study period. Interview questions and prompts were developed through a
      phenomenological lens to allow clients to elicit their own responses and experiences in the
      study. The interview guide will frame this discussion, and participant responses may be
      probed to gain further clarity or insight. The interviews will be audio recorded by study
      staff. Study staff will also write field notes to document client responses and other
      observations to supplement and provide context for the transcripts.
    
  