
    
      Aim #1: To determine the 30-day and 90-day frequencies of adjudicated, symptomatic arterial
      and venous thromboembolic events in patients with COVID-19 infection. Symptomatic VTE is
      defined as symptomatic DVT or PE, confirmed by imaging, within 30 days of randomization.
      Arterial thromboembolism will be comprised of myocardial infarction, stroke or systemic
      embolism, acute limb ischemia.

      Aim #2: To determine VTE-related risk factors, prevention and management patterns, and 30-day
      and 90-day all-cause mortality, bleeding, and thrombotic outcomes in patients with COVID-19
      infection. 30- and 90-day bleeding outcomes will include ISTH-major and clinically-relevant
      nonmajor bleeding. Thrombotic outcomes will include symptomatic VTE, myocardial infarction,
      stroke or systemic embolism, acute limb ischemia, and cardiovascular death.

      Aim #3: To determine through multivariate logistic regression modeling, independent risk
      factors for VTE in patients with COVID-19 infection that could be used to identify those who
      may benefit from thromboprophylaxis during hospitalization and after discharge.

      Study Design: 10000 patient U.S.-based EHR-guided, retrospective observational cohort
      analysis. Data will abstracted through the EHR. Because this is a computer-generated
      observational retrospective registry, informed consent will not be practical. Accordingly, we
      will ask our Institutional Review Board to waive the requirement for informed consent.
      Participating sites (University of Colorado, Jefferson Health, BIDMC, Anne Arundel Medical
      Center, and another site to be named) will obtain IRB approval at their own institutions.

      Study Population: Patients are eligible if they are ≥18 years of age and meet the following
      criteria:

        1. Positive COVID-19 PCR AND

        2. Inpatient OR outpatient management of COVID-19 infection

      Patient Enrollment: We will create a search engine query through the EHR to identify patients
      with an objective COVID-19 diagnosis who are hospitalized or being treated as outpatients.
      This will be executed retrospectively for patients already objectively-diagnosed at
      participating clinical sites.

      Primary Outcome: 30-day and 90-day frequency of objectively confirmed, adjudicated arterial
      thromboembolism or VTE, including deep venous thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE).

      Secondary Outcome: 30-day and 90-day frequency of adjudicated all-cause death, bleeding, and
      thromboembolic outcomes.

      Additional Variables of Interest: Additional measured variables will include VTE-related risk
      factors, prevention and management patterns, and cause of death. We will review the notes and
      diagnostic testing sections of the Electronic Health Record to complete an electronic case
      report form for each subject.

      Follow-Up: Follow-up will consist of Electronic Health Record review at 30 days and 90 days
      from study entry.
    
  