
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, controlled study. The purpose of this study is to assess
      functional and clinical changes among patients with symptomatic knee OA treated with
      intra-articular injections of autologous adipose tissue or PRP and to compare the efficacy of
      both therapeutic methods.

      Lipoaspiration procedure Lipoaspiration will take place in the operating room under general
      anesthesia for patient's and doctor's comfort. The most frequent donor site is abdomen
      (14,15). The patient will be placed in a supine position. At first, two small incisions at
      the level of umbilicus will be made by the trained orthopaedic surgeon (TP or PB). Then Klein
      solution (saline with lidocaine and epinephrine) will be infused to reduce bleeding. Ten
      minutes is required for infiltration. Next step is a liposuction performed with a thin
      cannula inserted through incisions. Finally, skin sutures and the pressure dressing will be
      applied. To minimize risk of bleeding and hematoma, an elastic belt will be recommended, as
      well as partial weight bearing within first two weeks. Harvested adipose tissue will be
      prepared in a Lipogems kit (14). The final product will be transferred into 10-ml syringes.
      About 10 ml of the product will be injected into the affected knee joint.

      PRP procedure PRP preparation takes place in an outpatient clinic. 10-ml sterile collecting
      tubes containing citrate will be placed in a centrifuge (Centrifuge MPV- 223e) with a tilting
      rotor. Rotation will last 7 minutes at 2054 rounds per minute. After centrifugation, PRP will
      be collected up to 3 ml for separate 10-ml syringe. 3 ml of PRP will be injected into the
      knee joint. Procedure will be repeated three times in 7 day interval.

      Injection procedure Joint injection will be performed by TP or PB in the same manner for both
      groups: patient placed in supine position, affected knee extended, a 21-Gauge needle inserted
      into the suprapatellar pouch, in case of joint effusion - aspiration of synovial fluid and
      finally administration of autologous fat tissue or PRP.

      This study protocol has several strengths and weaknesses. Undoubtedly one of strongest point
      of this study is wide, multidimensional functional assessment, which will give a large amount
      of objective data. To our knowledge, this research is the first one which includes the
      battery of functional tests and MVIC as an outcome measurement tool. This study will use 4
      questionnaires, including WOMAC, which is described by physicians as a gold standard for
      assessing the effectiveness of knee OA treatment (47,48).

      On the other hand this study has several limitations. Primarily - the lack of blinding and we
      consider this as a risk of both, subject and investigator bias. Next and equally important
      limitation is a small size of the study. Furthermore, autologous fat tissue procedure is
      definitely more invasive and more stressful for the patients than PRP procedure. Hence,
      taking all into consideration, to adopt autologous fat tissue as a knee OA therapy, based on
      the future results, we have to detect definite, statistically significant and clinically
      noticeable difference.

      Our PRP procedure gives us the possibility to examine the patient and assess the reaction to
      intra- articular injection 3 times (3 injections) in 7 day interval. These visits are often
      associated with physical therapy, which consists of manual therapy and individualized
      exercise program. Autologous fat tissue procedure does not give us such a possibility. The
      doctor and physiotherapist see the patient on the day of the surgery and two weeks after,
      during a control visit, which is also associated with physical therapy. Thus, there are some
      discrepancies between the two procedures at the beginning of the treatment process.

      It has been proven that intra- articular injection of autologous fat tissue or PRP is a
      safety treatment option of knee OA (49,50). The most common complications after the intra-
      articular injection are pain and swelling of treated knee, but this improve after cold
      compression and NSAIDs. Also there were no cancer incidents reported after autologous fat
      tissue or PRP implantation(50).

      Subject recruitment has started after we received Bioethical Committee approval.
    
  