
    
      Lateral ankle sprains (LAS) is the most common injury in the active population. Not only is
      the injury prevalent within organized sports, but also display high prevalence in the general
      population presenting at the emergency departments (ED). LAS accounts for about 3-5% of all
      visits to the ED, but total LAS incidence rates are increasing in the general population.

      Acute LAS is defined by Delahunt et al. and endorsed by the International ankle consortium
      as: "An acute traumatic injury to the lateral ligament complex of the ankle joint as a result
      of excessive inversion of the rear foot or a combined plantar flexion and adduction of the
      foot." The treatment of LAS in the emergency department consists of initial assessment and
      acute management of the injured foot, traditionally done by a physician. The typical
      assessment consists of ruling out severe injury, i.e. fracture, using the Ottawa ankle foot
      rules. The acute management of the injured ankle is typically composed of a treatment
      approach consisting of Rest, Ice, Compression and Elevation (RICE).

      Extended Scope of Practice (ESP) physiotherapists in EDs have shown to generate high levels
      of patient satisfaction, reduce patient waiting times and have high clinical effectiveness,
      yet high quality randomized trials investigating the clinically effectiveness of ESP
      physiotherapy are lacking. Acute LAS is one of the most common injuries managed in EDs and
      poor functional status within the initial 2 weeks after injury is predictive of development
      of chronic ankle instability (CAI), which can be a serious barrier for future physical
      activity and occupational performance. Early and targeted interventions provided in the
      emergency department by ESP physiotherapists may therefore prove to be beneficial for the
      patients and the society.

      The aim of this RCT is to investigate if pain guided early weight bearing provided by ESP
      physiotherapists is superior to advice and instructions following standard operating
      procedures provided by a physician in improving the selfreported functional outcome in
      patients with LAS.

      The study hypothesis is that patients randomized to pain guided early weight bearing will
      improve significantly more in the lower extremity functional scale after 4 weeks than those
      randomized to standard care.
    
  