
    
      Evidence strongly suggest that a period of pure sensory stimulation can affect motor
      corticoids activity excitability.

      In 2019 segmental muscle vibration(SMV) used to improve upper extremity functional ability
      post stroke and concluded that patients in both groups improved significantly after treatment
      in Barthel index (BI), elbow Range of Motion (ROM) and elbow muscle strength. However muscle
      tone in elbow joint of hemiplegic upper extremity improved significantly after only in the
      experimental group. They suggested that with routine physiotherapy with extended exposure SMV
      will results in significant reduced spasticity and better improved Activities Of Daily
      Livings (ADLs).

      In 2019 a work done with SMV to improve gate performance in patients with foot drop after
      chronic stroke. Results of this study revealed moderate improvement in mean gate speed,
      normal side swing velocity, bilateral stride length and normal-side toe off in experimental
      group. Further studies needed to evaluate the optimal and minimum SMV dosage.

      Another study conducted in 2019 to see Results show that processing speed, inhibitory control
      and attention improved following SMV. But working memory between groups and also not show a
      association between executive functions course and fall risk, so they suggest further work to
      examine effects of vibration therapy on executive functions.

      In 2014 another therapist highlight the potential use of SMV to modulate electromyographic
      (EMG) for reaching movement in chronic stroke patients but needs to be confirmed by larger
      control perspective trials of SMV.

      In 2019 combined work done with repetitive focal muscle vibration with physiotherapy to
      improve the motor function even in very acute phase of stroke and finds it a valid
      complementary non pharmacological therapy In 2019 another study suggest that Whole Body
      Vibration (WBV) and Upper and Lower Cycle (ULC) effective upper for upper extremity motor
      function and grip strength in sub-acute stroke.

      In 2019 a study reported the risk factors (vibration injury to hands vascular components,
      intermediate blanching neurological components and lower back pain for drivers of work
      machines) and benefits (improvement in bone health and neuromuscular function). So is a room
      for research to design a balanced WBV protocol.

      A study in 2018 did a meta-analysis and compare the effects of WBV in stroke patients and
      concludes that it is a safe therapeutic method for improving symptoms.
    
  