
    
      Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) with daily tenofovir-emtricitabine (TFV/FTC) reduces
      transmission of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) by up to 92%, however PrEP is
      underutilized, especially in women. Women account for nearly 20% of new HIV diagnoses-- most
      via heterosexual transmission; African-American women and women of color are
      disproportionately affected. PrEP is recommended for all women who "engage in sexual activity
      in a high prevalence area" and inconsistently use condoms. Despite this recommendation and
      local and national efforts to curb the HIV epidemic in the United States (US), PrEP has not
      been widely offered to high-risk cis-gender women and their "PrEP cascade" of events
      (eligibility for PrEP, acceptability/interest in PrEP, access/linkage to a PrEP program,
      initiation of PrEP, retention, and adherence to PrEP) for women has not been described in
      order to inform intervention.

      PrEP is especially critical for high-risk women in Washington DC (DC), an epicenter of the
      HIV epidemic in the US. Recent focus groups with African-American women at risk for HIV in DC
      revealed inadequate knowledge about and difficulty accessing PrEP, but high levels of
      acceptability and interest. Qualitative research and the research team's clinical initial
      experience in PrEP provision demonstrate that cis-gender women require more contact with
      providers and have more concerns regarding logistics, interactions, and disclosure of PrEP
      use to partners compared to transgender women and men who have sex with men (MSM)-suggesting
      1) a different timeline for initiation of PrEP and 2) a different PrEP cascade in women.
      Identifying and populating the PrEP cascade for women will allow the investigators to target
      evidence-based interventions to reach women at risk for HIV.

      The same high-risk sexual activity that puts women at risk for HIV also puts women at risk
      for unintended pregnancy; the latter leads many of them to seek care in family planning
      clinics. While there may be synergies in offering PrEP along with contraception and pregnancy
      termination services at family planning clinics, most family planning clinics do not offer
      PrEP. A recent study demonstrated low levels of PrEP knowledge and of comfort prescribing
      PrEP among family planning providers, however 90% of providers reported interest in learning
      more about PrEP and the majority of family planning patients surveyed reported they would
      consider using PrEP. The investigators hypothesize that integrating HIV prevention into
      family planning services would empower women and better meet their preventative health needs.

      Partnering with the DC Department of Health (DOH) and the DC Center for AIDS Research
      (DC-CFAR), the over-arching goals are (1) to identify and populate the PrEP cascade for
      women, (2) to provide a blueprint for family planning providers to integrate HIV prevention
      into their practices and target evidence-based interventions to the women at highest risk for
      HIV in their communities, and (3) to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of this intervention.
      The overarching hypotheses are that (1) the timeline and roadmap to PrEP adoption and the
      PrEP cascade will be different for cis-gender women than that described for MSM and
      transgender women, (2) women seeking family planning services will be eligible for and
      interested in PrEP and family planning providers are ideally situated to provide this care,
      and (3) provision of PrEP in the family planning setting will be cost-effective. MedStar
      Washington Hospital Center (MWHC) provides the ideal setting to elucidate the PrEP cascade in
      women and to design and evaluate integrated PrEP services in the family planning setting. The
      Family Planning and Preventative Care (FPPC) clinic at MWHC provides over 800 family planning
      visits annually, the majority to African-American, low socioeconomic status women at
      high-risk for HIV. Family planning providers at MWHC are not yet routinely assessing PrEP
      eligibility or prescribing PrEP, however, the investigators anticipate that the majority of
      patients seeking care at FPPC will be eligible for and could benefit from PrEP. The
      investigators propose a prospective cohort to evaluate the following specific aims:

      Specific Aim 1 To test the hypothesis that the PrEP cascade for women will be different than
      that described for men, the investigators will identify and populate the PrEP cascade by
      assessing women's risk factors for and perceived vulnerability to HIV, PrEP acceptability,
      initiation, continuation, and adherence. The investigators will describe the timeline and
      roadmap to PrEP uptake and will explore determinants of the stages of the PrEP cascade.

      Specific Aim 2 To test the hypotheses that (a) family planning clinics provide a high-yield
      and feasible venue in which to reach women at high-risk for HIV acquisition and to offer PrEP
      initiation and follow-up, and (b) provision of PrEP in the family planning setting will be
      cost-effective, the investigators will assess the reach, effectiveness, adoption,
      implementation, maintenance (RE-AIM)[8], and cost-effectiveness of the integration and
      provision PrEP in a family planning clinic.

      These results will overcome the primary obstacle to more effective provision of PrEP to
      high-risk cis-gender women by describing the PrEP cascade, which is needed to inform HIV
      prevention for women. Additionally, this study will provide critical insight into the
      provision of PrEP in a novel and practical setting. These results will lead directly to
      evidence based PrEP programs that can be integrated into family planning care nationally in
      high-risk areas, thereby addressing persisting disparities in gender and race in HIV
      prevention.
    
  