
    
      Early supported discharge (ESD) seems to be at least as effective as hospital rehabilitation
      after stroke, and possibly better. In this study patients with recent stroke will be
      randomized to one of three different treatment arms:

        -  ESD with treatment at a day institution until 4 hrs. per day for up to 5 weeks

        -  ESD with treatment in the patients' home until 4 hrs. per day for up to 5 weeks

        -  Rehabilitation treatment "as usual", with a longer hospital stay, but without any
           specific treatment or follow-up after discharge

      The patients in the two ESD arms will in addition be followed closely by a multidisciplinary
      coordinating team during the stay in hospital and the 5 week period of treatment after
      discharge, and they will be offered follow-ups at 3 and 6 months after inclusion into the
      study.

      Patients in all 3 arms will be systematically examined with a set of measuring instruments as
      well as objective physical and function tests. This will be performed at inclusion and at 3,
      6, 12 and 24 months after inclusion.

      In the collaborating study by physiotherapist Bente Gjelsvik a comparison between changes in
      trunk control, balance, walking and ADL 3 months post stroke, as well as the patients'
      perceptions of physical function, pain and fatigue, will be the main focus. To assess
      function, functional change and possible differences between different interventions, there
      is a need for reliable and valid outcome measures. As a basis for the use of the outcome
      measure Trunk Impairment Scale (TIS) in this study, the TIS has been translated into
      Norwegian, Trunk Impairment Scale - Norwegian version (TIS-NV) and will be examined for
      measurement properties using data from the above study as well as data from patients with
      brain damage recruited from the Department of Physical Rehabilitation Medicine, Haukeland
      University Hospital. An examination of a possible connection between localisation and size of
      the stroke and trunk control will also be performed, as characteristics of the stroke may
      have therapeutic implications for the choice of intervention for the individual patient. The
      research questions for the planned doctoral thesis for Bente Gjelsvik are therefore as
      follows:

        1. Is the TIS-NV reliable and valid in patients with brain damage?

        2. Are changes in trunk control, balance, walking and daily activities, as well as pain and
           fatigue 3 months post stroke different in patients who have received interventions from
           different courses of rehabilitation in the study "Early supported discharge after stroke
           in Bergen"? To which degree do the patients perceive problems related to balance,
           physical activity, walking, pain and fatigue?

        3. Is there a correlation between localization and size of the stroke as measured by
           magnetic tomography, and the patients' trunk control? Are initial localization and size
           of the stroke predictive for the patients' trunk control 3 months post stroke?

      Another collaborating project is carried out by PhD candidate Hedda Døli (Language outcome
      after stroke: lesion location, prognosis and consequences).

      The aim of her first study in the PhD project is to investigate the relationship between
      lesion location and aphasia severity one week post-stroke. Thereafter a follow-up study of
      the same patients 12 months post-stroke investigates the prognosis of aphasia and the
      variables that may influence recovery. In the third study the aim is to investigate the
      health-related quality of life and the occurrence of depression in patients with aphasia.
    
  