
    
      Parkinson's disease is one of the most common neurodegenerative diseases and is associated
      with several disabling motor and non-motor symptoms. About 70% of individuals with PD will
      develop speech impairments. Hypophonia, or reduced speech intensity, is the most prevalent
      speech symptom and often leads to significant difficulty communicating in most social
      situations. Behavioural treatments for hypophonia can be temporarily effective but many
      individuals fail to retain and transfer improvements beyond the context of the speech clinic.
      These transfer difficulties may be related to cognitive and sensorimotor deficits associated
      with PD that inhibit the incorporation of new speech strategies into habitual speech. This
      transfer of treatment problem is a longstanding and major concern in the treatment of speech
      in PD.

      The present study will address the transfer of treatment problem using two new treatment
      programs. Both treatments focus on improving speech intensity during conversations in
      different social contexts and a wide range of background noise conditions. The
      Speech-in-Noise (SIN) treatment program involves training higher speech intensity during
      variable levels of background noise while receiving real-time intensity feedback from a
      speech therapist in social situations inside and outside of the clinic. The second treatment,
      the Speech-to-Noise Feedback (SNF) device treatment program, involves using a wearable SNF
      device to provide feedback about an ideal target speech-to-noise level in a wide range of
      background noise conditions inside and outside of the speech clinic.

      Forty individuals with PD and their communication partners (i.e. spouse) will be randomly
      assigned to one of the two treatment programs. In addition, half of the participants will be
      randomly assigned to a 13-week delayed treatment group and serve as both untreated controls
      and treated participants.

      To evaluate the effectiveness of the treatments, measures of improvement in speech intensity
      and speech-to-noise levels will be obtained during everyday social conversations. A wearable
      recording device will measure daily conversational speech intensity and background noise for
      7 consecutive days at three time points: before, 1 week after, and 12 weeks after treatment.
      The effectiveness of treatment will be also measured using two questionnaires and standard,
      lab-based speech assessments.

      It is anticipated that the evaluation and comparison of these two novel treatment paradigms
      will advance our understanding of procedures that are most effective for enhancing the
      transfer of treatment for hypophonia into everyday social conversations in individuals with
      Parkinson's disease.
    
  