
    
      Delirium is a common complication that occurs in various medical conditions. Development of
      delirium during admission is associated with an increase in length of hospital stay,
      complication rates, mortality and consequently higher healthcare expenditures. Besides these
      short-term consequences, delirium is detrimental to long-term outcome with an ensuing higher
      risk of dementia, institutionalization and death.

      Development of delirium is associated with increasing age. The risk for postoperative
      delirium among elderly patients ranges from 4%-53%. Incidence differs between different
      surgical procedures and between emergency or elective surgery. A systematic review comparing
      general to regional anaesthetic procedures did not show significant differences in the risk
      for developing postoperative delirium.

      Although an array of risk factors associated with development of delirium has been identified
      in numerous studies, validated models predicting delirium in individual patients are scarce.

      Moreover, existing models tend to focus on demographic characteristics and comorbid
      conditions exclusively. Models predicting development of delirium by using individual
      pathophysiological markers involved in the evolution of delirium are absent.

      Previous research has suggested that impairment of attentional function might serve as an
      early and specific individual predictor of incident delirium, even in previously cognitively
      undisturbed patients. So far only one study has prospectively assessed preoperative
      intra-individual reaction time variability as a predictor of postoperative delirium. This
      study was limited to elderly (age 70 years or older) patients undergoing elective hip and
      knee replacement and did not examine confounding factors such as preoperative use of
      (anti-cholinergic) drugs, preoperative presence of symptoms of depression, cognitive decline
      or impairment in activities of daily living making. Although this study showed significant
      higher preoperative intra-individual reaction time variability among patients developing
      postoperative delirium, no attempts to reproduce these findings in other surgical populations
      have been published to date, limiting external validity and practical implementation of these
      observations.

      The investigators hypothesize that preoperative intra-individual reaction-time variability is
      an independent predictor of postoperative delirium. In this study the investigators aim at
      assessing the potential of preoperative administration of a short test of attentional
      function in predicting postoperative delirium in a population of elderly non-dementia
      patients undergoing major elective surgery. Utilization of a test measuring attentional
      function in a clinically easy-to-use tool could potentially yield a pathophysiological
      monitor to preoperatively identify individual patients undergoing elective surgery who are at
      an increased risk of evolving delirium and create a target for future prophylactic treatment.
    
  