
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. The risk of grade 2 or higher toxicity occurring during radiation and through the 6 month
      post-radiation follow up visit in patients treated with Optimizing Preventative Adjuvant
      Linac-based Radiation (OPAL) regimen.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To measure patient-reported cosmetic outcome, functional status, and breast pain with the
      OPAL regimen at 6 months, one year, two years, three years, four years, and five years after
      completing the OPAL regimen.

      II. To measure physician-reported and photographically-assessed cosmetic outcome at 6 months,
      one year, two years, three years, four years, and five years after completing the OPAL
      regimen and to compare this to the best performing arm of 2010-0559.

      III. To determine the 5-year risk of pathologically-confirmed invasive and/or in situ
      ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence (IBTR) for patients with ductal breast carcinoma in situ
      (DCIS) and early invasive breast cancer.

      IV. To determine the 5-year risk of any recurrence of breast cancer, disease-free survival,
      and overall survival.

      V. To determine maximal late (within 5 years) toxicities using the National Cancer Institute
      (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 4.0 scale.

      VI. To establish the feasibility of conducting multi-center radiation therapy trials within
      the MD Anderson Network.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo hypofractionated partial breast irradiation daily for 10 days.
      Patients may then receive 3 additional boost fractions at the discretion of the doctor.

      ARM II: Patients undergo standard breast irradiation daily for 15 days. Patients may then
      receive 5 additional boost fractions at the discretion of the doctor.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 months, and at 1.5, 3.5,
      and 5.5 years.
    
  