
    
      Cancer is one of the major causes of death in pediatric population. In Hong Kong, 46 patients
      aged 0 - 19 died from cancer in 2016. Childhood cancer is not common. According to Hong Kong
      Cancer Registry, there are approximately 190 newly diagnosed cases of childhood cancer each
      year. Despite this figure is not as high as that in adults, childhood cancer remains a
      significant concern in healthcare system because of its damaging impacts on children's
      physical and psychological functions throughout their lifespan. Particularly, children
      surviving cancer still have to pay a high price for numerous sequelae, notwithstanding their
      treatment is completed after months and even years.

      One of the most prevalent symptoms reported by patients surviving cancer is sleep
      disturbance. A systematic review indicates 25 - 59 % adults reporting sleep disturbance after
      their treatment for cancer. A retrospective cohort study in the West also pointed out that
      16.7% of childhood cancer survivors complained of disrupted sleep. The causes of sleep
      disturbance are multifactorial. However, it can largely be attributed to disruption of
      circadian rhythm by prolonged use of medications and longterm hospitalization. In fact,
      experiencing sleep disturbance can be devastating for survivors of cancer. Previous
      literature indicates that sleep disturbance precipitates inflammation and oxidative stress,
      which are known to be a contributing factor of neurocognitive impairment. Sleep disturbance
      can also lead to fatigue, which in turn limits patients' capacity in engaging in daily
      activities and even results in depression, severely compromising patients' quality of life in
      the long run. In this regard, healthcare professionals, particularly oncology nurses should
      bear unshrinkable responsibility to intervene this symptom with appropriate interventions,
      with an aim of improving the survivors' sleep quality and quality of life. Having a reliable
      and valid instrument that can precisely assess the problem of sleep disturbance of cancer
      survivors is therefore crucial for the development and evaluation of the intervention.

      The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) is the most commonly used instrument to assess
      sleep disturbance. Although this instrument was originally developed to collect subjective
      information about sleep habits of psychiatric patients, it has been translated into different
      languages, and has been extensively applied in studies on adult cancer survivors. The results
      of these studies generally support this instrument to be reliable and valid in assessing
      sleep disturbance for this group of population. Despite the growing popularity of using this
      instrument in adults, no studies has so far been conducted to validate the PSQI in the
      pediatric population, thus limiting its usefulness for children and adolescents. In fact, a
      comprehensive review of the literature indicated that no validated instrument is currently
      available for assessing sleep disturbance of childhood cancer survivors, especially in the
      Hong Kong Chinese context. This lack of validated instruments precludes us from understanding
      the severity of the problem. Also, it hinders the development of appropriate interventions
      that promote sleep quality.
    
  