
    
      The objective of this effort is to investigate: (a) military healthcare providers' (HCPs')
      genomic knowledge before and after receiving a genomic educational primer and after
      disclosing whole exome sequencing (WES) results to begin to assess the genomic educational
      needs of military HCPs; (b) active-duty Airmen's knowledge and perceptions of genomic
      sequencing (GS); (c) reasons why active-duty Airmen choose to participate, or not to
      participate, in research involving GS; (d) how WES study participants, including HCPs and
      sequenced active-duty Airmen (patient-participants), respond to and use WES results; (e) the
      collection of medical, behavioral, and healthcare utilization outcomes related to the
      clinical integration of WES in the military; (f) how return of WES results and integration
      into the EMR (Electronic Medical Record) do or do not impact perceptions of mission readiness
      and duty assignments. Given the lack of prior research in this area in the Air Force and the
      broad number of topics of interest, the aims of the study are predominantly exploratory and
      results may be hypothesis generating.

      The MilSeq Project will be conducted in two sequential phases. Phase I of the study will
      recruit, consent, and enroll approximately 750 ostensibly healthy active-duty Airmen who
      receive medical care in military Primary Care, Internal Medicine, and/or Family Practice
      settings to take a baseline survey. This survey will be administered to explore active-duty
      Airmen's perceptions of and preferences for GS, identify motivations and barriers to
      active-duty Airmen participating in a WES study, and assess interest in taking part in the
      WES study.

      Phase II of the study will recruit, consent, and enroll 75 ostensibly healthy active-duty
      Airmen who receive medical care in military Primary Care, Internal Medicine and/or Family
      Practice settings who in their baseline survey expressed interest in receiving WES through a
      research study. WES will be performed on each enrolled patient-participant. The result will
      be disclosed by an HCP-participant and permanently integrated into the patient-participant's
      EMR. Phase II will also recruit 10-20 military Primary Care, Internal Medicine, and/or Family
      Practice HCPs and consent them to participate in the study. The HCPs will receive an
      educational primer in genomics and will disclose WES results to Airmen participants.

      There are a number of potential benefits and challenges to incorporating genomic medicine
      into the military, some that are relevant to the broader civilian community, but some that
      are unique to this population. Some of these challenges include: (a) how GS may or may not
      affect the perception of fitness for duty; (b) how genomic discrimination may or may not
      occur in the military setting; (c) how to best deal with unanticipated findings; and (d) how
      genomic results can be practically integrated into a military setting. In this pilot study,
      these potential opportunities and challenges will be explored, which will provide a basis for
      future study and begin to inform decisions regarding clinical care of active-duty service
      members.
    
  