
    
      Methadone maintenance therapy (MMT) has shown clear efficacy for relieving opioid withdrawal
      symptoms and reducing the morbidity and mortality of opioid dependence. A notable phenomenon
      associated with MMT is increased food intake, enhanced sweet preferences, and weight gain.
      The underlying neural mechanisms for opioid-related overconsumption are not well understood
      but are thought to arise from role in 1) increasing the palatability and hedonic aspects of
      food and 2) diminishing satiety signaling systems. In the proposed project, the investigators
      will examine methadone's potential role in opioid-related overconsumption of food. The
      investigators propose to examine eating behavior, sucrose preferences, and an event-related
      potential (ERP) component that is induced by appetitive motivation for highly rewarding foods
      in patients with a history of opioid dependence receiving methadone maintenance therapy
      (O+MMT) and not receiving opioid agonist therapy (O-MMT). A matched sample of obese and
      overweight adults without history of opioid use (HOC) will also be examined. Specifically,
      group differences in food intake and eating behaviors in the O+MMT group relative to
      individuals in the O-MMT and HOC group will be examined. Individuals will complete 24-hour
      dietary food recalls and inventories to characterize eating behavior and food addiction.
      Participants will complete psychophysical measures of chemosensory functioning of sucrose
      preference and pleasantness and identification ratings for odors varying in participants'
      hedonic characteristics. Individuals will also complete validated computer tasks to assess
      food preferences. Differences in cortical ERPs for high-reward food relative to low-reward
      food and non-food items will be examined. Event-related potentials will be recorded as
      participants view photos of rewarding and non-rewarding food items, as well as non-food
      items. ERP components that index sustained attentional engagement will be measured and
      compared.
    
  