
    
      Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a non-invasive brain stimulation technique
      that can modulate cortical excitability. In 2000, Nitsche and Paulus reported the
      polarity-dependent effect of tDCS in humans, i.e., anodal tDCS facilitates cortical
      excitability while cathodal tDCS decreases it. (Nitsche & Paulus, 2000). TDCS studies have
      been replicated by many researchers and reported similar effects of tDCS in humans when using
      anodal and cathodal tDCS with an intensity of 1 mA. The linear effect of tDCS also has been
      reported by various studies, i.e., when increase intensity, the polarity-dependent effect of
      tDCS also enhances. However, conflicting results of cathodal tDCS efficacy have been
      reported.

      Cortical excitability has been used to represent the efficacy of tDCS on neuroplasticity. The
      linear effect of cathodal tDCS on cortical excitability have been reported by researchers
      when using intensities at 1, 2, and 3 mA stimulated at the primary motor cortex in healthy
      participants (Batsikadze et al., 2013; Jamil et al., 2017; Kuo et al., 2013; Mosayebi Samani
      et al., 2019; Nitsche et al., 2003). Nevertheless, some studies showed the non-linear effects
      of cathodal tDCS (i.e., when increases intensity, cathodal tDCS enhances the cortical
      excitability) when using intensities at 1.5 and 2 mA in healthy participants (Batsikadze et
      al., 2013; Jamil et al., 2017; Mosayebi Samani et al., 2019). Hence, cathodal tDCS efficacy
      on cortical excitability is still controversy.

      Muscle performance is an outcome that represents clinical change induced by tDCS. Previous
      studies reported the tendency of cathodal tDCS efficacy in decreasing muscle performance of
      both upper and lower extremities in healthy participants (Cogiamanian et al., 2007; Tanaka et
      al., 2009). However, previous studies used a single intensity of tDCS in each study. Hence,
      there was no direct comparison between different intensities of cathodal tDCS on muscle
      performance in healthy participants.

      In our study, we aim to investigate the effect of different intensities of cathodal tDCS on
      muscle strength in healthy participants.
    
  