
    
      Background:

      -Mature T-cell cancers are a phenotypically heterogeneous group of malignancies which

      constitute 10-15% of all non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL). Patients with relapsed/refractory T
      cell lymphomas have limited therapeutic options, making new therapeutic approaches extremely
      important.

      -The immunologic effects of recombinant human Interleukin-15 (rhIL-15), a stimulatory

      cytokine that promotes the differentiation and activation of NK cells, monocytes and longterm

      CD8+ memory T-cells, has been assessed in several Phase 1 trials in cancer patients.

      -Avelumab is an anti-programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) fully human IgG1 antibody that

      inhibits PD1/PD-L1 interactions while leaving the PD1/PD-L2 pathway intact and enhances
      immune activation against tumor cells. It has received U.S. FDA accelerated approval for the
      treatment of patients with metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) and urothelial carcinoma.

      -Unlike other approved anti-PD-L1/PD1 antibodies, avelumab induces lysis of tumor cells

      via antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC), indicating an additional mechanism
      of action. However, avelumab has not shown ADCC against normal immune cell subsets in humans.

      -A significant number of T-cell malignancies express PD-L1, and since the anti-PD-L1 antibody
      avelumab has shown ADCC activity in vitro, agents that may enhance ADCC by increasing number
      and activity of Fc-binding effector cells such as rhIL15 could improve efficacy of avelumab
      in these diseases.

      Objectives:

      -To determine the safety and toxicity profile and the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of
      continuous intravenous infusion (civ) rhIL-15 administration in combination with standard
      intravenous (IV) avelumab treatment

      Eligibility:

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years of age

        -  ECOG performance status of less than or equal to 1

        -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed relapsed and/or refractory T-cell lymphoma
           other than adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL), angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma
           (AITL), peripheral T-cell lymphoma T follicular helper phenotype (PTCLTFH), and
           enteropathy-associated T-cell lymphoma (EATL).

        -  Adequate organ and marrow function

      Design:

        -  Open-label, single-center, non-randomized Phase 1 study

        -  Standard 3 + 3 design will be used to determine the MTD of dose-escalated rhIL-15 with
           fixed dose avelumab with a small expansion cohort at the MTD

        -  Maximum 6 cycles (28-day cycle) of combination therapy- To explore all dose levels,
           including further evaluation in a dose expansion cohort, the

      accrual ceiling will be set at 30 patients.
    
  