
    
      Alcohol use disorder (AUD) is one of the most common substance use disorders. Yet only a
      small fraction of people who need treatment receive it, and most of them get only short-term
      support even though continuing care has been shown to be much more effective. Partner support
      can be critical to recovery, but many partners do not know how to support their partners'
      recovery or manage their own responses to it. Clinicians also lack evidence of the efforts
      patients are making toward recovery. Treating couples in which one member is recovering from
      AUD has been shown to be efficacious; in particular, Alcohol Behavioral Couples Therapy
      (ABCT) has shown positive outcomes. Still, ABCT has not been widely adopted, in part because
      of practical problems such as the stigma that goes with the partner needing to go to an
      addiction treatment agency to participate. A-CHESS is a smartphone-based system proven to
      substantially reduce relapse rates, but A-CHESS serves only the patient.

      This project will develop and pilot test a new smartphone-based system for AUD patients,
      their partners, and clinicians called PartnerCHESS. PartnerCHESS will integrate key features
      of ABCT and A-CHESS. PartnerCHESS will also include a Clinician Report to automatically alert
      clinicians of patients at risk of relapse and offer other information on how recovery is
      proceeding. The project has three specific aims:

        1. Integrate A-CHESS with key features of ABCT to create PartnerCHESS to serve patients,
           partners, and clinicians.

        2. Conduct a pilot test (a small randomized clinical trial) of PartnerCHESS to estimate
           effect size and refine the protocol, procedures, recruitment strategy, measurements, and
           operations for use in a large RCT.

      3a. Decide whether to pursue an R01 application, and if so, 3b. plan for the R01.

      The project would engage 6 couples to help design PartnerCHESS, test its usability and give
      feedback on its utility. Once ready, the system would be tested by 34 other couples
      randomized to receive either PartnerCHESS + treatment as usual (TAU) or A-CHESS + TAU for a
      6-month trial. The investigators will collect survey data at baseline, 2, 4, and 6 months and
      analyze it to see if a large clinical trial holds promise and, if so, produce an application
      to support a full-scale trial based on the technology developed and the research procedures
      employed in the pilot test.

      The study is important to public health because of the scope of the alcohol abuse and the
      potential of technology to improve the lives of both patients and partners. If successful,
      such technology could greatly broaden the reach and impact of AUD treatment in general and
      couples therapy in particular.
    
  