
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the maximum-tolerated dose of the combination of rituximab, bendamustine
           hydrochloride, and lenalidomide in patients with aggressive B-cell lymphoma not eligible
           for anthracycline-based first-line treatment or intensive regimens including high-dose
           therapy (HDT) followed by autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) in refractory or
           relapsing disease, or as treatment for patients relapsing after HDT with ASCT. (phase
           I).

        -  To identify the recommended dose of this regimen for a phase II study (phase I).

        -  To determine the efficacy and safety of this regimen in these patients (phase II).

      Secondary

        -  To assess the quality of life (QOL) of patients treated with this regimen (phase II).

        -  To evaluate the usefulness and feasibility of the SAKK Cancer-Specific Geriatric
           Assessment (C-SGA) in patients treated with this regimen (phase II).

        -  To assess the association between WHO performance status, QOL indicators, and SAKK C-SGA
           scores (phase II).

        -  To describe changes in SAKK C-SGA scores from pre- to post-treatment and in QOL (phase
           II).

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I dose-escalation study of bendamustine hydrochloride
      and lenalidomide followed by a phase II study.

      Patients receive rituximab IV on day 1, bendamustine hydrochloride IV over 30-60 minutes on
      days 1-2, and oral lenalidomide on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 28 days for up to 6
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients on phase II study complete the SAKK Cancer-Specific Geriatric Assessment at baseline
      and after completion of course 1. Patients also complete quality-of-life questionnaires at
      baseline and periodically during study.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed for up to 2 years.
    
  