
    
      This study is a randomised controlled trial. Objective outcomes will be evaluated at 6 weeks'
      post-operatively. Subjective outcomes will be evaluated at 6 weeks' and 6 months'
      post-operatively.

      Study Population Entry to the study will be offered to all women with OAB symptoms with
      impaired voiding on cystometry (flow rate less than 15mls/sec with volume of 200mls voided
      and a normal or high detrusor pressure at maximum flow), who have failed to improve with 2
      different anticholinergic medications. Subjects will be recruited from the Urogynaecology
      clinic at Medway Maritime Hospital. A power calculation was carried out which showed a
      minimum sample size of 30 (i.e. 15 in each arm) to be necessary to ensure an 80% power with a
      significance level of 0.05.

      Pre-operative Assessment All patients will undergo an initial assessment consisting of a full
      urogynaecogical history and examination, BFLUTS questionnaire and Urgency Perception Scale,
      and pressure flow studies. As mentioned before, each patient will have been treated with
      anticholinergic medications prior to being offered this intervention.

      Surgical Technique All procedures will be carried out under general anaesthesia. A dose of
      intravenous gentamicin will be given to each patient at induction. After emptying the
      bladder, saline cystoscopy will be carried out with a 30 degree cystoscope. The bladder
      mucosa will be systematically inspected for any abnormalities and the bladder filled either
      until the sphincter mechanism is overcome or to 1000mls. The bladder is emptied again and a
      second fill undertaken. The bladder mucosa is inspected for petechial haemorrhages, erythema
      and other signs of chronic cystitis on the second fill.

      In subjects randomised to undergo urethral dilatation, this will be undertaken using Hagar
      dilators. There is no evidence in the literature regarding normal urethral calibre in women.
      Therefore, the urethra will be dilated to a maximum of 10 Hagar as per our unit's protocol.
      Women will be discharged on the same day, if they pass urine adequately.

      Post-operative Assessment Subjects will be seen in the Urogynaecology clinic at 6 weeks'
      post-operatively and assessed with a BFLUTS questionnaire, UPS and repeat pressure flow
      studies. Each patient will be assessed subjectively at 6 months' post-operatively using the
      symptom questionnaires.

      Significance testing will be used to compare symptom scores and pressure flow parameters
      between each group pre- and post-operatively.
    
  