
    
      Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a widely prevalent medical disorder in the United
      States with a spectrum of treatment options ranging from dietary modification, to various
      pharmacologic treatments, to an array of available surgical and endoscopic procedures. There
      is a well-described correlation between obesity and symptoms of GERD. The morbidly obese
      patients undergoing evaluation for bariatric surgery are to characterize any GERD-like
      symptoms as this will assist in directing surgical therapy. Generally, it is recommended that
      patients with severe GERD undergo Roux-en-Y gastric bypass(RYGB) rather than a sleeve
      gastrectomy (SG) as RYGB has proven to be the most effective surgical treatment for GERD in
      the morbidly obese patient. The number of bariatric procedures performed in the United States
      has increased significantly in the recent years. Out of all bariatric procedures SG is the
      most commonly performed in the United States, as it has proven to be a very safe procedure
      with excellent weight loss. However, the incidence of de novo GERD and the effect of SG on
      patients with preexisting GERD remain controversial. Although some authors report high
      incidence of de novo GERD and worsening of previous reflux symptoms, there is also data
      showing improvement of symptoms post SG. Management of GERD after SG poses an interesting
      challenge, as traditional invasive procedures like Nissen fundoplication are not available
      due to an altered gastric anatomy. The alternative is to perform a conversion to RYGB, which
      represents increased morbidity to patient and significant cost.

      A large number of endoscopic procedures have been introduced in the past for the management
      of GERD as an alternative to the surgical anti-reflux procedures with various degrees of
      success. One of the few non-invasive methods for managing GERD that is still available on the
      market and widely used is Stretta. Stretta delivers Radio Frequency energy (RFe) to the LES
      resulting in increased LES pressure. In 2000, the FDA approved the Stretta system for
      treatment of GERD. Stretta allows an alternative for treatment in patients who are not
      willing or able to undergo surgery. The Society of American Gastrointestinal and Endoscopic
      Surgeons (SAGES) published clinical practice guidelines that endorsed Stretta as an
      appropriate therapy for treatment of GERD in patients >18, with at least 6 months of symptoms
      partially or completely responsive to pharmacotherapy and who are unable or unwilling to
      undergo laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication. There are to date no studies evaluating the use
      of Stretta in management of patients with GERD symptoms after sleeve gastrectomy.

      The investigators will study sleeve gastrectomy patients with GERD symptoms and if considered
      candidates for Stretta all patients will be enrolled in data collection cohort and followed
      prospectively with symptom questionnaire and quality of life scores for improvement of
      symptoms.
    
  