
    
      For an effective pharmacotherapy in patients with different demographic characteristics (age,
      weight or lean body mass), there is often a lack of information on the dosage of drugs.

      The predictability of the action of a drug is additionally impaired by genetic
      predisposition. Even if the effect of genetic variants has been demonstrated, the respective
      characteristic for the patient is usually not known.

      For example, a study (Gamelin et al., 2008) of the "old" cytostatic drug 5-fluorouracil shows
      its genetically-dependent efficacy.

      Only in about one third of patients does the concentration reach the desired therapeutic
      range (the dosage adjusted to body surface).

      There is a significant lack of information on the pharmacokinetics, especially in critically
      ill patients.

      These patients are excluded in modern drug approval studies, although it is anticipated that,
      depending on the drug, many patients with severely impaired renal function, renal replacement
      therapy, severe hepatic dysfunction, sepsis or multiple organ failure may later on obtain the
      substance.

      This knowledge gap on the specific pharmacokinetics of drugs in selected populations is
      present not only for new drugs, but also for those that have already been used in therapy for
      decades.

      Particularly for the effect of body weight and liver function on pharmacokinetics, data is
      very sparse. For the latter, the lack of data is particularly striking, when searching for
      data concerning patients with severe hepatic dysfunction. If occasional data for specific
      drugs are available, then for most substances these are not sufficient to develop a safe
      dosing regimen, e.g. for the aforementioned example of 5-fluorouracil. Furthermore, for many
      drugs reliable pharmacokinetic data in renal impairment or renal replacement therapy are not
      available. The available data is generally much better than in hepatic insufficiency, but
      especially the lack of data on the pharmacokinetics of metabolites in renal insufficiency may
      be of relevance, as such metabolites are active and play an important role for the effect,
      but they may also be responsible for side effects. To illustrate, the "Fachinformation" (as
      of April 30th 2012), the legally binding document for dosing issues of drugs in Germany, is
      attached. This table provides a selection of important drugs, while it is not exhaustive.

      In hospitals predominantly severely ill patients are treated and several drugs are
      administered simultaneously. Thus, the issue of drug-drug interaction is in the center of
      attention. Unexpected new clinical interactions of drugs known for a long time, or
      interactions of well-known substances with new substances are reported. A recent example is
      an interaction caused by Cotrimoxazol, a drug combination used for decades (Antoniou et al.,
      2011).

      In summary, it can be stated that in drug therapy there is a high demand for both the
      quantification of in vivo plasma and liquor drug concentrations and quantifying the effect of
      different characteristics on the pharmacokinetics of the drugs. Thus, concentrations for a
      broad range of substances which are used in the Cologne University Hospital should be
      measured, including their respective metabolites. Concentrations both in plasma and in CSF
      (for drugs supposed to have an effect on the central nervous system) will be quantified. This
      screening approach is possible due to the increasing availability of highly sensitive and
      selective liquid chromatography - tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) methods, thereby the
      number of measurable substances markedly increased. The initial focus of our project is on
      the antiinfective, antineoplastic and antipsychotic agents.
    
  