
    
      Material and Methods

      Type of study: Experimental, randomized clinical trial (RCT).

      1. Study population.

      For the study, students and workers of Andrés Bello University will be considered as
      participants.

      2 Randomization and sample.

      Participants will be evaluated according to the selection criteria through a survey with
      closed questions and a clinical examination in which the presence or absence of shortening of
      upper trapezius muscle shortening will be determined and the presence of a tender point in
      the muscle. Participants will be divided through a simple randomization process into five
      study groups; group 1 (high power laser application with a dose of 25 J / cm2 at 1 and 5
      watts in continuous emission), group 2 (high power laser application with a dose of 50 J /
      cm2 at 1 and 5 watts in continuous emission) ), group 3 (high power laser application with a
      dose of 25 J / cm2 at 1 and 5 watts in pulsed emission), group 4 (high power laser
      application with a dose of 50 J / cm2 at 1 and 5 watts in pulsed emission) and group 5
      control (will not receive laser treatment). All groups will receive as a basic treatment a
      therapeutic stretching exercise plan for the upper trapezius of 5 series for 30 seconds.The
      treatments will be performed twice a week for 4 weeks, completing a total of eight sessions
      Sample size was determined from the effect size obtained from the Fakhro et al study.
      Therefore the sample size calculated were 10 subjects per group.

      3. Procedures

      Pain pressure threshold (PPT), articular range of contralateral cervical inclination (CCI),
      maximum isometric strength of the abductors and adductors muscles (FIMabd) (FIMadd) of side
      of short trapezius muscle be evaluated once a week in all groups. The study will last 4
      weeks, so all groups will complete a total of 8 treatment sessions and 4 evaluation sessions.
      Differences in pain pressure threshold (ΔPPT), joint range of cervical inclination (ΔCCI),
      difference in maximum isometric muscle strength for abductors and adductors (ΔIMSabd and
      ΔIMSadd) between the four sessions and by session will be assessed.

      4. Variables

      4.1 Conceptual definition of the variables.

        -  Cervical flexibility: Maximum active range of cervical inclination contralateral to the
           upper trapezius muscle evaluated as short for the muscle length test. The cervical
           inclination will be performed by the participant in a sitting position keeping the back
           straight and supported by a backrest.

        -  Isometric strength: Maximum isometric strength of arm separators and approximators
           muscles of same side of shortened trapezius muscle developed during 4 to 6 seconds

        -  Pain pressure threshold (PPT): Pain magnitude in kg / cm2 reported by the participants
           when evaluating with myofascial trigger point (MTrP) pressure algometry of the shortened
           upper trapezius muscle.

        -  High Intensity Laser Therapy (HILT): Class IV laser application with powers greater than
           500 milliwatts (mW) at the level of the shortened upper trapezius muscle belly.

        -  Stretching exercise (EE): Assisted passive stretching of the shortened upper trapezius
           performed by the physical therapist.

      4.2 Operational definition of variables.

        -  Cervical flexibility: Cervical flexibility will be represented through the degrees of
           cervical inclination evaluated through goniometry. For goniometric evaluation, the
           fulcrum will be placed at the level of the spinous process of the seventh cervical
           vertebra (C7), while the fixed arm will be oriented caudally following the axis of the
           spinal column, and the mobile arm will be cranially oriented projecting towards the
           external occipital protuberance. (EOP)

        -  Isometric strength: strength of separators and approximators will be evaluated with the
           Dynasystem functional electromechanical dynamometer (DEMF) from the company Symotech
           (Madrid, Spain). The maximum isometric strength shall be recorded in Newtons (N).

        -  Pain Pressure Threshold: The pain pressure threshold will be evaluated through pressure
           algometry at the most sensitive myofascial trigger point of the upper trapezius muscle
           evaluated as short. UPD values will be recorded in kg / cm2. The PPT will be evaluated
           through the Baseline® brand pressure algometer.

        -  High Intensity Laser Therapy (HILT): High intensity laser therapy at 25 J / cm2 and 50 J
           / cm2 will be applied in continuous and pulsed modalities in 4 groups. It will work with
           powers of 1 and 5 Watts (Watts). In group 1 (high intensity laser at 1 and 5 watts of
           power, energy density of 25 J / cm2, continuous mode), group 2 (high intensity laser at
           1 and 5 watts of power, energy density of 50 J / cm2, continuous mode), group 3 (high
           intensity laser at 1 and 5 watts of power, energy density 25 J / cm2, pulsed mode),
           group 4 (high intensity laser at 1 and 5 watts of power, energy density 50 J / cm2,
           pulsed mode) and group 5 (control). For the application of laser therapy, the BTL-6000
           12W equipment will be used, which emits in infrared wavelengths of 810 / 980nm and
           1064nm.

        -  Stretching exercise: 5 sets of passive static stretching of upper trapezius muscle will
           be performed with the assistance of the physical therapist. Each series will last 30
           seconds followed by a 30-second rest interval.

      Variable type definition

        -  Cervical flexibility: Dependent, quantitative, ratio variable.

        -  Isometric muscle strength: Dependent, quantitative, ratio variable.

        -  Painful pressure threshold: Dependent variable, quantitative, of ratio.

        -  High Intensity Laser Therapy: Independent variable, quantitative, interval.

        -  Stretching exercise: Independent variable, quantitative ratio.

           5. Study phases

      Three phases have been designated for the investigation; 1. Sampling phase, 2. Evaluation
      phase and 3. Intervention phase.

      The sampling phase will consist of the application of the selection survey to all students
      and officials interested in participating in the study. The survey will be applied to them
      through the Google Drive® system. All those who meet the selection criteria will be invited
      to participate in the research. This stage will last two weeks.

      The evaluation phase will last two weeks and will determine a second filter of the
      population. Students and officials selected by the survey and who gave their written consent
      will participate in it. At this stage, a clinical examination will be carried out to
      determine the presence of shortening of the upper trapezius muscle through goniometric
      evaluation of the neck and the painful pressure threshold is evaluated by means of algometry
      in the same muscle. It will be considered as a positive test (+) when the participant refers
      to tightness or tension for one of the two upper traps for the cervical tilt test. In the
      event that both trapezius muscles present tightness or tension, the shortest value of
      inclination with the goniometry will be considered as shortening. Participants with a
      negative physical examination (-), that is, without the presence of upper trapezius
      shortening according to the protocol, will be excluded, while those with a positive physical
      examination (+) will be evaluated for the presence of a tender point in the short muscle
      through pressure algometry. The presence of pain at a pressure lower than 3 kg / cm2 at the
      control point will be considered a positive sensitive point.21-24 Participants with a
      negative sensitive point will be excluded, while those with a positive test will form the
      definitive sample. The evaluator will record the laterality of the limb with the shortening
      in a Microsoft Excel® spreadsheet.

      The intervention phase will last 8 sessions. The sample will be randomized into five working
      groups; group 1 (high power laser application with a dose of 25 J / cm2 at 1 and 5 watts in
      continuous emission, and stretching exercises), group 2 (high power laser application with a
      dose of 50 J / cm2 at 1 and 5 watts continuous emission, and stretching exercises), group 3
      (high power laser application with a dose of 25 J / cm2 at 1 and 5 watts pulsed emission, and
      stretching exercises), group 4 (high laser application power with a dose of 50 J / cm2 at 1
      and 5 watts in pulsed emission, and stretching exercises) and group 5 control (you will not
      receive laser treatment, but will only receive stretching exercises). The randomization of
      the sample will be carried out by the director of the study using the simple random sampling
      process through a table of random numbers taken from the tables proposed by the RAND
      Corporation®. The study director will be the only one with access to the randomization table.
      Demographic variables (secondary variables) for each group, including age, sex and body mass
      index (BMI) will be tabulated on a Microsoft Excel® spreadsheet.

      Participants in each group will be evaluated by three examiners to determine basal joint
      range of cervical inclination, painful pressure threshold, and maximum isometric strength for
      shoulder abductores and aductors separators and approximators. The range of cervical tilt
      will be measured through goniometry, the painful pressure threshold will be evaluated through
      pressure algometry, and the muscular strength of arm will be evaluated by electromechanical
      dynamometry.

      The cervical range, pain pressure threshold and isometric strength values will be evaluated
      in degrees, kg / cm2 and Newtons (N) respectively, and will be considered as primary
      variables of the study. Cervical range, pain pressure threshold and isometric strength values
      will be tabulated in an Excel® spreadsheet for each evaluator. The evaluations will last 4
      weeks, with one evaluation per week. Said evaluation will be carried out before and after the
      intervention assigned to each group. Participants will be called twice a week to carry out
      their corresponding treatments, making one of these visits coincide with the corresponding
      evaluation session for the current week. Differences in pain pressure threshold (ΔPPT), joint
      range of cervical inclination (ΔCCI) and maximum isometric strength difference (ΔMIS)
      shoulder between the 4 sessions and by session will be determinated.

      Statistic analysis

      Descriptive statistics for the primary variables ΔPPT, ΔCCI and ΔMIS will use as analysis
      measures, means and standard deviation (x, DS), or median and interquartile range (med, RIC).
      For secondary variables such as sex, body mass index (BMI), frequencies and averages or
      medians respectively will be used.

      Regarding inferential statistics, the Shapiro WilK normality test (S-WILK) will be used to
      determine whether the distribution of data obtained for the primary and secondary variables
      is normal or not, and according to this, the most relevant statistical test will be selected,
      ANOVA test if the data distributes normally or Kruskal Wallis test if the variables do not
      distribute normal. The SPSS v.24.0 program will be used for the statistical calculation. Once
      the analysis is done, a month will be considered for the analysis of the results obtained,
      discussion approach and conclusion.
    
  