
    
      Introduction

        1. Phenotypic Evaluation Model

           In 1874, William Roberts and John Tyndall observed the inhibition of cell growth on the
           agar plate. In the 1940s, Heatley suggested the use of filter paper discs containing
           antimicrobial solutions and introduced the "radial disc method".

           WHO released a report on the methodology and the reference method in 1975, which support
           the international standard of Clinical Laboratory Standards. The phenotype response of
           microorganisms to antibiotic treatment, comparing the proliferation of colonies might
           offer a rationale to the herein proposed tumor treatment response phenotype platform
           (patient-derived tumor avatar).

        2. Cancer Treatment on Patient-Derived Xenografts (PDX)

           To propose an individualized treatment, it is necessary to know the tumor treatment
           response phenotype, which varies with the host. Studies using xenografts are being used
           to predict a response to certain drugs.

        3. Chorioallantoic Membrane

      The chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) assay has been used as a fast, reproducible method for
      antitumor drug testing in vivo. This assay has been widely used for the study of angiogenesis
      and has also been successfully developed in a xenograft tumor model, including urogenital
      tumors, due to the total non-development of the lymphoid system of the embryo. The new
      techniques have been studied, generating consequently new protocols. The major challenge for
      the xenograft model in CAM is a relatively high occurrence of embryonic death after egg
      removal, with a mortality rate between 25 and 50%.

      The chick eggs will be used because they present a favorable vascularization environment.
      After the growth of the CAM, which is after 8 days of egg fertilization, access to the blood
      vessels is highly facilitated, causing them to be manipulated and observed. This makes it
      able to sustain systems and cells in the way that complex cancer studies can be done.

      Blood vessels in addition to nourishing the development of -allo and xenografts, this
      redefined a supportive environment unique to intravasation and dissemination of tumor cells.

      The CAM is highly vascularized, which makes it a rich medium for tumor implantation, in
      addition to other factors such as proteins. This support ends up being exclusive to the
      invasion, dissemination, and vascularization of tumor cells.

      Treatment of genitourinary tumors is not yet individualized, due to the high heterogeneity of
      the tumors. The choice of treatment that the patient will get is defined by population
      studies that present inadequacies when transferred to the context of the individualized
      treatment.

      The cell culture and organoids are a simple model to be applied, having a low cost and fast
      results. However, when the method is applied to the study of tumors, the results do not
      represent tumor environment conditions, forcing the cells to an adaptation that interferes
      with their growth and response to treatments patterns. Thus the xenografts models overcome
      some restrictions of the culture so that the framework is solid for its development. In
      contrast, the creation of a xenografts protocol becomes more complex, but it is a more
      representative method of cancer in its natural environment. CAM was studied with two strands,
      in-ovo, and ex-ovo. For in-ovo studies, the protocol was exposed by cutting eggshell.

      The ex-ovo studies focus on improving the accessibility of the CAM and the embryo, enabling
      its documentation and manipulation.

      Recently it has been described a correlation between renal tumors and drug resistance using
      exogenous CAM xenograft model. This causes other aspects to be monitored, studied and
      improved, especially regarding angiogenesis and research with tumors.

      Hypothesis

      There is increasing evidence that the diversity of the patient and cancer represent the main
      challenge in their treatment, which justifies the search for a clinical tool capable of
      providing information on the phenotype of response to treatment using the chorioallantoic
      tumor (CTA) platform/avatar.

      Just as the antibiogram already established in clinical practice anticipates the
      susceptibility of bacteria to antibiotics, there is room for individualized treatment with
      potential benefit in cancer outcomes, quality of life and cost-effectiveness.

      To define and anticipate the best treatment ("tumor chemogram") for each patient with
      urogenital cancer using treatment response phenotype platform, as the tumor avatar in the
      chorioallantoic membrane can transform the clinical practice.

      Objectives

        -  To verify the efficiency of the sowing of fresh (immediate) and frozen tissue -80
           degrees (in 24 and 48h) as a strategy in cases of failure of primary sowing;

        -  To evaluate the stability of the neoplastic tissue and the maintenance of its
           characteristics (genomic, proteomic, metabolic and phenotypic) in the proposed platform;

        -  To evaluate the response phenotype to the treatment of urogenital carcinomas in
           xenograft.

        -  To explore the impact of the proposed platform implementation on individualized
           treatment, its cost and results (oncological and functional) in patients with urogenital
           carcinomas.

      Proposed Methodology

      A prospective observational study including 30 biopsies of urogenital tumors from patients of
      the respective hospitals. Each biopsy will generate up to 12 tumor explants of 1 to 2 mm2,
      which will be implanted individually on the chorioallantoic membrane of 1 chicken embryo to
      test the 10 proposed drugs, plus 2 control eggs.

      Therefore, 12 embryos will be needed for each biopsy. Biopsies of urogenital primary tumors
      of patients after consent will be collected, provided by the "Hospital das Clínicas da
      Unicamp" and "Hospital Municipal de Paulínia".

      The material will be collected and placed in culture medium (McCoy) and kept on ice within 24
      hours after resection. Part of the tissue fragments will be rapidly frozen and stored at
      -80oC for further studies.

      It will be reserved a safety sample in ideal conditions of refrigeration for a sowing of
      rescue in cases of failure of the previous attempt. Samples will be divided where possible
      in:

        -  Fresh tumor: mitochondrial assay, culture, western blot

        -  Tumor formol: histopathology, immunohistochemistry

        -  Tumor culture: chorioallantoic membrane, frozen For the tumor biopsy graft, the CAM will
           be used when the embryos are 8 to 10 days old.

      First, the CAM layer will be gently ruptured with the aid of a forceps, then the biopsy of
      the tumor will be placed near a Y-shaped bifurcation of a blood vessel. After placement of
      the tumor, 200ul of PBS will be placed to prevent contamination. After the graft comes into
      contact with the vascularization of the CAM, tumor growth will be monitored in a period of 3
      to 4 days.

      This process will be evaluated and if there is tumor growth the system will go to the
      treatment phase. Since there was tumor growth, the treatments will be performed from 17 days
      after the embryo. The treatments used will be doses of the following medicines: cisplatin,
      gemcitabine, paclitaxel, doxorubicin, carboplatin, pazopanib, sunitinib, sorafenib,
      methotrexate, and vinblastine. For the concentration of the drugs, they will be placed next
      to the filter paper in the tumor regions. This treatment will take from 3 to 4 days, after
      which analyzes will be carried out to determine the potentiality of each drug.

      Euthanasia of the embryo will occur by decapitation (according to the protocol approved CEUA
      4874-1 / 2018) since it already has a developed pain system.

      Scissor cut through the CAM around the attached graft, transferred to a Petri dish with PBS.
      The excess of CAM will then be removed, leaving only the graft to be analyzed by
      histopathology, immunohistochemistry, western blotting and mitochondrial evaluation.

      Risks

      The risks involved in the participation of this study are minimal, as there is no
      interference in the treatment of the subject of the research, only the use of a small part of
      material withdrawn in the surgery that will be filed to be used in the laboratory in order to
      know even more about the disease, specifically identify future treatments with the best
      chances of results if necessary.

      Benefits

      This study will allow a greater knowledge of the disease with a potential benefit in the
      choice of future treatments, without altering any aspect of the current treatment that the
      research subject is receiving (the best standard treatment available at the time).

      Data Analysis Methodology

      Comparisons between primary tumor groups versus cultivated in xenograft will be performed
      using one-way ANOVA with the post hoc Bonferroni test. Data will be analyzed using Student
      t-tests or ANOVA repeated measures (Bonferroni post hoc test). The level of significance will
      be defined as less than 0.05 using Prism 5 (GraphPad software).

      Primary outcomes

        -  Platform efficiency (tumor take in percentage)

        -  Platform representativeness (similarity between fresh and cultivated tumor)

      Secondary outcomes

        -  Definition of tumor response phenotype to different therapeutic options.

        -  Impact of the proposed platform implementation on individualized treatment, its cost and
           results (oncological and functional)
    
  