
    
      PRECISE-D is a single site, randomized, open label 8-week clinical trial that will enroll 70
      participants. Participants will be asked to attend approximately 5 visits with the
      researchers or study staff.

      The screening process will take approximately 2 hours, and will include a physical
      examination, toxicology and pregnancy test, as well as the completion of assessments. We will
      ask participants a series of questions regarding their general health, mental health history,
      and any medications they are currently taking. Additionally, some self-report questionnaires
      will be used as part of this process. The results of the screening exams, tests, and/or
      procedures will be reviewed to determine whether a participant will be allowed to continue in
      the study. In the event that there are questions about a participant's eligibility or
      screening procedures are remaining, the screening visit may be conducted over 2 visits.

      Once eligibility is determined, the baseline visit (Week 0) will be completed. This visit
      will last approximately 1 hour and 15 minutes and will include the following:

        -  Bloodwork: We will obtain levels of CRP and other inflammatory substances. We will also
           examine electrolytes, kidney function, thyroid function, lipid panel, blood cell count,
           and other tests of general health.

        -  Self-Report Questionnaires: Participants will complete 8 questionnaires. These include
           questions about mental health and mood. The questionnaires range from 5 to 20+ items.

        -  Cognitive tests: We will examine the participant's attention, memory, and cognition
           using a series of computerized assessments.

      Participants will be assigned to a study group based on their CRP level: CRP less than 1 (low
      CRP), or CRP greater than or equal to 1 (high CRP). Within this group assignment,
      participants will then be randomized, or assigned by chance (like flipping a coin), to one of
      2 study groups:

      • CRP consistent antidepressant selection (medication will be prescribed based on
      participant's CRP level).

      If CRP less than 1, participant will be prescribed escitalopram. If CRP greater than or equal
      to 1, participant will be prescribed bupropion XL.

      • CRP inconsistent antidepressant selection (medication will be prescribed in contradiction
      to participant's CRP level) If CRP less than 1, participant will be prescribed bupropion XL.
      If CRP greater than or equal to 1, participant will be prescribed escitalopram.

      In each group participants will receive either escitalopram or bupropion XL.

        -  1 tablet of 150 mg of bupropion-XL per day (initial dose). The dose will be increased to
           300mg per day after the first week, and may be increased up to 450 mg/per day if deemed
           necessary by the clinician.

        -  1 tablet of 5 mg of escitalopram per day (initial dose). The dose will be increased to
           10 mg per day after the first week, followed by an additional increase to 20 mg/day if
           deemed necessary by clinician.

      Participants and study doctors will know which medication is being used, but not which group
      the participant is in; that is, participants and study doctors will not know the
      participant's CRP levels nor whether the medication assignment is consistent with CRP levels.
      The dose of the medication may be adjusted up or down during the study to improve effects of
      the medication or reduce possible side effects. Dose changes will be made based on how the
      participant is feeling and any side effects.

      Participants will then complete a clinical visit at Week 2, 4, and 6. These visits will last
      approximately 1 hour and 15 minutes, and will include the following:

        -  Clinical Evaluation: a psychiatrist will check the participant's vital signs and assess
           their overall wellbeing. Symptom changes, side effects, and adherence to treatment will
           be evaluated. Medication dosage adjustments will be made as necessary.

        -  Self-Report Questionnaires

      The final clinical visit will occur at week 8. This visit will be the last in person visit
      and will last approximately 1 hour and 45 minutes. The following will be completed

        -  Clinical Evaluation

        -  Self-Report Questionnaires

        -  Cognitive tests

        -  Bloodwork

        -  Pregnancy test (if you are a female able to become pregnant)

      After study completion, participants who wish to remain on treatment will be given a four
      week supply of study drug while they transition care.

      Additionally, a remote follow up assessment will be done at Week 12. Participants will be
      contacted via phone to complete a series of questionnaires. Additionally, they will receive a
      series of self reports via email. Paper forms will be also available at the Center for
      Depression Research and Clinical Care if the participant prefers to answer them on paper or
      don't have access to an email.

      The self-report questionnaires, study evaluations, and assessment of CRP levels and
      additional inflammatory substances in this study are designed for research, not for medical
      purposes. Even though the researchers are not specifically looking at blood to find a medical
      problem, participants will be notified if any abnormal results are identified.

      Participants will also have the option to participate in a Finger Prick Blood CRP substudy
      that will compare CRP results based on the blood source: venous blood obtained via
      venipuncture and capillary blood obtained via finger prick. A few drops of capillary blood
      will be collected via finger prick once during the study at week 0 (screening/baseline). We
      will compare the finger prick results to the results obtained from venipuncture at the same
      visit.
    
  