
    
      Bipolar affective disorder (BAD) is often poorly controlled by prescribed drugs. Clinical
      observations suggest that the endocannabinoid system is dysfunctional in BAD and fails to
      control the level of cortical excitation and inhibition in the brain. Thus, excessively high
      endocannabinoid tone (mania) or excessively low endocannabinoid tone (depression) may
      manifest itself in BAD patients. Interestingly, cannabis use is common in patients with this
      disorder and anecdotal reports suggest that some patients take it to alleviate symptoms of
      both mania and depression. The investigators have recently studied brain activations during a
      cold stress paradigm in a 57 year old Dutch national (Wim Hof), the so-called "Iceman", who
      has the ability to withstand frequent prolonged periods of extreme cold exposure using a
      self-developed technique that includes a combination of breathing exercises, cold exposure
      and meditation (referred to as the WH technique). The WH technique allows the "Iceman" to
      regulate his own autonomic nervous system in the presence of severe cold and to perform
      remarkable acts of survival under extreme thermal conditions. Moreover, it has been shown
      that the WH technique can be successfully taught to novice users. Preliminary studies
      performed by the investigators have examined CNS mechanisms associated with the practice of
      the WH technique and the obtained findings unequivocally demonstrated activation of autonomic
      brainstem areas that are implicated in stress-induced analgesia as well as cognitive cortical
      areas that are associated with self-reflection (such as the anterior insula). In particular,
      a strong activation of the periaqueductal gray (PAG) was determined, which is implicated in
      the release of endogenous opiates/cannabinoids that mediate decreased sensitivity to cold
      exposure and (via connections to higher-order cortical areas) promote a feeling of euphoria
      and well-being. This finding suggests that the WH technique might allow practitioners to
      assert increased level of control over key components of the affective system and as a result
      might be a viable, non-drug related approach for patients with pathological mood swings. The
      investigators believe that this method might be particularly effective in patients suffering
      from BAD, as the practice of the WH technique can be implemented during both remission and at
      the onset of highly motivational manic episodes, which will then help to limit the effects of
      negative mood swings during depressive (and manic) episodes. The investigators will study the
      effects of the WH technique on cannabinoid receptor density using the cannabinoid PET tracer
      (F18-FMPEP-d2) by determining regional changes in cannabinoid receptor density in various
      brain regions prior and post behavioral intervention.
    
  