
    
      Some solid tumors have high risk of metastatic localization including in ovaries. There is
      concern over the possible presence of malignant cells in ovarian tissue that could cause a
      recurrence of the primary disease after reimplantation. Thus, the possibility of ovarian
      tissue involvement needs to be evaluated with sensitive molecular methods. Those techniques
      are now available for leukaemia but histology is still the only way for solid tumors.

      Based on our experience in detection by RT-PCR of minimal residual disease (MRD) in
      neuroblastoma since 1994 [Tchirkov et al. 2003] and in ovarian tissue cryopreservation since
      1995 [Schubert et al. 2005, Chambon in press], we want to develop a specific and sensitive
      method for residual disease detection by RT-PCR in order to evaluate the tumor contamination
      of ovarian harvested tissue.

      Study population: We chose 3 models of pediatric solid tumors with high risk of metastases
      and which often require sterilizing treatments (chemo and/or radiotherapy): neuroblastoma,
      Ewing tumor and alveolar rhabdosarcoma. We will use four tumor cells lines: IMR32 and SK-NSH
      for neuroblastoma; RD-ES for Ewing tumor; RH-30 for rhabdosarcoma. We plan to use 20
      fragments per line.

      Study duration: 12 months Study design: Ovarian tissue without known malignancy but with a
      condition warranting laparoscopy (benign cysts) will be harvested during kystectomy
      (perikystic tissue).

      The harvested ovarian cortex will be cut: one half will be frozen according to our routine
      protocol [Schubert et al. 2005] and the other half will be contaminated with tumor cells
      lines. Then, detection of the specific transcript will be done by RT-PCR in fresh tissue and
      after freeze/thaw. Total RNA will be extracted with the TRI-reagent and qRT-PCR will be
      performed using the "TaqMan" technology.

      Primary endpoint: to reach a sensitivity about 1/106 cells.
    
  