
    
      This purpose of this protocol is to systematically evaluate the role of Patient Navigators,
      non-medical personnel who assist in the coordination of care, for women attending a breast
      cancer screening clinic in Harlem who are found to have a suspicious result. The concept of
      patient navigation, developed by Dr. Harold Freeman, has been identified as a promising
      strategy to reduce disparities in health care for minorities and the underserved.

      This protocol will evaluate the role of the Patient Navigator in coordinating care for women
      who are referred to the Ralph Lauren Center for Cancer Care and Prevention (RLCCCP) from the
      Breast Examination Center of Harlem (BECH). To achieve this, we propose four interrelated
      tasks. First, we will characterize in detail the specific nature of the activities of the
      Navigators as they remedy barriers to the receipt of breast cancer care. Secondly, we will
      determine whether the presence of the Navigator minimizes the percentage of patients with
      significant delays in receipt of necessary care. Third, we will measure patient satisfaction
      with care and their perceptions of the value of the Navigator. Finally, we will provide a
      baseline needs assessment of those (eligible) patients requiring pain and palliation
      services.

      Specific Aims:

        1. To characterize the role of Patient Navigators by defining the specific tasks and
           activities they perform in order to eliminate and/or reduce barriers to receipt of
           cancer care.

        2. To evaluate how the presence of a Patient Navigator influences the time intervals from
           receipt of a suspicious screening mammogram or palpable breast mass to appropriate
           diagnosis and or treatment.

        3. To measure patient's satisfaction with the coordination of care in the presence of a
           Patient Navigator.

        4. To descriptively assess the pain and palliation needs of the population under study.
    
  