
    
      During critical illness, patients who are immobilized for more than a few days develop severe
      muscle and nerve weakness despite receiving full supportive care, which may include physical
      therapy. In patients requiring mechanical ventilation (a device that breaths for them) for
      longer than 7 days, the incidence of ICU-acquired weakness is reported to be between 25% and
      60%. Such weakness may contribute to increased duration of mechanical ventilation, increased
      length of stay in the ICU and hospital, and poor quality of life among survivors. This is
      part of the newly recognized Post Intensive Care Syndrome (PICS). Moreover, patients who are
      transferred from the ICU to a high-dependency unit (HDU), intensive therapy unit (ITU),
      post-operative therapy or outpatient ambulatory care need to be mobile as well as awake for
      any physical therapy. Patients affected by sepsis (severe blood stream infections),
      osteoarthritis, spinal cord injury, stroke, multiple sclerosis, cerebral palsy, cancer, and
      other illnesses suffer muscle loss and weakness. Early mobilization (EM) has demonstrated the
      ability to significantly reduce the detrimental effects of prolonged immobilization such as
      polyneuropathy and myopathy (nerve damage and muscle weakness), which in turn reduces the
      time patients spend on mechanical ventilation and the overall length of hospital stay. EM
      treatments include intense physical therapy, cycle ergometry, transcutaneous electrical
      muscle stimulation (TEMS) and continuous lateral rotational therapy (CLRT). However, carrying
      out intense physical therapy using therapists is impractical (especially at smaller
      hospitals) and cannot be implemented in heavily sedated patients (patients who cannot
      cooperate). Evidence suggests that vibration may be capable of producing adequate muscle
      contraction via muscle-spinal loops that may be sufficient to reduce or prevent nerve damage
      and muscle weakness caused by prolonged immobilization thus serving as an effective treatment
      making patients stronger when they leave the ICU.

      The purpose of this study is to test a prototype vibration device and strategy on its ability
      to exercise large muscle groups, increase muscle blood flow, and increase circulating levels
      of blood chemicals associated with exercise/activity. The study will be used to find optimal
      vibration frequencies that provide maximal evidence of associated muscle activity. Eventually
      the investigators hope to see a vibration device capable of delivering a more effective
      therapy compared to the smaller gains derived from traditional measures of physical therapy
      in critically ill patients such as TEMS, CLRT and cycle ergometry to patients. The vibration
      device may directly benefit the patient in terms of health, length of stay and reduced
      re-admission, hospital staff in terms of productivity (i.e., through reduction in nursing
      effort) and the hospital in terms of reduced cost and return on investment. Its value is also
      envisioned in many other populations of immobilized acutely ill and injured patients as well
      as those with chronic conditions.
    
  