
    
      Preoperative Evaluation of Recipients:

      Recipients who consent for living donor liver transplantation will have the following
      measurements performed in addition to those normally performed in their pretransplant workup.

        1. Ideal, dry and current body weights.

        2. An estimation of the recipient's actual liver volume will be determined by linear CT
           scanning. Continuous axial-10 mm-thick slices will be obtained following IV contrast.
           The area of the liver will be electronically outlined on the CT console and then
           multiplied by the slice thickness. This measurement will be used to assess the accuracy
           of CT in predicting liver weight and volume by comparing it to the actual volume
           displacement and weight following hepatectomy.

        3. The expected ideal volume of the recipient liver will be calculated from the patient's
           body weight. Standard liver volume (ml) = 706.2 x (body surface area [m2] + 2.4. Body
           surface area is calculated from the following formula: BSA = Square root of (Height
           [inches] x Weight [lbs.]/3131). Example: A recipient who is 5'4" and weighs 121 lbs. has
           a body surface area of 1.58m2. Thus the estimated ideal liver volume for this recipient
           is 1120 cc. In order to provide adequate hepatic parenchyma for function they would
           require 35%-40% of this volume = 392 - 447 cc of liver tissue.

      Donor Evaluation:

        1. Actual and ideal body weight.

        2. History and physical exam.

        3. Psychosocial evaluation of the donor will be performed by a social worker for the kidney
           transplant program. Since he is not affiliated with the liver program, he will be able
           to objectively assess the potential donor's psychosocial condition. He will continue to
           see the patient (donor) after the operation while hospitalized and as an outpatient once
           and then on a prn basis.

        4. Evaluations by a donor advocate physician who is not part of the transplant department.
           The potential donor will be interviewed alone by the physician and allowed to express
           reservations concerning the procedure in private. The donor advocate physician will
           review the donor workup in detail to ensure its appropriateness. Should the donor
           advocate physician indicate that the donor is unsuitable, the donor will be excluded
           from further evaluation.

        5. Donor must be in usual state of health, with normal liver function and no major
           pre-existing medical conditions.

        6. Laboratory testing to rule out concomitant disease that would exclude donation would
           include the following:

           Blood type and HLA CBC with differential, platelet count Chem 17, SGPT, GGTP, Calcium,
           Magnesium PT, PTT Pregnancy test for premenopausal women Hepatitis B surface antibody,
           hepatitis B surface antigen, hepatitis C HIV serology CXR, EKG Cardiac stress test and
           pulmonary function tests if indicated

        7. An estimation of the recipient's right and left lobe size will be determined by linear
           CT scanning. Continuous axial-10mm-thick slices will be obtained following IV contrast.
           The area of the liver will be electronically outlined on the CT console and then
           multiplied by the slice thickness. This measurement will be used to assess the accuracy
           of CT in predicting liver weight and volume by comparing it to the actual volume
           displacement and weight following hepatectomy in the donor.

        8. Hepatic arteriogram to evaluate the arterial anatomy of the liver.

        9. Liver biopsy.

       10. Informed consent.

      The donor consent is a crucial ethical issue. The donor must be exceptionally well informed
      concerning the risks of partial hepatectomy. A more difficult element of informed consent,
      however, is that the donor must make a voluntary choice without coercion. In order to avoid
      coercion, living donor liver transplants will not be performed in emergency situations. By
      excluding emergent cases, time to fully consider both the experimental option of living donor
      transplantation and the standard option of cadaveric donor transplantation will be afforded.

      The potential donor will be medically evaluated by an independent (non-study related)
      physician prior to any consideration of hepatectomy. Karen Kim, M.D., and Sunanda Kane, M.D.,
      both in the section of gastroenterology, will be the donor physician/advocates. We feel that
      their knowledge of gastroenterology is necessary given the nature of the contemplated
      surgery, hepatic lobectomy. However, neither of them have affiliations to the liver
      transplant team, either clinical or research. These physicians will not know the potential
      recipient's status, will be the final arbiter of the donor's suitability, and will serve as
      the donor's advocate throughout the transplantation process.

      The donor and recipient will both undergo psychosocial evaluation prior to the procedure.
      This will be to determine psychological suitability for living donor transplantation and to
      explore personal and family support resources. These interviews will allow both the potential
      donor and recipient an opportunity to express reluctance to proceed with an individual not
      directly involved with the transplant procedure. Perhaps the most coercive element for a
      potential living donor is the perception that it is the expectation of the recipient's family
      that one should volunteer to donate. This element of coercion can be minimized by allowing
      the potential donor to discuss any reluctance to donate privately, and apart from their
      family. They will be reassured that if at any time they do not wish to donate, the recipient
      will be told only that the donor was not acceptable and the exact reason for this will not be
      made available. Both the investigators and the donor advocate will perform the process of
      obtaining informed consent from the donor on two separate occasions not less than one week
      apart. There will be a thorough discussion of the risks and benefits of the surgery and data
      will be provided from the short- and long-term follow-up of pediatric donors. These
      discussions will be with both a transplant hepatologist and surgeon. Once these discussions
      have taken place, the donor will be given an informed consent form to sign. In seven to ten
      days, the donor will be approached again regarding liver donation and another consent form
      will be presented to the donor. After the second consent is signed, it is felt that the donor
      has met all the physical and emotional requirements for liver donation. If, at the second
      meeting, the donor requests more time to make an informed consent, this shall be granted.
      Written consent will also be obtained from the recipient at this time.

      Donor Surgical Technique:

        1. The donor liver will be partitioned to provide a full right lobe.

        2. Intraoperative examination of the liver parenchyma for unsuspected lesions, steatosis
           will be performed. Intraoperative cholangiography will also be performed to assess the
           appropriate site of parenchymal transection.

        3. Once suitability is confirmed. The appropriate recipient will be brought into the
           operating room and the hepatectomy begun.

        4. During the hepatectomy both the right and left hepatic arteries will be left as long as
           possible. The portal veins shall be dissected to a level above the confluence of the L &
           R portal branches.

        5. The use of either a right or left lobe will mandate a piggyback technique to be used, as
           no vena cava will be procured.

        6. Arterial anastomosis will be performed with either high-powered loupes or with an
           operating microscope.

      Clearly, information such as actual GWRLW and actual GRBWR will only be available
      retrospectively (after the donor hepatectomy). The decision to use the donor organ for a
      living donor liver transplant will be based upon the calculated GWRLW and GRBWR
      preoperatively.
    
  