
    
      Purpose:

      The objective of this study is to enhance a form of nonpharmacological treatment of delusions
      in schizophrenia using neuromodulation, and confirm the effect using electroencephalogram
      (EEG) and behavioural measures (Whitman et al., in press; Whitman, Minz & Woodward, 2013).
      Specifically, transcranial alternating current stimulation (tACS) will be used to improve the
      outcome of participation in metacognitive training (MCT) for the treatment of psychosis.

      MCT is a group-based program developed directly from current cognitive neuropsychiatry
      research findings on schizophrenia and psychosis. MCT shares knowledge gained in research
      labs to help individuals experiencing psychosis become more aware of the thinking patterns
      involved in their illness. The main purpose of the metacognitive training is to help people
      change the thinking patterns that cause delusions, thereby avoiding relapse into illness or
      reducing the impact of delusions (Moritz et al., 2014).

      tACS is a non-invasive brain stimulation technique in which a weak electrical current is
      applied to the head in order to change the likelihood of neural firing in a region of cortex
      under the stimulation electrodes (Antal & Paulus, 2013).

      Hypothesis:

      Neuromodulation will enhance the benefit of the non-pharmacological treatment program, MCT,
      in the reduction of severity of delusions in schizophrenia.

      Justification:

      It is now clear that helping individuals with schizophrenia become aware of the thinking
      patterns that underlie delusions provides effective tools for countering these thinking
      patterns (Moritz et al., 2013; Mortiz et al., 2014). The MCT program for treatment of
      delusions involves experiencing situations where everyday interpretations of reality must be
      questioned. Empirical studies and meta-analyses indicate that MCT is effective, even up to
      three years after completion of treatment (relative to active control conditions and
      treatment as usual (TAU)).

      Despite these successes, no treatment of schizophrenia can be considered highly effective,
      and there is always room for improvement in effect size. Neuromodulation can provide this
      improvement by biasing pathological brain functioning towards a healthy state prior to MCT,
      enhancing the openness to questioning everyday interpretations of reality, and enhancing the
      effect of MCT treatment of delusions. tACS is almost entirely non-invasive and purely
      modulatory, changing the likelihood of neural firing in a region of cortex under the
      stimulation electrodes. It is now possible to modulate at different frequencies of
      oscillation, in accordance with how the healthy brain functions when interpreting reality.

      The proposed research involves application of oscillation-targeted neuromodulation protocols
      to bias brain functioning towards a state that promotes questioning everyday interpretations
      of reality, thereby reducing severity of delusions, and enhancing response to a training
      program for treatment of delusions in schizophrenia by raising insight about the thinking
      patterns that lead to delusional thought. The investigators plan to document the brain
      changes induced by neuromodulation using performance and EEG measures taken on a decision
      making task that involves interpretation of reality, and for which performance correlates
      with the severity of delusions. This task involves judging the likelihood that evidence
      matches a hypothesis, and it has been shown that this judged likelihood increases when
      patients are strongly delusional. The investigators have shown that this task state (i.e.,
      evidence-hypothesis match) elicits an increase in alpha power in the task positive network,
      and a decrease in beta power the default-mode network (Whitman et al., in press). This
      suggests that maximizing the power of the alpha band in the task-positive network should bias
      the brain towards a healthier state for weighing evidence to test hypotheses about reality,
      and this can be confirmed with EEG and behavioral measures taken on the aforementioned
      decision making task, a heightened response to MCT, and a corresponding decrease in the
      severity of delusions.

      Research Design:

      Neuromodulation involving tACS will target increasing the power of the alpha band at
      dorsomedial prefrontal regions, and this is expected to also decrease the power of the beta
      band in ventro-medial regions. This will be confirmed by EEG recordings and source estimation
      (Whitman et al., in press; Whitman, Minz & Woodward, 2013). MCT is a four week program with
      eight one-hour sessions. TAU is a four week waitlist control group. Sham neuromodulation will
      involve application of random patterns of low-grade currents to the same brain region as the
      neuromodulation conditions (Antal & Paulus, 2013). Severity of delusions will be measured by
      the Psychotic Symptom Rating Scales in psychosis (PSYRATS) (Haddock et al., 1999). The
      behavioral measure of interest is the rating of the match between the evidence and
      hypothesis, which should decrease as delusions decrease.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Between-groups (neuromodulation/MCT vs. sham/MCT vs neuromodulation/TAU) analyses of variance
      (ANOVA) will be carried out on change scores computed on behavioral measures and severity of
      delusions, pre- and post MCT or TAU, under the hypothesis that decreases in the severity of
      delusion will be greater in the neuromodulation/MCT condition relative to the sham/MCT and
      neuromodulation/TAU conditions.

      Control-Phase Studies: DREAM Study, Hearing Brain Study and The Effect of Neuromodulation on
      Saccades Study. Each described below.

      Purpose for Control Phase Studies:

      The objective of these studies is to establish the effectiveness of the EGI GTEN system in
      modulating brain oscillations in the cortex of healthy participants by means of transcranial
      alternating current stimulation (tACS). In this control/pilot phase of our study, we aim to
      establish that we can induce changes in the power of a specific frequency band in targeted
      cortical regions with neuromodulation using the GTEN system, and we will assess whether doing
      so temporarily alters performance on simple cognitive and perceptual processes in healthy
      controls. This will be the first step towards translating our stimulation protocol to the
      patient population for our primary study of interest (tACS as an adjunct to metacognitive
      training for delusions in psychosis).

      Justification for Control Phase Studies:

      Transcranial alternating current stimulation (tACS) is a non-invasive method used to
      influence ongoing brain oscillations in humans by applying sinusoidal currents to the scalp
      (Antal & Paulus, 2013; Vosskuhl, Strüber, & Herrmann, 2018). Human brain oscillations, as
      measured with electroencephalography (EEG), range from 1 to 100 Hz and are referred to as
      delta (1-3 Hz), theta (4-8 Hz), alpha (8-12 Hz), beta-1 (13-30 Hz), and gamma (30-40 Hz)
      oscillations. The oscillations, generated either spontaneously or in response to external
      stimuli, are the result of rhythmic or repetitive electrical activity of cells, and are known
      to be involved in the communication of brain regions (Vosskuhl et al., 2018). The
      synchronization of rhythmical electrical activity leads to increased power in the frequency
      band of the rhythmical activity. For example, the presentation of an auditory stimulus
      ("auditory entrainment") at a frequency of 40Hz increases the power of the 40Hz brain
      oscillations in the auditory cortex ;this phenomenon is known as Auditory Steady-State
      Response (ASSR; Galambos, Makeig, & Talmachoff, 1981; O'Donnell et al., 2013).

      Previous studies have mainly relied on systems that use two large electrodes on the scalp to
      modulate the underlying brain activity in the oscillation frequency range of interest. The
      GTEN has 256 potential stimulation sites, as well as advanced source localization techniques,
      allowing for precise planning and application of current via tailored combinations of
      electrodes according to the 'reciprocity principle' (Dmochowski, Koessler, Norcia, Bikson, &
      Parra, 2017; Fernandez-Corazza, Turovets, Luu, Anderson, & Tucker, 2016). The 'reciprocity
      principal' is a process enabling optimal targeting/stimulation of the brain sources of
      recorded EEG signal. The GTEN system has in-built software for this very purpose, allowing
      researchers to program electrodes with the dominant power of frequencies of oscillation,
      using a small subset of electrodes (4-7) to optimally target the brain regions of interest.
      This reciprocity principal is ground-breaking in its capacity to demonstrate causal
      relationships between brain and behavior: by targeting the very brain sources producing brain
      activity of interest, and applying tACS while observing the behavioral effects on performance
      (e.g., reaction time, accuracy), one can experimentally link cognitive processes to specific
      patterns of brain oscillations. Establishing that we are able to use these methods in this
      way will be an important precursor to our study of tACS as an adjunct to metacognitive
      training for delusions. Our work using tACS to bias ongoing network activity in the brain
      rests on being able to accurately target those networks producing the activity of interest,
      and document whether doing so temporarily changes performance on simple cognitive tasks.

      Our "pilot/control" phase with healthy controls will familiarize us with the GTEN system and
      enable us to optimize the parameters under which GTEN tACS produces short-term changes in
      cortical excitability and cognitive processes. These insights will inform our larger study
      focussing on enhancing metacognitive treatment of delusions in schizophrenia using
      neuromodulation To validate that the GTEN tACS is able to bias ongoing oscillations in
      targeted cortical areas in a biologically-relevant manner, an initial study in healthy
      controls ("The Hearing Brain") will investigate the degree to which GTEN tACS applied to the
      auditory cortex mimics and/or influences the ASSR that endogenously occurs during perception
      of an auditory tone.

      To understand whether GTEN tACS temporarily alters performance on cognitive processes by
      biasing dominant patterns of oscillations, a second set of initial studies in healthy
      controls will be run called the "Dynamic Reciprocal Electroencephalography and Modulation
      (DREAM") study. The DREAM study will apply the reciprocity principle while participants
      undergo simple cognitive and perceptual tasks. This data collection in healthy controls will
      include the methods we have already received ethics permission to use with clinical
      populations (e.g., see 'Enhancement of Treatment of Delusions in Schizophrenia through
      Neuromodulation Protocol'). Piloting these methods will serve as a verification that tACS can
      alter cortical excitability in the cortical regions that are implicated in delusional
      thinking, which we have already been granted permission to neuromodulate in our primary study
      of patients with schizophrenia. The pilot study will also serve as a preliminary
      investigation of whether tACS has detectable influences on cognitive tasks that correlate
      with psychopathology (e.g., delusions). One task involves judging the likelihood that
      evidence matches a hypothesis, and it has been shown that this judged likelihood increases
      when patients are strongly delusional.

      We also aim to study the behavioural effects of tACS in the "The Effect of Neuromodulation on
      Saccades Study." Instead of using complex behavioural tasks, we aim to use a simpler and
      better-understood behaviour response - the oculomotor response. In this study, we aim to use
      tACS to stimulate the areas involved in oculomotor control to affect eye movements.
      Participants' gaze will be tracked binocularly using the Eyelink 1,000 system (SR Research,
      Kanata, ON). The oculomotor response is a well understood behavioural response that is not
      complex in nature and would allow us to study the effects of tACS on behaviour, this would
      expand our knowledge on the behavioural effects of tACS. The rationale behind using tACS is
      that we can target a specific ongoing brain oscillation. In this proof-of-concept study, we
      plan to use tACS to stimulate frontal eye fields (FEF), which we expect to interrupt the
      natural network balance, and slow saccades. Thus, the overall objectives of this study are
      (1) to identify the brain oscillations in FEF underlying saccade preparation and execution,
      and (2) change activity in these networks through neuromodulation.

      Hypothesis:

      In the "Hearing Brain" proof-of concept pilot study, we hypothesize that auditory entrainment
      at 40 Hz as well as GTEN stimulation at 40Hz, but not sham stimulation, will increase the
      gamma band power in the auditory cortex. Furthermore, we hypothesize stronger gamma band
      power after GTEN stimulation compared to auditory entrainment.

      Regarding the "DREAM studies," we predict that that GTEN applied based on the reciprocity
      principle will alter participants' accuracy and reaction time while undergoing simple
      cognitive and perceptual tasks. In particular, regarding the pilot of the methods of the
      primary study( Enhancement of Treatment of Delusions in Schizophrenia through
      Neuromodulation), we hypothesize that neuromodulation involving tACS will target increasing
      the power of the alpha band at dorsomedial prefrontal regions and bias our behavioral measure
      of interest (the rating of the match between the evidence and hypothesis (see Figure 1 in
      'Enhancement of Treatment of Delusions in Schizophrenia through Neuromodulation Protocol').

      Regarding the "The Effect of Neuromodulation on Saccades Study," we predict the following: 1.
      Increased power of alpha oscillation in the FEF will be detected by hdEEG when saccades are
      execute 2. GTEN-induced alpha oscillations in the FEF will increase saccade latency.

      Research Design:

      Experimental Design: proof-of concept study "The Hearing Brain"

      We will use a between-subjects design to investigate the influence of auditory entrainment,
      neuromodulation, sham stimulation (control condition), and control frequency stimulation
      (active control condition) on the power of the gamma band (30-40Hz) in the auditory cortex.
      All participants will be assigned to either the Neuromodulation, Sham, or Active Control
      (control frequency) condition, with or without also undergoing the Auditory entrainment
      condition.

      Neuromodulation: For each participant, we will establish a threshold at which the participant
      first detects the stimulations (e.g., due to phosphenes or skin sensations). In line with
      other threshold protocols, we will start with tACS stimulation at 40 Hz and 1000 µA for 1
      second and increase the amplitude of the stimulation stepwise by 250 µA to a maximum of 3000
      µA (Zaehle et al., 2010). Participants will be asked to indicate the presence of any
      sensations they experience. Each participant's maximum stimulation intensity will be kept 250
      µA below their threshold for experiencing phosphenes or skin sensations (whichever threshold
      is lower).

      During stimulation, tACS will be applied over the auditory cortex with a frequency of 40 Hz.
      For each stimulation, the current will be slowly ramped up to the participant's tailored
      intensity and ramped down at the end of the segment. The stimulation electrodes in the
      current proof-of-concept study will be those identified as showing the largest increase in
      gamma power in an auditory entrainment pilot study.

      Auditory entrainment: Participants will be listening to a sequence of tones presented at
      40Hz.

      Sham: This condition is used to control for expectation effects. Similar to the
      neuromodulation condition, the current will be ramped up and ramped down; however there will
      be no stimulation in between.

      Control frequency: People in this active control group would be modulated on the same
      electrodes and with the same current intensity, but at a different frequency band. An active
      control group is needed in order to make sure the effects are due to the applied frequency of
      interest and not just due to the current itself.

      Rest: After each neuromodulation, entrainment, and sham trial there will be rest period of 50
      seconds to measure resting-state EEG.

      Each condition ( modulation, sham, auditory entrainment) will be 50 seconds long and
      presented 7 times in blocks. In between the conditions there will be a 50 seconds
      resting-state measurement to assess the durability of interventions on brain activity.

      Experimental Design: proof-of concept "Dynamic Reciprocal Electroencephalography and
      Modulation" (DREAM) study

      We will use a between-subjects design to investigate the influence of neuromodulation based
      on the reciprocity principle vs. sham stimulation (control condition) vs. control frequency
      stimulation (active control condition) on reaction time and accuracy in simple cognitive and
      perceptual tasks. These tasks include the Stroop Interference Task, listening to/ reading
      non-offensive non-emotional words, and remembering words or visual arrays.

      We also plan to pilot tACS in the evidence-integration task which has been shown to correlate
      with delusional severity in psychosis. To illustrate the reciprocity principle method for
      this task, participants will be assigned to receive either tACS or sham neuromodulation.
      Neuromodulation involving tACS will target the dominant pattern of brain oscillations, which
      we expect to be the alpha band at dorsomedial prefrontal regions, and doing so is expected to
      also decrease the power of the beta band in ventro-medial regions (Antal & Paulus, 2013).
      This will be confirmed by EEG recordings and source estimation (Whitman et al., in press;
      Whitman, Ward, & Woodward, 2013) during the task used to produce Figure 1. Sham
      neuromodulation will involve application of random patterns or very brief low-grade currents
      to the same brain region as the neuromodulation condition (Antal & Paulus, 2013). The
      behavioral measure of interest in this task is the rating of the match between the evidence
      and hypothesis (see Figure 1), which has been shown to correlate with delusional severity in
      psychosis.

      Experimental Design: proof-of concept study "The Effect of Neuromodulation on Saccades"

      The experiments proposed are standard saccade experiments, similar to the ones conducted by
      Chen Zhang et al. In the prosaccade task, each trial begins with a fixation point at the
      center of the screen that lasts for 800-1200 ms picked randomly from an exponential
      distribution. Participants will be instructed to fixate on the fixation point. The fixation
      point disappears and, after a time gap of 200 ms, a peripheral target appears randomly at 10°
      to the left or right of the central fixation point. Participants will be instructed to make a
      rapid saccade in the direction of the target. They have 1,000 ms to complete the saccade to
      the correct location. In the anti-saccade task, the procedure remains the same but the
      participants are instructed to make a saccade in the opposite direction of the target. In the
      memory-guided saccade task, participants will be instructed to maintain fixation, after which
      two targets will appear sequentially for 100 ms each in one of four quadrants around the
      periphery of the screen. Participants will be required to maintain fixation for additional
      time and wait for the go signal (disappearance of the fixation point). Then the participants
      are required to make two saccades as accurately as possible to the remembered locations of
      the targets in the same sequence in which they occurred. The prosaccade, anti-saccade, and
      memory-guided saccade trials will be interleaved in a block. The different types of tasks
      will be differentiated by different colors of the fixation cross.

      tACS Protocol: All the participants will perform three blocks of the above experiment:
      pre-stimulation block (pre), stimulation block (stim/sham), post-stimulation block (post). In
      the pre-stimulation block, participants will perform all the above tasks, simultaneously
      their EEG data is recorded and their eye-movements are tracked. Based on the EEG data, the
      exact montage for frontal eye fields (FEF) stimulation will be estimated for each
      participant. Also, the exact alpha frequency for stimulation will be estimated. Based on
      these parameters, half the participants will be stimulated in the stimulation block. The
      other half of the participants will act as controls will undergo a sham block. In both cases,
      the participants also perform the saccade tasks. The post block is similar to the
      pre-stimulation block.

      Data Analysis:

      Proof-of concept study "The Hearing Brain":

      Power Spectrum density (PSD) for the range of 1 to 50Hz will be calculated for each of the
      resting-state measurements and averaged for each of the conditions. Repeated-measures
      (entrainment vs. neuromodulation vs. sham vs. control frequency) analyses of variance (ANOVA)
      will be carried out for the PSD values of gamma band and the control frequency bands (alpha,
      beta), under the hypothesis that neuromodulation and entrainment but not sham will lead to
      increased gamma band power but not to differences in the control frequencies.

      Proof-of-concept "DREAM" study:

      Between-groups (neuromodulation vs. sham vs. control frequency stimulation) analyses of
      variance (ANOVA) will be carried out on change scores computed on behavioral measures
      (accuracy, reaction time) in order to assess whether tACS applied using the reciprocity
      principle to bias ongoing brain oscillations alters cognitive performance.

      Proof-of concept study "The Effect of Neuromodulation on Saccades":

      EEG preprocessing: The hdEEG data recorded using the GTEN system will be analyzed using
      MATLAB 2019b using in-house scripts. EEGLAB 13.6.5b (Delorme & Makeig, 2004) functions were
      used to generate the topographical plots. The spectral analysis will be performed using
      Chronux 2.12 toolbox (Bokil et al., 2010). The EEG data will be preprocessed using a
      Statistical Correction of Artifacts in Dense-array Studies (SCADS) (Junghöfer et al., 2000),
      which removes EEG artifacts based on statistical parameters. Firstly, the data will be
      filtered using an FIR bandpass filter with stop band frequencies at 2Hz and 55Hz. The filter
      will be designed using the MATLAB based signal processing toolbox. Then the EEG data will be
      epoched to contain the entire trial. Then, electrodes contaminated with artifacts will be
      rejected by the SCADS algorithm. The parameters used for electrode rejection are - maximum
      amplitude, maximum gradient and standard deviation of signal amplitude in each epoch, and
      each electrode. Further, the EEG data will be re-referenced to the average signal.

      Montage estimation using EEG: The exact electrode montage and stimulation frequency to be
      used in the stimulation block, will be estimated based on the EEG data collected in the
      pre-stimulation block. The EEG data is preprocessed and epoched w.r.t the saccade onset. EEG
      data from -1000ms to 500ms from the saccade onset is used to generate epochs. The source of
      the preparatory activity before the saccade is estimated using Constrained Principal
      Component Analysis (CPCA) (Takane & Hunter, 2001). CPCA generates a component for the saccade
      preparation. The electrode loadings for the component will be used as a montage for tACS
      stimulation. Also, the frequency whose phase encodes the saccade latency (For more details
      refer to the methods in Drewes & VanRullen, 2011) will be used as the stimulation frequency.

      Eye-tracking data analysis: All the data analyses will be performed on MATLAB 2019b. The
      eye-tracking data will be analyzed using in-house scripts. The eye-tracking data is parsed
      into different types of epochs. Missing data corresponding to eye-blinks will be rejected
      from the analysis. Also, the trials in which the participant does not maintain fixation will
      be rejected. The gaze velocity is used to discriminate saccades from fixations. Then data
      from each trial is analyzed to check if the participant performed the correct saccade. E.g.,
      if in an anti-saccade trial, the participant saccades away from the target, then the trial is
      assigned as correct; otherwise, it is assigned as an incorrect trial. Then, for all the
      trials, behavioral metrics such as saccade accuracy, latency, velocity, amplitude, and
      trajectories will be extracted. The online effect of stimulation (Stim - Pre) and the
      long-term effect of stimulation (Post - Pre) is checked for each behavioral metric and each
      of the saccade tasks. To test hypotheses, analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be carried out on
      the dependent measures - saccade latency, accuracy, velocity, amplitude, etc, with
      Sham/Stimulation as the between-subjects variable.

      Clinical Impact:

      These preliminary studies will be conducted in healthy controls order to establish that we
      can induce changes in the power of a specific frequency band with neuromodulation using the
      GTEN system. Further, we aim to establish that we are able to detect short-term changes in
      EEG signal following tACS and alter cognitive processes that are relevant to the experience
      of psychiatric illness. Conducting this pilot research will be essential in translating our
      stimulation protocol to the patient population.
    
  