
    
      A total of 36 communities have established a testing site with testing events held every
      other week (bi-weekly). The study randomized counties at the site level within county. The
      investigators used a priori stratification by county as sample size is small. Half of all
      sites in a county were assigned to the control condition (services as usual), and the other
      half to the intervention condition (Promotores de Salud). Randomly assigned communities
      receive one of two outreach strategies: Services as usual (culturally tailored flyers, radio
      announcements, social media posts, health behavior pamphlet on site) or services as usual
      plus the Promotores de Salud intervention, where a paid, trusted community member reaches out
      to community members to motivate them to utilize the free testing services and improve
      COVID-19 related health behaviors. The Promotores de Salud intervention was designed to build
      relationships with Latinx community members and facilitate trust.

      To assess the proportion of Latinx community members tested at each site, the investigators
      will use de-identified health information provided to the study by the University of Oregon's
      (UO) COVID-19 clinical genomics laboratory, who are processing the tests. To assess health
      behaviors, a subset of adult participants at each site will be invited to participate in a
      research survey, administered at baseline and again 30 days later. For both approaches, the
      study anticipates engaging a greater proportion Latinx community members, relative to overall
      county demographics. The overall study population is expected to be 85% Hispanic and 15%
      non-Hispanic, with 84% of individuals identifying as White in both ethnic groups and the
      remaining 16% identifying as African American, Asian, Pacific Islander, American
      Indian/Alaska Native, or more than one race. There will be 18 sites per study group (36
      total) and up to roughly 3,600 adult individuals assigned to the intervention (n = 1,800) or
      control conditions (n = 1,800).

      This study also leverages data from a patient registry from the University of Oregon's
      COVID-19 clinical genomics laboratory.

      Quality Assurance, Data Checks, Source Data Verification, Data Dictionary, and Standard
      Operating Procedures: Data and biospecimens will be collected in-person at testing sites,
      requiring direct interaction with participants. In order to report SARS-CoV-2 infection
      results back to each participant, name, date of birth, and contact information are collected.
      To fulfill reporting requirements to the Oregon Health Authority, county of residence and zip
      code are also collected for each person tested. Data used to evaluate the efficacy of
      intervention will involve aggregate variables derived from data collected as part of the
      diagnostic testing procedure and will be aggregated at the level of the testing site (e.g.,
      tests performed, race and ethnicity percentages, etc.).

      For the collection of SARS-CoV-2 samples, testing facilitators will guide participants in the
      self-collection process. For anterior nares, participants are instructed to place the nasal
      swab about 1cm into their nostril and rotate it, making contact with the nasal membrane for
      10 seconds, then repeating the process with the same swab in the other nostril. For saliva
      collection, participants spit 1 - 5 ml of saliva into a sterile container, which may take a
      participant up to 10 minutes to produce. Parents are instructed to collect the sample for
      their child if the child is under 10 years old, or if the minor child requests parental
      assistance. Testing site staff can assist participants who have low dexterity or physical
      impairments in sample collection. In case of an injury during sample collection, the
      partnering community organization staff will direct the participant to the appropriate
      medical resources. Samples will be placed into sterile barcoded vials (1 ml Matrix, barcoded
      screw-cap tubes) that each contain 500 microliters (μl) of DNA/RNA Shield. Each Matrix tube
      will then be closed tightly and will be placed in a standard plastic laboratory
      microcentrifuge tube rack with eight rows and twelve columns (8-by-12 rack with 96
      positions). This rack will then be externally decontaminated by brief submersion in
      accelerated hydrogen peroxide (H202). Each 96-position microcentrifuge tube rack will then be
      labeled and placed in a sterile temporary container with wet ice at 4Cdegrees. If possible at
      each site, racks will be periodically transferred either to a refrigerator (4C) or freezer
      (-20C) for storage. At the end of the day all racks will be transported on wet ice to the
      COVID-19 clinical genomics Laboratory at UO, ensuring that they will arrive no longer than 48
      hours after collection and preferably within 12-24 hours. If the testing site is located too
      distally for hand transport, tube racks will be secured and shipped by express methods on dry
      ice.

      Each 96 well collection plate will next proceed to molecular processing using the standard,
      FDA approved Thermo Fisher TaqPath analysis protocol. All steps of this approved protocol
      will be followed exactly, including the appropriate reagents, volumes, and inclusion of
      appropriate positive and negative controls. In addition, investigators will employ the
      software analysis system and parameters exactly as specified. First, RNA will be extracted
      from each well using the MagMax Viral/Pathogen Nucleic Acid Isolation Kit (ThermoFisher,
      #100081242) which removes potentially inhibiting contamination and increases the sensitivity
      and consistency of subsequent qPCR protocols. Depending upon the number of samples to be
      processed, the RNA extraction will either occur by hand using multichannel pipettors or
      through the use of the Hamilton Robot. The purified RNA will then be retrotranscribed for
      analysis using the TaqPath RT-PCR COVID-19 Kit on either 96 well or 384 well QuantStudio5
      (QS5) thermocyclers depending upon the number of samples to be processed. If the lab
      technicians need to process 384 samples, they will use the Hamilton liquid handling robot
      (Hamilton, Microlab VANTAGE 2.0) to aliquot from each of four-96 well plates into the 384
      well plate format for subsequent qPCR amplification. In this RT-PCR process, probes anneal to
      three unique forward and reverse primers for three SARS-CoV-2 genes: ORF1ab, N Protein and S
      Protein.

      All laboratory and reporting will be automated through the use of barcodes, robotics, 96 and
      384 well qPCR machines, and the use of a fully HIPAA and CAP3 compliant Laboratory
      Information Management System (LIMS) built by L7 informatics (https://l7informatics.com/).
      These system automations and use of LIMS allow increased throughput (up to several thousand
      samples per day) and rapid analysis and automated reporting of results through the LIMS. The
      qPCR data are stored in the LIMS system for analysis using the Applied Biosystems COVID-19
      Interpretive Software to allow a qualitative assessment of whether the virus is present in
      the sample (a 'positive' case), absent, or uncertain. The LIMS system in the COVID-19-MAP lab
      allows the integration of this analysis software into the appropriate step of the overall
      sample tracking workflow pipeline, and therefore the immediate result can be linked to the
      appropriate barcode in the database. Furthermore, the LIMS system is connected and
      communicates via a local area network (LAN) with all equipment (e.g., robots and qPCR
      machines) to document each step of the process for CLIA validation. The results for each
      sample, and associated metadata on the steps during processing, are then associated with each
      assigned barcode and can then be disseminated, as appropriate, to the Oregon Health
      Authority, the appropriate county health department, and the individual. Test results will be
      available within 48 hours and no later than 4 days to the individual and/or the health
      authority.

      After testing occurs, researchers will have access to aggregate, community-level (e.g.,
      counts and prevalence rates), de-identified data prepared by the UO's CLIA clinical genomics
      laboratory. The data will include three protected health identifiers: site zip code,
      participant zip code, and testing date. It will also include demographic data this is not
      protected health information such as age range, race, and ethnicity. These data will be used
      to assess outreach activities aimed at increasing participation of Latinx community members
      in SARS-COV-2 testing. The primary outcome for this aspect of the study is site-level testing
      rates of Latinx individuals.

      Sample Size Assessment, Plan for Missing Data, Statistical Analysis Plan: For the primary
      efficacy evaluation of the Promotores intervention, the investigators will employ standard
      normal theory analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) and auto-regressive linear modeling for
      continuous outcomes such as COVID-19 knowledge; and they will employ pre-post generalized
      linear modeling for count and ordered categorical outcomes such as proportion of Latinx
      tested at each geographic site. To address the non-independence of participants in the
      intervention design, investigators will estimate linear mixed models. Two primary sources of
      missing data are expected, item non-response and attrition over time. For dropout,
      investigators will conduct standard attrition analyses to compare baseline characteristics
      between attriters and completers. They will consider propensity score matching procedures and
      complier average causal effects models to address substantial differences. For item
      non-response and scale score development, investigators will require 70% of scale items be
      present for scoring. They will test whether scale level data are missing completely at random
      (MCAR) within waves and then across waves. If data are not MCAR, under assumptions of missing
      at random (MAR, i.e., data are not dependent on missing values of the intervention response
      variable), investigators will employ one of two recommended approaches for SEM, full
      information maximum likelihood (FIML) or multiple imputation (MI). Although these approaches
      can be problematic when data are non-ignorable missing, they are still recommended for
      handling missingness, particularly with covariates associated with attrition. Both methods
      provide more efficient standard errors than listwise or pairwise deletion, or mean
      substitution. Should missing data or attrition be associated with covariates, investigators
      will include appropriate covariates in hypothesis testing. For the pre-post individual level
      criterion outcomes, 36 sites with roughly 50 to 100 participants per site plus attrition (n =
      2160) an alpha level of .05 and intra-class correlations ranging from .05 to .20 provides
      power to detect effects ranging from .19 to .32, respectively (small to moderate).

      Finally, data will be collected in accordance with Tier 1 "common data elements" from the
      national Duke Coordination and Data Collection Center (CDCC). The CDCC directly assists each
      individual RADx-UP project to optimize engagement, outreach, testing strategies, and to
      facilitate co-learning opportunities between and among RADx-UP projects. Key outcome data and
      the testing procedures for obtaining the sample, analysis platform, analysis procedures, and
      test resulting will be collected and represented in a consistent manner for harmonization
      across the consortium, integrated with test reporting requirements under the Coronavirus Aid,
      Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act).
    
  