
    
      BACKGROUND

      Depression is a significant contributor to the global burden of disease and affects people in
      all communities across the world. Today, depression is estimated to affect 350 million
      people. The World Mental Health Survey conducted in 17 countries found that, on average,
      about 1 in 20 people reported having an episode of depression in the previous year.
      Depressive disorders often start at a young age; drastically reduce people's functioning and
      often are recurring. For all these reasons, depression is the leading cause of disability
      worldwide in terms of total years lost due to disability.

      Commonly the diagnosis and treatment of major depressive disorder is based on mood symptoms.
      However, cognitive impairments are often present in this disorder. In this respect, the
      recent Diagnostic and Statistical Manual 5 (DSM-5) highlight impairment in cognitive function
      as a criterion in the diagnosis of a major depressive episode (MDE) (American Psychiatric
      Association. At clinical level, patients frequently present subjective complaints during and
      after resolution of an MDE. Moreover, objective deficits measured by neuropsychological tests
      are also reported in different cognitive domains in cold cognitive function - executive
      function, processing speed, attention, learning or memory- (Hammar &Ardal, 2009) or also in
      hot cognitive function -negative biases in perception, attention and memory, and aberrant
      reward/punishment processing-.

      Different meta-analyses have demonstrated that these deficits may emerge from the first
      depressive episode with relevant intensification during each acute MDE persisting in some
      depressive patients even during the resolution of the acute episode. These deficits, both in
      an acute episode and in remission, have a relevant impact on clinical and functional
      outcomes, in the first case by reducing the chance to fully recover and in the second by
      increasing the risk of relapse. Moreover, cognitive deficits have shown to have a negative
      influence in functional performance in academic, social and working life (Lee et al., 2013,).
      In this context, recent studies have shown that a larger number of MDD episodes, a longer
      duration of illness and a poor response to antidepressant treatments might explain the
      maintenance of cognitive dysfunction, even in patients with some clinical response.

      Persistent cognitive deficits in depression play a crucial role in some patients׳ ability to
      achieve a functional recovery. With this respect, cognitive function in depression is
      significantly also related to employment status. A preliminary study suggests that deficits
      in executive functioning have a mediating effect on the relationship between depression and
      impaired activities of daily living. Moreover, mood disorder patients with neuropsychological
      deficits tend to be less compliant with antidepressant treatment (Martinez-Aran et al., 2009)
      and show an increased risk for suicide. In this context, the identification and treatment of
      specific cognitive deficits may be a cardinal aspect in the achievement of depression
      recovery and, even more important, in the functional normalization of patients to their
      pre-morbid levels.

      At present there is a growing interest on the role of antidepressant treatment in the
      modulation of cognitive deficits associated with depression. Despite the wide array of
      effective antidepressant agents, the knowledge on the impact of available drugs on cognitive
      function constitutes a relevant unmet need. Indeed, the number of studies focusing on this
      issue is relatively scarce and the outcome of cognitive symptoms is widely variable.
      Potential pro-cognitive effect of a particular antidepressant mostly relay on its specific
      mechanisms of action, anf in the last years the evidence accumulated have support that drug
      involving more targets such as dual (duloxetine) or multimodal (vortioxetine) antidepressants
      show more pro-cognitive properties than those with one major mechanism (SSRI).

      However, the clinical studies putting cognitive dysfunction as the primary outcome in
      depression trials are scarce and further support of these initial promising findings of the
      effects of dual/multimodal antidepressants on cognition are required.

      OBJECTIVES

      This open-label clinical study will evaluate the clinical outcome of switching to
      desvenlafaxine on cognitive function of patients with major depressive disorder with
      inadequate response to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI)

      * Primary Objective

      To study differences in cognitive function in moderate to severe MDD patients with inadequate
      response to SSRI and healthy controls at baseline and after 12 weeks of treatment with
      desvenlafaxine.

      * Secondary Objective

      To study differences in subjective cognitive function (cognitive complains), measured by
      PDQ-5 at baseline and after 12 weeks of treatment with Desvenlafaxine.

      To study differences in cognitive function, measured by neuropsychological tests battery
      (including cold and hot cognitive function) at baseline and after 12 weeks of treatment with
      desvenlafaxine.

      To study differences in depression severity, measured HDRS-17 and CGI at baseline and after
      12 weeks of treatment with desvenlafaxine.

      To study changes in subjective remission and functional status measured with Remission
      Depression Questionnaire (RDQ) and the Short Assessement Functioning Test (FAST),
      respectively.
    
  