
    
      Episodic alcohol abuse is common among college students. Recently, brief interventions
      focusing on motivational strategies and behavior skills to reduce heavy drinking and
      alcohol-related problems have shown beneficial small to medium effects in college drinkers
      who reported heavy drinking and/or alcohol-related problems. Most interventions have not
      taken into account psychiatric comorbidity, in particular social anxiety, a frequent problem
      for college students that has been linked to excessive alcohol use. This project will extend
      knowledge on brief interventions by integrating cognitive-behavioral therapeutic strategies
      for social anxiety with an existing alcohol intervention designed for college students.

      The efficacy of a new integrated treatment, the Brief Intervention for Socially Anxious
      Drinkers (BISAD) was developed and tested. All participants reported heavy alcohol use,
      alcohol-related problems and social anxiety based on standardized measures. Phase I of the
      study focused on the development of the treatment manuals and measures of therapy integrity
      for BISAD and an alcohol-focused intervention, a modified treatment-as-usual at the local
      university. During this phase therapists were trained to administer the manualized
      interventions to study participants (N=12). Phase II included further refinement of the
      therapy integrity measures and data collection for the pilot study (N=41). Participants were
      randomized to either BISAD (n=21) or a modified treatment-as-usual (n=20) condition. The
      pilot study provide preliminary data on the efficacy of the proposed intervention in reducing
      heavy drinking, social anxiety, and their negative consequences at 1-month and 4-month
      follow-ups after treatment termination. These data provide estimated effect sizes for future
      testing of BISAD in a full-scale clinical trial. Furthermore, the study results contribute to
      the conceptualization and methodological development of combined interventions for other
      substance use and psychiatric problems.
    
  