
    
      Sexually transmitted infections (STIs), including the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), are
      a health problem for all adolescents, regardless of race. Presently, there are nearly 110
      million cases of sexually transmitted infections (STI) in the United States. Annually, there
      are more than 19.7 million new STI cases, of which half are accounted for by youth. Of those,
      more than half are accounted for by youth ages 15 to 24 years. However, Black males between
      the ages of 13 and 17 are disproportionately affected by STIs such as chlamydia, gonorrhea,
      syphilis, and HIV/AIDS; they currently account for 50% of HIV infections among all youth.
      Additionally, the rate of HIV infection among young black gay or bisexual men is twice that
      of young white men. Researchers have pointed to the need to involve Black men who are fathers
      in interventions to decrease the epidemic of STIs and HIV among Black adolescent boys.
      However, youth-focused interventions from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
      (CDC) include only one intervention with a focus on the father and son as a dyad. Thus more
      research is clearly needed with this focus, but challenges with recruitment need to first be
      addressed. Challenges in recruiting Black men for health research are reflected in efforts by
      the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to promote research that includes minorities and in
      particular Black fathers. Barriers to research participation include ongoing distrust of
      health researchers because of the historic failing of the medical field in the Tuskegee
      syphilis study of rural Black men; this occurred more than 47 years ago but still remains
      important today. Barriers also include lack of knowledge of the benefits of research. Because
      of this lack of participation of Black men in research we have only limited understanding of
      their perceptions of many health issues. In order to involve this population in research,
      barriers and challenges to their involvement must be overcome. One way to begin this is to
      engage with leaders in their communities, to effectively communicate research objectives and
      begin building trusting relationships. Establishing relationships with community leaders can
      facilitate recruitment in research and help to overcome some of the barriers and challenges
      for Black men. Important elements of building those relationships include discussing research
      procedures, hypotheses, pilot data, and plans to bring results of research back to the
      community for future utilization. This proposed study will therefore seek to implement these
      elements of trust with local barbers and barbershops. In the Black community, barbers have
      been identified as community leaders and a great recruiting source for work on health
      promotion and disease prevention in the areas of hypertension and prostate cancer. However,
      few studies have used barbershops for sexual health related content focusing on Black fathers
      and their adolescent boys.

      To create a successful recruitment process for Black men and their sons, a strategic plan of
      action is necessary prior to implementing a study. The first step is to gain a deeper
      understanding of effective strategies to include Black men in research. Therefore, the
      proposed pilot study will develop and test the feasibility of a recruitment process for Black
      men who are fathers and their adolescent sons, using barbershops and barbers as recruiters
      and advocates. Barbers will be assessed for their willingness to serve as recruiters and
      advocates for sexual health related studies involving Black fathers and their adolescent
      sons, and their ideas for recruitment for this group. With this information we will develop
      and pilot a recruitment strategy, to be used in a future qualitative study: Assessing Black
      fathers' attitudes towards discussing sexual health with their adolescent son and Assessing
      Black adolescent boys' attitudes towards their father as a sexual health educator. This
      future study will identify fathers' attitudes towards their adolescent sons and sex and major
      influences on sexual behaviors of adolescent boys, identify fathers' perspectives on what and
      who is important to include in an intervention focused on STI and HIV prevention, develop a
      survey tool to assess a larger sample of African American fathers for a future study, and
      gain adolescent males' perspectives on the role of their fathers in their sexual health.
      Research has suggested that clear communication between Black parents and their youth about
      sexual health is associated with higher rates of sexual abstinence, condom use, and intent to
      delay initiation of sexual intercourse, which can prevent infectious diseases. However,
      barriers exist for parents in educating their youth about sexual health, including lack of
      knowledge and discomfort in talking about safe sex. Further, little research has been
      conducted specifically on the parental role of Black fathers in educating their sons. This
      study will identify the best strategies for recruiting Black fathers and their sons for
      research on the parental role of Black fathers in helping their sons avoid risky sex.
    
  