
    
      Study Design:

      This is a single-center, placebo controlled, double blinded Phase 1b/2a study to assess the
      safety, tolerability and potential efficacy of orally administered SYN-004 in adult allo-HCT
      recipients. Participants will be randomized 2:1 to SYN-004 or placebo in blocks of three,
      stratified in three cohorts based on study assigned antibiotic (MER, piperacillin/tazobactam
      [PIP/TAZO], FEP) to be administered if the treating clinicians determine initiation of
      broad-spectrum antibiotics is indicated. As such, there will be six groups based on
      antibiotic cohort and randomized assignment of study drug:

      Group 1: Placebo + IV MER (n=4) (MER control). Group 2: SYN-004 + IV MER (n=8) (MER
      treatment). Group 3: Placebo + IV PIP/TAZO (n=4) (PIP/TAZO control). Group 4: SYN-004 + IV
      PIP/TAZO (n=8) (PIP/TAZO treatment). Group 5: Placebo + IV FEP (n=4) (FEP control). Group 6:
      SYN-004 + IV FEP (n=8) (FEP treatment). Study-assigned antibiotics will be dosed as follows
      (adjusted for renal function as needed): MER 1 gram every 8 hours, PIP/TAZO 4.5 grams every 6
      hours, FEP 1 gram every 8 hours. SYN-004 treated participants (Groups 2, 4 and 6) will be
      compared to control participants who receive placebo (Groups 1, 3 and 5, respectively). The
      study will be conducted in stages, commencing with Groups 1 and 2 who will be assigned to
      receive MER if antibiotics are indicated. MER is the first cohort because anti-infective
      efficacy of MER is not anticipated to be affected if SYN-004 is absorbed systemically.
      Accrual for Groups 3 and 4 (PIP/TAZO cohort) will begin only after review of the data from
      Groups 1 and 2 by the Data and Safety Monitoring Committee (DSMC) and agreement to proceed.
      PIP/TAZO is the next cohort because TAZO is a beta-lactamase inhibitor. As such, in the
      unlikely event of SYN-004 systemic absorption, TAZO systemic concentrations should be
      sufficient to inhibit any absorbed SYN-004. Accrual for the FEP cohort will begin after
      approval by the DSMC's review of results from groups 3 and 4.

      Patients planned to receive an allo-HCT will be eligible for enrollment in the study and can
      be enrolled anytime from when it is known they will undergo HCT until day +1 after HCT (day
      of study drug start). Written informed consent will be obtained by all patients. To count
      towards the enrollment goal of 36 participants, a study participant must receive at least 80%
      of scheduled study drug doses from initiation of study assigned antibiotics through the
      second antibiotic pharmacokinetic assessment (7-9 days of concomitant study drug and study
      assigned antibiotic). Additional participants will be enrolled to replace participants who do
      not meet criteria to count towards the goal study enrollment until the goal enrollment is
      achieved.

      This Phase 1b/2a study will use the SYN-004 dosing regimen (150 mg, PO, q6h) used in previous
      Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials in healthy volunteers and patents with LRTIs. The first
      dose of study drug will be administered at day +1 after HCT and will be continued until
      Criteria for Discontinuation of Study Drug are met.

      The study will consist of two periods: the Treatment Period and the Follow-up Period.

        1. The Treatment Period will be defined as the time from first dose of study drug until the
           last dose. For participants who do not meet criteria for early discontinuation, study
           drug will be continued for 72 hours after last dose of MER, PIP/TAZO, or FEP.

        2. The Follow-up Period begins after cessation of study drug dosing and is split into three
           parts:

             -  Part A: up to 30 days after study drug was discontinued

             -  Part B: from end of Part A to day +180 after HCT

             -  Part C: from end of Part B to day +365 after HCT Patients enrolled in the study
                will receive conditioning and HCT according to their treatment plan. Fever and time
                of antibiotic start will be defined per local standard of care of patients.
                Cessation of antibiotic therapy and/or changes to antibiotic therapy will be at the
                discretion of the treating physician.

      All participants will be evaluated as outlined in the Schedule of Assessments. At
      predetermined points during the study as outlined in the SOA, blood samples, urine samples,
      fecal swabs, and fecal samples will be collected for the indicated analyses.
    
  