
    
      Natural Orifice Transluminal Endoscopic Surgery (NOTES) is an emerging field in minimally
      invasive surgery. NOTES can be performed via a variety of approaches, including through the
      stomach, esophagus, bladder, and rectum, but the majority of cases have been performed
      transvaginally (vNOTES).

      The vNOTES technique includes conventional, laparoscopic instruments that are inserted
      through a single-port device that enables the insertion of 1 10-mm trocar, and 4 5-mm
      trocars. The operation in carried out placing the patient in the lithotomy position. After
      completing general anaesthesia, a 2.5-cm posterior colpotomy is made. The pouch of Douglas is
      opened and the transvaginal natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (vNOTES) port is
      inserted transvaginally. A pneumoperitoneum is created, and the pelvic cavity, including the
      uterus and the adnexa is demonstrated. Only then, the conventional laparoscopic instruments
      are inserted.

      By incorporating the advantages of endoscopic surgery, the vNOTES approach avoids abdominal
      wall wounds and trocar-related complications, including reducing post operation pain.
      Moreover, recent studies report, shorter hospital stay, improved visibility, and the
      possibility to circumvent extensive lysis of adhesion to reach the pelvic cavity. It should
      be mentioned that operative risks such as : anesthesia complications, excessive blood loss,
      damage to near organs ( intestines or bladder), and vasculature damage exists in both
      conventional laparoscopy and vNOTES approach.

      vNOTES technique has been used for hysterectomy and was proven to be just as good as
      laparoscopy with the advantage of daycare surgery. The use of vNOTES for
      salpingo-oophorectomy without concomitant hysterectomy has been questioned due to challenging
      accessibility. To the best of our knowledge, data concerning the experience using this
      technique for salpingo-oophorectomy is scarce and based on few published case-reports.

      Therefore, the aim of this study is to compare the common approach of laparoscopy for
      bilateral salpingo - oophorectomy to a new approach via transvaginal natural orifice
      transluminal endoscopic surgery (vNOTES).

      Material and methods

      This is a randomized prospective study including women admitted electively to a single care
      center for bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy due to benign indication. Women that will be found
      to fit inclusion criteria will get by the research team explanation on both techniques. After
      giving informed consent, all women will be allocated to one of two operative techniques by
      en-block randomization:

        1. Laparoscopy

        2. vNOTES

      Both operations will be done by a single highly skilled operator. All women will sign
      informed consent before admitted to operation room. Patient's demographics, characteristics,
      perioperative, operative and post-operative data will be collected from medical records. Data
      will be coded in order to save confidentiality ( each serial number will identify a patient.
      The list of serial numbers that fits each identification number will be available only for
      the principle investigator ).
    
  