
    
      Primary nephrotic syndrome(PNS) is a group of clinical symptoms caused by a variety of
      factors, including immune,environmental, genetic, et al. Oral corticosteroids have been to be
      the preferred drug for the treatment of PNS, but the long-term use of glucocorticoid therapy
      in clinic often induces some problems such as hormone dependent and hormone resistance, as
      well as severe side effects which act as a threat to the patients' health. On the treatment
      of nephrotic syndrome in the latest evidence-based practice guidelines, Japan and Kidney
      Disease: Improving Global Outcomes(KDIGO) still have no high-level-evidence recommendation
      for the steroid resistant PNS and those patients with renal function significantly impaired.
      In addition, a large number of patients with proteinuria long-term not control often behave
      faster progression into chronic renal failure, leading to poor prognosis. What's more,
      patients holding the progression into 3-4 stage of chronic kidney disease with nephrotic
      syndrome ofen can not tolerate the conventional immunosuppressive therapy, thus cause faster
      progression into end-stage renal disease. There is no better treatment method for this
      phenomenon nowadays. Therefore, it is particularly important to explore new treatment options
      for the clinical disease described above.

      In renal diseases, Rituximab ( RTX) is often used in the treatment of refractory nephropathy,
      such as hormone dependent nephrotic syndrome, hormone resistance nephrotic syndrome,
      frequency recurrence nephrotic syndrome, which shows exciting effects in delaying the
      development of the disease. An observational、 multicenter、 retrospective study about the
      therapeutic effect of RTX on adult minimal change nephrotic syndrome (MCNS) was conducted.
      This study confirmed that RTX is safe and effective in the treatment of adult patients with
      MCNS, which can be used as an alternative treatment options for MCNS patients with long-term
      recurrence. Whereas, whether the rituximab in the treatment of PNS (MCNS or other types of
      NS) combined with CKD plays the same role on delaying the progression of renal disease, there
      is no relevant clinical trials reported.

      At present, mesenchymal stem cells ( MSCs) has been used as a research hotspot to repair the
      tissue damage of chronic kidney disease, and it also behaves certain effects. Clinical
      Studies about the treatment of PNS by the umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells or the
      treatment of CKD by the bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells suggest that the mesenchymal stem
      cells can improve the patients's condition with PNS or CKD. However, cell therapy in the
      clinical trials in patients with CKD is rarely to be seen, and there is no definitive
      conclusion. Accordingly, more clinical studies are needed to assess the effectiveness,
      feasibility and safety of cell therapy, as well as formulating standard treatment plans.

      We have accumulated 3 cases of patients with chronic kidney disease(in the 3-4 stage),
      accompanied with a large number of proteinuria and renal function declining rapidly,
      providing RTX infusion combined with mesenchymal stem cell.

      Of which, 3 patients had significantly reduced proteinuria, 2 cases showed different levels
      improvement of renal function, 1 cases kept stable renal function. There was no obvious
      adverse reaction and safety risk, but more clinical trials was still required. In addition,
      our team has carried out a project about autologous non-clearing bone marrow stem cell
      transplantation in the treatment of severe lupus associated with renal function impaired.
      This study revealed good treatment effect, which can provide some certain clinical work
      foundation and experience for our following research.

      In summary, we intend to conduct a prospective、 single-center、 randomized 、controlled
      clinical study, uniting the Third Affiliated Hospital of Southern Medical University together
      to explore the effectiveness and safety of rituximab combined with mesenchymal stem cells for
      the treatment of PNS(CKD3-4). The purpose of this study is to seek a more targeted treatment,
      more precise curative effect and more feasibility treatment for PNS(CKD3-4),so as to delay or
      reverse the disease and improve the quality of life of patients with CKD.
    
  