
    
      Anticipated Impacts on Veteran's Healthcare More than 1 million Veterans receive care in
      Emergency Departments (EDs) in VA Medical Centers (VAMCs) annually. ED visits that do not
      result in hospital admission, commonly referred to as treat and release visits, account for
      80% of all VAMC ED encounters. Nearly 1 in 5 Veterans treated and released from a VAMC ED
      receive additional unscheduled care in the ED or hospital within 30 days, a rate that is
      higher than non-VA settings. A large number of Veterans and the VA system would benefit from
      the development of interventions that reduce subsequent ED use in this vulnerable population.

      Project Background Failing to address unmet needs and difficulty navigating the health system
      are two primary forces driving repeat ED use. Unmet needs after an ED visit range from poorly
      controlled chronic diseases to incomplete understanding of new medications or follow-up
      instructions. Perceived barriers to access to primary care and other services are also cited
      as factors that lead Veterans back to the ED for ambulatory care. In a nationally
      representative sample of 15,263 Veterans with repeat ED visits, the investigators found that
      71.7% did not see another VA outpatient provider between their original and return trip to
      the ED, Improving access to services and care coordination are among the primary goals of the
      Veterans' Health Administration's (VHA) ongoing reorganization of primary care. Patient
      Aligned Care Teams (PACTs) are being created in VAMCs across the country; however, there has
      been little focus on the interface between PACT and the ED. A key role for nurses within PACT
      will be telephone management of high risk populations, and Veterans treated and released from
      the ED represent one such high-risk group. However, no studies have examined both the Veteran
      and system-level impact of using nurse care managers to support Veterans after an ED visit.

      Project Objectives

      The overall goal of this study is to examine the impact of a primary care-based nurse
      telephone support program for Veterans treated and released from the ED who are at high risk
      for repeat visits. The investigators will test the following hypotheses:

      H1: Veterans who participate in a primary care-based nurse telephone support program after an
      ED visit will have fewer ED visits in the subsequent 30 days compared to usual care;

      H2: Veterans who participate in a primary care- based nurse telephone support program after
      an ED visit will have higher satisfaction compared to usual care;

      H3: Veterans who participate in a primary care-based nurse telephone support program will
      have lower VA costs for ED and hospital care in the 180 days following an ED visit, compared
      to usual care.

      Project Methods The proposed study is a two group randomized, controlled trial to evaluate a
      structured nurse telephone support program for Veterans treated and released from the ED who
      are at high risk for repeat visits. After informed consent is obtained, Veterans will be
      randomized to nurse telephone support [DISPO ED] or usual care. DISPO ED will consist of 2
      calls from a study nurse (simulating the role of a PACT RN Care Manager) within 7 days of the
      index ED visit, with an option for a 3rd call within 14 days. The primary outcome is a
      dichotomous outcome defined as any ED use within 30 days or not. Secondary outcomes are
      patient satisfaction with VA health care at 30 and 180 days, and total VA costs within 180
      days.
    
  