
    
      The high prevalence of chronic illnesses is a serious public health problem in the United
      States, accounting for 70% of all deaths. Older adults are especially vulnerable; more than
      70 million adults age ≥50 have at least one chronic illness (e.g., heart disease, diabetes).
      Management of chronic conditions requires long-term use of multiple medications and complex
      treatment plans, which can cause unintended consequences, such as increased risk of
      medication errors. Engaging patients in their care and health decision-making processes is
      vital for the provision of high quality care to people with chronic conditions. Until
      recently, however, patients were not given access to their own health records and had to call
      their providers' offices to communicate with them. In the past few years, the nation has made
      unprecedented efforts to transform health care using information technology (IT). Through
      secure patient portals (PPs), patients now can access their electronic health records (EHRs),
      directly send eMessages to their providers, and request medication renewals online. They can
      also involve their family caregivers in their care more efficiently. PPs are especially
      helpful for patients with chronic illnesses, as they offer tools to manage health conditions.
      With the Meaningful Use (MU) incentive payment program by the Centers for Medicare and
      Medicaid Services (CMS), healthcare organizations nationwide are implementing PPs and making
      them available to the public.

      Prior findings demonstrated positive impacts of PPs on management of chronic conditions,
      adherence to treatment, and patient-provider communication. Currently, PP adoption rates vary
      depending on care organizations, but the overall nationwide adoption rate has been low
      (26.8%). A lack of PP use among older adults has been addressed as a particular concern.
      Based on 2014 national survey data, however, when only online users were considered, the
      proportion of PP use in older adults was similar to other age groups (≥18 yrs, 32.2%; 50-64,
      34.1%; ≥65, 29.8%). In a 2015 SeniorNet34 member survey (N=553; mean age, 73.6 yrs), 60.6%
      (n=327) reported having at least one PP account. These findings indicate an excellent
      potential for using PPs for the care of older adults (AHRQ's priority population36). Many
      older adults, however, are not technologically savvy and need additional support. Currently,
      most older adults receive little or no PP training support from their providers. This is a
      critical gap in the nation's health IT initiative because without appropriate support, older
      adults will not be able to use this robust health tool, missing an important opportunity to
      improve their health-related outcomes.

      In an effort to fill this gap, in our previous studies the investigators developed and tested
      the older adult friendly Theory-based PP eLearning Program (T-PeP) to provide older adults
      necessary support for using PPs. In the proposed feasibility study, the investigators will
      optimize and implement the program in a large older adult online community, conduct
      formative/process evaluation, and assess its preliminary impact on PP use and selected
      health-related outcomes. T-PeP was developed based on self-efficacy theory to improve older
      adults' use of PPs for managing their care and includes learning modules, discussion boards,
      and other resources. Considering variations in the types and usability of PPs used by
      patients nationwide, T-PeP was developed as a vendor-agnostic ("not tied to a specific
      vendor") program. The specific aims of the study are to:

      Aim 1: Optimize and implement T-PeP in an older adult online community and conduct formative
      and process evaluations (e.g., usability problems, barriers and facilitators for PP use, and
      other practical issues).

      Aim 2: Assess the preliminary impact of T-PeP on older adults' PP use and selected
      health-related outcomes using a two-arm randomized controlled trial (RCT). Older adult online
      users with chronic conditions (N=242, age ≥50) will be recruited from a large older adult
      online community (SeniorNet.org).

      H1. The intervention group participants will demonstrate greater improvement than the control
      group at the end of T-PeP (3 weeks) and at 4 months in PP knowledge, self-efficacy for using
      PPs and making health decisions, perceived patient-provider communication, and PP use
      (enrollment, usage frequency).

      H2. More participants in the intervention group than the control group will reconcile the
      medications they are taking with the medications listed in their PP at 4 months.

      This study could directly impact quality of care provided to older adults and the success of
      a national health IT initiative by offering a critically missing component in the current PP
      implementation process-patient support for the health IT (PP) designed for patients. Findings
      from the study will also provide hospitals, vendors, and policymakers in-depth information on
      older adults' current PP usage patterns and other challenges in using various PPs at the
      national level, contributing to the improvement of PP technology and clinical practices. Once
      the feasibility of the study is demonstrated, the vendor-agnostic T-PeP could be used widely
      and incorporated into busy practices. The next R01 study will test its long-term effects on
      health behavior and clinical outcomes, as well as care cost, using more diverse samples,
      including practice settings and underserved populations.
    
  