
    
      Endovascular sealing of abdominal aortic aneurysms (EVAS) is a new technique to treat
      infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA), which can be performed more expeditiously than
      endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR). The difference with EVAR is that fixation and seal are
      provided from polymer filled endobags that are placed in the aneurysmal sac. The
      post-implantation syndrome (PIS) is the clinical and biochemical expression of an
      inflammatory response following endovascular repair of an aortic aneurysm. More specifically,
      the presence of fever (body temperature >38 C for ≥1 day) and leukocytosis (white blood cell
      count (WBC) >12.000/mL) with negative blood cultures and is occurring in over 30% cases after
      EVAR. It is related to prolonged hospital stay and elevated CRP levels, that in turn increase
      the risk on major adverse cardiac events. The literature showed that the magnitude of the
      post-operative inflammatory response depends on the type of endoprothesis used for EVAR and
      that EVAS is related to a lower post-operative CRP level, lower white blood counts, a lower
      temperature and less cardiac complications compared to standard EVAR.

      The current study was designed to explore the occurence of the post-implant syndrome after
      EVAR and EVAS. This study was also designed to unravel the cytokines which are involved in
      the post-implant syndrome after EVAR and EVAS.

      In this international, prospective, explorative study 60 patients who are scheduled for EVAR
      and 60 patients who are scheduled for EVAS will be included. Blood samples (for WBC and
      circulating cytokines (TNF-α, Interleukin (IL)-1, 1RA, 6, 10, 18, CRP), Troponin T, HsTnT,
      NT-pro-BNP)) will be taken at:

        -  Before induction of anesthesia

        -  At wound closure

        -  24 hours after surgery

        -  48 hours after surgery

        -  1 month after surgery

        -  6 months after surgery

        -  12 months after surgery

      Patients are finished with the study after 12 months of follow-up.
    
  