
    
      This is a prospective, observational, multi-center, clinical study examining predictors of
      clinical outcomes for patients undergoing PAD endovascular treatment. The study population
      will undergo lower extremity computed tomographic angiography (CTA )and endovascular
      intervention procedures. CT scanning was performed with the coverage from the common iliac
      artery bifurcation to the tiptoe, CTA data were transfer to an offline workstation for
      further analysis. Axial images, cross-sectional views, curved planar reformations and
      multiplane reformations, as well as three dimensional maximum intensity projection images
      were available for evaluation. This includes disease in a vessel located proximal(involving
      the aortoiliac and femoropopliteal locations), distal, (involving the infrapopliteal
      location), proximal and distal (multilevel disease).

      We conduct a detailed chart review to gather the data related to the index endovascular
      intervention procedures report, study personnel history and physical presentation, laboratory
      inspection, the lesion characteristics arising from CTA. Data abstract from chart review
      include indication for procedure (intermittent claudication, rest pain, and tissue loss),
      detailed lesion characteristics (lesion length, stenosis severity, diameter, and presence of
      total occlusion), procedure(s) performed and devices used, and per procedural events.

      Patients will be followed up for the occurrence of these outcomes from the time of their
      initial revascularization procedure(1month after enrollment, and at months 3 (+- 2 weeks), 6
      (+- 2 weeks), and 12 (+- 2 weeks)).

      The follow-up of Clinical outcomes : Primary clinical outcomes of interest were ：1）restenosis
      in the treated segment（Restenosis was defined as a reduction in the luminal diameter of more
      than 50 percent according to any imaging examinations such as duplex ultrasound, CTA,magnetic
      resonance Imaging(MRI) or digital subtraction angiography(DSA) ）；2）re-intervention in the
      treated segment for the clinical progression. Secondary end points included:1) all lower
      extremity amputation, 2) all -cause death, myocardial infarction, and stroke; 3) a neo-
      segment more than 75 % stenosis and clinical assessment requires intervention .

      Cox proportional hazards models were created to show the hazard ratios (HRs) associated with
      lesion characters and patient demographic and clinical characteristics ,and further identify
      predictors of clinical outcomes, moreover, plotted unadjusted Kaplan Meier curves for lower
      extremity peripheral artery patients undergone endovascular revascularization.
    
  