
    
      People living in residential care are typically elderly and often have complex co-morbid
      illnesses that are not expected to improve and which they are unable to manage on their own
      at home. Many of these patients have been prescribed multiple medications to:

        1. treat individual conditions

        2. theoretically prevent unwanted sequelae of chronic conditions and/or

        3. treat side effects of medications given for a) and b).

      Advancing age has been found to be a significant factor in adverse drug events and
      polypharmacy has been found to be a stand alone risk factor for higher mortality and
      morbidity. However, in British Columbia, the average number of medications taken by patients
      in residential care is 9, with a range of 0-55 (hospital reporting data, specific reference
      pending).

      Frail elders are often being treated for chronic diseases using published guidelines for both
      symptom modification and prevention despite the fact that very few of these guidelines are
      able to include convincing evidence about efficacy in the frail elder population.

      Despite the available knowledge of the possible harm of adverse effects in the aged,
      polypharmacy and a lack of appropriate population-specific evidence, many residential care
      patients do not have medications stopped or tapered. The lack of change may be explained by
      the admitting physicians' belief that there is appropriate evidence or a reluctance to stop a
      medication that was started by a specialist. Other research has also suggested that there is
      little or no experience/education for many physicians about which medications to address and
      exactly how to stop/taper medications, and/or a concern/belief that patients or families will
      fear that the care provider is "giving up" on a patient or relegating her/him to a quicker
      death.

      Medication reviews at point of admission to residential care facilities typically do not
      result in a significant reduction in the number of medications nor dose reductions.

      However, there have been some promising initial studies looking at more formalized approaches
      to medication discontinuation and minimization as well as a review of the ethics of such
      programs(23). In a 2007 prospective cohort study, Garfinkel et al were able to demonstrate a
      reduction in 1-year mortality (45% in control and 21% in study group, p<0.001, chi-square
      test), fewer transfers to acute care (30 % in control and 11.8% in study group, p<0.002) as
      well as a reduction in costs of medication.

      I propose to do a randomized control study of medication minimization for residential care
      patients. I will use a modified version of the "GP-GP protocol" developed by Garfinkel, et al
      and randomly assign patients to either "medication prescribing as usual" or the medication
      minimization protocol.

      To see if reducing polypharmacy (i.e. the number and dosage of medications) for elders living
      in residential care increases time between admission and death (i.e. improves mortality) and
      reduces the number of transfers to acute care (i.e. improves morbidity).
    
  