
    
      Study Objectives and Purpose:

        1. A primary purpose of the study is to compare the efficacy of novel eyelid warming
           devices (Blephasteam and EyeGiene) for treatment of meibomian gland dysfunction by
           objective clinical scoring and objective assessment of ocular surface parameters in an
           Asian population.

        2. The second aim is to assess the patient acceptance of these modalities, in terms of
           comfort and convenience.

        3. A third aim of the study is to document Meibomian gland disease using non-invasive
           Meibography, and the possible alterations of this condition after treatment.

      Study Design: Prospective, controlled, single masked, interventional study

      Rationale:

      Meibomian gland dysfunction and resulting evaporative dry eye is highly common in our general
      population. Behavioral factors and environmental stress may contribute to the severity of the
      disease. Eyelid warming devices have the potential to significantly improve meibomian gland
      health and alleviate dry eye symptoms associated with the disease. Currently eyelid warming
      devices suitable for treatment of meibomian gland dysfunction are not available in Singapore.

      Recent technological advances, as well as the infrastructure of the Singapore Eye Research
      Institute (proximity to Singapore National Eye Center and pre-existing facility and
      infrastructure for clinical trials) have facilitated studies of products that are available
      elsewhere and may benefit the Singaporean population.

      Methods:

      Participants and target sample size Seventy-five patients from the dry eye clinic in the
      Singapore National Eye Center who have obstructive meibomian gland dysfunction and are keen
      to test alternative ways for treating the disease will be selected.

      Randomisation is done by randomisation table as deemed appropriate by the statistician
      collaborator.

      Treatment regime After informed written consent, patients will be randomly assigned to a
      group.

        1. Control group, 10-minute treatment, twice daily

        2. Blephasteam, 10-minute treatment, twice daily

        3. EyeGiene, 10-minute treatment, twice daily

      All patients are permitted to continue their regular management of MGD such as use of lid
      scrubs or lid hygiene preparations (such as Lidcare and Blephagel). For consistency, the
      investigators will monitor the use of such measures in a daily diary and prohibit any other
      types of treatment for MGD such as Omega-3 tablets, antibiotic or steroid ointments, probing
      of MG.

      Visit schedules Screening visit will be performed at the regular dry eye clinic. If eligible,
      patients will sign consent and undergo baseline examination.

      Subsequent to this, the follow up visit will be after 4 weeks of treatment. A window period
      of

      +/-3days is permitted for this visit.

      Duration of study:

      Four weeks.
    
  