
    
      Significance: Pre-arthritic hip disorders (PAHD) are bony and soft tissue hip morphologies
      that predispose adolescents and young adults to developing hip pain, chronic impairment, and
      early osteoarthritis (OA). Proper management may prevent these sequelae, but current
      evidence, especially regarding non-operative treatment options, is limited.

      Innovation: The majority of PAHD has so far addressed identification and correction of
      abnormal hip anatomy via surgical management. However, a growing body of evidence suggests
      that several other variables including patients' functional goals, movement patterns, and
      psychological profiles also affect their symptomatology. These risk factors are modifiable
      but are not routinely or adequately addressed. The innovation of this project is to improve
      patient outcomes by evaluating patients with a more comprehensive, patient-specific approach
      than is currently the standard of care.

      Purpose: The purpose of this project is to identify predictors of response to non-operative
      PAHD treatment options and to synthesize these predictors into a clinical prediction tool
      that informs non-operative one-year outcomes using data available during patients' initial
      evaluation. In this prospective observational study, patients who present to an orthopedic
      physician for PAHD will be provided instruction on movement pattern training, which is a
      standardized activity modification protocol that addresses how patients perform routine and
      strenuous activities in order to reduce hip pain. It has proven to be efficacious in a
      randomized trial setting, but it is not yet widely discussed by physicians in the clinic
      setting. Patients will report adherence and response to the movement pattern training at
      scheduled intervals for 12 weeks, and they will also report persistent hip-related
      dysfunction and/or progression to surgery at 6 and 12 months. A clinical prediction tool of
      one-year outcomes will be developed using patients' demographics, biopsychosocial profile,
      movement and activity patterns, and anatomy as candidate predictors. The analysis will also
      determine a minimum combination of patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) that reduces
      survey burden while maintaining similar predictive utility when compared to administration of
      a full battery of hip-specific and general health PROMs.

      Impact: This study is the first step in creating and validating a clinical prediction tool
      which will guide management for patients with pre-arthritic hip disorders. This line of
      research will equip clinicians to provide more accurate prognostic counseling at initial
      evaluation so that an informed shared decision can be made with the patient and initiation of
      an appropriate comprehensive management plan can be expedited.
    
  