
    
      If you agree to take part in this study, your tumor tissue and blood samples will be tested
      for molecular profiling. Molecular profiling is the classification of tissue based on the
      expression of certain genes within a tumor compared to normal tissue. This may be used to
      predict how the tumor responds to therapy. Your doctor may use the results of the molecular
      profiling to help decide which treatment might be the most beneficial for the disease.

      Study Procedures:

      Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn and you will have a tumor biopsy and a biopsy of
      normal tissue when you enroll in this study. Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn again
      about 2-3 weeks after you begin treatment. The type of biopsy you have will depend on the
      type of disease you have. The risks of this procedure will be discussed in more detail with
      you.

      If there is not enough tissue with which the study doctor can perform the study tests
      (described below), you may need to have a second biopsy. The study staff will discuss this
      with you if it is needed.

      Treatment Arms:

      A series of tests to find which gene mutations you have, if any, will be performed. Depending
      on the results of your molecular testing, you may be enrolled on 1 of 2 arms.

      If your molecular profile shows that you have a gene mutation that may benefit from study
      drugs that are believed to target your gene mutation, you will be enrolled in Arm A and will
      receive these targeted drugs.

      If your molecular profile shows that you do not have a gene mutation, you will be enrolled in
      Arm B. In Arm B, the doctor will choose a therapy based on other studies rather than gene
      mutation.

      Length of Study:

      This study will last about 2 years. Your participation on this study will be complete after
      the last blood draw and tumor biopsy is collected.
    
  