
    
      The Investigators propose a longitudinal, observational cohort study using mixed methods to
      compare change in psychosocial outcomes and health behaviors among three study groups of
      pediatric MyCode participants and their parents:

        1. Group 1 - those with a pathogenic variant in a gene associated with adult onset of
           disease (n=17 adolescents, 50 parents)

        2. Group 2 - those with a pathogenic variant in a gene associated with pediatric onset of
           disease or with risk reduction interventions that begin in childhood (n=53 adolescents,
           160 parents)

        3. Group 3 - those who do not receive a genomic result (n=105 adolescents, 320 parents)

      The Investigators will use the current existing MyCode list of actionable genes designated as
      actionable by the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics. Parents of pediatric
      MyCode participants will be offered the opportunity to participate in the study prior to
      learning to which group they belong. Consistent with Geisinger policy, children ages 7-17
      will be asked to give assent to participate. If a child does not want to assent to
      participate, he or she will not be enrolled into the study (regardless of their parents'
      preference regarding enrollment). Parents of children who do not give assent will be
      ineligible to participate. Parents who decline participation when their child is suspected to
      have a pathogenic adult-onset result will have their child's sample held for clinical
      confirmation until the child reaches age 18 years. Parents who decline participation when
      their child is suspected to have a pathogenic pediatric-onset result will proceed to clinical
      confirmation of the result and, if confirmed, follow the established clinical return
      procedure. This recruitment approach is consistent with the MyCode philosophy of notifying
      participants of actionable findings. Parent-participants will be asked to assess psychosocial
      outcomes for themselves and for their children. Consistent with co-investigator Angela
      Bradbury's research on the experience of adolescent girls from families at increased risk for
      breast cancer, pediatric participants ages 11-17 years at enrollment (i.e., adolescents) will
      also participate in quantitative surveys and qualitative interviews.

      Psychosocial variables such as anxiety and depression will be assessed among parents and
      adolescents at enrollment (T1), after which those suspected of having a pathogenic variant
      will proceed to clinical confirmation of that variant. Those whose variant is confirmed
      clinically as pathogenic or likely pathogenic will then be scheduled for a disclosure
      appointment. These appointments will be conducted by a genetic counselor and psychologist,
      who will perform psychosocial assessment, conduct therapeutic consults as needed, and conduct
      periodic psychosocial assessments of adolescent participants with adult-onset results.
      Participants with suspected pathogenic variants that are not confirmed clinically and
      participants without a suspected pathogenic variant will be scheduled for a study visit to
      notify them of their group status and remind them to follow up with their pediatrician if
      they have significant personal or family history of cancer or heart disease.

      Validated surveys will be used to measure outcomes in each study group at 1 month (T3), 6
      months (T4) and 12 months (T5) post-disclosure visit. The investigators will conduct
      qualitative interviews with a subset of at least 45 participants in each of the two study
      groups who receive a genomic result to better understand the lived experience of adolescents
      with an actionable genomic finding and their parents. Data collection will continue after the
      grant funding ends because of Geisinger Research Division's commitment to following the study
      cohort. To address the legal specific aim, Dr. Wagner will lead the study team's legal
      experts in examining and monitoring the loss of chance doctrine in medical malpractice cases
      in federal and state courts across the United States and in monitoring legislative
      developments relating to the loss of chance doctrine as it applies to returning adult-onset
      genomic results to children.
    
  