
    
      Under general anaesthesia, the patient is placed in the modified dorsal lithotomy position.
      The patient is then prepped and draped in the usual fashion for an abdominal & vaginal
      procedure. A vaginal speculum is inserted into the vagina to expose both the cervix and
      posterior fornix. A uterine manipulator is inserted in the uterus in non-pregnant patients,
      followed by placement of a Foley's catheter in the bladder. As regards port placement, a
      10-mm umbilical trocar & two 5-mm trocars in right & left lower quadrants are inserted.

      • Introduction of Mersilene Tape into the Abdominal Cavity: A 5-mm non-absorbable Mersilene
      polyester suture, with adjacent partially straightened blunt needles, is introduced into the
      abdominal cavity through the 5-mm trocar. However, flattening the curvature of the needles,
      while introducing the tape into the abdomen, will eventually pose a challenge during
      placement of the stitch (the needles' curvatures guarantee that the tissue penetration is
      done away from the uterine vessels).

      To overcome this problem, the following method was devised. A one cm suprapubic incision is
      made on the abdomen with a scalpel short of the peritoneum. A needle holder loaded with the
      needle is pushed through the incision until the tip is seen inside the peritoneal cavity. A
      grasper from one of the flank ports receives the tip and the needle is delivered carefully .
      The rest of the tape is pulled until the blunt end of the other needle appears, to be
      delivered in the same way but in the reverse order.

      • Operative Steps The vesico-uterine peritoneum is opened using scissors & the urinary
      bladder is dissected downwards from the lower uterine segment to expose the uterine vessels
      anteriorly on both sides . Both needles are passed through the lower uterine tissue medial to
      uterine vessels on the right & left sides (from anterior to posterior) Then, both needles are
      passed through the remaining cervical tissue medial to uterosacral ligaments towards the
      posterior vaginal fornix (on the right & left sides) guided by laparoscopic illumination .
      When the needles' blunt ends pierce the vaginal vault, the assistant pull them through the
      posterior vaginal fornix . After trimming of both needles, the Mersilene tape is tied tightly
      behind the intravaginal segment of the cervix with five knots & the ends of the stitch are
      trimmed. The vesico-uterine peritoneum is then reapproximated over the laparoscopic cerclage
      with a running (00) Monocryl suture that is tied intracorporeally.
    
  