
    
      The proposed investigation will:

      Determine if 5 weeks of Expiratory Muscle Strength Training (EMST) increases maximal
      expiratory driving pressure (MEP) and improves swallow, cough and breathing function in
      individuals with PD and MS. Following the post assessment of the 5 week EMST program we will
      then evaluate three different modules for monitoring the continuation of the treatment while
      assessing patient quality of life and caregiver burden/satisfaction. This will help us
      determine if one particular home training method results in different physiological and
      functional outcomes.

      Aim 1. Determine the effects of an EMST program on swallow function, voluntary cough
      production and breathing function in individuals with PD and MS identified as below normal
      limits for their age and sex (via physiological measures).

      Hypothesis 1: There will significant and positive treatment effects following 5 weeks of EMST
      on the measures of swallow, cough production and breathing function in those with PD and MS
      following 5 weeks of treatment.

      Aim 2: Determine the outcome of three uniquely structured home treatment monitoring programs
      in maintaining the EMST post treatment effect for patients with MS and PD. These programs are
      referred to as: Education Module (A), Question Only (B), and Education Module plus Question
      (C). The monitoring system will be provided by VitelNet, a leading provider of home health
      monitoring, clinician-based telemedicine Hypothesis 2: Program C will provide greater
      maintenance of the EMST treatment effect for both patient groups compared to programs A and
      B.

      Aim 3: Determine the effects of the home monitoring programs for improving patient quality of
      life and caregiver burden/satisfaction.

      Hypothesis 3: Program C will provide greater improvements in patient quality of life and
      caregiver burden compared to programs A and B.
    
  