
    
      The overarching goal of this study is to assess the feasibility, fidelity, and
      cost-effectiveness of a universal coverage of Antiretroviral Treatment (ART) intervention
      among individuals living with HIV who are not virally suppressed in Dakar and Ziguinchor,
      Senegal. Specific aims and hypotheses are as follows:

      Specific Aim 1: Compare the effectiveness and durability of (a) the existing Standard of Care
      (SOC) in Senegal versus (b) individual Case Management (CM) programs to achieve sustained
      viral suppression (SVS) among people living with HIV in Senegal.

      Hypothesis 1: The null hypothesis is that standard of care and case management will be
      equally effective at achieving sustained viral suppression. The alternate hypothesis is that
      case management will be 30% more effective at sustained viral suppression at 12 months
      compared to standard of care.

      Specific Aim 2: Determine the cost-effectiveness of the universal treatment approach using
      the CM intervention.

      Hypothesis 1: A Case Management approach will be more cost-effective at achieving sustained
      viral suppression among people living with HIV (PLHIV) versus the existing standard of care
      in Senegal.

      This study is a randomized controlled trial (RCT) that uses an effectiveness-implementation
      hybrid design to test the effectiveness and durability of CM interventions in achieving SVS
      among PLHIV who are not virally suppressed. CM vs. SOC approaches will be assessed using an
      individual-level RCT of case management to improve viral suppression of those living with HIV
      at 12 months compared to the Senegal SOC. While viral suppression will be a primary outcome
      of this intervention, significant attention will be given to the collection of service and
      implementation outcomes to assess both the SOC and CM.

      Study sites will include two government HIV treatment facilities in Ziguinchor, and two in
      Dakar. Participant enrollment into the study will take place at the study sites, and study
      arms (SOC or CM) will be assigned through individual randomization at the clinic level.
      Notably, the HIV treatment facilities in this study are existing government facilities given
      the partnership between this study and the Ministry of Health (MOH) of Senegal.

      Eligible participants recruited through the study site health facilities will go through the
      consent process in private rooms within the project office and complete a structured 1-hour
      interviewer-administered questionnaire, which will serve as the baseline assessment.
      Participants will be enrolled into the study, by trained study staff at a study site.

      Baseline assessment of study participants will include a socio-behavioral questionnaire and
      biological testing. The baseline questionnaire will assess demographic characteristics,
      socioeconomic status, mobility and migration history, behavioral characteristics, health and
      HIV treatment history, and HIV acquisition risks.

      Follow up will involve visits at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after the first visit. Questionnaires
      will be administered at each visit. Questionnaires assessing behavioral characteristics,
      mental health, social support, and ART treatment adherence will be administered at 6 months,
      and 12 months.

      Abbreviated questionnaires will be re-administered at 3 and 9 months though no biological
      assessments will be completed at these time points. The questionnaires leverage existing
      instruments that have detailed assessments engagement in ART services as well as enacted,
      perceived, and intersectional stigma. In addition, the investigators will use implementation
      indicators that explore measures of acceptability, fidelity, appropriateness, and
      routinization of the CM intervention.

      Biological samples using either aliquots of serum or dried blood spots (DBS) will be taken at
      baseline, 6 months, and 12 months to support syphilis testing, HIV viral load, and other
      sexually transmitted infections (STIs). Biological testing taken at baseline and will include
      testing currently being implemented through the SOC, and testing conducted at the additional
      visits will be supported by the study. All participants will also have the opportunity to
      receive referrals for additional medical care as needed at the clinics in which the study
      sites are housed.
    
  