
    
      1. Purpose:

           The purpose of this study is to investigate whether phantom limb pain and/or sensations
           can arise after induction of BPA prior to upper extremity surgery. In addition, this
           study aims to investigate if there is cortical remapping of the hand sensation onto the
           face before and after surgery. The outcome of this research will provide insight into
           the characteristics of cortical reorganization and how this correlates to phantom limbs,
           phantom pain, and hand-to-face remapping.

        2. Rationale, Research has yet to elucidate the etiology of phantom limb experiences, and
           the debate over peripheral or central nervous system mechanisms remains contentious.
           Many recent studies on PLP have investigated the relationship between cortical
           reorganization and PLP with the objective of discerning new ways to minimize pain in the
           residual limb in amputees. However, this approach has not been successful in describing
           the changes that occur in the peripheral or the central nervous systems and have not
           been able to concretely link any changes to PLP. Studying patients undergoing brachial
           plexus anesthesia (BPA) prior to upper extremity surgery has the potential to aid in the
           understanding of cortical remapping and the roles of the peripheral and central nervous
           systems in not only PLP but PLS as well. During upper extremity surgery, there have been
           reports that patients do not sense repositioning of the upper limb by the surgeon after
           BPA takes effect. This is similar to the phenomenon of the immobile, "frozen" limb
           occasionally experienced by major limb amputees. The purpose of this study is to
           investigate whether phantom limb pain and/or sensations can arise after induction of BPA
           prior to upper extremity surgery. In addition, this study aims to investigate if there
           is cortical remapping of the hand sensation onto the face before and after surgery. The
           outcome of this research will provide insight into the characteristics of cortical
           reorganization and how this correlates to phantom limbs, phantom pain, and hand-to-face
           remapping.

        3. Study/Project Population, The general subject population includes male and female
           subjects greater than 18 years of age who are receiving BPA for the purposes of upper
           extremity surgery. Since this is a pilot study, we seek to recruit thirty (30) patients.

        4. Research Design, To complete this study, a sensory map of participants' facial responses
           to the brushing of a Q-tip will be collected by a researcher before, and again after,
           BPA has been induced. In addition, follow-up phone sessions will be conducted on the day
           after surgery while BPA is still in effect, and daily, up to seven days, to identify
           whether participants are experiencing any changes in hand-to-face remapping should it be
           detected. This will be used to determine if cortical remapping has occurred as well as
           the time course of onset and reversal.

        5. Study/Project Procedures, During the consent process all sections of the study will be
           described in detail. Participants will be able to determine if they can and would like
           to be enrolled in the study, Phantom Limb Experience After Brachial Plexus Anesthesia.
           30 patients undergoing BPA in preparation for upper extremity surgery will be recruited
           for up to 10 data collection sessions. The first session will take place before the
           administration of BPA. The next sessions will occur after the administration of BPA and
           prior to surgery. A third session will occur after surgery is completed and prior to
           discharge home. Once the patient is discharged, follow-up phone sessions will be
           conducted in order to determine if hand-to-face remapping has occurred overnight and
           what the time course of onset and reversal of remapping and reorganization is. After
           obtaining informed consent, facial mapping of the patient's responses to light touch
           will be collected. To do this, a researcher will brush a Q-tip over all areas of the
           face, beginning at the forehead and working down towards the chin, while the
           participant's eyes are closed. During this process, the participant will be required to
           inform the researcher where the perception of brushing is being felt. During the
           follow-up phone sessions, the patient will answer questions about phantom limb
           sensations and pain, and will also be asked to touch different areas of his/her own face
           and report where the sensations are being perceived.

        6. Outcome Measures. Data will be collected in the form of a verbal report. Participants
           will be instructed to inform researchers about the location that the brushing sensation
           is portrayed. In addition any feeling of phantom sensations or pain will also be
           recorded. Verbal reports will be collected at all in person sessions as well as phone
           follow us sessions. Analysis of these reports will include: the determination of the
           presence or absence of hand to face remapping, a detailed time course of onset and
           reversal if it occurs, specific locations of the hand-to-face remapping, changes in
           location of sensation reports prior to and following BPA, presence or absence of phantom
           limb sensations, such as the inability to feel limb repositioning, as well as the
           presence or absence of PLP. If PLP is experienced, scores of overall pain ratings will
           be conducted using a 10-cm visual analogue scale composed of a linear line where one end
           is labeled "no pain" and the other end is labeled "worst pain possible."
    
  