
    
      In the particular study the investigators will compare the effect of Carbetocin and
      ergometrin in the prevention of postpartum haemorrhage. It is a prospective comparative
      single blind randomized study which will be carried out in the G.N.M.A. "Elena Venizelou".
      The protocol will be filed in an international database before the initiation of the study
      (eg. ClinicalTrials.gov). The sample will be constituted by parturients that will undergo
      Caesarean section. The parturients will be divided in two groups: the group to which
      carbetocin will be administered and the group to which ergometrin will be used as the main
      uterotonic drug. Randomization will be achieved with the help of a computer and the method
      ¨sealed envelope¨. In this method the investigator receives a sealed envelope either by mail
      or by computer, in which a random number will be placed. This number will correspond to one
      of the treatments. For greater reliability in the results some exclusion criteria will be
      set.

      A consent form will be given to the parturients that will have to sign after it is explained
      to them the purpose of the study and that there is a rescue treatment in case of failure of
      the medication is administered to them. Subsequently a complete medical background will be
      obtained and it will be performed the standard laboratory control which includes: a blood
      count, coagulation parameters, biochemical parameters and an assessment by a cardiologist.

      Regional anaesthesia will then be performed (spinal, epidural or combined spinal-epidural).
      After the embryo exit and placental detachment in the ergometrine group will be administered
      intravenously 0.2 mg of the substance slowly in a bolus administration, while in the
      carbetocin group will be administered 100 mcg of carbetocin diluted in 100 cc of N/S 0.9% in
      a continuous rapid-flow intravenous infusion.

      The efficacy of the uterotonic drugs will be assessed with a new hemoglobin and hematocrit
      count 24 hours after the end of the cesarean section, as well as by intraoperative blood loss
      which will be calculated by weighing gauzes and compresses after the end of the operation, by
      the amount of blood present in the suction unit and by the blood present in the surroundings
      of the operating table (9). It is obvious that if necessary rescue therapy will be
      administered which will consist of 15 iu of oxytocin in intravenous infusion in the
      ergometrin group and 0.2 mg of ergometrin in slow bolus administration in the carbetocin
      group, as well as 3 tb of misoprostol in both groups administered per rectum.
    
  