
    
      The purpose of the research was to explore the effects of aromatherapy on pain, sleep
      quality, and psychological distress in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The subjects of
      the study adopted the intentional sampling method, and the place of collection was patients
      with rheumatoid arthritis in the outpatient department of the rheumatology and immunology
      department of the hospital. The study was conducted with a randomized controlled trial
      design. It is estimated that 159 patients with rheumatoid arthritis will be admitted, and the
      participants will be randomly allocated into the experimental group, the comfort group and
      the control group with 53 participants. The experimental group received base oil and
      essential oil massage, the comfort group only received base oil massage for 10 minutes each
      time, three times a week for three weeks, and the control group did not receive any
      intervention measures. Repeated measurements were used to collect data using structured
      questionnaires. Pain was measured by the Numerical Rating Scale, and sleep quality was
      measured by the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index and Epworth Sleepiness Scale. Scale)
      measurement and psychological distress were measured by the Hospital Anxiety and Depression
      Scale. Data were collected at four time points before the intervention, the first week, the
      second week, and the third week after the intervention. The data obtained are processed and
      analyzed using SPSS version 22.00 computer software. Statistical analysis methods include
      independent sample single-factor variance analysis to compare the differences in basic data
      and pain levels between the experimental group, the comfort group and the control group;
      repeated measurement of single-factor variation Analyze the comparison of intra-group
      differences among the three groups at four time points; finally, compare the effects of the
      three groups on pain and sleep quality after aromatherapy interventions using the generalized
      estimation equation.
    
  