
    
      Introduction

      Overactive bladder syndrome (OAB) is defined as the symptom syndrome with frequency, and
      urgency with or without urgency incontinence. OAB affects more than 400 million people
      worldwide and has been estimated to affect around 16% of the adult population across Europe
      and the USA. In Asian countries, the prevalence of OAB has been reported to be 6% of men and
      women aged ≥18 years in China; 12.2% of men and women in Korea;12.4% of men and women aged
      ≥40 years in Japan; and 21 to 25% of women and 16.9% of community dwelling adults in Taiwan.
      Another study reported that the prevalence of OAB among adult men across 11 Asian countries
      (India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Pakistan, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, China,
      Hong Kong and Thailand) was 29.9%.

      Antimuscarinics are first line pharmacotherapy for OAB. However, some patients have a
      suboptimal response to antimuscarinics and some may experience adverse effects, such as dry
      mouth or constipation. Therefore, a high proportion of patients discontinue antimuscarinic
      therapy, with fewer than 25% remaining on treatment at 1 year. There is an unmet need to
      develop new drugs for OAB without the bothersome adverse effects of antimuscarinic agents.

      β3-adrenergic receptors are known to promote urine storage in the bladder by inducing
      detrusor relaxation in animal and human bladders. In humans, the β3-adrenoceptor is the
      predominant β-receptor subtype in the urinary bladder. β3-adrenoceptor agonists relax the
      detrusor smooth muscle during the bladder storage phase and increase bladder capacity without
      accompanying changes in micturition pressure, residual volume or voiding contraction.

      Mirabegron is the first β3-adrenoceptor agonist to have been approved for the treatment of
      OAB. Pooled safety data indicates that dry mouth, the chief cause of treatment
      discontinuation with antimuscarinic agents, occurs with low incidence with mirabegronc.
      Hence, mirabegron may be a valuable treatment option for patients with OAB.

      Recent phase III trials have confirmed the efficacy and safety of mirabegron in the treatment
      of OAB in Europeans, Australians, North Americans, Japanese and Asians. Whether mirabegron
      should be used as the first line treatment for OAB has not been determined yet. There is also
      no study showing that mirabegron is superior to solifenacin in terms of therapeutic efficacy
      and safety profile. The dose effectiveness relationship between 25mg and 50mg mirabegron has
      also not been investigated yet. Hence, we have conducted this post marketing study in order
      to evaluate the efficacy and safety of mirabegron in Taiwanese people with symptoms of OAB.

      Materials and Methods

      Study design and participants

      This prospective, randomized trial will be conducted in Tzu Chi General Hospital, Hualien,
      Taiwan. The study population consisted of male and female outpatients meeting the legal
      minimum age requirement of the region with symptoms of OAB for more than 3 months. Patient
      demographics data will be recorded as detailed as possible, including previous urodynamic
      study results.

      The study consisted of four arms:

        1. Mirabegron 25mg once-daily for 4 weeks, and continue the same dose of mirabegron for
           another 8 weeks

        2. Mirabegron 25mg once-daily for 4 weeks, and increase the dose to 50mg for another 8
           weeks

        3. Mirabegron 25mg once-daily for 4 weeks, and shift to solifenacin 5mg for another 8 weeks

        4. Mirabegron 25mg once-daily for 4 weeks, and add-on solifenacin 5mg for another 8 weeks,

      Randomization was accomplished using a computer-generated randomization scheme (Cenduit GmbH,
      Allshwil, Switzerland) with stratification by site; allocation to treatment groups at each
      site was accomplished via an interactive response system with a study coordinator. Study
      visits took place at Week 0 (Visit 1; confirmation of eligibility criteria); Weeks 4, 8 and
      12 (Visits 2, 3 and 4).

      The study was approved by the institutional review board of each study site and conducted in
      accordance with the ethical principles that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki,
      Good Clinical Practice, International Conference on Harmonisation guidelines, and all
      applicable laws and regulations.

      The sample size for this study was based on results from a 12-week dose-finding Phase II
      study (178-CL-045; NCT00527033) conducted in Japan. In that study, the mean decrease of
      urgency episodes per 24 hours for the mirabegron 50mg group was 2.24. The primary efficacy
      end-point in this study is the percentage of patients with a change from baseline to the
      final visit in the urgency episodes per 24 hours by 2 or greater. The number of patients per
      group necessary to demonstrate superiority to the first group (mirabegron 25mg for 12 weeks)
      would be 263 with an effect size of 0.2, at a two-sided significance level of 5% and power of
      90%. Assuming a dropout rate of 15% during the treatment period, 302 subjects per group are
      to be enrolled for randomization.

      The results of this study will provide evidence for the sup[eriority of which medicatyion and
      combination of pharmacotherapy in treatment of patients with overactive bladder syndrome. We
      also expected to search for the predictive factors for responders to mirabegron 25mg alone,
      mirabegron 50mg, solifenacin alone, and combined mirabegron 25mg an slifenacin 5mg, based on
      the baseline demographics and urodynamic study findings
    
  