
    
      Prayer, energy healing, and spiritual healing are widely used for all degrees of illness.

      Eisenberg (1998) reported that more that 26% of his survey sample used "energy healing"
      within the last year. Most of these practitioners believe that their inner intentions result
      in the benefits, either through the agency of love, energy, or a Higher Power (Benor 1992).
      However, the conventional community attributes benefits from these interventions to the
      patient's hope, expectation, or experience of support from a practitioner (Benson 1996). The
      proposed study is a double-blind randomized controlled clinical trial of "distant healing
      intentionality." Distant Healing (DH) is defined as a "mental intention on behalf of one
      person, to benefit another at a distance." This study will assess whether DH effects survival
      time and loss of function for glioblastoma patients under conditions where hope and
      expectation are controlled. The study will include approximately 150 patients who have
      rapidly progressing glioblastoma and are beginning radiotherapy. Patients will be
      photographed and assessed for quality of life, psychological status, and physical symptoms as
      well as health habits and attitude toward DH. After stratification by age and functional
      status (Karnofsky score), patients will be randomly assigned to either standard treatment
      with or without DH. Healers from diverse schools and backgrounds from communities across the
      United States will be assigned to patients by rotation, so that each patient in the DH group
      will be treated for two weeks by 10 different healers over the 20 week intervention.
      Experienced healers will have photographs of subjects and send "mental intention for health
      and well being" to subjects for one hour daily, three times per week. The healing
      intervention will be performed at a distance, and patients and healers will never meet, nor
      will patients know their group assignment. The study findings will provide the basis for
      developing a larger study, definitive trial.
    
  