
    
      Eighty percent of stroke survivors experience some form of motor impairment, such as loss or
      limitation of function in muscle control or movement, or mobility limitation. Regaining
      walking ability is a priority for most and is achieved in approximately 80%. Unfortunately,
      the occurrence of falling while walking is as high as 73% of all people who recover the
      ability to walk post-stroke, with falls often occurring within the first few months of
      returning home from rehabilitation. This highlights the challenges with transitioning to the
      community for continued post-stroke rehabilitation. Unfortunately, due to increasing demand
      on our healthcare and rehabilitation systems and limited service capacity, stroke survivors
      receive minimal to no follow-up rehabilitation after returning to community-living. As a
      result, it is common for stroke survivors to report unmet lower extremity rehabilitation
      needs, and thus ongoing walking/mobility impairment, balance issues, high incidence of falls,
      and difficulties participating in desired social roles.

      The rapid growth in the use of the Internet and personal mobile technologies, including
      computers, smartphones, and tablets has opened up an array of possibilities through which
      patients can remotely access specialized health services, such as telerehabilitation
      supports, while in their homes and communities. The use of technologies to facilitate optimal
      rehabilitation and recovery after stroke is under-utilized in Canada, despite being highly
      recommended in Canadian stroke guidelines, and positive beliefs about its potential among
      people with stroke.

      Objectives:

        1. To examine the feasibility (e.g. safety, recruitment rate, retention rate, fidelity and
           adherence, burden) of a lower extremity telerehabilitation protocol among
           community-living stroke survivors

        2. To estimate the size of effect of TRAIL on clinical outcomes of functional mobility,
           lower extremity strength and motor impairment, functional balance, quality of life,
           balance self-efficacy, and goal attainment among community-living stroke survivors

      Hypotheses:

      The investigators expect that the the telerehabilitation protocol will demonstrate sufficient
      feasibility to support a larger, multisite randomized controlled trial (RCT). The
      investigators also hypothesize that stroke survivors will improve in functional mobility,
      lower extremity strength and motor impairment, functional balance, quality of life, balance
      self-efficacy, and goal attainment following 4-weeks of telerehabilitation with a trained
      therapist

      This feasibility study will use a single group, pre- post- study design trial.
    
  