
    
      Patients and caregivers will be enrolled in two phases. Phase I is a qualitative study
      exploring the experience of primary caregivers of patients with a new diagnosis of malignant
      brain tumor during the first 10 weeks of the diagnosis and beginning treatment process.
      During Phase I, only caregivers patients with a malignant brain tumor who are at least two
      months and not more than six months into treatment at the Seidman Cancer Center (SCC)will be
      enrolled. They will be asked to participate in a qualitative interview to describe the newly
      diagnosed experience (diagnosis through first 10 weeks of treatment) of having a loved one
      with a malignant brain tumor.

      A convenience sample of 20 patients and their primary caregivers will be enrolled for Phase
      II of this pilot project. The first ten patients and caregivers enrolled will receive usual
      care (Phase II, Arm A). Usual care is defined as standard post-operative care on a surgical
      unit in University Hospitals Case Medical Center. Discharge planning will be provided by the
      assigned in-patient social worker. Referrals to the assigned outpatient social worker will be
      made as appropriate. Patients and caregivers will be seen in the ambulatory medical oncology
      setting about three to six weeks after surgery, depending on post-operative recovery time.

      The second ten patients and caregivers enrolled will receiving the intervention (Phase II,
      Arm B). The unique features of the PRESENCE Project (PP) Intervention are 1) the early
      palliative care intervention (immediately post-op) provided by the new palliative care brain
      tumor team (Social worker, advanced practice nurse (APN), medical oncology registered nurse);
      2) an educational information session for patients and caregivers; and 3) frequent (every two
      week and as needed) telephone or clinic visits during the first ten weeks post operatively.
      In usual care, the patient and caregiver receive little supportive care until they begin
      cancer treatment. The intervention provides aggressive supportive care from the time of
      diagnosis.

      RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

        1. To investigate the feasibility of an early palliative care intervention (PRESENCE:
           Providing Resources Education, Support, and Enabling New brain tumor patients to Cope
           Effectively) for patients newly diagnosed with a malignant brain tumor and their primary
           caregivers.

        2. To explore the experience of being a caregiver of a patient newly diagnosed with a
           malignant brain tumor.

        3. To determine the effect of the PRESENCE Intervention on patient and caregiver distress,
           anxiety, and depression.

        4. To determine the effect of the PRESENCE Intervention on caregiver reaction (benefit and
           burden) and caregiver mastery.
    
  