
    
      Rationale: Insulin resistant subjects and type 2 diabetic patients are characterized by a
      decreased metabolic flexibility: a reduced capability to switch from fat oxidation in the
      basal state to carbohydrate oxidation in the insulin-stimulated state. This metabolic
      inflexibility is an early hallmark in the development of diabetes. Recent evidence suggests
      that a low carnitine availability may limit acetylcarnitine formation, thereby reducing
      metabolic flexibility. Thus, when substrate flux in the muscle is high, acetyl-CoA
      concentrations increase, leading to inhibition of pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) and thereby
      reducing glucose oxidation. The conversion of acetyl-CoA to acetylcarnitine relieves this
      acetyl-CoA pressure on PDH. To provide more direct insight into the effect of carnitine in
      preventing metabolic inflexibility and insulin resistance and to further explore the
      mechanism of action is the focus of this research. Here, we hypothesize that the capacity to
      form acetylcarnitine may rescue lipid-induced insulin resistance. To this end, insulin
      resistance will be induced by lipid infusion in healthy volunteers and it will be tested
      whether carnitine co-infusion can alleviate insulin resistance.

      Objective: The primary objectives are to investigate whether L-carnitine infusion may rescue
      lipid-induced insulin resistance and whether L-carnitine infusion is improving metabolic
      flexibility in the state of lipid-induced insulin resistance. Furthermore, a secondary
      objective is to examine the molecular pathways of carnitine and acetylcarnitine, responsible
      for muscle insulin sensitivity.

      Study design: The current study is an interventional randomized crossover trial in which each
      subject serves as it owns control. Subjects will be blinded for the intervention.

      Study population: n=10, healthy young (18-40 years) male subjects will be included.

      Intervention (if applicable): Ten healthy subject will be subjected to the intervention of
      L-carnitine infusion. To investigate whether L-Carnitine infusion may rescue lipid induced
      insulin resistance and improve metabolic flexibility three intervention trials are included.
      The first trial includes lipid infusion combined with L-Carnitine infusion (=LIPID + CAR). In
      the second trial, L-carnitine infusion will be replaced by placebo infusion in the form of
      saline (= LIPID + PLAC) in order to investigate the effect of L-Carnitine. During the third
      trial, lipid infusion will be replaced by infusion of saline and will serve as a control for
      the lipid infusion (=SALINE + PLAC) and is necessary to investigate to what extend
      L-carnitine can rescue lipid induced insulin resistance. All three trials will be separated
      by at least one week. Subjects will be blinded, so no information about the infused
      substances will be provided to them. The three different trials will be allocated in a random
      order.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The primary study endpoint is whole body insulin
      sensitivity, measured by the hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp. Secondary endpoints are
      maximal acetylcarnitine concentrations after exercise, metabolic compounds in the blood and
      measurements regarding skeletal muscle metabolism in skeletal muscle tissue obtained by
      needle biopsies.
    
  