
    
      More than 60,000 young adults (YAs) aged 18-39 are diagnosed with cancer in the US each year.
      Advances in treatment have yielded five year survival rates >70% suggesting that the majority
      of YAs will become long-term cancer survivors. Symptom (e.g., pain, fatigue, distress)
      interference is common for YA cancer survivors and impacts their abilities to achieve
      normative life goals (e.g., returning to work/school, achieving autonomy, pursuing
      social/romantic relationships) and adhere to recommended follow-up care. Symptom management
      has been identified as a significant issue in the transition to survivorship for YAs by the
      Institute of Medicine and National Cancer Institute, and assistance with symptom management
      is rated as an important and unmet need by YA survivors. Yet, behavioral symptom management
      interventions have not targeted the needs of those diagnosed as YAs. The proposed study aims
      to develop and test the feasibility and acceptability of a novel behavioral symptom
      management intervention designed for survivors of YA cancer (cancer types: hematologic,
      breast, or gastrointestinal cancers, melanoma, or germ cell tumors). The hybrid intervention
      will include inperson, group sessions and an integrated mobile application. The intervention
      will provide peer support while also teaching skills to improve symptoms, symptom
      interference, and self-efficacy for symptom management. The mobile application will assist
      with symptom monitoring, home skills practice, and connecting with group members. The
      preliminary version of the intervention will be guided by the research team's prior work
      developing and testing symptom management interventions for cancer survivors, national
      guidelines for YA oncology, consultation with an expert advisory board, and input from
      patient (n=30) and provider N=10) stakeholders. The intervention will be further refined
      following review by patient user testers (n=10). Next, feasibility, acceptability, and
      distributions of change over time as well as relationships between outcome variables will be
      examined through a pilot randomized clinical trial of the developed intervention.
      Participants (N=60) will be randomized to intervention or wait-list control arms. Primary
      study outcomes are symptom (pain, fatigue, distress) severity and symptom interference.
      Self-efficacy and support will also be examined as mediators of change in outcome variables.
      The proposed study has the potential to make several significant contributions by targeting
      an underserved group of cancer survivors, addressing a critical gap in care, and addressing
      variables consistently linked to social, economic, and health burden for YAs. It will also
      provide important information about approaches to identify, recruit, and retain YA cancer
      survivors in research and provide pilot data for a larger trial.
    
  