
    
      Study procedures are designed to:

        1. Develop a method for nitisinone measurement via tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS).

        2. Determine whether differences between adult and children could be erased by employing a
           dosage regimen based on m2 of body surface area as opposed to per kg of body weight, as
           we have found in a recent study of dichloroacetate

        3. Determine optimal dosage for reduction of urinary levels of homogentisic acid and
           minimal elevation of plasma levels of tyrosine in the target population of
           pre-symptomatic patients.

        4. Determine optimal doses of Tyrex to prevent hypertyrosinemia and allow maximal reduction
           in homogentisic acid.

      Baseline studies will include ophthalmologic examinations, echocardiogram, X-rays of all
      joints, MRI of selected joints when financially plausible; history and physical examinations
      with emphasis on joints and tendons. Ideally MRI will be repeated at 12 month intervals
      thereafter. Ophthalmologic exam, x-rays of the kidneys and prostate, and echocardiogram will
      be repeated approximately every 12 months, depending on the age of the subject and the
      nitisinone dose. Patients will be seen every 3 months for the first year, then at 6 month
      intervals to month 36. The timing of the visits may be altered in response to modifications
      of nitisinone and/or Tyrex doses.

      Complete or near complete elimination of homogentisic acid excretion will be sought. Optimal
      NTBC dosage would be judged to yield plasma concentration of tyrosine less than 1000 mmol/L
      with the concomitant use of tyrosine free amino acid supplement. Dosage will be escalated or
      reduced dependent on evidence of accumulation of nitisinone and urinary levels of HGA. The
      maximum initial dose of nitisinone for adult and adolescent patients will be 0.2/mg/kg/day,
      younger patients may require a larger dose; the standard dose in hypertyrosinemia is
      1mg/kg/day, which will be tentatively used as the maximum dose for all populations.

      Patients will be asked to collect first morning or 12 hour urine collections for homogentisic
      acid and p-hydroxyphenyllactic acids and to monitor levels of tyrosine. Accumulation will be
      tested for by repeated studies after 3 months of treatment. Trough levels for nitisinone will
      be collected prior to and 5-7 days after dose increases and/or at months 6, 12, 18, 24 and
      every 12 months.

      The SF-36 Health Status Survey, a two page quality of life questionnaire which asks about
      ADLs and emotional/social impacts of disease, will be completed by the patient or patient's
      parent at baseline and every six months.

      At any point during the study if the plasma tyrosine level is greater than 900umol/L the
      amount of Tyrex or dietary protein intake may be modified, or the nitisinone dose may be
      decreased. Protein Saver blood spot cards, which can be done in the patient's home and mailed
      to our lab, will be given to the patients with instructions on blood collection to check the
      tyrosine level after 5-7 days of the drug/dietary modifications. These steps-the dietary
      modification with diet records if needed, addition or adjustment of Tyrex, adjustment of the
      nitisinone dose, and repeat tyrosine analysis-will be repeated as necessary.
    
  