
    
      Often in emergencies and other medical situations, doctors must gain vascular access (access
      to the blood stream) in order to give drugs and/or fluids to patients. The most common way to
      gain vascular access is to place a needle into a vein through the skin, but sometimes this is
      not possible. Another way to gain vascular access is to insert a needle through the skin,
      into the bone and give drugs and/or fluids to patients through the center of the bone, which
      is hollow and contains blood vessels. This is called intraosseous (IO) vascular access. One
      device used to gain intraosseous vascular access is called the EZ-IO® Intraosseous Vascular
      Access System and it can be used in the proximal humerus (upper arm bone), proximal tibia
      (upper shin bone), and the distal tibia (lower shin bone). The EZ-IO has been cleared by the
      FDA to establish IO vascular access in the sites identified above for the infusion of drugs
      and fluids anytime vascular access is difficult to obtain in emergent, urgent, or medically
      necessary cases.

      IV fluids and medicines must be infused into a patient's blood stream at different speeds
      depending upon what is being infused. Some IV fluids and medications must be given slowly and
      some must be given quickly. How fast IV fluids and medicines are infused into the blood
      stream is called infusion flow rate. One way to increase the infusion flow rate is to apply
      pressure to (squeeze) the IV fluid bag being used. This is done by applying a pressure bag
      around the IV fluid bag, which acts like a blood pressure cuff and inflates when pumped up.
      The purpose of this study is to see how quickly IV fluids can be infused into your blood
      stream through the proximal humerus (upper arm bone) and the proximal tibia (upper shin bone)
      by measuring the infusion flow rate. We want to see how fast IV fluids can be infused into
      your blood stream at different infusion pressures. We will also look at the route the fluid
      travels from the IO needle in your arm and leg to the heart.

      Another purpose of the study is to determine if blood drawn from the bone can be used for
      laboratory tests the same as blood drawn from a vein or collected using a finger stick.
    
  