
    
      Background & Significance. Each year, millions of children receive general anesthesia.
      Isoflurane, a GABA type A (GABAA) receptor agonist is an inhaled anesthetic commonly used in
      clinical anesthesia practice worldwide. Anesthetics traditionally have been assumed to be
      safe as long as severe hypotension and hypoxia are avoided. Interfering with the balance of
      excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters in the developing brain may interfere with the
      formation of synaptic connections and enhance the normal apoptotic processes that lead to
      neuronal pruning and may induce neuroinflammation. Such enhanced neuronal pruning and
      neuroinflammation could lead to excessive neuronal loss at critical times during brain
      development and consequently cause later learning disabilities. Recent reports of
      neurotoxicity induced with isoflurane have triggered significant concern about the safety of
      this agent.

      Investigations into neuroinflammation and apoptosis after anesthetic exposure in human
      children have been limited due to ethical and methodological concerns. Studies that have been
      done have been largely retrospective, population-based studies. Results from these studies
      have been mixed, some showing a decline in neurocognitive performance, some showing no
      change. Further, the vast majority of prospective, hypothesis-driven research has been
      undertaken in animal models. Developing a clinically relevant animal model and testing
      resultant hypotheses in humans are critical steps in determining the underlying cause of
      these changes as well as identifying possible therapeutic targets. The investigators
      hypothesize that piglets exposed to commonly used anesthetics will exhibit increased
      neuroinflammation when compared with controls. It is further hypothesized children undergoing
      neurosurgery with isoflurane anesthesia will show evidence of increased central nervous
      system inflammation. Finally, the investigators hypothesize that significantly less robust
      inflammation will be seen in patients undergoing MRI with general anesthesia (no surgery),
      indicating a role of surgical stress in the modulation of isoflurane-induced
      neuroinflammation.

      Clinical/Translational Investigation (NCH): Surgery Group. Patients aged 0-5 years undergoing
      general anesthesia for ventriculoperitoneal shunt (VPS) repair will have CSF and serum
      sampled at the beginning of surgery (after induction but before surgical incision) and at the
      end of surgery (after closure but before emergence). Each of these patients will be
      randomized to a standardized anesthetic. An additional CSF sample will be taken prior to post
      anesthesia care unit (PACU) discharge. These samples will be analyzed as described above.
      Control Group. Patients undergoing diagnostic MRI under general anesthesia for non-neurologic
      pathology will receive a standardized anesthetic. Serum will be collected at the beginning
      and end of the procedure and will be analyzed for inflammation as above.

      Short term goals: Demonstrate that isoflurane has a role in modulation of neuroinflammation
      in humans. Determine if surgical stress also has a role in modulation of this inflammation.
      Develop a clinically relevant animal model for hypothesis-driven anesthetic neuroinflammation
      research.

      Long term goals: Identify which anesthetic regimens, if any, are safe for use in the
      developing brain. Identify therapeutic targets for prevention or treatment of
      anesthetic-induced neuroinflammation. Obtain independent federal funding for future research
      and establish an experimental neuroscience program on the Nationwide Children's campus.
    
  