
    
      This is a French, Prospective, Multicentre, Open, Randomised study To determine the efficacy
      of a temporary ovarian suppression obtained by administration of a Gonadotropin Releasing
      Hormone agonist (GnRHa) on maintaining ovarian reserve, patients will be randomized, half of
      them receiving Triptorelin extended release (LP) 3 mg intramuscularly every 28±3 days,
      starting at the inclusion visit and at least 72 days before chemotherapy with alkylating
      agents until 1 month after end of chemotherapy (mean duration: 12 months).

      The primary objective of the study is to determine the effect of a temporary ovarian
      suppression achieved through administration of a gonadotropin releasing hormone agonist
      (triptorelin LP 3 mg) during alkylating agents containing chemotherapy on ovarian reserve
      assessed by AMH serum levels in adolescents and young women with cancer.

      Number of centres 19 Research period

        -  Recruitment duration 2 years

        -  The duration of participation of each patient is: 3 years

        -  The duration of the treatment period is: 1 year

        -  The duration of the follow-up period is: 2 years

        -  Total duration: 5 years

      Statistical analysis:

        1. Sample size and design One Hundred and sixty (160) patients will be included in this
           study in order to ensure at least 128 patients who will complete the study.

           This number of patients should allow us to identify with a power of 80 % a difference of
           5 pmol/L in AMH serum levels between the two groups, when accepting a risk alpha of
           0.05.

        2. Analysis populations The main analysis will be an intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis,
           which will be performed on all the randomized patients with a value of the main
           criterion of judgment (AMH level at M24). A per-protocol (PP) analysis will also be
           performed, as a secondary analysis, excluding patients with major protocol deviation
           defined a priori.

        3. Primary criteria The value of AMH level at month 24will be compared between the two
           treatment groups using a test t of Student if AMH values are normally distributed and a
           non-parametric Wilcoxon test if not.
    
  