
    
      Rationale: A growing medical concern is the increase in the number of very old patients,
      especially the patients undergoing hip fracture surgery are rapidly increasing in numbers.
      Hip surgery in these old patients induces serious morbidity and gives rise to excessive
      mortality rates. Studies with perioperative nutritional interventions performed within this
      population have shown improved clinical outcome, but were not well controlled and lack
      insight in the working mechanism. Therefore nutritional intervention studies are needed using
      a single nutrient. In trauma patients for instance it is known that the administration of
      glutamine (as a single amino acid) reduces morbidity, which is probably related to its
      antioxidant properties; reducing oxidative stress and insulin resistance. As an antioxidant
      the amino acid taurine has even greater potential providing benefit in several groups of
      patients. Elderly hip fracture patients have very low plasma levels of antioxidants which
      make them highly vulnerable for oxidative stress and related insulin resistance.In elderly
      patients with a hip fracture, it is hypothesized that taurine lowers oxidative stress and the
      related harmful insulin resistance, thereby reducing morbidity and mortality.

      Objective: Our primary objective is to reduce morbidity and consequent mortality in the
      elderly hip fracture patient by the administration of taurine.

      Study design: A double blind placebo controlled intervention study at the surgery department
      of the Medical Center Alkmaar. The study consists of three parts: 1. A dose finding study; 2.
      Main study: outcome study on morbidity and mortality; 3. A study on insulin resistance,
      parallel to the main study.

      Study population: Patients of both genders and any ethnicity, who will undergo primary
      surgery for a hip fracture, aged over 75 years, will be eligible for the study.

      Intervention: Patients will receive from the moment of admission oral administration of
      taurine (3g/day or 6g/day, depending on results of the dose finding study) or placebo.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The main study parameter is the morbidity and consequent
      mortality. The secondary study parameters are oxidative stress, postoperative insulin
      resistance, mitochondrial dysfunction in skeletal muscle and postoperative delirium.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: The possible benefit of the study is related to the effect of taurine. Oral
      administration of taurine, as an antioxidant, perioperatively, can reduce morbidity and
      consequent mortality, reduce oxidative stress, counteract the postoperative insulin
      resistance and thereby enhance the clinical outcome of the elderly hip fracture patient.
      Research showed that taurine can be safely administered to humans and no adverse effects are
      reported. A part of the patients will undergo a hyperinsulinaemic euglycaemic clamp to assess
      hepatic and peripheral insulin sensitivity.
    
  