
    
      Sciatica (leg pain referred from the lower back) is a common problem that causes significant
      pain and disability. Many patients experience lasting symptoms that do not respond to pain
      relief or physiotherapy. This group of patients are commonly managed by Spinal Specialists
      who help determine the best treatment approach and consider if investigations are required.
      In the United Kingdom (UK), clinical guidelines suggest that imaging for Sciatica is only
      appropriate for patients who are considered likely to need surgery or when the cause is
      suspected to be serious such as cancer or infection. Patients who do not meet the criteria
      for investigations express frustration when clinical tests and opinion alone are used to
      diagnose and treat Sciatica. Some patients are unable to accept that investigations are not
      required and loose confidence in treatment. If Sciatica is to be managed effectively, the
      treatment offered must be acceptable to and successfully negotiated with patients.

      Little research is currently available regarding patients' expectations or experiences of
      undergoing investigations for Sciatica. The aim of this study is to explore the experience of
      patients who have undergone investigations for Sciatica, to gain an understanding of how
      patients experience investigations as part of their overall management of Sciatica.This study
      specifically explores the experiences of patients whose Sciatica is likely to be caused by
      nerve root involvement.

      This study will be exploratory, based on an Interpretative Phenomenological Approach (IPA).
      Up to 15 patients who have undergone investigations for Sciatica will be interviewed using a
      semi-structured format. Patients will be recruited from one National Health Service (NHS)
      Trust on the South Coast of England. Interviews will be audio-recorded, transcribed verbatim
      and analysed thematically, based on an IPA approach. The end product of analysis will be a
      detailed account of patient's experience of investigations, supported by direct quotes. The
      intention is that this account will help health-care providers to understand patients'
      experiences and to plan and provide Sciatica care that is effective, evidence based and
      acceptable to patients.
    
  