
    
      End stage kidney disease is fatal unless treated with dialysis or transplant. Peritoneal
      dialysis (PD) is a core dialysis modality offering home-based care for patients. PD
      utilization is frequently threatened beyond 5 years for most patients due to PD-related
      infections. Patient training is a critical cornerstone of mitigating infection risk and
      maximizing PD durability (technique survival), but training practices are characterized by a
      lack of standardization and severe heterogeneity.

      There is no high-level evidence to inform PD training. Accordingly, a structured program
      encompassing how and what to teach PD patients at the inception of PD treatment has the
      potential to reduce serious PD-related infections, extend the longevity of PD, support
      cost-effective home-based dialysis care, and reduce costs and health service utilization
      associated with hospitalization and transition to haemodialysis. TEACH-PD is a standardised
      modular curriculum for both PD nurse trainers and patients that has been collaboratively
      developed by renal nurses, doctors, educationalists and patients, aligned to current
      International Society for Peritoneal Dialysis (ISPD) guidelines, utilizing modern adult
      learning principles. The TEACH-PD program is feasible and acceptable, as demonstrated in a
      successful pilot study.

      The primary objective of TEACH-PD CRCT (Targeted Education ApproaCH to improve Peritoneal
      Dialysis outcomes - a Cluster Randomised Controlled Trial) is to determine whether
      implementation of standardised training modules based on ISPD guidelines targeting both PD
      trainers and patients results in a longer time to the composite end-point of exit site
      infections, tunnel infections and peritonitis in incident PD patients compared to existing
      training practices.

      TEACH-PD is a registry-based, pragmatic, multi-center, multinational trial, randomising PD
      units to implementing TEACH-PD training modules targeted at PD trainers and incident PD
      patients versus standard existing practices.

      An estimated 1,500 patient new to PD will be recruited from at least approximately 42-44 PD
      units in Australia and New Zealand.The study is being coordinated by the University of
      Queensland (operating through the Australasian Kidney Trial Network).

      The TEACH-PD training modules have been developed by a core group of renal nurses from the
      HOME Network in conjunction with senior medical clinicians from the Australasian Kidney
      Trials Network, eLearning curriculum developers, consumer representatives, and education
      experts, in line with the ISPD guidelines, utilizing modern adult learning principles and
      best practice eLearning techniques. The modules will be implemented at PD units in Australia
      and New Zealand to formally evaluate whether, compared with standard care, a standardised
      training curriculum will reduce the rate of PD-related infections and improve technique
      survival, resulting in better outcomes for patients receiving PD and significant cost-savings
      to the community.
    
  