
    
      This 6-week, Phase 2, randomized, double-blind, crossover, investigator-initiated,
      single-center study will determine the feasibility of detecting the effect of darusentan 100
      mg once daily on the extent of myocardial perfusion heterogeneity in subjects with documented
      CAD, as measured by cardiac PET imaging. Prior to the initiation of any study procedures, an
      Informed Consent Form and HIPAA Authorization will be reviewed and signed by each subject.
      Screening assessments and evaluations may be conducted over a period of not more than 4
      weeks.

      Following a baseline PET scan (PET 1) subjects will be randomized to one of two treatment
      groups (Group 1 or Group 2), and receive blinded treatment for a total of 4 weeks. The 4-week
      treatment period will have two phases, Phase 1 and Phase 2. Group 1 will receive darusentan
      100 mg for 2 weeks during Phase 1, then placebo for 2 weeks during Phase 2. Group 2 will
      receive placebo for 2 weeks during Phase 1, then darusentan 100 mg for 2 weeks during Phase
      2. Following 4 weeks of treatment with blinded study drug, subjects in both treatment groups
      will be withdrawn from study drug for an additional 2 weeks. Maximum darusentan exposure in
      this study will be 2 weeks, and maximum placebo exposure in this study will be 2 weeks.
      Adjustments to the number or dosage of concomitant medications required for study entry will
      not be permitted at any time during the study.

      A physical exam will be done at baseline and week 6 as well as blood chemistry and hematology
      samples taken. Vital signs and any adverse events will be monitored at each visit.

      Efficacy will be assessed through cardiac PET imaging. In total, four PET scans will be
      administered: the first at the Randomization Visit (PET 1, Week 0); the second at the
      conclusion of Phase 1 (PET 2, Week 2); the third at the conclusion of Phase 2 (PET 3, Week 4)
      and the fourth at the conclusion of the Withdrawal period (PET 4, Week 6).

      Subjects will be instructed to take their study drug with or without food once daily at
      approximately the same time in the morning throughout the course of the study. Subjects will
      also be instructed to take all concomitant medications consistently and at the same time each
      day throughout the study.
    
  