
    
      The use of HFJV in abdominal surgery as well as in out-of-operating theatre environment, is
      not well studied. In percutaneous liver thermal ablation the patient is anesthetized and
      intubated on the CT-bed where the liver ablation procedure is performed. Atelectasis is
      formed as soon as the patient is supine. Anesthesia itself also contributes to this. In
      extreme cases almost half the lung can be collapsed during anaesthesia, before any surgery
      has taken place.

      The investigators have noticed that during this specific surgery, dynamic lung compliance
      does not necessarily worsen during HFJV but rather being unchanged or in some cases even
      becoming better and want to study this further and investigate the formation of atelectasis
      during HFJV. There are studies where atelectasis has been measured in a similar way as in
      this planned study, that is, with thin axial CT-scans at representative levels of the lung.
      This is during conventional lung ventilation, and has not yet been studied during HFJV.

      Inclusion criteria: A total of n= 25 patients planned for elective liver tumor thermal
      ablation will be recruited after written informed consent.

      Exclusion criteria: Patients 1/ under the age of 50 years, 2/with severe, poorly controlled
      lung disease.

      The lung images will be saved in DICOM format and the tissue density will be analysed
      quantitatively. For each scan, the inner contour of each hemithorax will be manually drawn,
      excluding the chest wall, mediastinum, pleural effusions, and regions representing partial
      volume effects. Liver displacement can be measured from the routine CT-scans taken before and
      after the procedure.

      Statistical methods: Chi2-analysis will be used to calculate the percentage of atelectasis in
      the lung.

      Power calculation: Since the rate of atelectasis formation in the study groups is not known,
      it is impossible to perform power calculation for this trial. This study may clarify this
      issue in the planning of further studies.

      This study may contribute to more knowledge about HFJV and its' effect on lung physiology, it
      may also contribute as a generator of new hypothesis and it might be a follow up study where
      the effect of alveolar recruitment maneuver (ARM) is studied.
    
  