
    
      Mobility is a crucial factor for independence and quality of life at old age. Particularly
      those in retirement homes have a reduced physical activity status.

      The aim of the bestform trial is the integration of an exercise concept comprising
      resistance, coordination and endurance training in retirement homes to promote mobility and
      independence as well as to reduce the risk of falling in older people.

      The study is organized and conducted as a multi-center, two-armed cluster randomized study in
      20 retirement homes (1:1 randomization in intervention retirement homes and control
      retirement homes with usual care) in the area of Munich, Germany. A total of at least 400
      older people will subsequently be recruited. It is expected to recruit n≥20 older people per
      participating retirement home.

      The intervention group will participate in an exercise training for 6 months, which will take
      place in the period from March 2020 to October 2021. The multimodal intervention consists of
      a machine-based resistance, coordination and endurance training, which is performed 1-2 times
      per week for 30-45 minutes with increasing amount of training. Age and disability adapted
      pneumatic resistance training machines are used targeting large muscle groups. The endurance
      training is performed on upright-bicycle and recumbent bicycle ergometers. Coordination is
      exercised statically on the floor or a balance pad and dynamically on a balance-platform
      according to the individual training plan.

      The aim of the bestform trial is to examine the efficacy of this multimodal training on
      physical function measured by the Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB) (primary
      endpoint) over a 6-month period.

      In addition, the impact of the training on mobility and balance, physical capacity
      (6-min-walk test), rate of falls, anthropometric parameters, cardiometabolic risk parameters
      (echocardiography, blood parameters), fear of falling, quality of life and other life style
      factors (nutrition, physical activity) assessed by medical assessments, physical performance
      tests and various questionnaires will be investigated after 3 and 6 months. Follow-up data
      will be collected after 18 and 30 months (questionnaire).
    
  