
    
      Detailed anamnesis and a clinical examination will be performed in order to determine the
      patient's eligibility for the study. The randomisation either to the exercise- or to the
      control-arm will be performed at baseline. Follow-up visits are planned after four weeks and
      after three months same for both arms. The close-up visit is planned after 6 months.

      The exercise-arm starts off with an introduction into physical training at the Department of
      Sports Medicine at the University in Tübingen. Ergospirometry and 6-min walk test will be
      performed to determine the patients' performance. Then the patients will be encouraged to
      exercise at home. The scales and intensities of physical training will vary interpersonally
      depending on patients individual performance. Pedometers and the ICD-integrated "Cardiac
      Compass" function will be used to verify work load, intensity and duration of the physical
      strain. The patients will be consulted by telephone regularly to affirm the study compliance.
      The physical activity in the control-arm will be monitored using the ICD-integrated "Cardiac
      Compass" function.

      ICD-programming

        -  VT/SVT discrimination "on",

        -  "Cardiac Compass" feature "on"

        -  VT/VF detection and pacing-programming remain adjusted to clinical situation of the
           patient

      Baseline- and follow-up visits

        -  Anamnesis, NYHA-stadium, patients' demographic data: sex, age, weight, hight,
           concomitant diseases and current medication

        -  Clinical examination: weight, inflow-congestion, edema, pulmonary signs of cardiac
           decompensation

        -  Chest- x-ray (baseline, 6 moths FU)

        -  6-min walk test (baseline, 6 moths FU)

        -  Blood take (baseline, 6 moths FU) standard examinations including blood morphology,
           troponin, renal retention parameters, transaminases)

        -  Determination of the BNP plasma level

        -  Echocardiography (baseline, 6 moths FU): left-ventricular function (EF) and diameter,
           valvular function, estimating of systolic pulmonary arterial pressure (PAP sys.).

        -  Ergospirometry (baseline, 6 moths FU):peak-oxygen-uptake-volume, starting at 10 Watt
           with increase of the work load 12 Watts per minute until the work load capacity has been
           reached. The achieved VO2 value is defined as the 100 % oxygen-uptake. At home the
           patients are supposed to exercise at about 70 % of their VO2 peak.

        -  Measurement/Recording of the peripheral oxygen-uptake of the muscle with
           near-infrared-spectroscopy simultaneously with the bicycle-ergometric exposure.

        -  Complete interrogation of the ICD-memory, acquisition of the "Cardiac-Compass"-data,
           sensing- and threshold-test, recording of electrical impedance and checking of the
           battery-status, impedance and checking of the battery-status

        -  Acquisition of the standardized questionnaires concerning quality-of-life, personality,
           depression and anxiety: PHQ-D, DS14, FSGV 1.0 and GAD-7.

      Definition of adverse event

        -  Adverse event (AE): Any decrease of existential orientation, unwanted incidence,
           subjective or objective symptom of any kind of disease, impairment or any accident, that
           may or may not be connected to the study is defined as an (AE).

        -  Severe adverse event (SAE): A SAE is an event which is life-threatening or deadly,
           causes significant or chronic damage, requires hospitalization or threatens the
           patient's physical inviolability in any other way.
    
  