
    
      Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory, demyelinating and neurodegenerative
      condition of the central nervous system (CNS) and is considered the most common cause of
      disability in young adults. It is estimated that the number of adults with MS in the UK has
      risen to 131,720. The majority of patients (85%) have Relapsing Remitting MS (RRMS), with
      many later entering the secondary progressive phase (SPMS). Relapse is the cardinal clinical
      feature of RRMS, and can be also prevalent in SPMS, however the influence of relapses on the
      long-term disability is not yet fully defined and remains controversial.

      Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) emerged in Wuhan, China, in late
      2019 and Covid-19, a disease caused by SARS-CoV-2 became a pandemic in March 2020. The impact
      of SARS-CoV-2 infection on patients with MS has yet to be elucidated. The main focus of
      previous studies has been the actual risk of Covid-19 inpatients with MS, the risk of MS
      exacerbation during Covid-19 infection and the impact of disease modifying drugs (DMDs) in
      the severity of Covid-19 infection. Other studies have explored the psychological and
      behavioural impact of Covid-19 pandemic to MS patients; those studies highlighted the risks
      from missing/cancelling clinic appointments and MRIs, missing/stopping/changing DMDs, delays
      in DMDs infusions, having a relapse and not seeking medical advice or disruptions in
      rehabilitation services. To the best of our knowledge, there is currently no study that
      explored the effect of Covid-19 on MS patients by looking systematically into MS relapses and
      their potential consequences. We will study the occurrence and subsequent management of
      relapses occurring between April - June 2020 at the peak of the first wave of the pandemic,
      compared to individuals who have relapsed during the same period in 2019. This observational,
      retrospective study will be performed at 5 UK sites.
    
  