
    
      Background:

      Fibromyalgia is a chronic pain syndrome predominantly affecting adult women. It is
      characterized by widespread musculoskeletal pain accompanied by physical and psychological
      symptoms, such as sleep disturbance, cognitive impairment, fatigue, stiffness, anxiety, and
      depression. The complexity and heterogeneity of clinical symptoms have been observed among
      patients with fibromyalgia. Variability in the intensity of fibromyalgia-related symptoms
      differentially impact patients' degree of disability, quality of life, and pain. Several
      cluster studies have sought to identify clinically relevant phenotypes based on disease
      symptoms.

      However, those studies only focused on selected physical and psychological symptoms to
      construct the symptom clusters. Few studies included cognitive variables into the clusters
      and few studies investigated the difference in the quality of life (QOL) and functional
      status among different subgroups or phenotypes of patients with fibromyalgia. Therefore,
      identification of phenotypes based on a comprehensive set of symptoms and determining
      differential impacts of fibromyalgia phenotypes on quality of life among patients with
      fibromyalgia is important, both scientifically and clinically as this information may help
      the healthcare professionals select appropriate treatments.

      Recent meta-analyses showed that multicomponent treatments are effective in reducing pain and
      improving QOL in patients with fibromyalgia, probably owing to the complexity of pain and
      heterogeneity of symptoms. Pain catastrophizing and self-efficacy are powerful predictors for
      disability. Therefore, an effective program must include tailored, multicomponent therapy for
      decreasing catastrophizing and increasing self-efficacy, which in turn may improve symptoms,
      functional status, and quality of life.

      Specific aims of the study are:

        1. To identify phenotypes of patients with fibromyalgia according to symptom clusters and
           to compare differences in QOL among different phenotypes.

        2. To examine the effects of technology-assisted and tailored health coaching in comparison
           to telephone support on health status, QOL, pain catastrophizing, and self-efficacy in
           patients with fibromyalgia.

      Methods

      Specific Aim 1-Study 1 (Year 1-2):

      Participants will be recruited via referrals from the physicians and from the community by
      on-line advertisements posted on websites or social media, and advertisement (posters and
      flyers) posted in public places. Based on Formann's method, which states that the maximum
      number of clustering variables should be m, where sample size = 2^m, the number of clustering
      variables was limited to 7. A recent study identified three fibromyalgia subgroups among 345
      participants. Therefore the investigators will enroll 300 participants for Study 1.

      Specific Aim 2 - Study 2 (Year 1-3):

      Similarly to Study 1, participants will be recruited via referrals from the physicians and
      from the community by on-line advertisements posted on websites or social media, and
      advertisement (posters and flyers) posted in public places. Naturally, subjects who are
      screened for eligibility for participation in Study 1 will be offered a chance to participate
      in Study 2. The sample size is estimated based on the expected treatment effect size for the
      primary outcome. The treatment effect size of non-pharmacological treatments for improving
      QOL in fibromyalgia patients was 0.73 according to results from a previous meta-analysis
      study. Assuming a type I error of 0.05, a type II error of 0.2 and an effect size of 0.73, 44
      subjects per group will achieve a 0.8 power with a 2-sided test according to the results of
      the power analysis. 110 participants will be enrolled to accommodate planned subgroup
      analyses and to allow for a 25% dropout rate.

      Randomization sequence generation and concealment:

      After obtaining written consent and completion of baseline measurements, eligible
      participants will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio with the use of permuted blocks of ten
      each to an intervention group (n = 55) and a control group (n = 55). An independent research
      assistant who will not involve in participant recruitment, enrollment, and data collection
      will generate randomization sequence using computerized software. The generated random
      sequence will be concealed in sequentially numbered, opaque envelopes until the participant
      is assigned. Appropriate random allocation and allocation sequence concealment will reduce
      selection bias.

      Blinding:

      To minimize detection bias, assigning an independent research assistant who is masked to the
      group assignment for baseline and post-test data collections will ensure assessor blindness.

      Study procedures and data collections:

      The study protocol describing the flow of participants into the intervention and control
      groups and data collections in different study weeks is depicted in Figure 1. Briefly,
      subjects respond to advertisements or referred by physicians will undergo screening for
      eligibility. After confirming the eligibility and obtaining written informed consent,
      participants will complete the baseline assessment of demographic variables, medical history,
      lifestyles variables, primary outcomes and secondary outcomes. Participants will then be
      assigned to the study groups according to the pre-generated randomization sequence. Both
      groups will repeat the assessment of the primary and secondary outcomes immediately after the
      10 weeks of training period (posttest 1) and at the 3-month follow-up (posttest 2).

      Statistical analyses:

      Differences in baseline data will be determined using the Mann-Whitney U-tests, chi-square
      tests, and t-tests for independent samples. Comparisons of group means at baseline, and the
      two post-tests will be performed for normally distributed primary and secondary outcomes
      using independent t test. Effect size (Cohen's d) will be calculated for each outcome
      variable. To determine the effectiveness of technology-assisted health coaching on primary
      and secondary outcomes, differences in outcome variables will be analyzed with mixed-effects
      linear regression models with the covariance structure unstructured. The investigators will
      perform statistical analyses according to the intention-to-treat principle. All missing vales
      will be imputed using the last value carry-forward method. The between-group differences at
      the two post-test assessments will be examined using a mixed-model in which group and time
      interaction will be included. The investigators will adjust for the baseline score on the
      outcome variable and for demographics and comorbidities that differ significantly between the
      health coaching group and control group at baseline.
    
  