
    
      Current surgical treatment of humeral head fracture does not follow a universally accepted
      treatment algorithm. Treatment guidelines are lacking sufficient prospective controlled
      evidence to support any one option as doctrine. However, the generally accepted dogma
      regarding the surgical treatment of fractures considered high-risk for Avascular Necrosis
      (AVN), and also symptomatic avascular necrosis of the humeral head, is shoulder replacement
      (arthroplasty). This is a difficult scenario for younger patients where humeral head
      preservation is the priority, because of a expected lifespan that will require one, if not
      multiple, arthroplasty revisions. There is data suggesting no difference in functional
      outcome for complx humeral head fractures treated with open reduction and internal fixation
      (ORIF), that late progress to AVN, and patients who undergo hemi-arthroplasty, because of
      risk of AVN. However, failure of surgery related to AVN remains a challenging problem often
      leading to secondary surgery, which is not without negative outcomes. This study is aimed at
      trying to come up with a predictor that can be applied to patients prior to initial humeral
      head fracture treatment.

      The specific aims of the study to help determine this predictor are:

        1. In patients who have humeral head fracture, evaluate the difference in fracture fragment
           enhancement in multi-part fractures, by comparing the fracture fragment attenuation on
           iodine map overlay to the non-traumatized, contralateral humeral head using Dual Energy
           Computed Tomography (DECT).

        2. In patients undergoing ORIF or joint replacement for humeral head fracture without known
           risk factors for AVN, identify the relationship between the attenuation due to iodine in
           the fractured humeral head, as measured preoperatively by DECT, with the presence of
           pulsatile blood flow in the humeral head intra-operatively, as measured with laser
           doppler.

        3. In patients undergoing joint replacement for humeral head fracture without other known
           risk factors for AVN, identify the relationship between the attenuation due to iodine in
           the fractured humeral head, as measured preoperatively by DECT, with the presence of AVN
           in humeral head pathology specimen.

        4. In patients who underwent ORIF for humeral head fracture without other known risk
           factors for AVN, identify the relationship between the attenuation due to iodine within
           the fractured humeral head, as measured preoperatively by DECT, with the incidence of
           radiographically apparent AVN after 2 years of clinical follow-up.
    
  