
    
      If you agree to take part in this study, you first fill out a questionnaire, which will take
      about 1 hour. You will also have a study visit with your spouse, where you and your spouse
      will fill out several questionnaires, have a videotaped discussion, and complete tasks on the
      computer. This study visit will last about 75 minutes.

      Health and Relationship Questionnaire:

      On Day 1 you will be given a questionnaire about your health and your relationship with your
      spouse. This will be before you begin treatment. You may complete the questionnaire while
      waiting for your clinic appointment, or you may take it home, complete it, and return it by
      mail. It will take about 60 minutes to complete.

      If you agree to take part in this study, your spouse will also be asked to take part. If your
      spouse does not wish to take part, your participation in this study will be over after you
      complete the questionnaire.

      Study Visit:

      During the first 2 weeks after you start treatment, you and your spouse will come to the
      clinic together for a study visit. The visit will take about 75 minutes. For all of the
      procedures at this visit, you and your spouse will be in the same room together. A study
      staff member will also be in the room, except for during the videotaped discussions. The
      following procedures will be performed at the study visit:

        -  You will complete a questionnaire that asks you to identify one instance where you felt
           supported by your spouse since the cancer diagnosis, and one issue that has caused
           conflict with your spouse since the cancer diagnosis. You will also complete a
           questionnaire about your mood. Your spouse will complete the same questionnaires. This
           will take about 10-15 minutes.

        -  You and your spouse will take part in a videotaped discussion. You will discuss the
           topic you identified as an instance where you felt supported by your spouse since the
           cancer diagnosis. Your spouse will also discuss the topic he/she identified as an
           instance where he/she felt supported by you since the cancer diagnosis. This will take
           about 10-15 minutes.

        -  After the discussion, you and your spouse will be asked to complete a cognitive
           (thinking) task, on separate computers. Words in different colors will appear on the
           computer screen. The goal of the task is to name the color of the words, as quickly as
           possible. It will take about 5 minutes to complete the task.

        -  After the cognitive task, you and your spouse will complete separate questionnaires that
           will ask questions about the discussion and how you feel about it. This will take about
           5-10 minutes.

        -  You and your spouse will take part in another videotaped discussion. This time, you will
           discuss the topic you identified as causing conflict with your spouse since the cancer
           diagnosis. Your spouse will also discuss the topic he/she identified as causing conflict
           since the cancer diagnosis. It will take about 10-15 minutes.

        -  After the discussion, you and your spouse will repeat the same cognitive task. It will
           again be on separate computers and will take about 5 minutes.

        -  After the cognitive task, you and your spouse will complete separate questionnaires that
           will ask questions about the discussion and how you feel about it. This will take about
           5-10 minutes.

        -  At the conclusion of the study visit, you will have the option to view the videotape of
           your discussion with your spouse. If, after viewing your videotape you decide for any
           reason that you do not want it to be used for research, the tape will be destroyed.

      Follow-Up Questionnaire:

      You will complete the Health and Relationship questionnaire 2 more times.

      If possible, you will complete this questionnaire while you are at the clinic for your
      regularly scheduled follow-up visits that will occur 4 months and 12 months after you
      complete your radiation treatment. Otherwise, if your appointment is not on the same schedule
      as this study's questionnaire schedule, you will receive the questionnaire by mail and you
      should mail it back to the study staff.

      Information Collection:

      During the course of this study, a study staff member will review your medical records to
      collect medical information such as your diagnosis and health history.

      Length of Study:

      After you complete the last questionnaire (Month 12), your participation in this study will
      be over.

      This is an investigational study. For any questionnaires that you are asked to return by
      mail, you will be provided stamped envelopes.

      Up to 452 participants (226 patients and 226 spouses) will take part in this study. All will
      be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  