
    
      Background:

        -  UCN-01 (7-hydroxystaurosporine), a non-specific protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor appears
           to have several mechanisms of action including protein kinase C (PKC) isoenzyme
           inhibition and cyclin dependent kinase activation and inhibition.

        -  We have demonstrated that cell lines derived from T-cell lymphomas, including those with
           the t (2; 5) translocation, are very sensitive to UCN-01. The t (2; 5) translocation,
           associated with three quarters of cases of anaplastic large cell lymphomas (ALCL), is an
           oncogenic fusion protein - nucleophosmin-anaplastic lymphoma kinase (NPM-ALK).

        -  Anaplastic lymphoma receptor tyrosine kinase (ALK) is one potential target for UCN-01
           action, and anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL) derived SUDHL-1 cells containing the
           NPM-ALK protein have been shown to be very sensitive to UCN-01.

      Objectives:

        -  To assess the clinical response to UCN-01 and progression-free and overall survival in
           patients with relapsed or refractory systemic Anaplastic Large Cell and other mature
           T-cell Lymphomas.

        -  To assess the effect of UCN-01 on ALK expression in ALCL cells.

        -  To assess the effect of UCN-01 on soluble tetrameric antibody complexes (TAC) (CD25).

        -  To evaluate mature T-cell lymphoma malignant cells by complimentary deoxyribonucleic
           acid (cDNA) microarray.

      Eligibility:

        -  Relapsed or refractory systemic Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma (ALCL) with T or Null
           phenotype or relapsed or refractory mature T-cell lymphomas.

        -  All patients should have evaluable or measurable disease on entry to study.

        -  Requires systemic therapy

        -  Performance Status Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) less than or equal to 2

        -  Age 7 years or older

        -  Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) negative

        -  Patients should not have received systemic cytotoxic chemotherapy within 3 weeks of
           study entry.

      Design:

        -  The study will be a Phase II study.

        -  Patients will receive the first cycle of UCN-01 over 72 hours on days 1-3 and subsequent
           cycles over 36 hours. Patients with stable disease may receive UCN-01 for up to 1 year
           beyond achieving maximum response or stable disease, and restaging will be done every 2
           cycles for the first 6 cycles and every 4 cycles thereafter.

        -  Two sequential biopsies will be performed to investigate complimentary deoxyribonucleic
           acid (cDNA) expression by microarray. Soluble Tac (CD25) will be serially followed in
           patients.

        -  For each of the two histologies, this study will be conducted using a Simon two-stage
           optimal design. Up to 37 patients will be treated.
    
  