
    
      Rosacea is a common cutaneous disorder characterized by facial erythema, papules and pustules
      and telangiectasias. The clinical manifestations of this disorder are distributed along the
      convexities of the face such as the cheeks, chin, nose and central aspects of the forehead.

      The flushing and telangiectasias associated with erythematotelangietatic rosacea (ETR) are
      notoriously difficult to treat with standard medications. Patients with ETR have a lower
      threshold for irritation from topically applied drugs and these substances may even
      exacerbate their symptoms.

      Pulsed dye laser (PDL) is widely considered as the treatment of choice for vascular
      malformations including telangiectasias, port wine stains and hemangiomas. Several studies
      have shown successful treatment of rosacea-associated telangiectasia and erythema with pulsed
      dye laser. Moreover, calcium dobesilate (2,5-dihydroxybenzene sulfonate) is a drug that
      inhibits vascular smooth muscle cell growth and inhibits cellular proliferation. As a
      synthetic inhibitor of fibroblast growth factor (FGF), calcium dobesilate targets angiogenic
      growth factors which lead to uncontrolled blood vessel growth. In light of the fact that
      angiogenesis has been implicated in erythematotelangietatic rosacea, calcium dobesilate will
      be useful in the treatment of this subtype of rosacea.

      Thus, combination treatment with PDL and calcium dobsilate will act in a synergistic manner
      to reduce the erythema, flushing and telangectasia associated with erythematotelangietatic
      rosacea.

      If the subject meets the inclusion criteria and informed consent is obtained, the subject
      will receive 2.5% calcium dobesilate get to apply to half of the face (randomized). The
      subject will also receive pulsed dye laser treatments to the whole face at two week intervals
      for a maximum of 3 treatments. The primary endpoint of this study will be the severity of
      rosacea at the end of the 20 week study.
    
  