
    
      Major surgical types for knee included arthroscopy, total or partial knee arthroplastic
      surgery. These procedures are typically associated with severe pain. Function training, which
      is imperative after surgery for these patients, also aggravated pain.Post-operative pain
      after major knee surgery impaired post-operative knee recovery and prolonged inpatient length
      of stay.To maximize the efficacy and minimize the side effects of different options,a
      multi-modal analgesic regimen was recommended for patients underwent knee surgeries.Local
      wound infiltration and nerve block are given considerable attentions.Compared with systematic
      analgesia,nerve block with local anesthetics has been revealed to provide superior analgesia
      and better recovery of joint function compared with systemic analgesics. Currently,systematic
      evidence is sparse related to the comparative efficacy of pain control between local wound
      infiltration and nerve block,the investigators therefore conduct this randomized controlled
      trials.

      This study was approved by the institutional review board of the First Affiliated Hospital of
      Chongqing Medical University. The protocol design is in accordance with Consolidated
      Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) statement . This study is designed as a randomized
      controlled trial to compare the analgesic efficacy of continuous femoral nerve block (group
      CFNB) with local wound infiltration (group LWI).

      Participants in group CFNB will receive a single injection for femoral nerve block
      intra-operatively combined with continuous femoral nerve block post-operatively guided by
      ultrasound and nerve stimulator.

      Participants in group LWI will receive a peri-articular injection of suspension (48 ml of
      0.8% ropivacaine with 2 ml of 40mg methylprednisolone) combined with intravenous non-opioid
      patient controlled analgesia.All participants will receive unified post-operative
      rehabilitation programme and the prophylaxis of infection and thrombo-embolism.

      The primary outcome of this study is the incidence of chronic moderate-to-severe
      post-surgical pain.The secondary outcomes of this study are acute post-operative pain and
      rescue medication;knee function measured by WOMAC knee scores ;life ability measured by EQ-5D
      questionnaire;adverse events associated with the post-operative analgesia.

      This study will be conducted under the supervision of an independent auditor. Every week, the
      auditor checked the data of the participants the day after the survey was conducted.
      Assessment of pain intensity and prognostic outcomes must be confirmed by the auditor in
      sampled population. When there is disagreement between surgeon and anesthesiologists in
      evaluating the prognosis of patients, the auditor must solve this disagreement by discussion
      with both evaluators. Data were double-entered by two statisticians with limitation of access
      and locked during statistical analysis.
    
  