
    
      A total of 101 elderly patients admitted to the emergency department of the hospital for
      acute exacerbation of CHF were randomly assigned to a general medical ward (GMW, n = 53) or
      to a geriatric home hospitalization service (GHHS, n = 48).

      All patients aged 75 and older admitted to the ED (Emergence Department) of the San Giovanni
      Battista Hospital during the period between April 2004 and April 2005 with main diagnosis of
      heart failure and requiring acute hospitalization were enrolled in the study.

      Additional inclusion criteria were appropriate care supervision at home, telephone
      connection, living in the hospital-at-home catchment area and informed consent. Exclusion
      criteria were absence of family and social support; patients who need mechanical ventilation,
      severe dementia, end-stage cancer, history of severe renal impairment or hepatic failure with
      ascitis.

      All patients involved underwent a baseline standard clinical evaluation, blood tests that
      included haematocrits, glycemia, hepatic and renal function and electrolytes, and
      instrumental investigations. Only those who had been evaluated in the ED for at least 12 to
      24 hours were considered eligible for the study.

      Patients fulfilling inclusion criteria were informed about the nature of the study and asked
      to give their informed consent. Extensive information was also provided to patient's
      relatives to obtain their collaboration.

      Directly in the ED, eligible patients were randomly assigned to GHHS or to a GMW and
      immediately transferred. For the randomization, a set of computer-generated random numbers in
      a 1:1 ratio has been used. The allocation sequence was unknown to any of the investigators
      and was contained in a set of sealed envelopes, each bearing on the outside only the name of
      the hospital and a number.

      Measurements of baseline sociodemographic information, clinical data, functional, cognitive
      and nutritional status, depression and quality of life were obtained for the entire sample.

      Patients transferred home were immediately visited by members of the hospital at home's team
      who conducted a multidimensional geriatric assessment and programmed the home treatment that
      was the same that hospitalised patients received. In addition, patients treated at home and
      their caregivers obtained adequate education about the knowledge of the disease and constant
      advice about smoking cessation, nutrition, use of drugs and early recognition of triggers of
      disease's exacerbation. The GHHS group received a daily nurse visit and a physician's visit
      every two or three days for the entire length of stay. The inpatients control group received
      routine hospital care. Hospital at home staff was available at all times for urgent home
      visits.
    
  