
    
      The study is made up of four visits distributed over a 10-weeks period:

      V 1 (day -14) - Screening: After providing written informed consent, tests will be run in
      order to check the subject's eligibility for the study. Subjects will also be given
      suggestions regarding their diet (a Mediterranean-style diet is to be maintained for the
      entire duration of the study).

      V2 (baseline) and Day 0 (randomization): After confirmation of the subject's eligibility
      [LDL-C and Triglycerides (TG) criteria confirmed with blood test results], eligible subjects
      will be randomized within 3 days to one of the two treatment groups. During this visit an
      endothelial reactivity test will be performed.

      V3 (28 ±3 days after Day 0) - Intermediate: Blood will be drawn for tests and compliance with
      treatment will be assessed. V4 (28 ± 3 days after Visit 3) - End of study: Blood tests and an
      endothelial reactivity test will be performed and treatment compliance will be assessed.

      Weight, waist circumference, Index of Central Obesity (ICO) and Body Mass Index (BMI),
      Hepatic Steatosis Index (HSI) and Lipid Accumulation Product (LAP) will be
      measured/calculated at each visit, height at Visit 1.

      Heart rate and blood pressure will be measured at each visit. Adverse events (AEs) will be
      collected throughout the study starting from the Informed consent signature.

      The study will be monitored according to the details specified in the Monitoring Plan. The
      monitor will have the responsibility of reviewing the ongoing study with the Investigator to
      verify adherence to the protocol and to deal with any problems. Case Report Form (CRF) will
      be checked for completeness and consistency with the source data and special attention will
      be dedicated to patient enrolment, obtaining signed informed consent, occurrence of AEs,
      product accountability, and accurate recording of variables. The confidentiality of study
      related documents shall be maintained at all times. The Investigator agrees to allow access
      to all study materials needed for the proper review of study conduct.

      An independent quality audit/inspection at the study site may take place at any time during
      or after the study. The independent audit/inspection can be carried out by the Sponsor's
      independent Quality Assurance (QA), by a Health Authorities or an Ethics Committee (EC).
    
  