
    
      From previous research the investigators know that living with PD depends on several factors
      including the acceptance of diagnosis of PD management of symptoms and social support for the
      person with the condition. Through this project the investigators aim to map on a diagram
      (using a method called concentric circles) what are the lay and professional community
      resources and systems of support that people with PD use or have available to them in the
      community. The investigators will also explore ways these resources can be better utilized,
      and to discuss their personal social preferences. This project aims to gain a deep
      understanding of these resources and systems of support for people living with PD in the
      community, carers, stakeholders and healthcare professionals, and discuss strategies that
      could approximate interests of all stakeholders and professionals. This will constitute a
      starting point to develop and implement a transformative framework that incorporates dialogue
      between sectors and levels of care for better living with PD.

      The investigators plan to look at knowledge and attitudes towards resources in the community
      of people with PD carers, stakeholders and healthcare professionals, with a special interest
      in those living in less advantaged circumstances, such as older people living alone or in
      less accessible areas. The investigators will map the social support available on circle
      diagrams (demonstrating varying levels of value of this support) in one-to-one interviews
      with approximately 10 people with PD, 10 family carers, 10 Stakeholders and 10 healthcare
      professionals. The investigators will also undertake Focus Groups (n=4) with each of these
      stakeholder groups. Focus Groups will go over concepts raised in interviews and develop
      further understanding of priorities and tensions between different stakeholder groups.

      Participants will take part in semi-structured interviews, which will begin with using a
      concentric circles diagram to discuss and map social support networks and availability of
      support for people with PD and family carers from the perspective of people with PD, carers,
      stakeholders and healthcare professionals. This will encompass identification and discussion
      of existing community resources and systems of support. All participants will also be asked
      to complete a socio-demographic form (e.g. ge, gender, years since diagnosis of PD, working
      status or organisation and professional role and years in practice).

      Individual interviews will be undertaken face-to-face or by phone and will follow a
      semi-structured interview guide. The mapping element creates a visual map of participant's
      current social and support network, applying a concentric circles method, which will involve
      thinking of, and visualising the sources of support or community resources involved in their
      life as person with PD, carer, community or professional stakeholder or Healthcare
      professional. Furthermore, participants' social preferences or choices will be discussed in
      an attempt to understand the potential changes experienced and the utility and
      appropriateness of community resources.

      This process will be facilitated and discussion will take place with the participant.

      Participants will be invited to take part in a Focus Group following on from analysis of
      interviews to go over concepts raised in interviews and develop further understanding of
      priorities and tensions between different stakeholder groups.
    
  