
    
      The Family Investigation of Nephropathy and Diabetes (FIND) is a multicenter study designed
      to identify genetic determinants of diabetic kidney disease. FIND is conducted in eleven
      centers and in many ethnic groups throughout the United States. Two different strategies are
      used to localize genes predisposing to kidney disease: a family-based genetic
      linkage/association study and a case-control study that uses admixture linkage
      disequilibrium. The center based at the Phoenix office of the National Institute of Diabetes
      and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK-Phoenix) conducts family-based linkage/association
      studies among American Indian populations in the southwestern United States, and in the
      indigenous Micronesian populations of the Territory of Guam and the Commonwealth of the
      Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI).

      Participants (index cases) with diabetes and kidney disease are recruited, and their parents
      and siblings are also invited to participate. Members of target populations who are not
      related to index cases are also included and offered screening for diabetes and kidney
      disease; this will facilitate association studies. Genetic material from these participants
      is used to genotype markers throughout the genome. Linkage and association analyses are
      conducted to identify particular chromosomal regions containing genes that influence
      susceptibility to diabetic kidney disease. Linkage and association analyses are also used to
      identify genes influencing traits related to diabetic kidney disease, such as serum
      creatinine, urinary protein excretion, plasma glucose levels, blood pressure and blood lipid
      levels. Genome-wide and candidate gene association studies are also conducted. Regions that
      show evidence for linkage or association are then examined in more detail, with both genetic
      linkage and association studies, to attempt to identify the specific genes that influence
      diabetic kidney disease, or related traits.

      The identification of genes that influence susceptibility to diabetic kidney disease will
      lead to a better understanding of how kidney disease develops. In the long run, this may lead
      to improved treatment and prevention of diabetic kidney disease.
    
  