
    
      The rationale to conduct a definitive study comes as a result of the limitations inherent in
      the pre-existing literature due to selection bias, and the primarily retrospective nature of
      the current evidence, which is unclear whether caudal blocks result in higher complication
      rates following hypospadias repair. The only way to close this knowledge gap and disturb the
      current state of clinical equipoise surrounding this topic is to randomly assign the two
      interventions (caudal or penile block) to patients undergoing hypospadias repair. The
      rationale to conduct this pilot study is to determine whether the definitive study is
      feasible and to ensure that any methodological issues are identified and addressed prior to
      investing significant resources in a definitive trial.

      This study will be a pilot study to determine the feasibility of conducting a large
      definitive superiority, parallel, randomized controlled trial (RCT) to assess whether dorsal
      penile block results in fewer postoperative complications than caudal block in boys (6-48
      mos.) undergoing hypospadias repair.

      Hypospadias repair will be carried out under standardized analgesic administration..
      Participants may be given fentanyl (1-3 mcg/kg) at the discretion of the anesthesiologist.
      Anesthesia will be delivered to all participants via inhalation induction with air/nitrous
      oxide and sevoflurane. In addition either caudal anesthetic block (0.25% bupivacaine 1 ml/kg
      to a maximum of 10 ml) or dorsal penile block (bupivacaine without epinephrine 10-20 ml/kg)
      will be administered based on our randomization scheme. Each patient will also receive
      antiemetic prophylaxis with dexamethasone 150 mcg/kg ondansetron 50 mcg/kg Acetaminophen
      suppository 40 mg/kg, and intravenous morphine (0.02-0.1 mg/kg).

      At Home At home, Oral Morphine (0.2 mg/kg) q4h prn, Ditropan (0.2 mg/kg) q12h prn, Tylenol
      (15 mg/kg/dose) q4h or Ibuprofen (10 mg/kg/dose) q6h will be prescribed at discharge to be
      administered at the parents' discretion. Trimethoprim (2 mg/kg) will also be prescribed for
      administration until catheter removal.
    
  