
    
      Biomedical interventions that have direct applicability to people who inject drugs (PWID)
      have flourished over the past 15 years (HIV treatment as prevention, pre-exposure
      prophylaxis, office-based medication-assisted treatment (MAT) with buprenorphine, and
      hepatitis C virus (HCV) treatment with direct acting agents). However, penetration of these
      interventions among PWID is low relative to the potential benefits. Syringe service programs
      (SSP) are an essential risk reduction service for PWID, and represent the outermost reach of
      public health services for this population. The Baltimore City Health Department (BCHD) and
      investigators at Johns Hopkins University are developing a dedicated integrated care van
      (ICV) to complement the city's mobile SSP, with the goals of optimizing the HIV care cascade
      in HIV-positive clients and extending needed biomedical interventions to PWID. A nurse
      practitioner, case worker, and peer navigators will engage HIV-positive clients (known and
      newly diagnosed) and collaborate closely with local HIV clinics to promote progress toward
      durable viral suppression. To support the ICV's role in HIV care facilitation, investigators
      propose an innovative application of the Center for Disease Control (CDC)-sponsored "Data to
      Care" initiative - a multi-source health service database designed to assist health
      departments track the HIV care cascade in real time. Additionally, the ICV will provide rapid
      HIV testing, PrEP screening and initiation, buprenorphine-based MAT, HCV testing and
      referrals to treatment, and wound care. Using a cluster-randomized trial design,
      investigators propose to determine whether the ICV intervention advances the HIV care cascade
      among HIV-positive PWID, improves the Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) continuum, and
      increases uptake of MAT and HCV treatment (Aim 1). Additionally, investigators will examine
      the implementation of the ICV intervention using a mixed methods approach among PWID,
      local/state public health stakeholders, and medical providers to examine the intervention's
      feasibility, acceptability, coverage, fidelity, and sustainability (Aim 2). Finally,
      investigators will determine the incremental cost-effectiveness of the ICV intervention (Aim
      3). Investigators have assembled a multi-disciplinary team with methodological expertise in
      PWID interventions and cost-effectiveness evaluations, and longstanding collaboration with
      investigators' partners at the BCHD.
    
  