
    
      An emotional dysregulation has been linked to suicidal behavior in patients with BPD.

      Up to this date, no program had combined dialectical behavior therapy with acceptance
      commitment therapy.

      DBT aims to teach skills in four different fields : mindfulness, emotional regulation,
      distress tolerance and interpersonal efficiency.

      ACT helps to develop metacognitive skills and to identify what makes sense in one's life.

      Because 75% of BPD patients are women, the study will only focus on them.

      Patients will be evaluated during 4 visits :

        -  Inclusion : 1 or 2 weeks before the first session of therapy. During this visit patients
           will undergo a clinical exam and will complete questionnaires.

        -  First follow-up visit : 6 months after the first session (for the experimental group) or
           12 months after the first session (for the control group). During this visit will
           undergo a clinical exam and will complete questionnaires. Therapeutic processes, therapy
           satisfaction and cost- effectiveness ratio will be evaluated

        -  Second follow-up visit : 12 months after the first sessions (for the experimental group)
           or 18 months after the first session (for the control group). During this visit will
           undergo a clinical exam and will complete questionnaires. Therapeutic processes, and
           cost- effectiveness ratio will be evaluated

        -  Third follow-up visit : 18 months after the first session (for the experimental group)
           or 24 months after the first session (for the control group). During this visit will
           undergo a clinical exam and will complete questionnaires. Therapeutic processes, and
           cost- effectiveness ratio will be evaluated The hypothesis is that DBT+ ACT allows
           reducing suicidal recidivism, reducing economical cost linked to BPD and improving
           quality of life and functioning among patients.
    
  