
    
      Pilot studies conducted by AMRI International suggest that 0.5T static magnetic field energy
      as supplied by the investigational device Magnetic Molecular Energizer (MME) may be effective
      for relieving chronic low back pain that has been persistent despite conventional therapy.
      This study is is a randomized, sham-controlled trial intended to show whether or not the MME
      intervention is an effective, well tolerated intervention for the reduction of pain, pain
      related symptoms and improved ability to function in those diagnosed with the condition,
      chronic low back pain.

      The MME procedure consists of laying on a treatment bed with the individual's body positioned
      between two large, electromagnetic coils that create a very strong (0.3T - 0.5T) magnetic
      field that passes through the body. The device bears a superficial resemblance to an open MRI
      machine. The field is focused on the low back area. The total intervention time for the study
      is 140 hr of MME exposure, consisting of 8 - 12 hrs per day for 12 - 18 consecutive days or
      nights. Participants with be assessed prior to starting the intervention by history and
      physical exam conducted by one of the physician investigators, assessing pain level by using
      a visual analogue pain scale, assessing functional ability using the Oswestry Low Back Pain
      Disability Index questionnaire and assessment of cutaneous perception threshold (CPT) using
      the Neurometer device.

      Pain scale levels will be assessed daily throughout the intervention period. At the
      conclusion of the intervention period, CPT testing will be repeated. One month after the
      intervention, the Oswestry Low Back Pain Disability Index questionnaire will be mailed to the
      participant. The final evaluation will be six months after the intervention. The participant
      is to return to the clinic and repeat CPT testing, report pain levels and complete the
      Oswestry Low Back Pain Disability Index questionnaire.

      The targeted enrollment for the trial is 100 participants. The participants will be
      randomized so that 50 receive the active procedure and 50 will receive a sham procedure. The
      sham procedure is provided by a MME device that has been disabled so that the machine appears
      to turn on, but no magnetic field is produced. When the final post-intervention follow-up has
      been completed the participants will be informed whether they received the active or sham
      procedure. Those who received the sham procedure will be offered to receive the active
      procedure if they desire. The same evaluations will be repeated with this cross-over group,
      but the data will be reported separately from the main trial results.

      Participants are not asked to discontinue their usual medications or treatments for their low
      back pain. Medication usage will be assessed to see if there is any change in usage pattern
      associated with the procedure.
    
  