
    
      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a condition associated with low levels of
      physical activity and sedentary behaviour (i.e. too much sitting). In addition there is a
      higher level of heart disease and diabetes in those with COPD. This adds to the burden of the
      disease. This study will be measuring sitting time using a specific waist-worn monitoring
      device. The amount of sitting time will then be compared with cardiovascular (heart disease)
      risk markers, diabetes risk markers and body composition (i.e. fat and muscle mass).

      The measurement of cardiovascular and diabetes risk markers will include blood tests to look
      at blood sugar levels, lipids, cholesterol and insulin resistance as well as blood pressure
      and heart rate measurement. Body composition measurements will include height, weight, waist
      circumference, hip circumference as well as scales that will measure body fat and muscle mass
      and a scan called a dual energy x-ray absorptiometer (DEXA) which uses a type of x-ray to
      measure body tissues. This involves a very low dose of radiation, much smaller than a normal
      x-ray.

      Quadriceps strength will be measured to provide information on the strength of the muscles.

      The sitting device will be worn for 1 week and at the end of this week it will be delivered
      or sent back by the participant together with a questionnaire about how acceptable the device
      is to wear.

      Additional measures will be included in the assessment in order to examine the results
      appropriately and reduce bias. These measurements include lung function (breathing) tests,
      fitness tests (4 metre gait speed and incremental shuttle walk test) and questionnaires about
      age, gender, ethnicity, medical diagnoses, medications (with detail about oral steroid use),
      smoking (including pack yrs), exacerbation history, breathlessness, anxiety, depression and
      motivation, frailty, Physical Activity and Sedentary Behaviour Questionnaire, Employment and
      Occupational status and history, device Acceptability questionnaire.

      Participants will attend an assessment visit. As some of the blood tests need to be done
      under fasting conditions, i.e. without consuming food or liquids other than water for 8
      hours, this will normally take place in the morning. Following the blood tests they will be
      offered a drink and snack before undertaking any physical measures.

      Healthy volunteers of a similar age will also be recruited and attend the same assessment
      visit to allow comparison between groups to be made.
    
  