
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the effect of prophylactic tenofovir alafenamide (TAF) therapy versus upon
      indication TAF therapy on time-to-adverse liver outcomes of liver failure or liver-related
      death in patients with chronic HBV infection (hepatitis B surface antigen positive [HBsAg+]
      and antibody to hepatitis B core antigen positive [anti-HBc+]) receiving anti-cancer therapy
      for solid tumors.

      II. To compare the effect of upon indication TAF therapy versus usual care on time-to-adverse
      liver outcomes of liver failure or liver-related death in patients with past HBV infection
      (hepatitis B surface antigen negative [HBsAg-] and anti-HBc+) receiving anti-cancer therapy
      for solid tumors.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Using time-to-event analysis, to compare the effect of TAF therapy versus upon indication
      TAF therapy on HBV reactivation, on the combined endpoint of adverse liver outcomes (liver
      failure or liver-related death) and HBV reactivation, and on HBV flare by arm in patients
      with chronic HBV infection receiving anti-cancer therapy for solid tumors.

      II. Using time-to-event analysis, to compare the effect of upon indication TAF therapy versus
      usual care on HBV reactivation, on the combined endpoint of adverse liver outcomes (liver
      failure or liver-related death) and HBV reactivation, and on HBV flare by arm in patients
      with past HBV infection receiving anti-cancer therapy for solid tumors.

      TRANSLATIONAL OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare baseline and changes in overall immune status and HBV-specific immune response
      in patients with solid tumors and chronic or past HBV infection receiving anti-cancer
      therapy, and to compare the differences in these immune responses by HBV reactivation status.

      II. To identify demographic and clinical predictors and correlative immunologic biomarkers of
      HBV reactivation after receipt of anti-cancer therapy in patients with solid tumors and
      chronic or past HBV infection.

      OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 3 groups.

      GROUP A (Cohorts 1a & 2a): Participants receive TAF orally (PO) once daily (QD) immediately
      or within 28 days after initial dose of chemotherapy. Treatment continues for up to 6 months
      after the last dose of chemotherapy or a maximum of 24 months in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      GROUP B (Cohorts 1b & 2b): Participants receive TAF PO QD after HBV reactivation during
      chemotherapy. Treatment continues for up to 6 months after the last dose of chemotherapy or a
      maximum of 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      GROUP C (Cohort 3): Participants receive TAF PO QD at the discretion of the physician during
      usual care. Treatment continues for up to 6 months after discontinuation of usual care or a
      maximum of 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up for up to 24 months.
    
  