
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine feasibility of using a free online commercial weight loss program (SparkPeople)
      in African-American (AA) breast cancer survivors, as measured by: 1) Accrual: percent (%)
      patients recruited and completing baseline assessments; 2) Study retention: % patients
      completing 6 month follow-up assessment; 3) Intervention adherence and sustainability
      (measured at 3, 6, 12 months): a) use of website- number of log-ins, time spent, and use of
      features such as food diaries, joining teams, posting on message boards (provided by
      SparkPeople); b) use of Fitbit monitor- % patients who wore the monitor and synced data; c)
      satisfaction (e.g., ease of use of website, usefulness of content, extra training and support
      needed) and barriers to participation (e.g., lack of computer access, lack of skills, time,
      interest, etc.).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Collect preliminary data on effect sizes of changes in our outcomes and potential
      mediators associated with the use of the online weight loss program.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      All patients receive a handout of their personalized goals for weight loss, diet, and
      physical activity, with instructions to proceed slowly and as tolerated. Patients also wear a
      Fitbit monitoring device to monitor physical activity levels daily.

      GROUP I: Patients receive one 30-minute session with the research assistant for training on
      how to use the SparkPeople website, and may request additional training if needed. Patients
      are instructed to self-monitor their diet at least weekly using SparkPeople and physical
      activity levels daily using the Fitbit monitoring device, which integrates with the
      SparkPeople program. Patients receive weekly motivational reminders to log into the website
      for 3 months via email, text, or phone, based on patient preference (active phase). Patients
      then enter the maintenance phase for an additional 3 months without reminders.

      GROUP II: Patients receive the weight loss handout and a Fitbit health monitoring device and
      proceed with their usual life. After 6 months, patients receive the SparkPeople treatment as
      in Group I.
    
  