
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, double blind, controlled trial. Following detailed past
      medical history assessment, two days before the surgical procedure neurocognitive function
      tests, depression and anxiety tests were carried out to assess the participants.
      Neurocognitive and anxiety tests were repeated on the 6th day after surgical procedure. A
      battery of tests lasting approximately 40 minutes were administered by a trained
      neuropsychologist from the Clinical Hospital Center, Split in a standardized fashion, at the
      same time of the day (10:00 AM) and in the same room at the Cardiac surgery ward. The
      investigators used a validated battery of tests which enabled the assessment of psychomotor
      speed, visual-motor coordination, concentration, attention, short-term memory and aspects of
      executive functioning. The evaluation was based on the following tests: Mini Mental State
      Examination (MMSE), Wechsler Memory Scale (WMS I & II), Trail Making Test (TMT A & B), Symbol
      Digit Modalities Test (SDMT), Controlled Oral Word Association Test (COWAT) and PsychE
      computer test. All of the tests except TMT A & B have alternate forms. Croatian versions of
      Beck Depression Inventory-Second Edition (BDI II) and State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI-M)
      were used for preoperative depression and trait and state anxiety assessment, respectively.

      One day before the surgery (08:00 AM) blood samples were collected for determination of
      levels of S100β protein, cortisol and other routine laboratory parameters (white blood cell
      count (WBC), hematocrit, creatinine, glucose, albumin, sodium, potassium, C reactive protein
      (CRP), Troponin I hs).

      Participants were randomized into two groups to receive either intravenous dexamethasone 0.1
      mg/kg or the same volume of normal saline i.v. 10 hours before the surgery. Random sequence
      generator was used to determine participant allocation.

      Anesthesia in all patients was based on fentanyl, midazolam, vecuronium and sevoflurane. The
      depth of anesthesia was monitored using bispectral index (BIS). During cardiopulmonary bypass
      alpha-stat technique was used with the maintenance of normothermia (35.5-36.5°C) or
      spontaneous hypothermia (up to 32°C). With the off-pump technique, the core temperature was
      maintained between 36 and 37°C. Surgical technique was standardized. Routine hemodynamic
      monitoring was performed throughout the surgery and continued on the first postoperative day.
      Plasma levels of S100β protein were determined 6 h and 30 h following the end of on-pump
      surgery, and 3 h following the end of off-pump surgery. C reactive protein levels and other
      routine laboratory parameters were measured from blood samples collected 1 h, 4 h and 12 h
      postoperatively. On the first postoperative day blood samples were collected at 08:00 AM to
      determine cortisol levels, C reactive protein and other routine laboratory parameters, and
      cortisol was also measured on the same day at 04:00 PM, and 12:00 AM. C reactive protein and
      other routine laboratory parameters were repeatedly measured at 08:00 AM on the following
      postoperative days, except for cortisol levels which were measured on postoperative days 3
      and 5. Registered nurse carried out the standardized test (Delirium Observation Screening
      Scale (DOS) scale) to assess the patients for the development of postoperative delirium from
      second to fifth postoperative day (at 07:00 AM, 02:00 PM and 10:00 PM).
    
  