
    
      Pain is an unpleasant sensory or emotional experience associated with actual or potential
      tissue damage and is classified as acute or chronic. Acute pain is felt for a short time
      after an injury or harmful stimulus and is considered part of a defense strategy; It points
      to an active danger to the organism. Chronic pain that exceeds the duration of the injury or
      trigger stimulus and lasts for at least three months. Recent studies show that chronic pain
      has devastating effects on cognitive functions by causing emotional stress, anxiety, and
      depression. Studies show that chronic pain affects certain cognitive areas. These areas are;
      processing speed, short-term memory, long-term memory, inhibitory control and working memory.
      In addition, task-oriented studies show that chronic pain affects not simple tasks, but
      rather dual tasks that require the use of complex cognitive function (executive function).

      Task; it is a behavior, skill or ability that needs to be done. The simple (single) task
      contains only one alert or task. For example, walking. Dual task requires the simultaneous
      performance of two different tasks that can be measured independently and have different
      goals. For example, calculating while walking at the same time. In rehabilitation approaches,
      single or dual task trainings are applied. Among physiotherapy and rehabilitation approaches,
      single task training consists only of exercises involving motor performance; Dual task
      trainings can consist of different exercise combinations that require two different tasks to
      be performed at the same time as motor + motor, cognitive + cognitive or motor + cognitive
      performances. The clinical benefit of dual task training is that most of the daily living
      activities are done in dual task conditions.

      Chronic pain is a common health problem associated with most rheumatic diseases. It is pain
      that lasts for at least 3 months and cannot be completely relieved with standard pain
      medication. 40-60% of rheumatologic patients do not have sufficient relief in their pain. For
      this reason, dual-task performance may be affected in individuals diagnosed with
      rheumatological disease, secondary to the impairment of cognition. In the literature, there
      are only limited studies showing dual-task performance effects in individuals diagnosed with
      fibromyalgia and osteoarthritis. However, chronic pain is the main health problem that
      prevents mobility restriction and participation in all rheumatic diseases. In addition, there
      is no study investigating the dual task performance effect in rheumatic diseases in a
      comprehensive way. Therefore, the aim of thestudy is to investigate the effect of rheumatic
      diseases on dual-task performance by comparing it with the control group.
    
  