
    
      This study compares the usual follow up of patients seen at a visit three months following
      the CVA, with a optimised follow up including the tensional auto-measure, the education of
      the patient and the information of the generalist and the appeal to the AHT multidisciplinary
      visit for resistant patients, in compliance with the guidelines.

      All the hypertended patients able to realise a course of tensional automeasures will be
      invited to realise a course of tensional auto-measures during three days preceding the visit
      in the neurology department.

      The tensional measures will be performed according the methodology recommended by HAS.

      This strategy of caring is conform to the HAS and ESH recommendations regarding the follow up
      of the hypertended patients.

      The hospitalised patients in neurology for CVA are in all cases convocated to the follow up
      visit three months after the hospitalisation. The patients will be trained in the use of the
      TAM by the nurse of the neurology depratment before his dropout from the neurology department
      at the end of hospitalisation.

      The systematic use of TAM will allow to identify patients presenting a AHT "white blouse",
      but too patients presenting masked AHT.

      The visit in the neurology department will be performed by the investigators of the neurology
      department. At the end of this visit, two groups of patients will be identified : patients
      with a controlled AHT (NI), and patients with a masked or non controlled AHT (MASC + NC).

      Patients presenting a controlled AHT or a "white blouse" AHT (NI) will not be randomised. But
      it will be proposed to them to sign a consent to acquire their agreement to realise a
      exploitation of their data. This will allow to caracterise better this population of
      patients.

      Patients presenting a masked or non controlled AHT will be invited to participate to the
      study after signing a consent.

      The collection of the consent will be done by the investigators of the neurology department.
    
  