
    
      In 2002, NIMH released an initiative that called upon researchers to improve psychosocial
      interventions for unipolar and bipolar depression. The Workgroup charged with this task
      recommended that researchers consider the "development of interventions that PREVENT onset
      and recurrence of clinical episodes in at-risk populations and [the] development of
      user-friendly interventions and nontraditional delivery methods to increase access to
      evidence-based interventions" (Hollon et al., 2002, p. 610). The overall goal of this
      research program aims to address these two priorities by adapting an empirically-validated
      depression intervention to the Internet. The current research study will eventually provide
      an online site to study whether clinical episodes of depression can be prevented by making
      the online Website available to people who are NOT currently depressed, but may be at risk
      for depression.

      Study 1: the NIMH-funded pilot study. For Study 1, the investigators will conduct usability
      testing with 60 participants (half English-speaking and half Spanish-speaking) recruited at
      San Francisco General Hospital with the sole purpose of providing feedback on the Healthy
      Mood Management Project Website being developed. The investigators will not be testing the
      intervention itself on these usability testing participants.

      The investigators will then recruit 150 participants (half English-speaking [NOW COMPLETED]
      and half Spanish-speaking [STILL RECRUITING]) WHO ARE NOT CURRENTLY DEPRESSED to use the
      Healthy Mood Management Project Website online. In this part of the study the investigators
      will compare follow-up completion rates obtained by (email reminders + monetary incentives)
      versus (email reminders + monetary incentives + phone call follow-ups). All participants will
      get automatic email reminders with links to return to the study site to fill out FU surveys
      at 1, 3, and 6 months. All participants will also be offered monetary incentives that can be
      obtained online. In addition, half of the participants (chosen at random) will receive phone
      calls if they do not complete follow-up surveys online. This will allow us to determine
      whether the phone call follow-ups significantly improve follow-up rates.

      The monetary incentives will be provided as online gift certificates to Amazon.com. The
      incentives will be provided by sending the participant a code which allows the user to
      purchase products (books, etc.) up to the amount provided.

      The two groups to be compared are:

        1. Email reminders + incentives

        2. Email reminders + incentives + phone calls (to collect data if not done online)
    
  