
    
      Metabolic control of diabetes, measured by hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), reduces the risk of
      microvascular complications. Health care providers frequently do not meet standards for
      managing HbA1c and individuals with diabetes are often not aware of their HbA1c values. To
      address these issues and reduce population-attributable risk due to elevated HbA1c, the New
      York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (DOHMH) developed an innovative HbA1c
      registry, which requires all major laboratories to report HbA1c results electronically. We
      propose to utilize this registry to conduct a randomized controlled trial addressing the
      following specific aims: 1) to evaluate the incremental effect of a tiered and tailored,
      patient-centered telephone intervention, in English and Spanish, on the mean HbA1c levels
      beyond that achieved with print materials mailed to patients and providers by the DOHMH
      registry intervention; 2) determine what patient demographic and psychosocial factors mediate
      the effect of the interventions; and 3) provide estimates of implementation costs of the
      tiered, tailored telephone intervention for comparison with the print intervention. The
      individual is the unit of sampling, assignment and analysis. After eligibility is assessed
      and informed consent is obtained by telephone, the individual will be randomly assigned to
      one of the two groups. The patient telephone intervention will focus on collaborative problem
      solving for resolving barriers to medication adherence, improving lifestyle behaviors, and
      communicatiing effectively with their providers. The print materials from the DOHMH will
      communicate HbA1c results to patients and their providers, with strategies to improve them.
      The study outcome will be change in HbA1c values from the registry records from baseline to
      one-year post-randomization. A total of 941 individuals with diabetes will be needed to
      provide 83% power to detect a statistically significant difference (p<0.05) between groups of
      at least 0.3% in absolute HbA1c. Psychosocial data on depression, health behaviors, and risk
      perceptions will be collected by telephone. Intervention cost data will be evaluated for
      translation of findings and scalability. At study end, we will know the extent to which this
      intervention will improve metabolic control in a low-income, multi-ethnic sample who are part
      of the DOHMH HbA1c registry in the South Bronx, New York. These findings will inform public
      health policies and practices in New York City, as well as other urban areas throughout the
      nation.
    
  