
    
      Background:

      Postoperative pain following median sternotomy can represent a major postoperative problem as
      it can lead to reduced mobilization and shallow, restricted breathing and insufficient cough,
      which can lead to pulmonary complications.

      However, pain management with opioids has frequent side-effects such as confusion,
      respiratory depression, sedation, nausea and obstipation/ paralytic ilieus. Non-steroid
      anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can been used as opiod-sparing analgesics following cardiac
      surgery. However, this remains controversial, as NSAIDs has been linked to an increased risk
      of myocardial infarction, especially in patients with ischaemic heart disease, renal failure,
      gastrointestinal bleeding, and possibly impaired sternal healing.

      The investigators wanted to investigate the analgesic properties of a opiod-based regimen
      with that of an ibuprofene-based, through randomization of patients to one of the two arms.

      Intervention:

      The participants were given analgesics in accordance to their randomization group upon return
      from the postoperative ICU stay.

      The opioid regimen relied on a basic dose of slow-release oxycodone ("Oxycontin", Norpharma,
      Vedbaek, Denmark, 10mg two times daily) and paracetamol ("Panodil", GlaxoSmithKline,
      Copenhagen, Denmark, 1g four times daily). For "break-through pain" extra oxycodone was
      administered as injections or capsules (5mg pr. dose). Furthermore laxatives were
      co-administered to prevent obstipation.

      In the ibuprofene regimen slow-release ibuprofen ("Brufen Retard", Abbott, Copenhagen,
      Denmark, 800mg two times daily) replaced oxycodone as the basic analgesic. In the ibuprofene
      regimen lansoprazol ("Lansoprazole", Actavis, Gentofte, Denmark, 30mg once daily) was
      co-administered to prevent development of gastric ulcers. These regimens were initiated the
      first postoperative day, when the patient was transferred from the ICU to the ward, and
      continued until the seventh postoperative day. Some patient

      Outcome:

      Please refer to the "outcome" chapter

      Statistics:

      Data are presented as number of patients, medians, and ranges. Patients are compared
      according to the ibuprofen or the oxycodone group, and statistics were done using
      "intention-to-treat"-design. Fischer's exact test, Mann-Whitney, and 95% confidence intervals
      were used as appropriate. Significance was defined as P-values below 0.05.
    
  