
    
      Assessment strategy:

      The investigators propose a pragmatic cluster-randomized trial of the effects of MM+SMEvent
      (intervention) versus MM alone (control) on VMC coverage. In addition, RCCS data from before
      and after trial initiation will provide data on trends in VMC coverage, HIV incidence and key
      behaviors in both arms before and during the trial. In the trial control communities this
      will provide an assessment of the effects of mass media alone. The "pragmatic" approach
      allows modification of the SMP components based on feedback and iterative assessments, as
      would be the case in normal program practice.

      Cluster randomized trial component:

        -  20 Rakai Community Cohort Study (RCCS) communities will be randomized into the
           intervention arm and into the control arm (10 communities in each arm). The clusters
           will be stratified by community characteristics (e.g., fishing villages, main road hubs,
           agrarian villages), and randomized within strata.

      Intervention arm: ~ ten clusters will be randomly assigned to receive the SMEvent activities
      once during the one year study, in addition to the ongoing district-wide MM. The SMEvents
      will include the community mobilization as described above, carried out in conjunction with
      mobile service camps conducted at the time of the SMEvent.

      The other ~10 communities (control arm) will be exposed to MM over the year, but will not
      receive an SMEvents. All control communities will receive VMC through a standard mobile
      service camp, in order to enhance comparability of services in both arm.

      Services in both arms will be offered per Uganda CDC PEPFAR guidelines.

      Pre-post component:

      The MM campaign on radio which covers a large proportion of the population of Rakai cannot be
      randomized. However, the RCCS provides longitudinal information on population-level rates of
      VMC coverage since the service was introduced (7+ years ago), as well as data on behaviors
      (condom use, numbers of partners, etc…) and HIV incidence. Thus, within control arm
      communities, the investigators have data required to determine what proportion of the
      population are exposed to the mass media, and whether the MM is associated with increased VMC
      demand and adoption. The rate of service uptake in the RCCS has essentially plateaued for
      over the past 3 RCCS rounds, so an upward inflection following MM startup will suggest
      program effects. The investigators will also conduct a pre-post comparison in the SMEvent+MM
      arm.

      As described below, the investigators will add questions to the RCCS to enhance the SMP
      evaluation. VMC uptake will also be assessed through service statistics, since the RHSP/MOH
      collaboration is the primary provider of VMC in RCCS communities.

      Methods of data collection:

        1. The annual RCCS community survey will be used to collect data from a random sample of 70
           resident non-Muslim men aged 18-49 per community ~700 men per arm, or ~1,400 men in
           all).

           The RCCS will continue to collect detailed data on VMC adoption, sociodemographics,
           behaviors (including numbers and types of partners, condom use). The investigators will
           add a module in the RCCS to evaluate exposure to the SMP (mass media, SMEvent),
           perceptions of components of the SMP (both positive and negative), perceptions of VMC
           services and the degree to which they are acceptable within the respondent's family,
           peer group and community; whether the respondent has had conversations with partners,
           family and/or peers about VMC. whether an individual accepted VMC as a result of the
           campaign, and if so, what was (were) the main influence(s) (i.e., information, found out
           peers were using services, friends or spouses encouraged uptake as a result of the
           campaign, easier access to the service, etc….. ) The reported utilization will be
           validated against clinic data.

           Although HIV incidence is not a primary study outcome, HIV testing will be conducted
           within the RCCS (as is the standard practice) using a three rapid test algorithm,with
           EIA and/or PCR confirmation of all newly identified HIV+ in-migrants and all new
           seroconverters. Serum samples from the RCCS will be archived at -80 C for future studies
           such as community viral load, under future grants.

           The investigators will conduct the RCCS survey approximately 2-3 months after the
           SMEvent in intervention communities. The RCCS will be conducted at approximately the
           same time in the matched control communities, to enhance comparability.

        2. Process data:

           Records will be kept of each SMP activity: radio spots and interviews, scheduling of
           SMEvent activities, etc. SMEvent process data will include estimates of the number of
           participants each day, with photos taken to assist with the count. Approximately 12
           short anonymous "spot interviews" will be conducted daily at the SMEvent site daily with
           younger and older men, to gauge interest in the activities, positive and negative
           perceptions, and suggestions for improvement.

        3. Clinic-based evaluation:

      Both at the mobile SMEvent services and in the standard mobile clinics in control
      communities, records will be kept of all services by client's age, venue and date. (Client
      medical records will include the individual's name, but will be retained separately from
      research records.) Clients will be asked what motivated them to accept a service (some SMP
      component, other people were getting services, encouragement from someone influenced by the
      SMP, factors unrelated to the SMP, etc…)

      Cost data:

      The investigators do not propose a formal cost benefit analysis. However, the cost of the
      campaign will be closely tracked (cost of each radio spot, personnel/materials for the
      SMEvent, fuel, administrative and support costs, additional cost to PEPFAR of extended
      evening service hours, etc…). The focus will be on service-related costs, with research
      outlays tracked separately.
    
  