
    
      Despite significant improvements in diagnostic imaging and neurosurgical techniques, the
      current treatment modalities for high-grade gliomas are inadequate. As such, the median
      survival for most patients with GBM is on the order of months, even after cytoreductive
      surgery, radiation and chemotherapy. Fewer than 3% of GBM patients are still alive at 5 years
      after diagnosis. A rising incidence has been reported for GBM, and the survival rate for
      patients with GBM has not shown improvement in the last two decades. For this reason
      exploring novel therapies for the treatment of GBM is warranted.

      Neuro-oncology is currently in the midst of a paradigm shift in terms of our accepted
      understanding of the pathophysiology of gliomagenesis. Classic "dedifferentiation"
      hypotheses, modeling the cellular origin of gliomas after neoplastic transformation of
      differentiated glia, are currently being challenged by hypotheses suggesting dysregulated
      glial progenitor cells are responsible for gliomagenesis. Growing evidence exists that glial
      progenitor cells persisting in the adult mammalian brain, lining the lateral ventricles in
      the subventricular zone (SVZ) and dentate gyrus, play a role in gliomagenesis. Gliomas
      frequently occur in close proximity to the ventricular system and SVZ with high-grade lesions
      like GBM "spreading" to midline structures and crossing the corpus callosum to the
      contralateral hemisphere. Glial progenitor cells lining the lateral ventricles in the SVZ and
      dentate gyrus may be the source of "tumor" cells "spreading" to midline structures such as
      the corpus callosum as well as continuously replenishing the tumor bed resulting in local
      recurrences.

      The lack of significant clinical advances in treating GBM may be due to oversight of the SVZ
      component of this disease. It is our hypothesis that successful treatment of GBM will require
      suppression of the SVZ component in addition to the currently accepted modalities of
      hemispheric tumor resection followed by radiation and chemotherapy. This understanding of
      gliomagenesis has not yet been used clinically for the treatment of GBM. We hypothesize that
      the SVZ is the incubator for future recurrences of GBM and propose targeting SVZ progenitor
      cells with intraventricular liposomal encapsulated Ara-C (DepoCyt) in combination with
      systemic metronomic dose temozolomide. Ara-C has been previously demonstrated to inhibit the
      proliferation and migration of SVZ precursor cells in adult animals. Two patients treated
      using this novel regimen have demonstrated significant responses warranting further study of
      this treatment in the Phase I/II clinical trial proposed here. This has also been the basis
      for successful application and granting of Orphan-Drug designation for cytarabine (Ara-C)
      liposome injection (trade name: DepoCyt) for the treatment of gliomas (Designation # 06-2348)
      on January 30, 2007.
    
  