
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the NeuroDRIVE behavioral intervention for
      enhancement of driving abilities, cognitive abilities, and neurobehavioral symptoms after
      traumatic brain injury (TBI). For the purposes of this protocol, NeuroDRIVE refers to the
      novel combined approach of driving training and cognitive rehabilitation in a virtual reality
      environment. While NeuroDRIVE utilizes the VR system as the method through which the
      intervention is administered, NeuroDRIVE is not the VR system itself.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      30 adult patients with a history of mild TBI and 30 adult patients with a history of
      moderate-to-severe TBI. Participants will be recruited from the National Institutes of Health
      (NIH), WRNMMC, and the broader community.

      DESIGN:

      The current study is a Clinical Trial Phase II interventional research study. The primary
      purpose of the study is for treatment, and it will employ a parallel intervention model.
      There will be no masking (i.e., open label). Participants will be classified into two groups
      by TBI severity: those with history of mild TBI and those with history of moderate-tosevere
      TBI. These different severities are known to have distinct cognitive sequelae. Within each
      severity group, participants will be in a 2 (pre-post) x 2 (treatment vs. wait list)
      experimental design.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      Primary outcome measures will include:

        -  Results from the Virtual Reality Driving Assessment (baseline and postintervention
           Tactical scenario composite scores)

        -  Total scores on the Neurobehavioral Symptom Inventory

        -  Standard and scaled scores from the following cognitive assessments (from the TBI Common
           Data Elements identified by NINDS):

      WAIS-IV or WMS-IV Digit Span subtest

      WAIS-IV Digit-Symbol Coding subtest

      Secondary outcome measures will include:

      -Neuroimaging results:

      Regions of Interest for FMRI: Bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortex

      Regions of Interest for DTI: Corpus callosum, bilateral frontal white matter horns, and
      bilateral longitudinal fasciculi

      -Total scores on the following symptom questionnaires:

      Glasgow Outcome Scale-Extended (GOS-E)

      Ohio State University TBI Identification Method

      Brief Symptom Inventory- 18

      Satisfaction with Life Scale (SWLS)

      PTSD Checklist- Civilian (PCL-C)

      SF-36v2 Health Survey (SF-36v2)

      Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS)

      Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS)

      Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II)

      Combat Exposure Scale (CES)

      Dual Dangerous Driving Index (DDDI)

      -Standard and scaled scores from the following cognitive phenotyping assessments (from the
      TBI Common Data Elements identified by NINDS):

      California Verbal Learning Test- Second Edition (CVLT-II)

      WAIS-IV Symbol Search subtest

      Medical Symptom Validity Test (MSVT)

      -Standard and scaled scores from the following additional cognitive phenotyping assessments:

      Trail Making Test (TMT)

      Test of Premorbid Functioning (ToPF)

      Grooved Pegboard

      Controlled Oral Word Association Test (COWAT)

      Bethesda Eye and Attention Measure (BEAM)
    
  