
    
      Context:

      The ability to sequence fetal cfDNA has led to exciting new developments for the non-invasive
      genetic diagnosis of monogenic diseases (DPNI_MGR). Various tests are proposed for diseases
      with predominantly de novo dominant, dominant paternal and some recessive paternal mutations.
      However, technical difficulties related to the determination of the maternal allelic balance
      remain, in particular during the phasing of parental haplotypes according to a trio strategy
      which requires the availability of parental genomic DNAs and at least one healthy or affected
      child. Moreover 2nd generation sequencers do not allow the haplotyping of alleles carrying
      dynamic mutations.

      Objectives:

      This project proposes the validation of a semi-universal DPNI_MGR test applicable to the
      majority of the genes and mutations involved in DPN requests from phasing of parental
      haplotypes by 3rd generation long-fragment DNA sequencing techniques coupled with targeted
      sequencing of free circulating DNA from maternal plasma. This test will be validated using
      triplet expansion diseases, which are the second indication of DPN at the national level.

      Methodology :

      Retrospective study of 16 couples at risk of transmitting a disease with triplet expansions
      (Myotonic dystrophy of Steinert, Huntington's disease, FRAXA, SCA1, 2, 3)

      Phase 1 :

        -  Determination for 8 pairs of parental haplotypes according to the technique "Nanopore
           Cas9 Targeted-Sequencing" (nCATS) and validation of the analytical parameters and
           quality of this method (coverage rate of the regions of interest, error rate,
           identification of the morbid allele carrying the expansion ...),

        -  Comparison of the parental haplotypes obtained in "Nanopore" technique versus those
           obtained by the "Linked Reads 10xGenomics" technique in these same 8 pairs (the
           sequencing and phasing data by this 2nd approach are available from a previous study),

        -  Evaluation of the concordance of the fetal genotype results obtained during the standard
           examination (DPN by amniocentesis or choriocentesis) and those obtained with these new
           approaches of phasing in PNID.

      Phase 2:

      - Validation of the best performing workflow (efficiency / cost) of phase 1 over 8 additional
      pairs for a clinical transfer of the approach.

      Expected results and prospects:

      This study should make it possible to define the best performing test for the DPNI of triplet
      expansion diseases in accordance with the knowledge of the art and to validate the transfer
      conditions in clinical practice of the approach (equipment, reagents, cost analysis,
      analytical validation criteria ....).

      The validated workflow should be as universal as possible to secondarily provide national
      level access to a wide range of rare diseases NIDP by future adjustments of the gene content
      of the free circulating DNA sequencing panels.
    
  