
    
      Background: most of available data are designed to show risk profile of either coronary or
      cerebral ischemia, few data compared both risk profiles or tried to outline risk factors for
      combined ischemia.

      The aim is to compare risk profile of isolated coronary, cerebral ischemia or combined
      disease to find out specific profile for each territory affection. Current management of risk
      factors will be documented to find out any unmet needs specially for sicker patients with
      combined ischemia.

      Material and methods: 3 groups of patients representing coronary, cerebral and combined
      ischemia.will be studied.

      Documentation of coronary ischemia will be either by history of coronary care unit admission,
      ECG documenting an infarction or ischemia, other noninvasive testing, previous coronary
      intervention or coronary artery bypass grafting. Documentation of cerebral ischemia will be
      by history, examination for a neurological deficit or any imaging modality documenting
      cerebral ischemia (brain CT, MRI or duplex whether for extra or intracranial vessels).

      Risk factor analysis will be for the known risk factors like, age, sex, family history,
      smoking, recurrent events (like more than one coronary event), sedentary life, waist/hip
      ratio, BMI, diabetes(history, duration, current medication and current control status,
      HbA1c), hypertension (history, duration, current drug treatment and current control status).
      hypercholesterolemia (history, duration, drug treatment and control with current evaluation
      of LDL, HDL, TG, ApoB/ApoA), hs-CRP, presence of AF( drug treatment).

      Full patient data will be obtained in a Case Report Form (CRF) based format. CRF format will
      be designed by the steering committee. Investigators at clinics or centers who agree to
      share, will be committed to fulfill this CRF and send electronic form to central workstation
      for database saving.

      Filling the CRF will be based on a single interview between the investigator and the patient,
      and any missing data or investigation that mandates another interview will be allowed to
      complete the CRF within a period of 30 days.

      Center or investigator agreement will be signed first to be involved in the study and to
      receive the CRF.

      All patients will sign a written consent to share in the study.

      Data analysis will be presented as mean or numbers (%). The significance of relation between
      qualitative variables will be analysed by chi-square test or Fisher's exact test as
      indicated. The distribution of means among groups will be analysed by student t testor ANOVA
      as appropriate.

      Correlation between quantitative variables will be studied by correlation coefficient.

      Independent predictors of primary outcomes will be analysed by logistic regression analysis
      and cox regression analysis as indicated.

      .
    
  