
    
      Agents blocking the Programmed Cell Death 1(PD1)/Programmed Cell Death 1-Ligand 1 (PD-L1)
      pathway have demonstrated objective, durable tumor regressions in patients with advanced
      solid malignancies and efficacy has been linked to PD-L1 expression. PD-L1 expression by
      tumour cells is the strongest single predictor of response to anti-PD1 therapy (J Taube, R
      Anders et al, Clin Cancer Res 2014). Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) is a high-affinity humanized
      monoclonal anti-PD1 antibody. It leads to dual PD1-ligand blockade of PD-L1 and PD-L2 that
      may reactivate the immune surveillance and elicit anti-tumour response. It has antitumor
      activity in melanoma and NSCLC (phase III trials). Pembrolizumab might be of interest in
      unresectable squamous cell carcinomas of the skin (SCCS).

      Approximately 20% to 30% of non-melanoma skin cancers are SCCS. Most patients with primary
      SCCS have an excellent prognosis, but SCCS can progress to advanced stages that are
      impossible to treat by surgical excision or radiotherapy. Few therapeutic options are
      available for these tumors. Conventional chemotherapy, such as cisplatin-based combinations,
      has some efficacy, but the toxic effects of these combinations often prohibit their use in
      elderly patients. Epidermal Growth Factor (EGFR) signaling antagonists have activity only in
      a subset of patients. New therapeutic options are needed for patients with advanced SCCS.

      No trial evaluating pembrolizumab in human SCCS is ongoing. Investigators hypothesize that:

      i) PD-L1 is expressed in SCCS as in HNSCC ii) pembrolizumab may be effective as a single
      agent in patients with unresectable SCCS iii) Efficacy of pembrolizumab is correlated to
      PD-L1 expression in SCCS.

      Investigators therefore intend to determine the efficacy and safety of single agent
      pembrolizumab in all patients and in patients with PD-L1-positive unresectable SCCS naïve of
      chemotherapy and of EGFR inhibitors.
    
  