
    
      HIV/AIDS has had a devastating impact on African American MSM. Although African Americans
      represent only 13% of the US population, 49% of AIDS diagnoses in 2004 were in African
      Americans. That HIV/AIDS has taken an increasing toll on African American injection drug
      users and heterosexuals during the last decade is well documented. Nevertheless, MSM continue
      to account for the largest number of African Americans with HIV/AIDS. Through 2004, the MSM
      exposure category accounted for 37% of the cumulative AIDS cases in African American men,
      whereas injection drug use accounted for 31% and heterosexual transmission accounted for 10%.
      Consonant with these figures on HIV/AIDS cases, the HIV infection rates in several studies
      the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) conducted on African American MSM have
      rivaled those found in many sub-Saharan African nations. For instance, a CDC 5-city study
      found that of the African American MSM who were tested for HIV, two-thirds were unaware of
      their status and 46% were HIV positive. Similarly, the 7-city CDC Young Men's Survey found an
      HIV prevalence rate of 32% in African American MSM. Interestingly, although African American
      MSM have relatively high HIV infection rates, evidence does not suggest that they engage in
      riskier sexual practices than do other MSM. This may mean that African American MSM are
      drawing their sexual partners from pools of people where HIV prevalence is relatively high,
      which underscores the urgency of targeting interventions to this population.

      Quite apart from risk of HIV, African American MSM are at high risk for other STIs. The CDC
      MSM Prevalence Monitoring Project conducted in 9 US cities, in 1999 through 2004 found that
      the rates of gonorrhea and chlamydia were high in MSM, but especially high in African
      American MSM. In 2004, urethral gonorrhea positivity was 16% in African Americans, as
      compared with 11% in Whites, and 9% in Hispanics. The median urethral chlamydia positivity
      was 6% overall, but 9% in African Americans. To curb the HIV epidemic and the high rates of
      other STIs in African American MSM now, prevention efforts must be urgently undertaken.

      Although several researchers have stressed the need for culturally appropriate prevention
      interventions targeting African American MSM, scant progress has been made toward the
      identification of such interventions. Ample evidence indicates that theory-based
      interventions can decrease sexual risk behavior among MSM. A meta-analysis 40 controlled
      studies of HIV prevention behavioral interventions for MSM found that the interventions
      reduced the amount of reported unprotected sex by as much as 27%, but revealed that the MSM
      populations at the highest risk, including African American MSM, have been underserved by
      intervention research. Consider, for example, Project EXPLORE, a large-scale multi-site
      controlled trial (RCT) that enrolled over 4,200 MSM and followed them for up to 4 years.
      Fewer than 7% of participants were African American, eligible African Americans were less
      likely to enroll in the trial than were eligible Whites, and African Americans were more
      likely to drop out. Another meta-analysis found that, of 33 HIV sexual risk reduction
      intervention trials on MSM, only 6 employed a sample that was at least a 10% African
      American. The insufficient number of rigorous intervention trials directed at African
      American MSM has hindered the ability to make definitive conclusions about how to combat
      men's attitudes and beliefs concerning sexual risk behavior and ultimately determine the
      effectiveness of HIV prevention strategies targeting African American MSM.

      Reaching African American MSM may be particularly challenging because many African American
      MSM do not use traditional resources and organizations that serve gay men because they do not
      identify with White gay culture. In addition, African American MSM may also be difficult to
      reach within African American communities because they are often closeted and isolated due to
      real and perceived homophobia. That isolation, in turn, contributes to internalized
      repression of gay sexual identity, which may further isolate them from resources available to
      gay men. The investigators' approach to addressing the problem of reaching African American
      MSM is to develop an intervention that can be used by community-based organizations (CBOs)
      that already serve African American MSM. The investigators will create a Community Advisory
      Board that includes representatives of CBOs that serve African American MSM and
      representatives of the study population to advise them on the intervention design and other
      aspects of the trial. In addition, the investigators have held a focus group with
      representatives of CBOs that serve African Americans and have frequently consulted with them
      regarding their approach.

      Reviews of the literature have suggested that there have been 3 basic approaches to the
      design of HIV/STI risk reduction programs aimed at MSM. One approach is to seek to reduce
      risk through the implementation of small group or workshop interventions. The second approach
      is through the use of community-level interventions. A third approach is the individual
      one-on-one intervention. All three approaches have merit and have reduced risk behavior among
      men in controlled trials. An advantage of the one-on-one is that it avoids the problem of men
      having to risk revealing that they have sex with other men in order to participate in the
      prevention program. There are added benefits of the one-on-one approach. It permits tailoring
      the intervention to the specific needs of the man. A recent meta-analysis has identified
      characteristics of effective HIV behavioral interventions for MSM. Efficacy was associated
      with interventions having more than one session, duration of 4 or more hours, and a time span
      of at least 3 weeks.

      The Proposed Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT)

      This study will test the efficacy of the Being Responsible for Ourselves (BRO) HIV Risk
      Reduction Intervention in increasing condom use and reducing other sexual risk behaviors
      among African American MSM in Philadelphia, where African Americans account for 70% of the
      reported cases of AIDS through June 2005. The study will use a RCT design, which is the most
      scientifically sound method for assessing the causal impact of interventions. An
      attention-matched control group, the Health Promotion Intervention, will provide controls for
      Hawthorne effects and special attention. Computer-generated random number sequences will be
      used to randomly assign participants to the intervention arms using concealment of allocation
      techniques designed to minimize bias in assignment. The biostatistician will generate the
      random assignments; the project director will implement the assignments. The study will also
      examine theoretical variables the intervention is designed to affect, which will permit
      mediation analyses addressing why the intervention is efficacious or not efficacious. This
      study, then, will provide an urgently needed intervention to help curb the alarmingly high
      incidence of HIV in urban, African American communities.

      The BRO HIV Risk Reduction Intervention and the Health Promotion Intervention were developed
      based on social cognitive theory and the reasoned action approach, integrated with extensive
      formative research, including focus groups and pilot testing. Most relevant here are the
      social-cognitive-theory constructs of "outcome expectancy," beliefs about the consequences of
      a specific behavior, and "self-efficacy," people's confidence that they can execute a
      specific behavior; its emphasis on behavioral skills; and its methods for increasing skills,
      particularly practice with performance feedback (e.g., role-playing). The reasoned action
      approach is an extension of the theory of planned behavior, which itself is an extension of
      the theory of reasoned action. Most relevant here are the reasoned action approach's emphasis
      on the importance of salient beliefs, its notion that such beliefs may vary from population
      to population and from behavior to behavior, and its methods to identify such
      population-specific beliefs: namely, the use of qualitative research, including focus groups.
      By identifying and targeting a population's salient beliefs, an intervention can change those
      beliefs resulting in changes in the targeted behavior. The investigators utilized one-on-one
      interventions to allay concerns some African American MSM might have about revealing their
      sexual behavior with other men by virtue of participating in a group-based intervention, a
      concern expressed in the focus groups with African American MSM and with representatives of
      CBOs serving African American MSM.

      Consistent with the reasoned action approach, the investigators conducted qualitative
      research, including 7 focus groups with African American MSM and 1 with representatives of
      CBOs that serve African American MSM, to ensure the intervention was tailored to the
      population. In addition, the investigators conducted 3 pilot tests of the interventions. The
      BRO HIV/STI risk-reduction intervention was designed to strengthen outcome expectancies
      expressed in focus groups with African American MSM, outcome expectancies that have been
      observed in other populations, including the hedonistic outcome expectancy that using condoms
      would not interfere with sexual enjoyment, the prevention outcome expectancy that using
      condoms prevents STIs, including HIV, and the self-evaluative outcome expectancy that using
      condoms would make the man feel good about himself. The intervention was designed to address
      aspects of self-efficacy identified in the focus groups, including technical-skill
      self-efficacy to use condoms correctly without interfering with sexual enjoyment,
      impulse-control self-efficacy to exercise the necessary control to use condoms even when
      sexually excited, under the influence of alcohol or drugs, or in the presence of other
      triggers for unsafe sex, and skills and self-efficacy to negotiate condom use with sexual
      partners. In addition, it was designed to increase knowledge regarding the risk of acquiring
      or transmitting HIV and other STIs, and perceived vulnerability to HIV infection or
      re-infection with a different strain of HIV.

      Summary

      In summary, African Americans have been disproportionately affected by the HIV epidemic. The
      prevalence of HIV infection among African American MSM is alarmingly high, paralleling rates
      observed in some countries in sub-Saharan Africa. For condoms to prevent the transmission of
      HIV/AIDS, they must be used correctly and consistently. Behavioral interventions have been
      found to be effective in reducing rates of sexual risk behaviors, but few have been conducted
      with African American MSM. This research seeks to answer the call for culturally appropriate
      interventions for high-risk subgroups of MSM. The primary hypothesis is that the BRO HIV Risk
      Reduction Intervention will increase the consistent use of condoms and decrease other sexual
      risk behaviors compared with the control group and that the intervention's effects on condom
      use with be mediated by variables from the social cognitive theory and the reasoned action
      approach.
    
  