
    
      Objectives of the study

      The primary objective is to compare the diagnostic yield of biopsies performed by EUS-FNA
      using the 25d ProCor needle versus the standard 25g needle.

      The primary outcome is the diagnostic yield defined as: sensitivity for the presence of
      cancer based on the analysis of EUS-FNA samples.

      The secondary objectives are:

        1. to compare the size of the "core" samples produced by the two types of needles.

        2. to compare the incidence and severity of immediate complications associated with the two
           types of needles

      Methods

      Design: This a prospective clinical study for the validation of a new instrument (ProCor
      biopsy needle) for application to clinical medicine, namely the diagnosis of cancer.

      Endoscopic procedures:

      Informed consent by the patient will be obtained before each procedure by a single research
      assistant.

      All EUS examinations will be performed under conscious sedation (midazolam, fentanyl) by one
      two experienced endosonographers according to the standard procedures at the CHUM and using a
      linear echoendoscope. , If the lesion is considered solid and EUS-FNA is considered
      clinically indicated and safe, the patient will be enrolled and the randomisation envelope
      will be opened. EUS-FNA Biopsies will be obtained with both the 25S and 25P needles in each
      lesion; a randomisation sequence will set in order to determine which of the two needles will
      first be used (25S or 25P).

      EUS-FNA passes will be performed without stylet. One "needle pass" is defined as 5 strokes in
      4 different areas of the lesion. The material from the first 2 needle passes (one 25S and the
      other 25P) will be expressed into formalin to look for core samples. Material from the next 2
      needle passes (again one 25S and the other 25P) will be expressed onto slides for cytological
      analysis. Ease of puncture will be scored qualitatively as poor (scored 1), good (scored 2)
      or excellent (scored 3).

      Immediate complications will be assessed and recorded by nurses and/or physicians during the
      procedure as well after the procedure while the patients will be monitored in the recovery
      room for at least 60 minutes before discharge.

      The areas which will be investigated by biopsy will be the pancreas, the retroperitoneal
      and/or the mediastinal lymph nodes.

      Cytological and Histological analyses:

      Samples from all needle passes will be stained using a standard Papanicolaou stain and
      analyzed by one experienced pathologist who will be blinded as to needle type. The
      cytological or histological diagnoses will be made; . for histological diagnosis, the
      pathologist will first establish the presence or absence of a tissue core (defined as a
      measurable cylinder of tissue). The pathologist will assess the adequacy of each specimen:
      cellularity (score 1 "poor"; score 2 "good"; score 3 "excellent"),[14] sample bloodiness
      (score 1 "minimal";score 2 "moderate"; score 3 "significant", and the presence or absence of
      malignancy("positive" / "negative" / "suspicious" / inconclusive).

      Diagnostic yield Diagnostic yield is defined as sensitivity for the presence of cancer based
      on the analysis of EUS-FNA samples. The gold standard will be the presence of cancer as
      defined on the basis of at least one of the following two criteria: positive cytological or
      histological results and malignant disease after clinical follow up (clinical worsening and
      radiologic evidence of progression within the 6 months following FNA).

      Data collection

      Clinical data will be collected prospectively and saved in a database. In addition to
      demographics, these will include:

        -  size and location (pancreas, lymph node, liver, adrenal gland, others) of the target
           lesion

        -  technical and procedure variables ( FNA path, , number of needle passes, needle
           visibility, ease to puncture, needle failure, cellularity, bloodiness)

        -  cytological diagnosis

        -  final diagnosis

        -  immediate complications. Research data and project-related documents will be preserved
           during 15 year after the end of the study.

      Statistical analysis Results for continuous variables will be summarized using mean ±
      (Standard Deviation) SD, . and categorical variables using proportions. The 25S and 25P
      groups will be compared using Chi-square test for categorical variables and, Student t test
      for continuous variablesTwo-sided p values less than 0.05 will be considered statistically
      significant. Data will be analyzed using SPSS v 15.0 (SPSS Inc., Chicago IL) statistical
      software.

      Sample size The sample size is calculated as a study of non-inferiority. Assuming a
      sensitivity for cancer of 85% for the 25S needle and a difference of sensitivity of 15% as
      clinically significant, a sample size of 112 patients per group would be needed (α = 0.05 and
      β = 0.2). Since we perform approximately 400 EUS-FNA biopsies for solid lesions annually,. it
      is expected that this study could be completed within approximately 6 months.
    
  