
    
      Hyper-reactive malarious splenomegaly (HMS) is a known chronic autoimmune complication in
      areas where malaria is endemic. Patients with HMS complain most commonly of abdominal
      swelling or pain from the enlarged spleen and the condition is defined using clear clinical
      and laboratory criteria. HMS appears benign in most patients when seen first but if
      untreated, it leads to severe anaemia and also acute bacterial infections. There is familiar
      and ethnic clustering suggesting genetic basis. High prevalence rates have been reported in
      certain areas of Papua New Guinea, and Venezuela, and HMS is also common in parts of
      sub-Saharan Africa, including Sudan and Ghana.

      The treatment of HMS is still empirical since no randomized trials have been done so far.
      Long term anti-malarial chemoprophylaxis is deemed the mainstay of therapy, but the optimal
      drug-regimen and duration are unknown. Three to six months may pass before a response is
      observed, and relapses may occur when therapy is discontinued.

      On the basis of the observed benefit in experimental studies, glucocorticoids have been used
      for severe hyper-reactive malarial splenomegaly in various case reports. Because these cases
      had a favourable outcome and the drug tolerability was good, prednisone has become an
      attractive therapeutic option for this disease. Central to the pathophysiology of HMS is the
      overproduction of Immunoglobulin M due to a functional CD8 T-cell defect and the consequent
      expansion and activation of B lymphocytes. Glucocorticoids may have an immediate effect due
      to inhibition of the sequestration of immunoglobulin coated red blood cells by the
      mononuclear phagocyte system and a later effect due to glucocorticoid-induced inhibition of
      antibody synthesis. We aim to assess the efficacy of chloroquine after prednisone-induction
      therapy compared to chloroquine alone in the treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed
      hyper-reactive malarial splenomegaly.
    
  