
    
      1. Title: The role of capsaicin in treatment of rhinogenic headache

        2. Description: Capsaicin (8- methyl-N-vanillyl-6-nonenamide) has been demonstrated to have
           a therapeutic effect in idiopathic rhinitis, migraines and cluster headaches. We
           hypothesize that capsaicin has a therapeutic effect on rhinogenic headaches as well.
           This study aims to evaluate capsaicin impact on headaches attributed to the nose and
           paranasal sinus distribution.

        3. Interventions, evaluations, and follow-up: Subjects are recruited from an Otolaryngology
           clinic, where a formal headache questionnaire is administered in-office, and standard
           endoscopy is performed in office to rule out confounding causes of headache and
           sinonasal disease. Written instructions are provided and consent obtained. A symptom
           journal is provided. Subjects are randomly selected to receive two bottles of either
           eucalyptol spray (placebo) or sinus buster (capsaicin) spray and are blinded to the
           content of the spray bottle. They are instructed to use the nasal spray one to two times
           daily. Subjects are permitted to continue to take headache medication as needed, but it
           must be recorded in their symptom journal. The journal is completed daily, and includes
           medication use, a headache pain score, and side effect log. Additionally, subjects fill
           out SinoNasal Outcome test (SNOT)22 at 2 weeks, 4 weeks, and 8 weeks. Weekly emails are
           sent to remind subject to fill out their journal. A phone call is made to the subject to
           survey them on progress at 2 and 6 weeks. Follow up visits are scheduled at 4 weeks and
           8 weeks, or sooner if problems arise. A standard nasal endoscopy is performed at the
           first and last visit.

        4. Additional data that would be tracked: Quality of life score as measured by SNOT-22
           scores, treatment failure and drop-outs, and objective changes in sinus endoscopy.
    
  