
    
      The emergence of multidrug resistant organisms (MDROs) is a growing threat to global public
      health and is associated with high morbidity and mortality in both the general and solid
      organ transplant population. Intestinal microbiota diversity can provide functional and
      spatial barriers to bacterial and fungal MDRO colonization, and loss of diversity is
      associated with increased MDRO colonization. Dysbiosis is a state of loss of microbiota
      diversity and a single antibiotic treatment course can cause significant disruption in
      microbiota diversity, even in otherwise healthy individuals. This disruption can promote the
      growth of pathogenic and multidrug-resistant bacteria and fungi. Transplant patients, in
      particular, are at increased risk of colonization and infection with MDRO because of
      immunomodulatory therapies, healthcare exposure, increased antibiotic exposure and surgical
      manipulation of mucosa. Furthermore, chronic kidney disease and dialysis therapy leading up
      to transplant has been shown to be associated with alterations in both the intestinal and
      periodontal microbiome. Understanding the evolution of the disruption in the intestinal
      microbiome in both kidney transplant recipients and healthy kidney transplant donors during
      the time of transplant surgical prophylaxis will give valuable insight into further avenues
      for research and possible interventions that may mitigate the risk of MDRO colonization.

      This is a prospective, observational, and non-interventional pilot study which aims to enroll
      100 adult renal transplant recipients and 100 adult renal transplant donors. Participants
      will provide stool samples and anal swab samples, and will complete dietary questionnaires.
      Participants may also choose to take part in an optional sub-study which involves banking
      leftover stool for future research use.

      The diversity change of the intestinal microbiota over time will be assessed at the screening
      visit, Post-Operative Day 2; Post-Discharge Day 15 and Post-Discharge Day 30. Participants
      will be followed by way of medical record review for 24 weeks post-surgery.

      This study is designed to understand the intestinal microbiota diversity in the setting of
      renal transplant surgery and the clinical significance of antibiotic use and the associated
      resistome (collection of all antibiotic resistance genes and precursors within a sample).
      Information learned from this study will be used to guide the design of future clinical
      trials.
    
  