
    
      Patients with cancer of the lung or oesophagus, undergoing curative treatment, usually
      require a thoracotomy and a complex oncological resection. These surgeries carry a risk of
      major morbidity and mortality, and risk assessment, preoperative optimisation, and enhanced
      recovery after surgery (ERAS) pathways are modern approaches to optimise outcomes.
      Pre-operative fitness is an established predictor of postoperative outcome, accordingly
      targeting pre-operative fitness through exercise prehabilitation has logical appeal. Exercise
      prehabilitation is challenging to implement however due to the short opportunity for
      intervention between diagnosis and surgery. Therefore, individually prescribed, intensive
      exercise training protocols which convey clinically meaningful improvements in
      cardiopulmonary fitness over a short period need to be investigated. This project will
      examine the influence of exercise prehabilitation on physiological outcomes and postoperative
      recovery, evaluation of health economics, the impact of the programme on hospital costs.

      This study will take the form of a randomised controlled trial aimed primarily at improving
      pre-operative fitness with high intensity interval training (HIIT). HIIT prescribes aerobic
      exercise which alternates between periods of high intensity training and active recovery.
      This form of exercise training stimulates greater improvements in cardiopulmonary fitness
      over short periods compared to continuous aerobic training and therefore may be ideally
      suited to exercise prehabilitation. The primary outcome, cardiopulmonary fitness, will be
      measured by cardiopulmonary exercise testing and explored further using a suite of pulmonary
      and physical performance measures. Secondary outcomes will examine the impact of individually
      prescribed HIIT on postoperative outcome, postoperative physical recovery, restoration of
      pre-treatment fitness levels and both acute and sub-acute hospital costs. The investigators
      anticipate that this mode of exercise prehabilitation will attenuate postoperative risk and
      improve postoperative recovery, thus improving patient quality of life and having
      considerable economic benefits for the healthcare system.
    
  