
    
      Adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder is a painful entity characterized by stiffness in the
      shoulder joint. There exist different clinical trial related to this pathology, however a
      lack of information of both efficacy and methodology used in manual therapy treatment remains
      unclear, as well as therapeutic exercise treatment. Furthermore, the duration of the
      improvement after different conservative treatments is also unknown. Besides, little is known
      about which factors are more correlated with pain and function.Thus, biomechanic and
      psychosocial factors together with ultrasound measurements and blood glucose concentration
      (see "outcome and secondary measures" section ) will be analyzed before and after the
      treatment, with a nine months follow up. Results will be spread showing short term effects
      and long term effects in different publications.

      Hence, the aim of this study is twofold: i)To analyze the efficacy of manual therapy and
      therapeutic exercise in patients with shoulder adhesive capsulitis; ii) To correlate pain and
      function with ultrasonography, biomechanic and psychosocial factors, as well as blood glucose
      concentration, before and after the treatments proposed with a nine months follow up.

      Method

      This study is designed as a clinical trial, with two randomised parallel groups comparing two
      different conservative intervention (MT vs MT+E) (See "Arms and Interventions" section). It
      will be carried out in different Hospital and primary care centers where patients suffering
      from adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder will be asked to participate in the project. If
      participants are eligible then they will be include in the study. All participants will have
      to sign informed consent after be shown about the whole project as by written (informative
      sheet) as by speech from the physiotherapist in charge.

      Once include in the study definitely, all factors detailed (see "outcome measures" section)
      will be measured. Also, every factor will be correlated with shoulder pain and function. This
      way, the investigators could predict which factor are more correlated with. Furthermore, if
      significant correlations are found, such factors could be used as predictors or monitoring
      tool when patients with shoulder adhesive capsulitis are treated
    
  