
    
      Prior to enrollment, patients will be confirmed for hormone and HER2 receptor status.
      Patients may have either measurable and/or evaluable metastatic lesions which are able to be
      assessed by chest, abdomen CT and bone scan performed within 28 days prior to start of
      treatment.

        -  Capecitabine alone arm: 1250 mg/m2, BID, day 1-14, every 3 weeks

        -  Irinotecan plus capecitabine arm : Irinotecan 80 mg/m2, day 1 and 8, every 3 weeks +
           capecitabine 1000 mg/m2, BID, day 1-14, every 3 weeks.

      Randomization will be done using a random block size permutation method and stratified based
      on : hormone receptor status (negative vs. positive), first line vs. more than second lines,
      visceral metastasis (negative vs. positive).

      Treatment will continue until disease progression, death, or discontinuation due to side
      effects of drugs or refusal by patients.

      The primary objective of this study is to estimate the PFS of capecitabine and irinotecan in
      patients with anthracycline and taxane- pretreated metastatic breast cancer, which will be
      estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method and compared by log-rank test. Overall survival will be
      also estimated by same method. The secondary statistical analysis consisting of an estimation
      of the complete and partial response rates and response rates of the treatment will be
      calculated as the ratio of the number of complete and partial responders to the total number
      of evaluable patients and toxicity profile, which will be estimated as the ratio of the
      number of occurrence to the total number of evaluable patients. A 95% confidence interval for
      the response rate is computed based on the binomial distribution function. The analysis for
      reporting the final treatment results will be undertaken when each patient has been
      potentially followed for a minimum of 12 months. The overall survival and progression free
      survival, and their respective medians will be estimated with 95% confidence intervals.
    
  