
    
      -  The first group of participants on this study will receive up to 3 monthly doses of the
           study vaccine beginning about 1 month following the autologous transplant. If this is
           found to be safe, the next group will receive one additional study vaccine prior to the
           transplant and then up to 3 doses after the transplant.

        -  If the screening tests determine that the participant is eligible for the study, they
           will undergo dendritic cell collection by a procedure called leukapheresis.
           Leukapheresis involves the collection of white blood cells from the blood. Dendritic
           cells are grown from these white blood cells in the laboratory. Tumor cells will also be
           collected from the bone marrow through a bone marrow aspirate/biopsy.

        -  After cells have been collected for study vaccine generation, the participant may
           receive standard therapy to reduce the number of multiple myeloma cells in the body. The
           specific regimen will be determined by the participants multiple myeloma physician.

        -  The first group of patients will receive the study vaccine only after the transplant. If
           this is found safe then the second group will receive a single study vaccine prior to
           the transplant.

        -  Prior to the autologous stem cell transplant, we will harvest stem cells from the
           participants blood that will be used for the transplant later. G-CSF will be given as a
           daily injection beginning the day after the chemotherapy and GM-CSF injections will be
           started seven days after the chemotherapy. These injections will continue until after
           the stem cells are collected. Approximately 10 days after the chemotherapy, participants
           will undergo a leukapheresis procedure to collect the stem cells.

        -  Within a few weeks of successful stem cell collection, the participant will be admitted
           to the hospital for high dose chemotherapy with autologous stem cell transplantation.
    
  