
    
      This is a phase 1, open-label study to evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of an
      Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) gp350-Ferritin nanoparticle vaccine adjuvanted with Matrix-M1. Forty
      healthy volunteers will be enrolled and dosed in this trial: 20 EBV seropositive participants
      and 20 EBV seronegative. Each participant will receive 3 intramuscular doses of vaccine on
      Days 0, 30, and 180. Follow-up visits will occur after each dose of vaccine either in person
      or by telephone contact. In addition to vaccine dosing days, mandatory in-person visits will
      occur in the first week after the first dose of vaccine, 1 month after the second and third
      doses of vaccine, and 6 months after the third dose of vaccine. The primary endpoint is
      assessment of safety and includes solicited injection site and systemic reactions related to
      vaccination that occur in the 7-day period after each vaccination, unsolicited adverse events
      occurring up to 30 days after each vaccination, and serious adverse events through 1 year
      after the third dose of vaccine. A mandatory telephone, optional in-person, contact will
      occur 1 year after the third dose of vaccine (Day 540) to collect information about medically
      attended events and significant new medical conditions to assess for possible autoimmune
      disease that may be related to the adjuvant, Matrix-M1. An optional visit may occur 2 years
      after the third dose of vaccine (Day 900) to collect similar medical information and possibly
      assess durability of immune responses to vaccination. The primary endpoint for immunogenicity
      is the change in log10 antibody responses to EBV gp350 from baseline to 1 month after the
      third vaccine dose as measured by an neutralization assay. Secondary immunogenicity endpoints
      are the change in log10 antibody responses to EBV gp350 from baseline to 1 month after the
      third vaccine dose as measured by a luciferase immunoprecipitation assay and the change in
      log10 CD4 T cell responses to EBV gp350 from baseline to 1 month after the third dose as
      measured by an intracellular cytokine staining assay. The estimated duration of this study
      will be about 4 years.
    
  