
    
      Sudden cardiac death (SCD) occurs in groups that are neither traditionally considered
      high-risk nor have been the subject of large-scale studies. These include obesity,
      inflammatory arthropathy and gene-specific cardiomyopathy. Existing data to explain higher
      risk of arrhythmia in these cohorts rely on 12-lead ECG and therefore lack in-depth
      electrophysiological phenotyping. The investigators have access to the two large national
      data repositories providing a wealth of data to study risks of arrhythmia on a scale larger
      than any previously published study. They also have a proven track record of utilising
      electrocardiographic imaging (ECGi) to conduct in-depth investigation of electrophysiological
      remodelling to better characterise arrhythmic risk.

      ECGi is a validated, noninvasive method of acquiring body surface potential data using
      252-electrodes and combining it with subjectspecific heart-torso geometry from crosssectional
      imaging. Using inverse solution mathematical algorithms, the ECGi system reconstructs
      epicardial unipolar electrograms and panoramic activation and potential maps over a single
      sinus beat, which is visualised on a digitised image of the subject's heart. Various studies
      have demonstrated the efficacy of ECGi to localise ventricular arrhythmias; more accurately
      calculate QT interval dispersion than 12-lead ECGs in obesity; and characterise ventricular
      tachycardia (VT) with intramural re-entry following myocardial infarction-induced scarring.

      The study aims to confirm that obesity, RA and DCM are risk factors for arrhythmia and
      associated with electrophysiological remodelling manifest on 12-lead ECG, using large data
      repositories. The investigators will also perform electrocardiographic imaging (ECGi) to
      investigate and understand specific, and potentially reversible, conduction and
      repolarisation abnormalities conferring risk of arrhythmia in these cohorts using ECGi.

      Hypotheses:

        1. Routine clinical biomarkers correlate with proarrhythmic 12-lead ECG parameters

        2. Adverse (proarrhythmic) electrophysiological remodelling can be quantified with ECGi

        3. Bariatric surgery reverses adverse electrophysiological remodelling in obesity

        4. Pharmacological therapy reverses adverse electrophysiological remodelling in RA

        5. TTNtv is associated with adverse electrophysiological remodelling in DCM

      In-keeping with hypothesis 1, the study population will include participants from the UK
      biobank and Airwave Health Monitoring Study in which risk of arrhythmia will be defined.
      Participants in both data repositories provided informed consent for their data to be used
      for research.

      With respect to hypotheses 2-5, the study will involve 3 distinct ECGi sub-studies, each in a
      well-defined cohort to identify specific, and potentially reversible, conduction and
      repolarisation abnormalities, and comparing the disease to healthy controls. These are:

      i. Obesity (BMI >40) ii. RA iii. TTNtv-positive and -negative DCM
    
  