
    
      It is important to answer the primary question because of the variable length of the adductor
      canal and we would like to determine the optimal position to perform the adductor canal
      block.

      The adductor canal typically contains the saphenous nerve, nerve to vastus medialis muscle
      and on occasion, the obturator nerve (1). The roof of adductor canal is the vasto-adductor
      membrane and its length is reported to range from 5.5 cm to 15 cm with a mean of 7.6 cm2 and
      would suggest the length of the AC is variable. We would like to determine the length of the
      AC with the use of ultrasound. The AC would be determined to begin at the apex of the femoral
      triangle and end just proximal to the adductor hiatus. The length and location of the AC
      would be important to characterize as the volume of local anesthetic used and associated
      quadriceps weakness could be of significance in a shorter AC.

      There has been dispute about the location at which the adductor canal block should be
      performed (3-6). Point A has been disputed to be within the femoral triangle and would
      therefore be a femoral nerve block as suggested by a small body of evidence (4-5).
      Clinically, it is unclear if there is a difference between quadriceps muscle weakness between
      the two approaches although it could be hypothesized placing a block at point A would lead to
      more quadriceps muscle weakness. With information gathered from this study, we plan to
      perform a clinical study by performing the nerve blocks at these two points with different
      volumes of local anesthetic and compare the amount analgesia and motor weakness between the
      two different approaches.

      60 Volunteers (30 male and 30 female) aged between 18 to 75 years with a body mass index of
      18 to 35 kg/m2 will be included in this study. Volunteers with previous surgery or
      deformities of the lower extremity will be excluded from the study

      This is an observational study without a control group. Several reference points will be
      marked by anatomical landmarks and/or ultrasound:

      A. the anterior superior iliac spine (landmark); B. the base of the patella (landmark); C.
      apex of femoral triangle (ultrasound); and D. distal most portion of adductor canal (Point B
      described earlier; ultrasound).

      The primary outcome measure we are looking at is the distance between Point A and Point B.

      We also plan to measure the distance (in centimeters) from:

        1. Base of patella to Point A

        2. Base of patella to Point B

        3. Apex of the femoral triangle
    
  