
    
      Ovarian cancer is the eighth most commonly diagnosed cancer (295,414 cases reported in 2018)
      and the seventh leading cause of cancer-associated mortality (184,799 deaths reported in
      2018) in women, worldwide. The increasing trends in the burden of ovarian cancer, coupled
      with other challenges, such as lack of awareness of ovarian cancer risk factors, lack of
      adequate screening tools, lack of access to diagnostics, and lack of trained clinicians,
      contribute to delays in diagnosis, resulting in a high proportion of patients presenting with
      advanced-stage ovarian cancer associated with high mortality. Over 75% of women with ovarian
      cancer have been reported to be diagnosed at a late stage with high relapse rates, despite
      first-line therapy. Studies in Asia have highlighted that about 65%-70% of women with ovarian
      cancer are diagnosed at an advanced stage. Further, the five-year net survival rate of
      advanced-stage ovarian cancer in Asia has been found to range from 14% to 41%.

      Among the various ovarian cancer subtypes based on histology, epithelial ovarian cancer is
      the most common type, reported in about 90% of cases. Specifically, type II epithelial
      ovarian cancer (that includes serous carcinoma, mixed epithelial and stromal carcinoma,
      undifferentiated carcinomas, and other epithelial carcinoma) accounts for about 66%-73%, 56%,
      73%, and 73% in the US, Asia, Europe, and Oceania, respectively. The corresponding rates for
      type I epithelial ovarian tumors (that include endometrioid, clear cell, mucinous, squamous,
      and transitional cell carcinomas) have been noted to be 19%-21%, 32.5%, 20.5%, and 20%,
      respectively. Regarding prognosis, the five-year net survival rate of type II epithelial
      ovarian cancer that includes serous carcinoma has been found to be low when compared to other
      subtypes across all regions. Of note, type II epithelial ovarian tumors have been reported to
      be highly aggressive and usually present at an advanced stage, with poor survival rates. The
      recurrence or relapse rates have also been noted to be high with epithelial serous ovarian
      cancer. Furthermore, a strong association has been noted between family history of ovarian
      cancer, a very strong risk factor, and the risk of developing aggressive serous carcinomas.
      Genetic (both germline and somatic) mutations in BRCA1/2 have been noted in about 22% of
      high-grade, serous, ovarian carcinomas, and the majority of hereditary cases (~44%). Also,
      mutations in homologous recombination response genes have been noted in about 50% of
      high-grade serous epithelial ovarian cancer cases.

      Considering the high incidence, poor prognosis, and high morbidity and mortality from
      advanced epithelial ovarian cancer, it is important to have well-organized databases on the
      clinical characteristics, treatment patterns, and outcomes of these patients, to help
      identify the unmet needs and gaps and further optimize the survival outcomes in these
      patients. With exception of the UK, France, Germany, Italy, and Spain and the USA, there is
      paucity of databases, registries, or published literature on patient level data pertaining to
      treatment patterns, clinical characteristics, and outcomes of advanced ovarian cancer
      patients. Therefore, the current study aims to analyze the existing secondary databases from
      Korea (Sungkyunkwan University, Samsung Medical Center, Seoul), Taiwan (National Taiwan
      University, Chang-Gung Medical Foundation Linkou Branch and Mackay Memorial Hospital), and
      Australia (Australian Ovarian Cancer Study) to leverage the already available data in the
      real-world setting to review the current standard of care in advanced epithelial ovarian
      cancer cases. The collected data will help provide the required information for assessing the
      unmet treatment needs in this patient group. The data will also provide the needed
      information to support any reimbursement activity needed for future novel therapies in this
      patient group.
    
  