
    
      Stroke risk for non-valvular AF is estimated with the CHA2DS2-VASc score. When patients have
      no risk factors, no anticoagulation is recommended with a Class III, loe B. With 1 risk
      factor in men and 2 in women, anticoagulation should be considered (class IIA, loe-B). When
      the CHA2DS2-VASc score is 2 or greater in men (3 or greater in women) anticoagulation is
      recommended in all with a Class I, loe-A, preferably with a NOAC (class I, loe-A). Platelet
      inhibitor monotherapy is prohibited with a Class III, loe-A. Patients that have or develop a
      long-term contra-indication for oral anticoagulation have no class I guideline accepted
      alternative. Instead it is recommended to modify conditions or interrupt anticoagulants
      (Class IIB, loe-B). Resumption of oral anticoagulants should be guided by a multidisciplinary
      team that weighs the risks and benefits of such a course of action (class IIA, loe-C). In
      patients after an intracranial haemorrhage (ICH), it is recommended to initiate or resume
      anticoagulation after 2-4 weeks (class IIA, loeC) choosing an agent with low intracranial
      bleeding risk.

      There is insufficient data to support the choice of anticoagulant and no evidence at all for
      avoiding stroke prevention altogether, which has led to wide variations in restarting oral
      anticoagulation often after several months of abstinence. Over 60% does not even resume
      therapy after anticoagulation-associated ICH.

      As the LAA is the dominant source for cardioembolic stroke, mechanical percutaneous
      endocardial occlusion procedures have been developed. The WATCHMAN (CE and FDA approval) and
      AMULET (CE approval) are the most used but others are emerging. Basically, a cardiac
      catheterization is performed from the Femoral Vein, passing a 14F catheter through the
      Inferior Caval Vein and the interatrial septum to the left atrium. The delivery system is
      then positioned in the LAA ostium, and the device is deployed blocking the entrance and
      eliminating the LAA from the circulation. The implant procedure is usually guided by
      trans-esophageal echo imaging to assess device size and determine optimal position before it
      can be released. Adequate closure is achieved in 99% of patients nowadays, with a low and
      manageable procedural risk of 2.5%. To avoid device-related thrombus during
      reendothelialization patients are treated with dual antithrombotic agents, aspirin and
      clopidogrel in the first 3 months, which is narrowed down to aspirin until 1 year after which
      time it may be discontinued.

      The 5-year follow up of PROTECT-AF and PREVAIL showed that LAAO was non-inferior to vitamin K
      antagonist (VKA) for the primary endpoint of stroke/ TIA/systemic embolism/death (HR 0.82,
      p-value 0.3), while VKA-patients had significantly more major bleeding events after the
      implant (HR 0.48, p=0.0003). WATCHMAN LAAO is CE and FDA approved and worldwide almost
      100.000 WATCHMAN implantations have now been performed. Currently no RCT outcome data are
      available comparing WATCHMAN LAAO to any type of NOAC. For AMULET and other LAAO devices
      there are no published RCT compared to either VKA or NOAC. The EWOLUTION all-comers registry
      data in over 1000 AF pts (73% unable to use (N)OAC, CHA2DS2-VASc 4.7) WATCHMAN LAAO showed
      stroke and bleeding rates 80% and 46% lower than expected compared to historical data. In 2
      similar AMPLATZER-AMULET LAAO registries of >1000 AF patients, stroke and bleeding rates were
      50-60% lower. Both in the 2020 ESC and the 2019 AHA/ACC guidelines, LAAO has received a Class
      IIb, loe-B recommendation for stroke prevention in patients with AF that have non-reversible
      contra-indications for long-term anticoagulation.

      The COMPARE-LAAO trial studies the effectiveness and safety of LAAO as an alternative means
      for stroke prevention, to establish whether outcomes in The Netherlands are comparable to
      literature. In the setting of a randomized controlled trial, LAA will be compared to usual
      care of anti-platelet therapy or nothing based on individual physician's assessment.
      Cost-effectiveness will be studied by comparing the additional cost of the procedure to cost
      of usual care, and the differences in cost between both arms for complications due to stroke
      and other embolism.
    
  