
    
      Between 2011 and 2012, the Center for Social Innovation, LLC (C4), developed and evaluated a
      prototype of the Motivational Interviewing Simulator: An Experiential Online Training Tool.
      The interactive, case-based, multiplayer web-based game allows service providers to deepen
      their skills in Motivational Interviewing (MI), a widely recognized evidence-based practice
      that supports people to make positive behavior changes related to health, wellness, mental
      illness, and addiction. Phase I study findings support the product's feasibility and the need
      for a large-scale randomized trial to determine the tool's effectiveness. During Phase I,
      participants in the Simulator group showed significant improvements in MI skills as measured
      by Motivational Interviewing Treatment Integrity (MITI) scores (34% improvement over
      baseline) and Helpful Responses Questionnaire (HRQ) scores (13% improvement over
      baseline)-both substantially higher than the rates of improvement for participants in the
      control groups.

      This project represents Phase II of the work to further develop the MI Simulator and to study
      its impact on provider behavior and client outcomes. Phase II will create multiple "play
      arenas"-Single Player, Two Player, and Advanced Free-play spaces-and multiple case-based
      scenarios related to mental health, homelessness, addiction, and primary care. The
      significantly expanded product will have wide appeal across a large workforce of providers
      serving vulnerable populations, and it will support National Institute of Mental Health's
      strategy of "closing the gap between the development of new, research-tested interventions
      and their widespread use by those most in need."

      The Phase II randomized controlled trial is guided by four specific aims. The first aim is to
      diversify the prototype Motivational Interviewing Simulator to meet the needs of a wider
      audience. Based on Phase I findings, we will build on the prototype by adding a Single Player
      Arena, expanding the existing Two-Player Arena, and creating an Advanced Free-play Arena
      where learners can go beyond basic MI skills. Additionally, the expanded product will include
      multiple scenarios, story-lines, and characters for each arena, and multiple levels of play
      for each scenario. The second aim is to evaluate the Simulator through a randomized
      controlled trial. The third aim is to disseminate findings. And the fourth aim is to prepare
      for commercialization.

      Phase II seeks to answer a number of Research Questions that concern service providers,
      clients, and organizations. Research questions pertaining to service providers are as
      follows: What are the relative impacts of these interventions on providers' confidence,
      knowledge and skills acquisition and retention? What supports are needed for providers to
      adhere to the MI model with fidelity over time? And Does the impact of the treatment
      condition vary by the amount of time the service provider spends engaged with the Sim or
      eBook tools? One key research questions pertaining to clients is as follows: Do clients
      served by providers receiving the Sim or eBook interventions show improved outcomes such as
      housing stability and receptiveness to mental health treatment, medication adherence, greater
      satisfaction with the provider, and greater confidence in individual treatment or recovery
      plans, relative to the Training Only group? Two key research questions focusing on
      organizations implementing MI are as follows: How does agency context influence provider
      adherence to the MI model? And, What are the organizational-level barriers and facilitators
      to successful MI implementation and fidelity?

      Phase II will test four hypotheses (H1, H2, H3, H4). H1 predicts that providers in the
      Simulation condition will show the strongest knowledge and skill retention during the study
      period when compared to MI Training Only and MI Training + eBook conditions. H2 predicts that
      providers in the eBook condition will have stronger knowledge skill and retention over the
      study period when compared to the MI Training Only Condition. H3 predicts that clients served
      by providers in the Simulation condition will show greater improvements in housing stability
      and receptiveness to mental health treatment, medication adherence, greater satisfaction with
      the provider, and greater sense of confidence in individual treatment or recovery plans when
      compared to clients of MI Training + eBook and MI Training Only conditions. H4 predicts that
      clients served by providers in the Simulation condition will show improved communication with
      their provider and greater sense of confidence in individual treatment or recovery plans
      compared to those clients with providers in the MI training + eBook and MI Training Only.

      The Motivational Interviewing Simulator: An Experiential Online Training Tool (the Sim) has
      the potential to make a significant contribution to the fields of behavioral health, primary
      care, adult learning, dissemination science, and beyond. Phase I of the project demonstrated
      the feasibility of the product development effort and research approach. Phase II support
      will allow the Center for Social Innovation (C4) to expand the depth and sophistication of
      the product, evaluate its efficacy, and lay the groundwork for Phase III commercial roll-out.
      Specifically, Phase II will add multiple arenas and levels to the prototype simulator,
      allowing users to advance more deeply into Motivational Interviewing (MI) practice. The Phase
      II product expansion will also create multiple story-lines, a variety of characters, and
      expanded opportunities for feedback, features that will expand the product's marketability in
      Phase III. As described below, the Sim has strong commercial potential and fits well into
      C4's existing commercial training platform, the t3 (think. teach. transform.) learning
      initiative.

      The project is valuable in various ways. Firstly, the SIM has the potential for improving the
      lives of vulnerable people. The ultimate goal of this product is to improve the lives of
      people who have experienced mental illness, addiction, homelessness, violence, and other
      traumatic events. MI has been proven to have positive impact on clinical outcomes for these
      marginalized groups. We believe that effective training of the workforce to use MI will
      result in better care for people who would otherwise slip through the cracks of our systems.

      Secondly, the SIM has the potential to add value to the workforce. As C4 has expanded its
      reach to thousands of direct service providers across the United States and internationally,
      we have documented a lack of high-quality training opportunities for the behavioral health
      workforce and a hunger for training on the part of agencies and individual
      providers-particularly for MI. Much existing training is limited to onsite workshops,
      conferences, and other face-to-face training. The online products that do exist do not
      provide opportunities for peer-to-peer learning and have specific focuses (diabetes and
      substance use) that do not include mental health. This product will provide an engaging,
      highly interactive opportunity to learn a set of skills that many providers want to acquire.

      Thirdly, the SIM has the potential to have an impact on dissemination science. If the Sim
      proves to be a successful mode of learning, primarily as a "booster shot" following
      face-to-face training, the implications for dissemination of evidence-based practices are
      significant. We envision a family of learning simulation products built upon the architecture
      developed for this project, covering a wide range of practices and skills-helping to close
      the research- practice gap and move effective practices into the field more quickly.

      The expected outcomes of this study include findings that document the product's
      effectiveness. Expected research outcomes include improvements in provider knowledge and
      skill, documentation of organizational strategies that support the uptake of best practices,
      and improved outcomes for clients, including increased housing stability and greater
      engagement in mental health services.

      The Sim brings together a well-documented best practice, the need for ongoing provider
      training, and cutting-edge simulation technology. Through widespread dissemination following
      Phase II, the Sim has the potential to have tremendous impact, improving the skills of
      service providers and the lives of the people they serve.
    
  