
    
      ADHD is a neurologic disorder that is thought to be caused by chemical imbalances of certain
      neurotransmitters in the brain. The disorder can cause inattention, hyperactivity, and
      impulsivity. Cocaine abuse rates in adults with ADHD are significantly higher than they are
      in adults who do not have the disorder. This may be reflective of an attempt by individuals
      with ADHD to self-treat symptoms. Atomoxetine is an FDA-approved drug that is used to
      increase the ability to pay attention and decrease impulsiveness and hyperactivity in
      children and adults with ADHD. The drug is in a class of medications called selective
      norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors and works by increasing the levels of norepinephrine, a
      natural substance in the brain that affects a person's attention and impulsivity. It is
      possible that reducing ADHD symptoms in cocaine abusers with ADHD will help decrease their
      need for cocaine. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of atomoxetine in reducing
      cocaine use in people with ADHD who abuse cocaine.

      Participants in this open label study will receive atomoxetine for 12 weeks, and will take
      one dose each morning for the duration of the study. Doses will be increased gradually to
      minimize side effects and enhance treatment compliance. In addition, all participants will
      receive individualized relapse prevention therapy once weekly. Participants will be required
      to report to the study site three times a week to receive medication, complete questionnaires
      regarding ADHD symptoms and substance use behavior, and provide a urine sample while being
      supervised by study staff. Also, vital signs will be monitored and medication side effects
      will be assessed at each visit. Participants will report to the study site 6 months after
      starting in the study for a follow-up visit, at which time ADHD symptoms, substance use
      behavior, and social functioning will be assessed.
    
  