
    
      This is an observational, cohort study to determine the incidence of Shigella in children
      under 5 years in Zambia and Burkina Faso.

      We will first identify the population at risk i.e children that will form the cohort of
      children to be followed up in the study. In Zambia, this will be done through a household
      census that will be conducted to identify children under 5 years in the catchment areas
      served by the selected health facility. In Burkina Faso, the study will be conducted in the
      Ouagadougou Health and Demographic Surveillance System (OHDSS) catchment area. Children under
      five years old will be randomly selected from the OHDSS database. The heads of households or
      guardians of the randomly selected children will be approached for the informed consenting
      process to enrol into the cohort study.

      We will then follow up these children using active and passive surveillance systems follow
      for the duration of the study. During passive follow-up, a surveillance system will be set up
      at the selected health facilities serving the catchment populations. Parents/guardians of
      enrolled children will be asked to take their child to designated health facilities once they
      develop an episode of diarrhoea. At presentation, a clinical evaluation will be performed on
      the child and the data recorded. A stool sample/rectal swab will then be collected. Once a
      stool sample is tested positive for Shigella, the participant will be actively followed up
      and monitored on days 3, 5, 7 and 9 to inquire about the disease outcome and to collect blood
      and stool samples.

      Active follow-ups will include a combined home and clinic visits. The parents or guardians of
      participants enrolled in the study will be contacted through phone calls and/or home visits
      by trained study staff every month to collect information on the child health status. They
      will enquire on whether the child had an episode of diarrhoea and fever in the preceding four
      weeks, the use of healthcare services for the diarrhoea episode and any treatment received
      for the diarrhoea and fever. If an episode of diarrhoea is detected during any of the active
      visits, the parents/guardians will be encouraged to take the child to the clinic for
      appropriate management. The child will then go through the passive surveillance procedures.

      MSD cases will be defined as a three or more loose stools or at least one bloody/mucoid stool
      within a 24 hour period (WHO, 2005). A diarrhoea episode will be defined as new if the
      diarrhea definition is met after seven days free of diarrhoea or dysentery. A Shigella case
      will be defined as any loose stool with LAMP confirmed Shigella.

      In Ndola, the burden of shigella disease will be determined in under five children presenting
      with moderate to severe diarrhea and admitted to Arthur Davison children's hospital in Ndola.
    
  