
    
      The patient-oriented education and support intervention (PES) is based on the Arthritis
      Self-Management Program, a group intervention that consists of 6 weekly 2 hour sessions shown
      to successfully reduce pain severity and depressive symptomatology and to enhance a sense of
      efficacy in managing arthritis pain and other symptoms. The PES specifically focuses on
      self-management of arthritis and no spouses, family members, or friends participate in PES
      sessions. Major components of the sessions include information regarding the etiology and
      treatment of arthritis, self-management strategies for managing pain and strengthening
      joints, the benefits of exercise, communication skills, and ways to effectively cope with
      negative emotions. At the end of each weekly session, each participant sets a health-related
      goal (e.g., walk for exercise three times over the next week). At the beginning of the next
      session each participant reports on his or her success in meeting this goal and receives
      feedback from the group. Participants in the PES are encouraged to communicate with, and be a
      source of support to, one another both within and outside the sessions. The PES facilitator
      is an individual who was trained by staff of the Arthritis Foundation to lead the Arthritis
      Self-Management Program and who follows a detailed intervention manual created for this
      Program and for the present study.

      The couple-oriented education and support intervention (CES) is a group education and support
      intervention that consisted of 6 weekly 2 hour sessions attended by individuals with OA and
      their spouses. All components of the PES are covered in the CES using the standard format,
      and topics are framed as couples' issues whenever possible. An overarching framework
      introduced in the first session of the CES is that pain is a complex experience which can be
      influenced by thoughts, feelings, and behaviors; spouses can influence and be affected by
      these same thoughts, feelings, and behaviors; and spouses' concerns and experiences as
      support providers are important to address. Each of the next 5 sessions is supplemented by a
      component that was linked to a topic covered in the PES and explicitly extended to couples.
      For example, a topic of the third session of the PES deals with managing fatigue and the
      supplemental component for this session provides information on the most effective and
      ineffective strategies for requesting spousal assistance (e.g., verbal versus nonverbal pain
      expression and the need to be clear about help needed) and providing spousal assistance
      (e.g., consider timing and amount of assistance desired). The supplemental components for the
      4 remaining sessions address spouse encouragement and practice of cognitive or behavioral
      pain management strategies (e.g., distraction and progressive muscle relaxation); supportive
      and unsupportive spousal communications; reducing negative emotional contagion between
      partners; and couples' strategies for managing medications. At the end of each weekly session
      of the CES, each individual with OA and his or her spouse sets health-related goals for the
      following week and their success in meeting these goals iss reviewed with the group at the
      beginning of the next session. Spouses are instructed to set goals that were facilitative of
      their partners' goals whenever possible. Couples in the CES are encouraged to communicate
      with, and be a source of support to, one another both within and outside the course. The CES
      facilitator is trained in the Arthritis Self-Management Program by staff of the Arthritis
      Foundation and in the couples materials by study investigators, and follows a detailed
      intervention manual.

      The no-treatment control group received usual medical care only.
    
  