
    
      In phase I, subjects who are eligible based on height and weight and general health
      information will sign informed consent. In phase II, subjects will be screened to ensure that
      they fit the inclusion/exclusion criteria, including an oral glucose tolerance test. Other
      blood tests will be performed to check complete blood count, lipids, liver functions and
      electrolytes.

      Qualifying volunteers will enter phase III, which will consist of outpatient radioimaging and
      body composition, metabolic testing (intravenous glucose tolerance test), and tissue
      biopsies. Blood will also be drawn for genetic testing and for microarray studies of
      leukocytes. Written medication information and instructions for pioglitazone, discharge
      instructions and satisfaction surveys following the tissue biopsy procedures will be given to
      subjects during the study. During phase IV, subjects will begin pioglitazone therapy. Every 4
      weeks throughout the drug intervention, glycemic control, lipoprotein profile, and weight
      will be monitored. After 12 weeks of pioglitazone therapy, the X-ray and MR measurements of
      body composition, the biopsies and the metabolic tests performed during phase III will be
      repeated (phase V), and blood will be drawn for microarray studies of leukocytes.

      Thereafter, subjects will have the option to be enrolled in a 10 week, behavioral weight loss
      program (phase VI). Following the 10-week weight loss program, a few outcome measurements
      will be repeated (phase VII).

      Throughout the study, Women of Child Bearing Potential (WCBP) will have HCG urine pregnancy
      tests. Pregnancy tests will only be performed on Women of childbearing potential, meaning
      women who are pre-menopausal and who have not had surgical sterilization. Women who have not
      had a hysterectomy or tubal ligation at least six months prior to signing informed consent or
      have been postmenopausal for at least one year, will be instructed to practice one of the
      following methods of birth control throughout the study: oral, transdermal, or implantable
      hormonal contraceptives, intrauterine device, diaphragm plus spermicide, condom plus
      spermicide, or abstinence. Pioglitazone may reduce the effectiveness of some hormonal types
      of contraceptives. Women using hormonal methods of birth control will be advised to use a
      barrier method as well. Female subjects are informed to notify the investigators immediately
      if they think they might have become pregnant during the study.

      Participants who are eligible have 10 visits over an approximate 15-week period. Participants
      can choose to participate in an optional weight management program for an additional 10 weeks
      after treatment and before their final visit.
    
  