
    
      Sickle cell disease (SCD) affects ~90,000 people in the U.S. who suffer significant
      neurological, lung, and kidney damage, as well as severe chronic pain episodes that adversely
      impact on quality of life. While current medical therapies for SCD can reduce short-term
      morbidity, the inevitable progressive deterioration in organ function results in a
      significant decrease in quality of health with early mortality. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem
      cell transplant (HSCT) can benefit patients with SCD, by providing a source for life-long
      production of normal red blood cells. However, allogeneic HSCT is limited by the availability
      of well-matched donors and immunological complications, especially for the more than 80% of
      patients who lack an HLA-identical sibling donor. Autologous HSCT using a patient's own
      peripheral blood stem cells that have been corrected by transfer of a modified human
      beta-globin gene that inhibits polymerization of the HbS (stem cell gene therapy) may provide
      a better therapeutic alternative, as it would avoid the immunologic complications and donor
      limitations of allogeneic HSCT.

      Up to 6 subjects with SCD meeting eligibility criteria for disease severity and adequacy of
      organ function will be enrolled.

      Following informed consent, enrolled subjects will be screened to confirm full eligibility
      for participation. A chronic red blood cell transfusions regimen will be given prior to stem
      cell collection and transplant. Subjects will undergo peripheral blood stem cell collection
      using plerixafor mobilization and apheresis. A portion of their stem cells will be
      cryopreserved as "back-up," with the remaining portion used to prepare the gene-modified
      Final Cellular Product: autologous peripheral blood CD34+ cells transduced ex vivo by the
      Lenti/G-βAS3-FB lentiviral vector to express an anti-sickling (βAS3) gene. The subject will
      receive marrow cytoreduction with busulfan prior to infusion of the gene-modified cells. The
      follow-up period will include an initial 2 years of active follow-up, where the subjects will
      be seen at intervals of no more than 3 months, followed by offer for enrollment into a
      long-term follow-up study during years 3-15.

      The primary objectives of the Phase I study are to assess safety and feasibility, with
      secondary objectives to assess efficacy (engraftment, βAS3-globin gene expression, and
      effects on red blood cells function and clinical hematologic and disease parameters).
    
  