
    
      Spinal cord stimulation (SCS) is a reversible and minimally invasive neuromodulation
      technique employs for the treatment of chronic neuropathic pain. Even if SCS is an
      established technology for the management of complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) and failed
      back surgery syndrome (FBSS), its impacts on the sensory perception system remain
      misunderstood.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of the SCS on sensory perceptions of
      patients with chronic pain (CRPS, FBSS). Sensorial perception tests will be carried out in
      accordance with a standardized procedure (Rolke et al. Pain, 2006) at the level of maximum
      pain area (painful leg), and at two non-painful areas (contralateral leg and ipsilateral
      arm). The thermode "Thermal Sensory Analyser TSA-II NeuroSensory Analyzer" and its complement
      "Vibratory Sensory Analyzer VSA-3000" (Medoc) will be used to assess warm, cold and vibratory
      detection thresholds, as well as heat and cold painful thresholds. Von Frey monofilaments
      (Bioseb) will be used to evaluate the mechanical detection threshold. The algometer "Force
      Ten ™ FDX Digital" (Wagner) will measure the pressure pain threshold. Dynamic mechanical
      allodynia will be assessed with a standardized brush (SENSELab Brush-05, Somedic). The
      Neuropen (Owen Mumford) will be used to test the temporal pain summation. Participants will
      be recruited through the neuromodulation clinic located in Enfant-Jésus Hospital (Québec,
      Canada).

      For non-implanted patients, an initial visit will be conducted before the operation. For all
      participants, two other visits will take place at least 6 months after the operation to
      perform the tests with and without stimulation (the order of these visits will be
      randomized).

      For each test, an average of the absolute differences (with-without stimulation) and its
      confidence interval will be calculated. The results will be considered significant with p
      values inferior to 0,05. All analyzes will be performed with SAS (SAS 9.3 Institute Inc,
      Cary, NC, USA).

      The protocol was peer reviewed and approved by the Ethics Committee of Enfant-Jésus Hospital.
      All subjects will participate after written informed consent.
    
  