
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify the maximum dose of CIMAvax in combination with nivolumab based on dose
      limiting toxicities (DLTs) as assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
      version 4.03 (CTCAE version [v] 4.03). (Phase I) II. To evaluate the 12-month overall
      survival of CIMAvax combined with nivolumab in patients with advanced non-small cell lung
      cancer (NSCLC). (Phase II-Study A) III. To evaluate the 6-month progression free survival
      (PFS) of CIMAvax combined with nivolumab in patients with advanced recurrent squamous cell
      carcinoma of the head and neck. (Phase II-Study B) IV. To evaluate the objective response
      rate of pembrolizumab in combination with CIMAvax as first-line therapy in patients with
      advanced NSCLC (PD-L1 expression >= 50%). (Phase II-Study C)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES I. To assess the toxicity of CIMAvax combined with nivolumab using the
      Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP) National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE version 4.03). (Phase I) II. Determine the preliminary
      efficacy of the combination of anti-PD1 therapy with CIMAvax. (Phase I) III. To evaluate
      progression free survival (PFS) for the combination of CIMAvax and nivolumab in patients with
      advanced NSCLC. (Phase II-Study A) IV. To evaluate the 12-month overall survival of patients
      with advanced recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck who received nivolumab
      in combination with CIMAvax. (Phase II-Study B) V. To evaluate the PFS and 12-month overall
      survival of CIMAvax in combination with pembrolizumab as first-line therapy in patients with
      advanced NSCLC (PD-L1 expression >= 50%). (Phase II-Study C) VI. To assess the toxicity of
      CIMAvax combined with nivolumab using the CTEP NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse
      Events (CTCAE version 4.03). (Phase II)

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To conduct correlative studies comparing blood EGF levels, platelet levels, markers of
      immune response and functionality of antibody response. (Phase I) II. To examine the
      association of EGFR (total and activated), PD-1 and PD-L1 expression and mutations in tumor
      tissue with biomarkers of genetic and immune response. (Phase I and II) III. Comparison of
      response assessment criteria for a prospective analysis (immune-related [ir] Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST] response assessment versus [vs.] immune-related
      Response Criteria [irRC] vs. RECIST 1.1). (Phase I and II) IV. To characterize the blood EGF
      levels and other blood-based biomarkers of patients censored from the trial because of low
      titer response. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I dose escalation study of CIMAvax followed by a phase II study.

      LOADING PHASE I: Patients receive CIMAvax intramuscularly (IM) and nivolumab intravenously
      (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for up to 4 doses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 4 weeks after the 4th dose,
      patients receive CIMAvax IM at the same time as the next nivolumab dose.

      MAINTENANCE PHASE I: Patients who do not experience a DLT receive CIMAvax every 4 weeks and
      nivolumab every 2 weeks.

      PHASE II STUDY A and B: Patients receive CIMAvax IM and nivolumab IV over 60 minutes.
      Treatment with CIMAvax repeats every 2 weeks for 4 doses during the loading phase and every 4
      weeks during the maintenance phase in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Courses for nivolumab repeat every 2 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients in Study A with antibody titer >= 1:4000 at the end of the
      loading phase may receive CIMAvax IM every 8 or 12 weeks during the maintenance phase.

      PHASE II STUDY C: Patients with PD-L1expression >= 50% receive CIMAvax IM and pembrolizumab
      IV over 30 minutes. Treatment with CIMAvax repeats every 2 weeks for 4 doses during the
      loading phase and every 4 weeks during the maintenance phase in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Courses for pembrolizumab repeat every 2 weeks for 2
      years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 30 days for 120 days.
    
  