
    
      Before the research starts (screening): After signing the consent form, the participant will
      be asked to undergo some screening tests or procedures to find out if they can be in the
      research study. Many of these tests and procedures are likely to be part of regular cancer
      care and may be done even if it turns out that the participant does not take part in the
      research study. If the participants has had some of these tests or procedures recently, they
      may or may not have to be repeated.

        -  A medical history, which includes questions about the participant's health, current
           medications, and any allergies.

        -  An assessment of your tumor by X-ray, CT (Computerized Tomography) scan, MRI (Magnetic
           Resonance Imaging) or PET (Positron Emission Tomography) scans.

      If these tests show that the participant is eligible to participate in the research study,
      the participant will begin the study. If the participant does not meet the eligibility
      criteria, they will not be able to participate in this research study.

      After the screening procedures confirm that the the participant is eligible to participate in
      the research study:

      In this research study, the investigators are looking to see if MR imaging with Eovist
      performed 24 hours after the injection of Eovist helps improve the identification and
      characterization of focal liver tumors. Currently, standard Eovist-enhanced MRI examinations
      include imaging up to 20 minutes after the injection of Eovist. The participant will undergo
      a routine, standard of care Eovist MRI examination of the liver. The participant will then be
      asked to return on the following day so that a repeat MRI examination may be performed at
      approximately 24 hours after your dose of Eovist. No additional injections will be performed
      on the 2nd day of imaging.

      Planned Follow-up:

      The investigators will follow the participant through the completion of their 24 hour MRI
      examination.
    
  