
    
      This study is double-blind, placebo-controlled, 1:1 randomized clinical therapeutic trial of
      acetazolamide for the treatment of ataxia in patients with PMM2-CDG. Clinical history and
      screening data will be reviewed to determine subject eligibility. Potential subjects who have
      a molecularly and/or biochemical confirmed diagnosis of PMM2-CDG will be consented. Baseline
      data will be collected prior to randomization and at treatment initiation. Subjects who meet
      all inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria will be enrolled into the study.
      Each subject who meets all the inclusion and none of the exclusion criteria will then be
      randomized to placebo or acetazolamide. They will be administered weight-dependent doses of
      acetazolamide or an equivalent volume of placebo twice daily by mouth. Initial dose of
      acetazolamide is 8 mg/kg/day if subjects are taking the liquid formulation, or as per Table
      1b if they are taking the capsule formulation. If taking the liquid formulation, the dose of
      study drug will be increased by 7 mg/kg/day to a maximum of 22 mg/kg/day (not to exceed 1000
      mg/day) if well tolerated with no treatment related SAEs or abnormal pH. If the pH is <7.32,
      the dose will be reduced by 7 mg/kg/day. The dose will be adjusted similarly according to
      Table 1b if taking the capsule formulation. Subjects will be randomized after Visit 1, will
      initiate blinded therapy within the first week, and will continue on prescribed/adjusted
      blinded treatment until Visit 4. Of note, the concentration of the liquid formulation and the
      amount of milligrams of acetazolamide per capsule will stay constant, and the volume or
      number of capsules will be adjusted based on tolerance as assessed by symptoms and
      laboratories. If an individual is randomized to the placebo arm, the initial volume will be
      equivalent to 7 mg/kg/day or the initial number of capsules as per Table 1, and volume or
      number of capsules will also be adjusted based on symptoms and laboratory values each time
      dose adjustment is planned. Open label period will then begin after Visit 4 up to Visit 9
      (see Figure 1 and Table 3). As both the subject and investigator do not know if the subject
      received placebo or acetazolamide, the dose of acetazolamide will be started at Visit 4 at 8
      mg/kg/day and titrated upwards in the same manner in Visits 5 and 6 (remote) as in Visits 2
      and 3 (remote). Subjects will have the option to withdraw from the study any time after Visit
      4 if they do not wish to proceed onto or continue with the open label phase.
    
  