
    
      "The SILICOVILUNG project is based on the retrospective analysis of pulmonary CT images of
      patients followed after severe COVID pneumonitis at the Avicenne APHP hospital (Bobigny,
      France). CT series will be retrieved from the data bank of the radiology and pneumology
      departments (Avicenne APHP hospital Bobigny, France).

      Records ( CTscan and clinical data) will be retrospectively included if they fulfilled the
      following criteria: patients > 18y with initial severe pneumonitis ( COVID-19 PCR+; oxygen
      therapy > 3L/min; at least 25% lesions on CT scan; no mechanical ventilation; not treated for
      pulmonary embolism). Records from patients with a history of COPD and/or ILD will be
      excluded. Records from thirty patients will be selected on data obtained at 2-4 months after
      the initial COVID pneumonitis episode: twenty patients with significant lung lesions observed
      on the CT at 2-4 months, ten patients with DLCO <65% associated with faint pulmonary lesions
      on the CT at 2-4 months.

      Pulmonary CT images will be treated by mathematical analysis and modeling in collaboration
      with two expert image treatment/modelling teams [ Artemis, Samovar lab Telecom Sud-Paris
      (Evry, France) and LMS INRIA Ecole Polytechnique (Palaiseau, France)] A 3D evaluation of the
      pulmonary small arteries remodeling/pruning will be done on multislice CT using a method
      recently developed in collaboration with the Artemis Samovar team.

      A 4D evaluation of the local pulmonary compliances will be done using a recently developed
      model of the lungs at the breathing time scale and the organ space based on a general
      poromechanical formulation compatible with large strains and thermodynamics.

      The vascular modeling/pruning observed patterns on the 2-4-month follow-up pulmonary CT will
      be identified, described and quantified using an order of remodeling. The poromechanical
      observed patterns on the 2-4-month follow-up pulmonary CT models will be identified,
      described and quantified using an order of porosity and stiffness in various regions of the
      lung.

      These parameters obtained at 2-4 months of COVID-19 infection will be correlated with
      clinical, CT, and functional (DLCO) data at 6 months and 1-year of follow-up The primary
      outcome will be the identification of pulmonary vascular pruning and poromechanical patterns
      predictive for evolutive sequalae post COVID19.

      The secondary outcome will be the identification and order of magnitude of pulmonary arterial
      pruning/vascular remodeling and DLCO impairment at 2-4 months and 1 year post initial COVID
      pneumonitis "
    
  