
    
      The primary aim of this project is to determine the clinical effectiveness in infants with
      cleft palate (CP) of side-lying as compared to back-lying sleep positioning in reducing
      oxygen desaturation resulting from obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA). This will be achieved:

        -  comparing oxygen saturation during sleep in the side- and back-lying positions at 1
           month of age.

        -  comparing sleep quality between the side-lying and back-lying groups using a parental
           questionnaire.

        -  co-developing national recommendations with parents regarding sleep position for infants
           with CP.

      A randomised controlled trial (RCT) of side-lying compared with back-lying sleep positioning
      in reducing oxygen desaturation resulting from OSA in infants with CP. The design and conduct
      of the study will benefit from lessons learned from the feasibility and other previous
      studies. All parents in the feasibility study indicated strong interest to participate in
      further studies evaluating the effects of sleep position. Infants meeting the eligibility
      criteria will be randomised to side-lying or back-lying in a ratio 1:1 using a minimisation
      routine incorporating a random element to reduce predictability. Minimisation factors will be
      clinical site and syndrome suspected or indicated (yes / no). Allocations will be delivered
      via a password-protected web-based system. The allocated position will only be used on the
      day(s) when the infant is monitored for the study purposes. Thereafter, parents will be free
      to revert back to the standard sleep position as advised by their cleft centre, should it be
      different than that used for the monitoring period. All centres represented at the
      preparatory meeting with the United Kingdom (UK) Lead Clinical Nurse Specialist group,
      confirmed that the side-lying position was recommended in some infants at their centre,
      irrespective of whether it was the standard advice used. As such, all centres had experience
      of the side-lying position. It was decided not to change the specific advice that centres
      give to parents regarding how to position the infant in a side-lying position, but any
      standard written or verbal information would be collected by the study documents.

      An internal pilot will investigate participants' opinions about their participation in the
      study. Using bespoke questionnaires participants' experience will be assessed and it will be
      decided how it could be improved. After 6 months questionnaire results will be analysed and
      if necessary study amendments will be put in place to reflect participants' opinions.

      Data from the feasibility study and published studies have reported estimates of the standard
      deviation (SD) of the primary outcome ODI-4 in the side-lying infants at four weeks to range
      from 8 to 11 units, with a higher SD observed in the back-lying group. The observed
      difference in mean ODI-4 between the side-lying and back-lying infant cohorts was 15 units (a
      standardised effect size of 0.91). Investigators considered a smaller but more realistic
      difference in means of five units to be a clinically important difference (SD 10), a
      standardised effect size of 0.5. The sample size calculation comparing two means with unequal
      variances for the primary outcome was, therefore, based on a standardised effect size of 0.5.
      To account for potential unequal variances in each group a variance ratio of 2 was used in
      the calculations. To detect a difference of 0.5 standard deviation score (SDS) with 80% power
      and alpha equal to 0.05 would require 96 infants to be monitored in each arm of the trial (a
      total of 192 participants). Informed by the multicentre feasibility and oximetry studies the
      sample size will be inflated to 244 participants in the RCT, to allow for potential attrition
      of 21%.

      This will follow a pre-specified and approved statistical analysis plan. The primary analysis
      of the RCT data will use intention-to-treat. Baseline data will be analysed to assess the
      comparability of the demographic and clinical characteristics of the participants. Data from
      the trial arms will be compared using generalised linear models and adjusted for minimisation
      covariates where appropriate. Estimates of treatment effect size will be reported as
      differences in means for continuous outcomes, and risk ratios for dichotomous outcomes and
      reported along with 95% confidence intervals. Subgroup analyses will explore the effects of
      sleep position on infants with and without suspected associated syndromes through subgroup
      treatment interactions, at a stricter alpha level 0.01.
    
  