
    
      Pulmonary vein isolation is increasingly been used to cure atrial fibrillation . A matter of
      concern comes from the evidence that AF ablation is associated by the appearance of
      microembolism on brain MRI scan. These microembolism are not associated with neurologic
      symptoms and seem to be at least partially, reversible in time. Correlation between the
      incidence of these cerebral lesions and the ablation technology used has been demonstrated:
      circular multipolar phased radiofrequency ablation using the PVAC catheter a duty-cycled non
      irrigated RF has been associated with the highest incidence of new lesion formation using
      MRI, whereas irrigated radiofrequency catheter and cryoablation seem to be the safer in this
      aspect. These thromboembolic events can be cumulatively assessed by the detection of
      microembolic signals in the cerebral arteries by transcranial Doppler performed during the
      ablation. Past studies have compared the incidence of MESs in TCD during PVI using different
      ablation techniques - Sauren et al. demonstrated that use of irrigated RF and or cryoablation
      produces signiﬁcantly fewer cerebral MESs than the use of RF ablation with non irrigated
      catheters. A recent publication compared the occurrence of MESs using TCD while performing
      PVI by cryoablation compared with the PVAC catheter, reinforcing the MRI findings that the
      circumferential PVAC catheter possesses higher thromboembolic risk, possibly due to the lack
      of irrigation. Recently, a novel multipolar irrigated RF ablation catheter has been
      introduced. Ablations are performed simultaneously in a unipolar shape from 10 electrodes
      located at the tip of the ablation catheter. The catheter is under constant irrigation. No
      data exists regarding the incidence of MES in TCD during ablation with the nMARQ catheter.
      The aim of the investigators study is to analyze the incidence of MES by TCD performed during
      AF ablation with the nMARQ and to compare is with the incidence of MES using a conventional
      irrigated ablation catheter. Objective: To investigate the incidence of MES on TCD during AF
      ablation with the nMARQ catheter compared to a conventional irrigated ablation catheter.
      Methods: Study Population: 20 patients undergoing pulmonary vein isolation (PVI) for highly
      symptomatic, drug refractory paroxysmal or persistent AF. Study design: Following inclusion,
      patients will be randomized into 2 equal different treatment groups: PVI with traditional
      irrigated RF catheter versus PVI using the nMARQ catheter. In all patients, anticoagulation
      therapy with warfarin is discontinued five-days before the procedure and low molecular weight
      heparin is initiated at that time. A CT-scan of the left atrium is performed and imported
      into the Carto 3 mapping system. The ablation procedure is conducted under general anesthesia
      or conscious sedation. A decapolar catheter is positioned in the coronary sinus and a
      quadripolar catheter is positioned at the His bundle level through the right femoral vein.
      Two 8F sheaths are introduced into the left atrium with double trans-septal puncture
      performed under fluoroscopic, trans-esophageal echocardiographic or intracardiac
      echocardiography guidance. Upon completion of the first trans-septal puncture, intravenous
      heparin is administered to maintain an activated clotting time of 350 seconds throughout the
      procedure. A variable Lasso circular mapping catheter is introduced through the SL1 sheath
      into each pulmonary vein for electrical mapping. After the second trans-septal puncture, a
      Navistar Thermocool 3.5mm irrigated ablation catheter or an nMARQ circular irrigated ablation
      catheter are introduced into the left atrium. Of note, in case of use the nMARQ catheter, the
      second SL-1 sheath is replaced by a steerable 8F agilis sheath after the second trans-septal
      puncture. Each of the 4 PVs are imaged by selective angiograms. The left atrium geometry is
      created using the nMARQ catheter or the Navistar catheter and then merged with the
      pre-acquired CT scan of the left atrium and PVs. The PV antrum is defined with angiogram and
      electrograms analyses. Isolation of each PV is performed at the PV antrum by delivery of RF
      from multiple irrigated electrodes on the nMARQ catheter simultaneously and using the
      following settings: catheter irrigation flow rate of 60 mL/minute, target temperature 35 and
      maximal energy of 25 W for the anterior aspect of the antrum and 15W for the posterior atrial
      wall. RF energy is applied at each ablation site for a maximum of 45 seconds, until the local
      PV electrogram disappeared or its amplitude decreased by 80%. In case of RF ablation by the
      Navistar catheter, the ablation is performed in a "point by point" fashion at the PV antrum
      encircling the PV os. Ablation is performed with the following settings: catheter irrigation
      flow rate of 22 mL/minute, target temperature 35° and maximal energy of 35 W for the anterior
      aspect of the antrum and 20W for the posterior atrial wall. RF energy is applied at each
      ablation site for a maximum of 45 seconds, until the local PV electrogram disappeared or its
      amplitude decreased by 80%. Isolation of the left sided PVs is conducted during atrial pacing
      from the distal CS catheter whereas isolation of the right PVs is conducted during sinus
      rhythm. The endpoint of the procedure is the isolation of all PVs, attested by disappearance
      of all PV potentials in the lasso catheter within the vein and confirmed by pacing maneuvers.

      TCD recording will be performed throughout the whole period of the PVI procedure from the
      preparation of trans-septal LA access until the termination of the procedure. The transducer
      is held in place by a proprietary headpiece supplied with the system. The middle cerebral
      arteries will be bilaterally insonated from transtemporal windows by using a multifrequency
      Doppler. Identiﬁcation of true MESs will be possible using an event detector system, in
      addition to determining whether the MESs are attributed to a solid or to a gaseous embolus.
      Total MES counts will be collected and evaluated separately during different stages of the
      procedure. All statistical analysis and manuscript drafting will be performed at the Tel Aviv
      medical center.
    
  