
    
      In Phase 1 of the project, stakeholder's advisory board (SAB) will be convened across 3
      Ugandan sites. The SAB will be composed of up to 15 relevant stakeholders including 3 stroke
      survivors, 3 individuals with multiple stroke risk factors as defined above, 3 family
      members, 3 clinicians and 3 administrators who practice in the proposed study enrollment
      sites. The purpose of the SAB is to refine the TEAM intervention content to meet the needs of
      patients and professional healthcare stakeholders and suggest how TEAM might best be
      incorporated into clinical workflow, as well as give guidance and feedback on recruitment
      methods and advertisements.

      Phase 2 of the project will be conducted across 3 Ugandan sites that will enroll a
      representative sample of Ugandans at risk for stroke (Kiruddu, Nsambya and Mbarara Hospitals
      and their associated outpatient clinics). In the RCT portion of the study, 246 participants
      will be randomized at baseline on a 1:1 basis to receive either TEAM (N= 123) or enhanced
      treatment as usual (ETAU) (N=123) and will be followed for a total of 6 months. Since stroke
      is a moderately long-term health outcome (years to decades) that typically occurs in the
      presence of one or more stroke risk factors, the project will focus on testing whether TEAM
      can modify well-established short-term biomarkers that predict stroke risk, specifically BP
      control, serum cholesterol and blood glucose control. Secondary outcomes of interest include
      additional stroke risk biomarkers, (HDL, LDL, triglycerides) diet, exercise, use of alcohol
      and tobacco, stroke knowledge/attitudes, stress, and treatment adherence with risk-reducing
      medications. We will also explore associations of age, gender, urban vs. rural residential
      status and stroke history (prior vs. no previous stroke) on TEAM outcomes. To help inform
      future scale-up should RCT findings be positive, we will assess barriers and facilitators to
      TEAM implementation using both qualitative and quantitative methods.
    
  