
    
      Therapy with Omegaven will be initiated and maintained at 1 g/kg/day in subjects with
      parenteral nutrition-associated cholestasis and prolonged parenteral nutrition dependence who
      qualify for expanded access. It will be infused intravenously through either a central or
      peripheral catheter in conjunction with parenteral nutrition. If additional non-protein
      calories are needed, they will be provided as carbohydrates. No other parenteral form of fat
      emulsion will be used during Omegaven therapy unless the subject is not receiving adequate
      calories and additional dextrose may not be administered to the subject because of severe
      persistent hyperglycemia, respiratory compromise, or other clinical conditions, or unless the
      patient develops essential fatty acid deficiency as confirmed by laboratory parameters. The
      same standards of care provided to all subjects receiving parenteral nutrition solution will
      be followed.

      Regular PN monitoring will be accomplished by analyzing clinical and laboratory parameters,
      including serum electrolytes, hematological studies, renal function, hepatic function, blood
      clotting factors, protein and nutrition status and trace mineral status. An essential fatty
      acid profile and lipid panel will be sampled from the subject to monitor the effects of
      Omegaven.

      Blood will be sampled for an essential fatty acid profile and lipid panel before beginning
      Omegaven, weekly while the patient is on Omegaven and has a direct (conjugated) bilirubin ≥ 2
      mg/dL, and then monthly while the patient is on Omegaven and has a direct (conjugated)
      bilirubin < 2 mg/dL. Subjects will also be monitored daily for clinical signs and symptoms of
      essential fatty acid deficiency, including dermatitis and hair loss.

      Dose reduction and titration or discontinuation will occur if there is evidence of
      hypertriglyceridemia (serum triglycerides > 200 mg/dL), allergic response, toxicity or
      evidence of bleeding that is believed to be caused or worsened by Omegaven. If lipid
      intolerance develops, defined as serum triglyceride level > 200 mg/dL, lipids will be stopped
      for at least 4 hours and a repeat serum triglyceride level will be obtained. If the
      triglycerides continue to remain high a dosage reduction of 25% of the current dose will be
      considered. Growth indices include weight, length, and head circumference will also be
      monitored. The Omegaven dose may be discontinued if the subject is receiving adequate enteral
      nutrition to meet metabolic and growth needs.

      Subjects will receive follow-up visits per the customary medical (GI) or surgical follow-up
      schedule for a period of 36 months after discontinuation of Omegaven. Follow up visits will
      occur at least annually, but may be more frequent based on the subjects' tolerance of and
      weight gain on enteral nutrition.

      As previously mentioned, Omegaven will be infused in the same manner as conventional fat
      emulsions through either a central or peripheral line. The emulsion is isotonic. It is
      compatible with parenteral nutrition solutions and may be co-infused via y-site. Source
      containers will be changed every 24 hours and unused product discarded. Omegaven may be
      infused through a 1.2 micron inline filter.
    
  