
    
      Perinatal outcomes in the United States rank below many other developed countries. National
      organizations, such as the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, have called
      for women to utilize the level and provider of maternity services that meet their personal
      and medical needs. This leveled approach to care requires consultation and collaboration
      among providers to ensure women receive appropriate services. While national and
      international organizations have called for team-based maternity care, current models can
      fragment services, increasing the risk of communication errors. Women can feel
      disenfranchised by models that do not meet their needs and opt out of beneficial services
      altogether.

      Currently, there is not evidence on effective interdisciplinary models of maternity care. The
      Collaboration for Antepartum Risk Evaluation (CARE) study will use a randomized design to
      systematically test the effect of interdisciplinary consults on women and providers. The two
      aims of the study are: (1) evaluate the effect of collaborative vs individual consults on
      participant outcomes including communication quality (using the Communication Assessment
      Tool, team version), maternal satisfaction (using a modified Satisfaction with Prenatal Care
      measure), semi-structured interviews, adherence to the developed plan of care, and perinatal
      outcomes; (2) evaluate the effect of the CARE clinic on providers using the Communication
      Assessment Tool- team version, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) Team
      Strategies and Tools to Enhance Performance and Patient Safety (TeamSTEPPS) questionnaire,
      and semi-structured interviews.

      The CARE study will provide valuable information on effective models for patient-centered
      maternity care. The AHRQ K08 will allow Dr. Philippi to implement the CARE study and
      facilitate her growth into a national leader in midwifery and health services research.
    
  