
    
      Liver cirrhosis represents a late stage of progressive hepatic fibrosis characterized by the
      formation and accumulation of an extracellular matrix, which leads to the progressive
      distortion of the hepatic architecture. In China, the most important cause of liver cirrhosis
      is chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. Liver cirrhosis usually progresses irreversibly
      into advanced stage, such as a decompensated stage which is characterized by a series of
      clinical manifestations, including ascites, variceal hemorrhage, and hepatic encephalopathy
      with high mortality. Liver transplantation is the only option that can improve the survival
      of these decompensated liver cirrhosis patients; however, this procedure is associated with
      several limitations, such as the severe shortage of donor livers, long waiting lists,
      multiple complications, and high cost. Therefore, it is urgent to find a safe and effective
      therapeutic approach to decompensated liver cirrhosis.

      Animal models have shown that bone marrow-derived MSC (BM-MSC) can ameliorate liver fibrosis
      and reverse fulminant hepatic failure. In clinical, autologous BM-MSC have significantly
      improved liver function in patients with liver cirrhosis. A recent research also found that
      autologous BM-MSC therapy safely improved histological fibrosis and liver function in
      patients with alcoholic cirrhosis. Allogeneic MSC therapy, such as umbilical cord-derived MSC
      (UC-MSC), have shown to be safe and beneficial for the patients with liver cirrhosis caused
      by autoimmune diseases. Our previous studies showed that infusions of UC-MSC significantly
      improved liver function in decompensated liver cirrhosis and primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC)
      patients and increased the survival rate in acute-on-chronic liver failure (ACLF) patients.
      However, the single-center clinical study, the relative small size of the patient cohorts,
      absence of evaluation on long-term efficacy prevent firm conclusions being made with regard
      to the safety and efficacy of this treatment in liver diseases.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate whether and how UC-MSC can improve the liver
      function, and the incidence of serious complications in patients with decompensated liver
      cirrhosis through a multi-center clinical study.
    
  