
    
      Acute kidney injury frequently affects cancer patients, with an estimated annual risk of
      17.5% after cancer diagnosis. In critically ill cancer patients, acute kidney injury
      incidence varies between 12 to 49%, and between 9 and 32% need renal replacement therapy. In
      this last group of patients, acute kidney injury frequently occurs as part of multiple
      organic failure and is associated with a mortality rate of 53 to 93%, as well as an increment
      in costs and days of hospitalization.

      The main cause of acute kidney injury is ischemic damage caused by transient decrease in
      renal blood flow, followed by blood flow restoration and accompanying reperfusion injury
      (ischemia-reperfusion injury.

      The decrease on renal blood flow is followed by an increment of aldosterone, this hormone
      acts on epithelial cells through mineralocorticoid receptors in several tissues, including
      heart and kidneys. In kidneys, aldosterone promotes sodium absorption and potassium
      excretion.

      The decrease in renal blood flow is a strong stimulus for aldosterone secretion. This hormone
      has non-genomic actions on smooth muscle cells and vascular endothelium, causing
      vasoconstriction, interleukin and oxygen reactive species generation, and beta-transforming
      growth factor (TGF BETA) mediated fibrosis, among others.

      At renal level, it has been demonstrated that mineralocorticoid receptor blockade can prevent
      proteinuria and glomerulosclerosis development in animal models of chronic kidney disease.
      Moreover, in chronic kidney disease patients with proteinuria, spironolactone addition to
      angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI), reduces proteinuria in 42% without a higher
      risk of hyperkalemia.

      Several studies, mainly in animal models have tried to establish spironolactone role on
      kidney injury induced by ischemia-reperfusion injury.

      In an acute and chronic cyclosporine (CyA) nephrotoxicity rat model, spironolactone
      administration prevented kidney injury associated to afferent arteriole vasoconstriction.

      In an animal ischemia-reperfusion model produced by renal artery clipping, spironolactone
      administration one (Sp1), two (Sp2) or three (Sp3) days before ischemic insult resulted in
      better renal plasmatic flow and creatinine clearance, and prevented histopathological
      ischemic lesions. Spironolactone administration stimulated nitric oxide production and
      prevented lipid peroxidation and caspase 3 mediated apoptotic injury.

      To determine aldosterone blockade effects after ischemic injury, a new group of animals
      received spironolactone at 0, 3, 6 and 9 hours after IR insult. Spironolactone administration
      up to 6 hours after IR insult prevented histologic kidney tubular damage. KIM-1 mRNA levels
      did not augmented in 0 and 3 hour groups, suggesting that spironolactone administration up to
      three hours after renal ischemic injury prevented kidney damage.

      Considering that IR injury is the principal etiologic agent on acute kidney injury in renal
      transplant patients, in 2013, a pilot double blinded clinical trial included 20 living kidney
      transplants divided in spironolactone (25mg per day) or placebo groups, receiving the drug
      one day before and three days after renal transplant surgery. It was observed that in
      spironolactone prophylactically treated patients, urinary levels of hydrogen peroxide were
      inferior at the fifth day compared to placebo group, however, there were no differences in
      serum creatinine levels nor in other urinary biomarkers (KIM-1, IL-18, HSP-72). In this
      trial, no patient developed potassium levels higher than 6mEq/dL and there was only one
      patient in each group with serum potassium higher than 5mEq/L, demonstrating that
      spironolactone administration was safe.

      The group of cancer patients with states capable of producing tissue hypoperfusion
      (hypovolemic shock, heart failure, major surgery, use of anesthetics) are at increased risk
      of developing acute renal ischemia-reperfusion injury.

      The investigators hypothesis is that spironolactone may be useful in preventing acute renal
      injury when administered during the first six hour of renal ischemia-reperfusion insult.

      The purpose of this study is to determine the utility of spironolactone administered after an
      ischemic renal insult (major surgery) to prevent acute kidney injury in critically cancer
      patients.

      Investigators propose a pilot study, randomized, double blind, placebo controlled trial,
      approved by the local ethical committee, to compare the efficacy of spironolactone to prevent
      acute kidney injury in patients after major surgery. Investigators will include 12 patients
      in spironolactone group (25mg daily for three days) and 12 patients in placebo group. During
      five days investigators will collect values of plasma creatinine, sodium, potassium, blood
      ureic nitrogen, vital signs and urinary output.
    
  