
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Improve the probability of event-free survival in children and adolescents with early
           progression of anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL) and/or relapse of ALCL with
           CD3-positive immunophenotype treated with reinduction combination chemotherapy followed
           by allogeneic or autologous stem cell transplantation.

        -  Determine whether a conditioning regimen comprising carmustine, etoposide phosphate,
           cytarabine, and melphalan (BEAM) (without total body irradiation) for autologous stem
           cell transplantation is an effective treatment for patients with relapsed CD3-negative
           ALCL occurring after the intensive phase of treatment.

        -  Determine the impact of vinblastine in patients with late relapse of CD3-negative ALCL
           who have not received vinblastine during frontline therapy.

      Secondary

        -  Determine overall survival and treatment-related mortality in patients treated with
           these regimens.

        -  Determine acute and long-term toxicity in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the rate of acute and chronic graft-vs-host disease in patients treated with
           allogeneic stem cell transplantation.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, prospective, nonrandomized study. Patients are stratified
      according to time from initial diagnosis to progression/relapse, immunophenotype of lymphoma
      cells (CD3-positive + vs CD3-negative), stem cell donor availability (matched sibling donor
      vs 9/10 or 10/10 matched unrelated donor), and vinblastine during frontline therapy (yes vs
      no).

        -  Group 1 (early progression): Patients receive 1 course of ICM chemotherapy followed by 1
           course of ICI chemotherapy.

             -  ICM chemotherapy: Patients receive methotrexate, cytarabine, and prednisolone
                intrathecally (IT) on day 1, mitoxantrone hydrochloride IV over 5 hours on days 1
                and 2, carboplatin IV continuously on days 2-5 and ifosfamide IV continuously on
                days 2-6.

             -  ICI chemotherapy: Patients receive methotrexate, cytarabine, and prednisolone
                intrathecally on day 1, idarubicin IV over 4 hours on days 1 and 2, carboplatin IV
                continuously on days 2-5, and ifosfamide IV continuously on days 2-6.

      Patients then proceed to allogeneic stem cell transplantation.

        -  Group 2 (relapsed disease and CD3-positive lymphoma cells): Patients are stratified
           according to stem cell donor availability (yes vs no).

             -  Available donor: Patients receive 2 courses of CC chemotherapy and then proceed to
                allogeneic stem cell transplantation.

             -  Unavailable donor : Patients receive 2 courses of CC chemotherapy comprising
                dexamethasone orally or IV on days 1-5, vindesine IV on day 1, cytarabine IV over 3
                hours on days 1 and 2, etoposide phosphate IV over 2 hours on days 3-5, and
                methotrexate, cytarabine, and prednisolone IT on day 5. Patients then receive 1
                course of CVA chemotherapy comprising oral lomustine on day 1, vinblastine IV on
                days 1, 8, 15, and 22, and cytarabine IV over 1 hour on days 1-5. Patients undergo
                leukapheresis for collection of autologous peripheral blood stem cells after the
                first and/or second course of CC chemotherapy. Patients then proceed to autologous
                stem cell transplantation.

        -  Group 3 (relapsed disease, CD3-negative immunophenotype, and received vinblastine during
           frontline therapy): Patients receive 2 courses of CC chemotherapy and 1 course of CVA
           chemotherapy as described above. Patients undergo leukapheresis for collection of
           autologous peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) after the first and/or second course of CC
           chemotherapy. Patients then proceed to autologous stem cell transplantation.

        -  Group 4 (late relapse, CD3-negative immunophenotype, and did not receive vinblastine
           during frontline therapy): Patients receive vinblastine IV once weekly for 24 months.
           Patients with disease progression during or relapsed disease after vinblastine therapy
           undergo treatment as in group 3.

        -  Autologous stem cell transplantation (SCT): Patients receive a conditioning regimen
           comprising carmustine IV over 1 hour on day -7, etoposide phosphate IV over 1 hour and
           cytarabine IV over 30 minutes on days -6 to -3, and melphalan IV over 15 minutes on day
           -2. Patients undergo autologous SCT on day 0.

        -  Allogeneic SCT: Beginning 4-6 weeks after the start of the last chemotherapy course,
           patients receive 1 of the following conditioning regimens based on age:

             -  Patients > 2 years of age undergo total body irradiation on days -7 to -5 and
                receive thiotepa IV over 1 hour on day -4 and etoposide IV over 4 hours on day -3.
                Patients undergo allogeneic SCT on day 0.

             -  Patients ≤ 2 years of age receive oral busulfan 4 times daily on days -8 to -5,
                thiotepa IV over 1 hour twice on day -4, and etoposide phosphate IV over 4 hours on
                day -3. Patients undergo allogeneic SCT on day 0.

      Patients undergoing SCT from an unrelated donor also receive antithymocyte globulin IV over 4
      hours on days -3 to -1.

      All patients receive graft-versus-host (GVHD) prophylaxis as described below.

        -  GVHD prophylaxis: GVHD prophylaxis is administered as per donor status.

             -  Matched sibling donor: Patients receive cyclosporine IV over 2 hours or orally on
                day -1 to 60 followed by a taper.

             -  10/10 or 9/10 matched unrelated donor: Patients receive cyclosporine IV over 2
                hours or orally on days -1 to 100 followed by a taper, methotrexate IV on days 1,
                3, and 6, and leucovorin calcium IV on days 2, 4, and 7.

             -  Mismatched donor: Patients do not receive GVHD prophylaxis, however, CD3-positive
                lymphocytes are extracted from donor stem cells.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 10 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 96 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  