
    
      Diabetic foot occurs in 15% of diabetic population (3) and 15% of the diabetic foot patients
      end up with lower limb amputation. Peripheral neuropathy (sensory, motor and autonomic),
      peripheral vascular disease, trauma, infection and poor wound healing all contribute to
      diabetic foot problem.

      Peripheral neuropathy could be evaluated in a variety of ways, including vibratory
      thresholds, thermal thresholds, pressure perception thresholds, muscle strength. All these
      predict foot ulceration to some degree(1). Motor nerve conduction velocity is an independent
      predictor for the development of new foot ulcer in diabetic population.

      For more detailed structural study of neuropathy in diabetic patient, we could use skin
      biopsy method. Skin biopsy with PGP9.5 immunohistochemistry has been demonstrated by
      ultrastructural studies to label the terminal portions of both small myelinated and
      unmyelinated nerve in the epidermis (5). Intra-epidermal nerve fiber (IENF) density is
      reduced in patient with impaired glucose tolerance and clinically overt diabetes (5).
      Previous IENF density study was performed in diabetic patients with sensory symptom but no
      foot ulcer. Now we tried to evaluate IENF density in severe diabetic foot patient who
      received below knee amputation. Skin biopsy will be performed at amputated leg. The skin
      biopsy area will be located at lateral side of distal leg, 10 cm above the lateral malleolus
      as previous protocol of our group (6). Underlying sural nerve and posterior tibial nerve will
      be also harvested for further ultra-structural study.

      We had previous IRB for "Pathology of skin, nerve and vasculature in the amputated limb of
      diabetes". However, pathology of normal control nerve is important to compare the pathology
      of nerve from amputated limb of diabetes. For parotid cancer patients receiving radical
      parotidectomy, facial nerve is frequently sacrificed. Sural nerve is frequently harvested for
      reconstruction. Sural nerve is also frequently used in ther nerve construction surgery.
      During these operations, we could harvested 2 cm more sural nerve for normal nerve pathology
      study. For cadaveric donor patient, we also could harvest normal nerve for control study.
    
  