
    
      Similarly for early detection of SIRS/Sepsis, interleukin 6 (IL-6) assays have been brought
      up for discussion and have been studied extensively over last years. IL-6 is pro-and
      anti-inflammatory cytokine with multimodal functions in physiology and patho- physiology: As
      a major regulator of hepatic acute phase response, IL-6 induces the expression of C- reactive
      protein, fibrinogen and serum amyloid-A protein among others. However, along with
      pro-inflammatory effects IL-6 is described as an anti- inflammatory agent. Especially in
      systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) and sepsis the pro-inflammatory impact of IL-6
      is of paramount interest: Via trans-signaling using the soluble IL-6 receptor (sIL-6R)
      pathway adherent junctions of endothelial VE-cadherin are disconnected causing a loss of
      barrier function. Increased endothelial permeability results in trans-endothelial flow of
      fluid and interstitial oedema with consecutive impairment of tissue oxygenation and increased
      blood viscosity.

      Recent publications suggest, that regenerative or anti-inflammatory activities of IL-6 are
      mediated by classic signalling via a membrane bound IL-6 receptor, whereas pro-inflammatory
      responses of interleukin-6 are rather mediated by trans-signalling using soluble IL-6.

      The IL-6, sIL-6R, soluble glycoprotein 130- buffer:

      Since all cells in body express glycoprotein (gp) 130, one of the crucial molecules in
      signal-transduction of IL-6, they all are susceptible to activation by the complex of IL-6
      and sIL-6-Receptor. Thus, under steady state conditions there must be a control mechanism,
      which prevents IL-6/sIL-6R trans-signalling and hence unbounded activation of pro-
      inflammatory axis conterminously with a kind of "buffer system" for the IL-6 activity. For
      such a buffer, at least three different molecules have been taken into account: IL-6 itself,
      the -above mentioned- sIL-6Receptor and the soluble form of gp130 (sgp130).

      Under steady-state and non- inflammatory conditions levels of sIL-6R and sgp130 are almost
      1000 fold higher than IL-6, meaning IL-6 is once secreted, it will form a complex with sIL-6R
      and consecutively will be neutralized by association to sgp130. The immunological impact of
      circulating IL-6 is a function of the serum IL-6, sIL-6R and sgp130 concentration,
      respectively of the proportion of the proteins to each other.

      Kinetic of IL-6 and the impact of procalcitonin:

      In the early nineties, the use of procalcitonin (PCT) has been described by Assicot et al.
      for the diagnosis of, in particular, bacterial sepsis. However, for discrimination of the
      acute inflammatory pattern of sepsis from other causes of generalized inflammation (e.g.,
      postoperative, other forms of shock) no recommendation has been given for the use PCT to
      distinguish between severe infection and other acute inflammatory states in the actual
      guidelines. Nevertheless, conflicting to this reference, a recent high impact meta-analysis
      concluded that PCT can differentiate effectively between sepsis and systemic inflammatory
      response syndrome (SIRS) of non- infectious origin with a cut-off of between 1·0 and 2·0
      ng/mL.

      The drawback of PCT and e.g. C-reactive Protein (CRP) in relation to members of the IL-6 axis
      is, that these molecules are downstream of the IL-6 axis and therefore the increase caused by
      endotoxin or for instance by surgical trauma is delayed.
    
  