
    
      Aim of the Study:

      To investigate the safety and effectiveness of a single percutaneous ultrasonic tenotomy
      procedure versus a single injection of autologous leukocyte-rich platelet rich plasma
      (LR-PRP) in subjects with symptomatic gluteal tendinopathy which has been refractory to
      conservative treatment

      Hypothesis of the Study:

      The hypothesis of this study is that subjects with symptomatic gluteal tendinopathy (defined
      as <50% partial-thickness tear of either the gluteus medius or gluteus minimus tendons on MRI
      or US) who receive either a single percutaneous ultrasonic tenotomy or a single injection of
      LR-PRP will demonstrate less pain and improved hip function compared to pre-treatment
      baseline.

      Primary Objective:

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate safety and effectiveness of both a single
      percutaneous ultrasonic tenotomy or a single injection of LR-PRP in gluteal tendinopathy.
      Effectiveness will be demonstrated in a superiority trial design by comparing improvement in
      pain and function after a single percutaneous ultrasonic tenotomy versus a single injection
      of LR-PRP in refractory gluteal tendinopathy that has failed conservative management.

      Randomization:

      Subjects will be randomly assigned to the single percutaneous ultrasonic tenotomy procedure
      or single injection of LR-PRP arms in a 1:1 ratio.

      Enrollment:

      The providers from the Andrews Institute will enroll subjects into the study. 60 subjects
      assigned to two randomization arms will be enrolled: a single percutaneous ultrasonic
      tenotomy procedure arm and a single LR-PRP injection arm.

      Study Duration:

      Estimated Subject Enrollment Period: 36 weeks Treatment and Follow-up Period per Subject: 48
      weeks

      Follow-up Schedule:

      Follow-up visits will occur at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 12 weeks, 24 weeks and 48 weeks
      post-procedure. Visits will include physical examinations, patient-reported outcome
      questionnaires, medication usage, adverse event monitoring and MRIs. Follow-up phone calls
      will occur at 24 and 48 weeks post-procedure. Phone calls will include patient-reported
      outcome questionnaires, medication usage, and adverse event monitoring.
    
  