
    
      Injecting drug use is the major mode of HIV transmission for 740,000 people living with HIV
      (PLH) in China. In response to this situation, China introduced methadone maintenance
      treatment (MMT) in 2004, which is now dispensed by 701 clinics serving 295,000 clients.
      Despite this impressive scale-up, China's MMT programs still face serious challenges,
      including high drop-out rates, a large number of clients who continue to use heroin during
      MMT, a gap between clients' needs and services availability, providers' lack of skills in
      counseling and education, and stigma linked to resistance to harm reduction. This study aims
      to address these challenges.

      Based on our previous success with the intervention pilot (R34MH083512), we conducted this
      randomized controlled trial (MMT CARE), which will integrate behavioral intervention
      components with a primarily pharmacological model of MMT. The intervention focuses on
      treatment adherence and effective outcomes by reducing stigmatizing attitudes and behaviors
      among service providers, enhancing their communication skills, and improving their
      interactions with and support of their clients' behavior changes. Our goal is to bring a
      contextual change to support a protective environment for clients' motivation and capacity in
      order to reduce their HIV risk. The findings could benefit not only China but also the global
      community by effectively combining interventions for controlling the HIV epidemic.

      The study will be implemented in Sichuan, Guangdong, Hunan, Shaanxi and Jiangsu provinces. A
      total of 68 MMT clinics will be randomly selected from the five provinces and randomized to
      either the intervention condition (MMT CARE group) or the control condition. From each
      selected clinic, we will recruit 6 service providers and 36 clients, totaling 408 service
      providers and 2,448 clients (204 service provider and 1,224 clients in each condition,
      respectively).

      The Specific Aims of the study are as follows:

        1. To examine whether providers in the intervention group, compared to providers in the
           control group, demonstrate improved adherence to MMT protocols, decreased prejudicial
           attitudes, increased interactions with clients, and increased communications with
           clients on risk reduction.

        2. To examine whether MMT clients in the intervention group, compared to clients in the
           control group, demonstrate improved treatment adherence/retention, decreased concurrent
           drug use, increased motivation for behavior change, improved mental health, increased
           positive support, and reduced HIV risk behaviors.

        3. To explore whether providers' improved outcomes are associated with improved client
           outcomes.
    
  