
    
      Hyperuricemia is a common metabolic disorder. It can result from a decreased renal uric acid
      excretion, increased urate production, or both. The classical association with clinical gout
      is well-known. The principal indications for uric acid-lowering therapy, including
      allopurinol, probenecid and sulfinpyrazone, are the patients with gout history, macroscopic
      subcutaneous tophi, frequent attacks of gouty arthritis, or a documented state of uric acid
      overproduction. Hyperuricemia without gout attack is not an indication for treatment.However,
      hyperuricemia is often associated with other cardiovascular disease risk factors such as
      obese, hyperlipidemia, glucose intolerance and hypertension. It is known a symptom of
      syndrome X (also known as multiple risk factor clustering syndrome). Diet control is the only
      way to control serum uric acid level, but always it is not enough. So how to management
      hyperuricemia is important and is a potential management.Histidine-containing dipeptides such
      as Anserine and Carnosine have been studied extensively in recent years. These dipeptides
      were shown to be effective in acting as buffering agents against protons developed during
      anaerobic exercise. Anserine and Carnosine also have strong anti-oxidant activity,
      anti-cancer activity, immuno-response modulation, fat reduction and enhanced wound healing
      functions. The Yaizu Suisankagaku Industry Company have developed industrial production
      process to extract and purify the dipeptides from Bonito and Tuna. The extract, named Marine
      Active, was able to offer anti-fatigue activity by animal trial data. Human clinical trials
      showed reduced creatine phosphokinase activity and a sero-uric acid reduction activity was
      also observed. So we are committed to design the clinical randomized, double blind study
      about hyperuricemia management with Marine Active. All these efforts are hoped to find a
      novel method to manage hyperuricemia.
    
  