
    
      Central Epidural Steroid Injections (ESI) and Selective Nerve Root Blocks (SNRB) are often
      used for the non-surgical treatment of lumbar disc herniations and lumbar radiculitis
      (radiating pain). Numerous authors have reported on their value in treating patients with
      radicular pain with the possibility of delaying or even obviating the need for surgery in
      well-selected patients.. There are two well-performed clinical studies in the peer-reviewed
      medical literature that specifically examined the crossover rates to surgery for patients who
      received either ESI or SNRB. In a prospective study, Buttermann et al. found a crossover rate
      to surgery for patients with symptomatic disc herniations treated with ESI of 54% (27/50) .
      In a separate prospective study, Riew et al. followed patients after selective nerve root
      blocks and found that similarly 53% (29/55) of their patients had avoided surgery after a
      selective nerve root block during their initial follow-up of 13-28 months. In a later study
      that followed that same population, 76% (16/21) of those patients who had avoided surgery at
      one year still avoided surgery at a minimum of five year follow-up.

      Epidural steroid injections are a common treatment option for patients with disc herniations
      and radiating leg pain. They have been used for low back problems since 1922 and are still an
      integral part of the non-surgical management of a variety of spine related problems. The goal
      of the injection is reduction in pain, increased quality of life and increased function.

      Most practitioners will agree that, while the effects of the injection tend to be
      temporary-providing relief from pain for one week up to one year-an epidural can be very
      beneficial for a patient during an acute episode of back and/or leg pain. Importantly, an
      injection can provide sufficient pain relief to allow a patient to progress with a
      rehabilitative stretching and exercise program.

      Many previous studies on epidural injections did not include use of fluoroscopy or xray to
      verify proper placement of the medication despite the fact that fluoroscopic guidance is
      routinely used today. Additionally, many studies do not classify patients according to
      diagnosis and tend to "lump" different types, sources of pain together.

      Commonly used steroid preparations include betamethasone, triamcinolone, dexamethasone and
      methylprednisolone. Unfortunately, there is no consensus regarding the most effective
      medication, dose, volume or frequency used for ESIs.

      This investigator-initiated study is being conducted to compare the effects of epidural
      injections on low back pain when using either dexamethasone or methylprednisolone
      (Depo-Medrol). The physicians listed would like to compare these two medications to assess if
      one is more effective than the other. Both medications are FDA approved and are not
      experimental.

      Dexamethasone is the only nonparticulate corticosteroid, has a rapid onset that acts as an
      anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressant.

      Depo-Medrol is a synthetic steroid (cortisone) medication which also acts as an
      anti-inflammatory when physicians administer an epidural for relief of low back pain.
    
  