
    
      Adult patients whom the Consultant Intensivist decides should receive a fluid challenge as
      part of their standard care in order to improve haemodynamic parameters will be approached.
      Reasons for fluid administration include evidence of inadequate tissue perfusion such as
      raised blood lactate or poor urine output, hypotension or attempts to wean vasopressor dose.

      Patients will be identified as suitable for inclusion by the Consultant Responsible for the
      Intensive Care Unit on each day. As fluid responsiveness is a transient phenomenon which
      disappears after significant fluid resuscitation it is proposed that patients will be
      immediately entered into the study so that the study contains a mix of fluid responsive and
      non-responsive patients in order to get the time critical data required which may be lost if
      there is a significant delay before study entry. Informed consent will be sought from the
      patient, or if they are incapacitated by critical illness, their relative will be approached
      for assent as soon as possible and within 48 hours of study enrollment. This is in line with
      recommendations for Research involving emergency treatment.

      The LiDCOrapid machine will be connected in the same manner as the LiDCOplus machine,
      currently in use on ICU, in order to obtain the stroke volume measurement. A smartcard is
      inserted and the patient details entered. Monitoring will continue until fluids are
      clinically indicated. Patients will be given fluid boluses via either peripheral or central
      venous catheters.

      The following data will be collected for each patient:

      Age, Gender, Height, Weight, diagnosis requiring ICU admission, location of venous and
      arterial catheters, APACHE II scores, Cumulative fluid balance at time of bolus
      administration, Ventilation status (self-ventilating, non-invasive ventilation, invasive
      ventilation and mode if appropriate), tidal volume if measured, drugs being infused
      (sedatives, inotropes, vasoactive drugs, diuretics, muscle relaxants, etc), presence of renal
      replacement therapy.

      Fluid administration protocol:

      Patients will be monitored just prior to infusion for hemodynamic stability, Standard
      practice is to administer a bolus of 500ml given via an infusion pump at a rate of
      1200mL/hour (25min).

      For study patients the first 250ml will be given in 50ml boluses using a 50ml syringe. Each
      bolus will be given over approximately 1 minute and the study measurements will be recorded
      followed by a wait for response of 1 minute. This will be repeated for each subsequent bolus
      until 250ml has been given (i.e. 5 boluses). The remaining 250ml will be given via the
      standard infusion pump method at a rate of 1000ml/hour which will complete in 15 minutes. In
      total, the 500ml will be given over 25 minutes.

      At the end of each bolus Stroke volume, cardiac output, heart rate, blood pressure will be
      determined.

      Up to 2 sets of data per patient per day will be collected. The majority of patients
      routinely stay in the ICU for 2 days, while in a smaller group, for much longer. A maximum of
      4 data sets will be collected per patient. The fluid boluses will be administered at the
      discretion of the treating physician who believes that they will improve the clinical
      condition of the patient. The study team will have no influence on the timing of these.
    
  