
    
      The primary objective of this study is to determine the effect of XOS (administered at
      8g/day), B. lactis BI07 (administered at 109 CFU/day) and the synbiotic combination of both
      (8g/day XOS and 109 CFU/day B. lactis BI07) on the human gut microbiota.

      A double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized crossover study will be conducted in 44
      healthy volunteers. The placebo will be maltodextrin (a food grade ingredient, administered
      at 8g/day).

      Changes in the gut microbiota will be determined by measuring bacterial population levels in
      human faeces using fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) with 16S rRNA targeted
      oligonucleotide probes. Concentrations of short chain fatty acids (SCFA) will be quantified
      using gas chromatography (GC).

      In addition to analyses performed on the samples at the University of Reading, analyses on
      microbial metabolites and selected members of the microbiota will also be performed at
      Danisco Finland, Kantvik. University of Reading will therefore provide Danisco Kantvik with
      faecal samples of appropriate size.

      The secondary objective of this study is to examine the effects of XOS (8g/day), B. lactis
      BI07 (109 CFU/day) and the synbiotic (8g/day of XOS and 109 CFU/day of B. lactis BI07) on
      bowel function, immune function and plasma lipids in 44 healthy volunteers. This will be
      achieved using volunteer diaries of bowel function and mood, and by investigating total
      plasma lipids, mucosal immunity (salivary and faecal IgA), total leukocyte numbers,
      expression of cell surface markers on immune cells to identify cell subsets and activation
      markers, production of inflammatory markers by whole blood cultures, plasma chemokines,
      phagocytosis and oxidative burst by monocytes and granulocytes, plasma/serum immunoglobulins,
      acute phase proteins, complement proteins and soluble adhesion molecules.
    
  