
    
      The study is designed as a 14 week prospective observational study where patients with
      diabetic wounds visiting the Indiana University Health Comprehensive Wound Center (CWC) will
      be enrolled. Patients enrolled will be followed for 14 weeks including 4 study visits,
      initial visit (week 0), study visit 2 (week 2), study visit 3 (week 4), and will return for a
      final follow-up study visit 4 (week 14; miR-200b arm only). Standardized Care Outline will be
      per physician discretion.

      The initial visit will take place during the patients regularly scheduled CWC visit and the
      following will take place: informed consent will be obtained, baseline demographics and
      medical history with be collected, current labs and medications will be recorded, wound data
      will be obtained, an ankle brachial index will be completed for patients with leg wounds
      below the knee, if not already completed per Standard of Care (SoC) since onset of the wound,
      and wound photographs for digital planimetry to measure wound area. Wound fluid will be
      collected using a filter paper method, aspiration method, or via the NPWT (Negative Pressure
      Wound Therapy, also known as Wound Vac) sponge prior to debridement. Additionally, two 3 mm
      punch tissue biopsies will be obtained from the patient's physician; however, this is
      optional. If the wound shows signs of healing and does not show signs of infection (i.e. the
      wound has not stalled in healing for 2 or more weeks or become larger in size) or the wound
      has been declared healed by their physician, the biopsies will not be obtained. The study
      visits 2-4 will include the following: a medication and adverse event review, wound data will
      be recorded, wound photographs, wound fluid, and two 3 mm punch tissue biopsies will be
      obtained from the patient's physician.

      Potential Risks:

      The risks associated with this research study are low. There are no therapeutic interventions
      or medications as part of this study to be administered depending on the amount of sensation
      the subject has at the site of the wound.

      If the subject is receiving a biopsy, the wound site will be numbed by applying local
      anesthesia as appropriate to the area being biopsied. There may be some discomfort with the
      tissue biopsy procedure, but all reasonable efforts will be made to minimize pain. The biopsy
      procedure is done within the boundaries of the existing wound to avoid giving the patient a
      separate new wound. Bleeding is a possible complication, but the risk is low for the small
      biopsies and is reduced by using local anesthetics with epinephrine, and silver nitrate
      sticks are available in each room to cauterize biopsy sites as needed. Infection is also a
      potential risk; however, wound tissue biopsies are routinely performed as the standard of
      care in the CWC to diagnose wound infection. The biopsy site will be appropriately monitored
      for infection by the physician managing the wound during routine wound clinic visits.

      The ABI test may result in temporary discomfort around the ankle or foot when the cuff is
      inflated, but does not present any further physical or medical risks. The wound fluid
      collection is non-invasive and does not present any risk. Study participants will not benefit
      directly from participation in this study. This research information has the potential of
      providing considerable benefits to wound care by identifying a key player that influences the
      closure of chronic diabetic wounds. Such knowledge should help develop novel biomarker and or
      miR-directed therapeutic strategies.
    
  