
    
      Currently, gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopy training is not a standardized and is variable
      from country to country. A number of certifying authorities in different countries grant
      privileges of performing GI endoscopy according to predefined rules, requisites and
      regulations, especially in the Western countries (1-4). However, in many other countries,
      physicians who perform GI endoscopy as part of their medical practice may not require to be
      certified or acknowledged by a relevant regulatory body (5-8).

      In the absence of quality assessment of GI training, patient safety and evidence-based
      medical care cannot be guaranteed. According to major societies of GI endoscopy, the
      credentialing decisions for GI endoscopy should be based on the evaluation of physicians'
      qualifications and procedural skills, as assessed by experienced doctors with whom they have
      trained, not solely on a simple counting of procedures performed (9). Therefore, there is a
      need for a WEO training guideline that defines training duration, procedural skills and
      competency that should be acquired by young GI endoscopists during their endoscopy training.

      It is particularly important for WEO to standardize the fundamentals of GI endoscopy training
      globally by developing recommendations on endoscopic education and training to help medical
      institutions ensure the technical and cognitive competence of individuals requesting
      endoscopic privileges.

      Objective:

      To assess the current global state of GI endoscopy training programs and to identify the
      unmet needs and how to improve it through a web based questionnaire.

      Methods:

      Endoscopists from all over the world will be invited to answer in the questionnaire through
      e-mail invitations. Results will be analyzed to assess the current global status of GI
      endoscopy training in their countries, the unmet needs and to how improve it.

      Survey link:

      http://www.surveymonkey.net/create/survey/preview?r=true&sm=R74C8rWWwbO8_2BQM2fg9Yr5HcAtrkz8X
      wZogb4Bbaqr8oC9mFJrq8WAvNY33O45r1
    
  