
    
      More than 6.5 million people have heart failure (HF) in the United States and 960,000 new
      cases are reported annually. HF is associated with high mortality and hospitalization rates,
      high costs, and poor health-related quality of life (HRQL). Despite major improvements in
      outcomes with medical and surgical therapy, admission rates following a HF-related
      hospitalization remain high with 25% of patients readmitted to the hospital within 30-days
      and up to 50% readmitted within 6 months. Previous research shows that adherence to routine
      HF self-care behaviors reduces the risk of all-cause mortality and HF-related
      hospitalization, and improves HRQL. However, self-care has generally been found to be poor
      among HF patients, particularly minority populations. Nonadherence to HF symptom monitoring
      and medication use is remarkably high even among recently discharged patients hospitalized
      due to a HF exacerbation. Recent advances in consumer-based mobile health (mHealth)
      technologies, such as smartphones, mobile health apps, wearable sensors, and other smart and
      connected health devices, offer scalable and affordable solutions for promoting better HF
      self-care and expanding delivery of care services to communities that are difficult to reach.
      However, no prior studies have assessed the impact of these technologies on HF self-care and
      patient outcomes.

      This study aims to conduct a pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) of a patient-centered
      intervention named iCardia4HF that promotes adherence to HF self-care through the use of
      commercial mHealth devices and app tools. iCardia4HF consists of: (1) a patient-centered
      mHealth app, developed in partnership with the Heart Failure Society of America, that
      interfaces with multiple connected health devices and comprises a number of self- monitoring,
      patient education, and adherence reminder tools for improving self-care; and (2) individually
      tailored text-messages (TMs) targeting health beliefs, self-care efficacy, and HF-knowledge.
      Study participants (n=92) diagnosed with HF will be randomly assigned to iCardia4HF or the
      control group for 12 weeks. Specific aims are to: 1) assess the feasibility and acceptance of
      iCardia4HF; 2) examine the preliminary efficacy of iCardia4HF on objectively assessed
      measures of HF self-care using real- time data from the connected health devices and app, as
      well as self-reported Self-Care and HRQL; track the number of hospitalizations and emergency
      room (ER) visits over 12 weeks; and 3) examine the mediating effect of intervention target
      variables (health beliefs, self-care efficacy, and HF-knowledge) and impact of independent
      patient factors on HF self-care.

      This study represents an important step in identifying an affordable and scalable mHealth
      intervention that has the potential to bring about a new paradigm in self-care management of
      HF.
    
  