
    
      StOIC-2 is an observational study of routine clinical practice, and will involve four
      assessments over a period of 28 days (3 face to face; 1 telephone). Participants for StOIC 2
      study will be identified from StOIC 1 study (CancerTrials.gov registry reference number -
      NCT04350112). Visit 1 for StOIC 2 study will correspond to the assessment for StOIC 1 study.

      Patients will be managed according to a treatment algorithm (see below), which is based on a
      review of the evidence (and which is the basis of the Multinational Association for
      Supportive Care in Cancer (MASCC) guideline on the treatment of constipation in patients with
      advanced cancer). The decision to change treatment is based on efficacy / lack of efficacy
      (as determined by the Bowel Function Index (see below), or the development of adverse
      effects.

      Step 1: Conventional Laxatives

        -  Choice of laxatives at the discretion of the clinical team

        -  Combination of softener and stimulant laxative

        -  Laxatives to be prescribed on a regular basis

      Step 2: Peripherally acting mu opioid receptor antagonist (PAMORA)

        -  Choice of PAMORA at the discretion of clinical team

        -  Either oral naloxegol or subcutaneous methylnaltrexone

        -  PAMORA to be prescribed on a regular basis

      Step 3: PAMORA + Conventional Laxatives

        -  Choice of combination at the discretion of the PI/clinical team

        -  Combination to be prescribed on a regular basis

      Step 4: Other options

      - Choice of other option at discretion of clinical team:

        -  Bowel cleansing preparations (e.g. Picolax)

        -  Suppositories

        -  Enemas

        -  Manual evacuation

        -  Other drugs (e.g. lubiprostone, prucalopride)

      The following data will be collected: a) demographic data - age, gender, ethnicity; b) cancer
      diagnosis; c) opioid medications - drug, formulation, dose; d) laxative medications - drug,
      formulation, dose (every visit); e) Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status.

      The participants will also be asked to complete;

        1. Bowel Function Index (BFI) - every visit. The BFI is a validated, 3 item, patient
           reported tool for assessing the treatment of OIC. A BFI score of > 30 indicates
           suboptimally treated OIC.

        2. Patient Assessment of Constipation - Quality of Life Questionnaire (PAC-QOL) - first and
           last visit. The PAC-QOL is a validated, 28 item, patient reported tool for assessing the
           impact of constipation over time.

        3. Memorial Symptom Assessment Scale - Short Form (MSAS-SF) - first and last visit. The
           MSAS-SF is a validated, 32 item, patient reported tool for assessing physical and
           psychological symptoms in cancer patients.

      Data will also be collected on adverse effects from medication / interventions, and reasons
      for withdrawal from the study.
    
  