
    
      The Purpose of this randomized controlled trial (RCT) is to compare the effects of an 8-week
      on-line MBSR training program with a HL self-directed education program (control) on pain,
      depression, and inflammation using questionnaires and biomarkers in AD women with CPP.

      Specific Aims and Research Questions It is important to understand predictors of CPP among
      women in active military service and test strategies that may mitigate the negative impact of
      CPP. The long-term goal of this research is to identify a non-invasive, easy to learn,
      alternative method that can successfully assist active duty women with CPP to regulate daily
      perceptions of their body, improve pain management skills to better cope, and ultimately
      improve functionality and QOL.

      Specific Aim #1: To compare the depression of active duty (AD) women with CPP pre-post an
      8-week online MBSR program with an 8-week Healthy Lifestyle (HL) nutrition self-paced
      education.

      Hypothesis #1: AD women with CPP in an 8-week MBSR Program will have an overall decreased
      depression pre-post as compared to the HL control.

      Question #1: What is the effect of an online MBSR training program as compared to a HL
      control pre-post on AD women's depression scores? Specific Aim #2: To compare the perception
      of pain in AD women with CPP pre-post an 8-week online MBSR program with an 8-week HL
      control.

      Hypothesis 2: AD women with CPP in an 8-week MBSR Program will have overall decreased
      perception of pain pre-post as compared to the HL control.

      Question #2: What is the effect of an online MBSR training program as compared to a HL
      control pre-post on AD women's perception of pain? Specific Aim #3: Compare the inflammatory
      biomarkers and miRNAs changes in AD women with CPP pre-post an 8-week online MBSR program
      with an 8-week HL control.

      Hypothesis #3: AD women with CPP in an 8-week MBSR training program will demonstrate an
      overall decrease in inflammation as demonstrated by the biomarker changes pre-post.

      Question #3: What is the effect of an online MBSR training program as compared to a HL
      control pre-post on active duty women's inflammatory biomarkers?
    
  