
    
      Objective: To evaluate the implementation of comprehensive diabetes care in two low-resource
      settings in Ecuador.

      Specific objectives:

        1. To assess patient outcomes including biochemical diabetes control and health-related
           quality of life.

        2. To evaluate diabetes-related health care access.

        3. To assess complications related to diabetes.

      Sample size: The sample size is proposed conservatively to ensure a precision to estimate
      outcomes of 50% with an absolute precision of ±5%, assuming a design effect of 1.2 and
      potential loss of 20%.

      Sample design: A representative sample for each district will be obtained by stratified
      single-stage cluster sampling. The clusters are health facilities for which a sample of
      patients will randomly selected. The sample will be stratified by facility type (Ministry of
      Public Health (MSP) facilities, or Social Security facilities for affiliated workers) in
      Quito and by Rural/Urban setting in Esmeraldas. Patient sampling will use the electronic
      consultation registry of each selected facility where possible. Data unavailable in the
      electronic registers will be extracted from any available paper files.

      Data collection procedure: Research assistants will obtain the data mainly from health
      services records, which will be supplemented by patient interviews including
      socio-demographic and clinical data, perceived social support (the Multidimensional Scale of
      Perceived Social Support, MSPSS) and health-related quality of life (the Diabetes Health
      Profile-18, DHP-18) profile. They will collect data regarding whether the patient received
      regular review by a clinician, and underwent screening for diabetes complications as
      recommended in the 2017 Clinical Practice Guideline for Type 2 Diabetes in Ecuador. He/she
      will record the date and details of any complications and experiences over the course of the
      evaluation and other clinical data such as comorbidities, treatments or patient management by
      a multidisciplinary health care team.

      The first data collection will be retrospective and will include diabetes-related health care
      and clinical outcomes during 2019 and 2020. Clinical files will be reviewed every 12 months
      for the duration of follow-up (2 years). Supplementary interview data will be assessed on a
      baseline and in the last 6 months of follow-up.

      Analysis: The researchers will calculate the proportion of patients that received care as per
      the clinical practice guideline (CPG) recommendations and/or the proportion receiving an
      intermediate level of care (as required). Proportions will be described with 95% confidence
      intervals. Variation in healthcare received and diabetes-related health will be described
      using sociodemographic and clinical characteristics of the patients to highlight potential
      inequities. A multivariate logistic regression model may be used to explore the relationship
      between the primary outcomes and socioeconomic explanatory variable and/or type of health
      facility. If necessary, the researchers will adjust for potential confounders such as
      patients' factors (e.g. sex, age, comorbidity, perceived social support) and/or environmental
      factors (e.g. proximity to the health centre, availability of different medical specialties
      or methods as laboratory test). Statistical analysis will be performed using Stata/SE
      (StataCorp, College Station, TX, USA) Version 15.
    
  