
    
      This study will expand upon earlier infusion studies in healthy Caucasian and Asian
      volunteers in which continuous infusions of PTH and PTHrP were given for six-, 12-, and 48
      hours. These studies demonstrated: 1) There is a dose-related increase in 1,25 (OH)2 vitamin
      D in response to PTHrP and PTH over multiple days. 2) There is a markedly attenuated vitamin
      D response to PTHrP compared to PTH, particularly during the second 24 hours. 3) The increase
      in 1,25 (OH)2 vitamin D is almost certainly responsible for the greater calcemic effect of
      PTH compared to PTHrP. 4) PTHrP is obviously a weaker agonist of 1,25 (OH)2 vitamin D but
      does not result in its suppression as is seen in Humoral Hypercalcemia of Malignancy (HHM).
      Thus, the suppression of 1,25 (OH)2 vitamin D seen in HHM remains unexplained. In addition to
      assessing the effects of an infusion of PTHrP and PTH on calcium handling and 1,25 (OH)2
      vitamin D, we also measured their effects on markers of bone turnover. Given the clinical
      observations seen in primary hyperparathyroidism (HPT) and HHM, we anticipated that PTH would
      stimulate both bone resorption and formation, while PTHrP would stimulate bone resorption but
      inhibit formation. However, we observed that infusions of PTHrP and PTH resulted in an
      equivalent, rapid increase in bone resorption as measured by N-telopeptide (NTx) and
      C-telopeptide (CTx), as well as a progressive decline in bone formation. There was no
      difference between PTH and PTHrP. Because of these findings, it was surmised that infusions
      of a longer duration would lead to an increase in bone formation and 1,25 (OH)2D production
      with both peptides, as is seen in HPT. Very recently, we have completed a seven-day infusion
      model in healthy Caucasian and Asian volunteers to test this hypothesis (J. Bone Min. Res.,
      2011). A total of 22 individuals were given either seven-day infusions of PTH or PTHrP, and
      maximal safe doses were found to be 2 and 4 picomoles (pmol)/kg/hour, respectively, lower
      than the doses used in previous, briefer infusion studies. All patients developed sustained
      but very mild hypercalcemia (mean = 10.3 mg/dL) and hypercalciuria with rapid increase in
      bone resorption. Surprisingly, bone formation again was suppressed for the entire seven days
      with a robust rebound in bone formation on cessation of the respective peptide. This is
      consistent with what may occur during lactation and HHM, but again contrary to what occurs in
      HPT.

      The previous infusion studies were done only in Caucasian and Asian volunteers as there are
      extensively documented physiologic differences in bone metabolism between African-Americans
      and Caucasians. Much of the racial differences noted in bone metabolism come from the
      osteoporosis literature. African-Americans are known to have higher bone mineral densities
      (BMD) and to be at lower risk of developing fragility fractures. There are many factors which
      may explain these racial differences in bone metabolism, including altered calcium economy,
      vitamin D differences, peak attained bone mass, muscle mass and obesity, mechanism of falls,
      remodeling rates, bone micro-architecture, hip axis geometry, and other unknown hereditary
      differences. It is also well established that African-Americans on average, have lower 25-OH
      vitamin D concentrations and thus higher PTH levels. Despite elevations in PTH, there is
      paradoxically no increase in bone loss indicating that a relative skeletal resistance to PTH
      may exist. We hope that by performing this seven-day infusion protocol in healthy
      African-American volunteers we can learn more about racial differences in bone turnover,
      renal calcium, PTH concentrations, vitamin D metabolism, and skeletal responses to lactation
      in this under-studied population.

      Ninety healthy African-American men and women will be screened for an eight-day inpatient
      admission to the Clinical & Translational Research Center (CTRC). Sixty evaluable research
      participants will receive a seven day infusion of a predetermined dose of either PTHrP or
      PTH. Vital signs and blood and urine tests will be monitored frequently as per the study flow
      sheet. The starting dose of either peptide, 2 picomoles (pmols)/kg, will be given to three
      normal healthy subjects. Via a dose escalation protocol, the dose will be escalated in
      increments with successive groups of three subjects each, until early adverse effects (mild
      hypercalcemia, postural hypotension, tachycardia) are seen. This determined safe dose will
      then be given to 10 subjects. This dose escalation study design has been used in several
      prior studies at this institution in order to achieve a sustained mild serum hypercalcemia in
      the 10.5-11 mg/dL range in research studies. The investigators with this study are trying to
      determine a safe dose of PTHrP and PTH in African-American volunteers and determining if this
      population has the same physiologic response as Caucasians.

      Subject population will consist of healthy young African-American adults, ages 24-35. It is
      anticipated that we will need to screen 90 patients in order to obtain 60 evaluable subjects.
    
  