
    
      Returning veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan (OIF/OEF veterans) have a very high incidence of
      TBI (14-23%) with the largest number having mild TBI (i.e., no discernible structural brain
      damage) with 63.5% having persistent headache. Treatment of PTH in this population has been
      difficult and mind/body interventions including Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) may
      offer significant benefit. A biomarker that will support clinical endpoints ("surrogate
      endpoint") and help predict clinical benefit, could be used to more efficiently and
      completely assess mind/body treatment effects in clinical trials for PTH, compare various
      complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) treatments, and potentially target specific
      treatments to patients most likely to benefit. This project aims to investigate candidate
      biomarkers for MBSR response in veterans with PTH. Primarily, all subjects if they are
      interested and appropriate for the study, will undergo a screening at their regular clinic
      visit at the VAGLAS physical medicine and rehab department. If a subject responds to
      advertisement they will be screened using the same tools and enrollment criteria required for
      the veterans at VAGLAS. We expect we will need to enroll and screen no less than 33 subjects
      in order to complete 20 evaluable subjects for analysis. The study subjects will be evaluated
      for the severity of their PTH, the impact of PTH on their life, and the extent of the
      disease/pain condition. If eligible the nurse coordinator will contact them to schedule the
      pre-MBSR functional MRI visit. At the MRI we will evaluate patterns of activity (functional
      connectivity) in the brain at rest, and look at cortical thickness. Following the MRI visit
      all subjects will complete a 9-week modified MBSR training with a qualified instructor.
      Mid-study (after MBSR class 4) the subject will be asked to complete mid-study questionnaires
      at home on Survey Monkey or on paper if they choose. At the end of the MBSR training in which
      the subject will have to complete at least 3 visits, functional (f)MRI procedure will be
      repeated and compared against the first. Three months after completing the study there will
      be a follow-up visit to complete behavioral/symptom/quality of life questionnaires on line
      via SurveyMonkey. This is to see if the changes in the biomarkers will mediate changes in
      these behavioral measures 3-mo post Treatment (i.e. measure stability).

      All in all, to complete the study subjects will have a screening visit, pre and post training
      MRI visit, up to 9 MBSR training visits, mid study questionnaires, a 4-hr retreat visit after
      week 6 and a final 3-mo f/u visit for questionnaires only.
    
  