
    
      Background:

      This study was designed to evaluate the impact of a Telehealth Education Program (TEP) on
      outpatient veterans with moderate to severe dementia and their spouse caregivers. The TEP is
      a program of education, coping skills, problem solving and support presented to caregivers of
      veterans with dementia by teleconference in 10 weekly, one-hour sessions. The TEP was based
      on a stress and coping model aimed to enhance the knowledge, skills and feelings of support
      of the caregivers who participated.

      Objectives:

      The objectives of this study were to: 1) evaluate the impact of TEP on outpatient veterans
      with dementia; and 2) to help spousal caregivers gain the knowledge and skills necessary to
      provide the highest quality of care possible for their spouse in order to prevent unnecessary
      healthcare utilization and premature institutionalization. In addition, a second objective
      was to develop a TEP training manual for VA clinical staff and a TEP workbook for family
      members.

      Methods:

      This study employed a 2x3x2x4 randomized control group design. The design had two levels of
      intervention, TEP verus usual care(UC), three times of measurement (baseline, 3 months and 12
      months), two sites of educational group intervention, (Albany VAMC and Buffalo VAMC) and four
      leaders (two nestled at each of the two sites). Veterans were included into the study if: 1)
      they were community dwelling; 2) had been diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease, or a related
      dementing disorder, and 3) scored three or higher on the Global Deterioration Scale.
      Caregivers were included if they: 1) were the primary care providers for the veterans, 2) had
      cohabitated with the veteran for more than one year, 3) reported at least a moderate level of
      strain, (score a seven or higher on the Caregiver Strain Index), and (4) had not participated
      in any other individual or group intervention program designed to support caregivers of
      demented persons.

      There were ten TEP caregiver groups that received the educational program in one-hour
      sessions for 10 weeks. Demographic data were collected on the veterans and caregivers at
      baseline. Psychosocial outcome data were collected within two weeks prior to the
      intervention(baseline) and then again at three and twelve months. These were collected to
      evaluate whether TEP veterans would experience a reduction in behavioral problems, agitation
      and symptoms of depression and whether caregivers would experience a significant increase in
      dementia management skills, as well as, a perceived ability to care for their spouse. Outcome
      variables were analyzed using mixed effect regression models. Healthcare cost and utilization
      data were extracted from the VISTA databases and included outpatient, inpatient and nursing
      home data within the VA.

      Status:

      Completed.
    
  