
    
      We will consent approximately 100 participants, aged 50 and older, of both sexes and all
      races. Participation may last up to 32 weeks. We will utilize a clinical trial that has 3
      Phases. In Phase 1 we will treat participants with an approximate 12 week course of
      open-label venlafaxine XR. This is the same lead-in treatment as in our ongoing "IRL Grey"
      ("Incomplete Response in Late Life Depression: Getting to Remission") multi-site R01 for
      late-life treatment resistant depression (LL-TRD), and we have found it to be highly
      successful. Participants who find relief from their depressive symptoms on venlafaxine XR
      alone will exit the study. Participants meeting criteria for an incomplete response (those
      still feeling depressed or withdrawn), will be randomly assigned to receive either low-dose
      buprenorphine or placebo augmentation of venlafaxine xr for 8 weeks (Phase 2), with the goal
      of achieving remission. Subjects will start at 0.2mg and titrate up as needed to 1.2mg.
      Subjects may undergo up to 2 MRI scans at the beginning and end of Phase 2 as well as
      cognitive testing at the same time points. At the conclusion of Phase 2, the blind will be
      broken for all participants. The participants who were on placebo will be able to begin
      taking buprenorphine immediately for Phase 3 (approximately 8 weeks). The participants who
      were already on buprenorphine in Phase 2 can continue to take it during Phase 3.
      Buprenorphine (BPN) will be tapered upon exiting the study, under the guidance of the P.I.
      The Phase 3 variations will allow all participants a chance to experience the benefits of
      buprenorphine (BPN). Efficacy and tolerability data will provide a clinically informative
      estimate of benefits and risks of buprenorphine augmentation for late-life treatment
      resistant depression (LL-TRD). We will randomize approximately 20 subjects into Phase 2.
      Additionally, we will collect buprenorphine (BPN) plasma levels on all those randomized to
      explore a dose-effect relationship on treatment response.

      A small pilot study (ages 21 and up) of up to 15 healthy control subjects will be studied
      over an approximate 2 week period in order to ensure all of our procedures are working and to
      determine that there are clinical effects from buprenorphine. Control subjects will undergo a
      baseline PET/MRI before taking buprenorphine. At least 24 hours after the imaging, control
      subjects will receive a small dose of BPN starting at 0.2 mg/day and will titrate up as
      tolerated to 1.2 mg/day for the first week. Each subject will remain at approximately 1.2
      mg/day for the duration of the study. At the end of the study, subjects will undergo a second
      PET/MRI.
    
  