
    
      Background The incidence of depression is estimated to 3-5%, with a lifetime prevalence of
      17% in western societies. The incidence in patient populations affected by chronic and
      disabling physical illnesses can be as high as 20%. Depressive symptoms as prolonged feeling
      of sadness, low self esteem and even suicidal tendencies have consequences to not only the
      patients' social life, but also shows a correlation between the severity of depression and
      number of work days lost.Depression is associated with increased risk for conditions such as
      osteoporoses, cardiovascular diseases and dementia. The global burden of disease reported by
      WHO and others stated that unipolar depressive disorders was the fourth leading cause of
      disease burden in terms of lost years of healthy life, and that major depression accounted
      for 12% of all total years lived with disability in 2000. The economic burden of depression
      on the national economy in the US was in 2000 estimated to 83,1 billion dollars (31% were
      direct medical costs, 7% were suicide-related mortality costs and 62% were workplace costs).

      In 2001 a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials comparing exercise with other
      established treatments for patients diagnosed with depression concluded:" The effectiveness
      of exercise in reducing symptoms of depression cannot be determined because of a lack of good
      quality research on clinical populations with adequate follow up". The authors found that the
      majority of studies did not have blinded outcome assessment, nor were they based on the
      intent-to-treat principle and most had a short follow-up. In conclusion a summary of the
      latest reviews on the subject, states that it is likely that exercise has an effect in
      patients diagnosed with depression, but many of the conducted studies have significant
      methodological problems, which might have a substantial effect on trial results.Despite the
      above criticism there have been published trials suggesting that exercise has a positive
      effect in patients diagnosed with depression. A RCT (n=156, age >50, Hamilton rating scale
      for depression (HAMD)-17mean= 18,5) from 1999 compares an aerobic exercise program, standard
      medical treatment (SSRI) and a group receiving both. No significant difference was observed
      between the groups after 16 weeks of intervention.

      A study from 2004 showed an effect of aerobic exercise on depression in light to moderately
      depressed patients (n=82) not receiving medication. The study compared an exercise program of
      17,5 kcal/kg/week (jogging one mile approximately equals 100 kcal) with exercise program of
      7,5 kcal/kg/week with a control group. After 12 weeks of intervention the group receiving the
      most strenuous (17,5 kcal/kg/week) program showed a significant reduction in symptoms
      compared to the group only doing aerobic exercise similar to 7,5 kcal/kg/week and the control
      group. No significant difference was observed between the low energy expenditure program and
      the control group. A recently published study in elderly doing progressive resistance
      training supports these findings on intensity related effect of exercise on depression.The
      effect of exercise on endorphin, monoamine levels and neutrophin have been proposed as
      biological mediators of exercise on depression, as well as psychosocial mechanisms such as an
      increase of physical self-worth and distraction.

      Only one previous study have compared aerobic and non-aerobic exercise forms, which
      theoretically could be working by different biological mechanisms, such as enhanced
      serotonergic activity due to enhanced free tryptophan levels in aerobic exercise. This study
      gives us an opportunity to compare the aerobic with non-aerobic exercise in comparable
      populations.

      Studies like this rarely includes measures of biological parameters. Disturbances in the
      hypothalamic-pituitary axis with high cortisol levels and the lacking ability to suppress
      endogen cortisol in response to dexamethasone has long been known to accompany depression.
      Increased fitness has in experimental models shown to decrease cortisol response to
      psychological and physical stress. Furthermore, serum prolactin has been used as an indicator
      of central serotonergic activity which has shown an abnormal response to physical activity in
      depressed patients.

      New evidence for the biological effect of exercise includes the increase of BDNF, which is
      thought to mediate the positive effect of exercise on cognition in response to physical
      activity in rodents. The deficits in cognitive function in depressed patients is widely
      recognized, and cognition has previously been shown to relate to fitness levels in older
      adults in long term physical intervention. The effect of long term physical intervention on
      cognitive skills, have to our knowledge never been examined in clinically depressed patients.

      On this background we argue that a randomized study based on the intent-to-treat principle,
      including clinical populations and with a long follow-up is needed to evaluate the efficacy
      of exercise in patients diagnosed with light to moderate depression, regarding depressive
      symptoms and lost days from work.
    
  