
    
      Data Collection Volunteers will be invited to participate by bringing card (s ) vaccination
      or copy ( s ) of record ( s ) in which it appears ( m) ( s ) dose ( s) received yellow fever
      vaccine ( s ) and ( s ) their ( s ) date ( s ) . Individuals who agree to participate in the
      study and signed an Informed Consent Form will be forwarded to interview and application of
      Inclusion Questionnaire , which will identify possible eligible for the study and classify
      them according to the time of vaccination. Then a medical review of the history of
      vaccination with the date or the age in which they occurred , the cities and the period in
      which he lived and the relevant pathological history , hospitalizations and treatment for
      chronic diseases will be taken , then proceeding to blood collection.

      Upon completion of the subject's participation in the research study , registration must be
      done at the closing to participate in the study .A group of volunteers previously vaccinated
      with a dose of yellow fever vaccine and booster having the indicated activity in the areas in
      which the vaccine is recommended that , constitute a group of 110 patients with different to
      the search approach, in which a pickup is performed Whole blood for analysis of cellular
      immune 30-45 days after revaccination.

      The clinical forms of the study will be prepared and processed in " TELEform " program ,
      which will enable the digitization and preparation of database.

      Sample Size Whereas 98% seropositivity and presence of cellular response after 30 days of
      revaccination as reference, 110 volunteers will be needed in each group to detect minute
      differences of 10 percentage points with 80% power and a significance level of 5%.

      A total of 440 volunteers with 110 distributed in each group. Samples of 110 individuals will
      estimate proportions of seropositive up to 50% with precision of 9 percentage points for each
      side.

      Biological Samples Samples are initially obtained from 10 ml of peripheral blood collected
      without anti-coagulant for serology, in all volunteers (N = 440).

      For a subset of 200 subjects (50 in each group) are also collected 20 ml of blood in heparin
      (10 mL of 2 tubes) for determination of cellular immunity. Specifically for the reference
      group, the collection of 20ml will be held at two different times, the first visit and return
      visit, 30 to 45 days after revaccination.

      Laboratory tests Titration of neutralizing antibodies ( PRNT ):the neutralizing antibody
      titers of volunteers will be determined by neutralization test for 50% reduction of plaques
      of lysis buffer ( PRNT50 ) in monolayers of Vero cells.

      For neutralization tests PRNT by the dosage of antibody is expressed in milli- International
      Units per milliliter ( mlU / ml) of serum.

      In a subsample of 20 % of individuals, subalíquota serum will be separated to be reviewed
      with the PRNT for yellow fever in order to allow verification that the serological tests
      performed by another team .

      ELISA:Serological tests ( IgG ) for dengue will be held . These same samples will be tested
      for IgG -ELISA for confirmation of antiamarílicos antibodies in the sera of vaccinated
      people. Additionally , the level of IgG antibodies in the serum by a conventional method
      collected from volunteers to compare the data from literature is performed.

      Presence of cellular immunity: Aliquots of 20 mL of whole blood is collected into tubes
      containing sodium heparin anticoagulant ( Vacutainer , BD , USA ) for the culture of
      peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC ).

      Monitoring of adverse events As the administration of vaccines is not a research activity,
      the record of the post-vaccination adverse events should be done by professionals who
      administer the vaccine in accordance with the Manual of Epidemiological Surveillance of
      Adverse Events Following Immunization, 2nd. Edition - 2009, Ministry of Health, research and
      monitoring of post-yellow fever vaccination serious adverse events, the Ministry of Health

      Statistical Analysis The response variable of interest is the titer of neutralizing
      antibodies ( in mIU / mL ) of serum and transformed into logarithms base 10 . The serological
      status variable will be derived - seropositive : antibody titers of equal to or greater than
      2.8 log10 mIU / mL ; seronegative : securities equal to or less than 2.6 log10 mIU / mL, and
      indeterminate : securities equal to 2.7 log10 mIU / mL .

      The proportion of seropositivity and geometric mean antibody titers are estimated ( with
      their corresponding 95 % confidence ) for each study group : revaccinated for 30 days
      vaccinated with two doses there 1-5 years, 6 years or more vaccinated with three doses or
      more .

      The seropositivity and the profile of cellular immunity in the subgroup of individuals
      revaccinated thirty days will be taken as reference for comparisons with other groups . The
      serological and cellular immunity in this subgroup profile before the second vaccination will
      also be used as a reference for comparisons.

      The covariates for analysis are: age (continuous variable in years) the last dose of yellow
      fever vaccine, sex, presence of antibodies against dengue vaccination history, history of
      severe illness (hospitalization, sequelae, disability) and co-morbidity (who used drugs at
      the time of blood sampling).
    
  