
    
      This clinical trial primarily tests the impact of ketamine on suicidal thoughts in Borderline
      Personality Disorder (BPD). It also tests the impact of ketamine on symptom intensity (for
      mood, BPD, and pain symptoms), social cognition, and neuroplasticity in people with BPD.

      Suicidal ideation and action are too common in BPD, occurring at rates similar to those in
      people with depression or schizophrenia. Intensive psychotherapy helps, but many people with
      BPD do not have access to that treatment, and not everyone responds to psychotherapy if they
      do get access. No medication is FDA-approved for BPD, and no medication has been shown to
      decrease suicidality in BPD.

      Ketamine is a promising medication for this problem. It is an FDA-approved anesthetic
      medication with N-methyl D-aspartate activity. Sub-anesthetic doses of ketamine decrease
      suicidality and improve mood in people with Major Depressive Disorder (MDD). This effect is
      rapid, with symptom improvement within hours that endures approximately two weeks. People
      with BPD can have symptoms that overlap with those of MDD, however, the effective treatments
      for BPD and MDD differ. This clinical trial will test if ketamine, which is effective in MDD,
      is also effective in BPD.

      The investigators will use semi-structured interviews and self-report questionnaires to
      measure suicidal ideation and clinical symptoms (adverse events, mood symptoms, BPD symptoms,
      and pain). Social cognition will be also be measured using both interviews/questionnaires and
      cognitive psychology tasks.

      One proposed mechanism of ketamine's effect in MDD is increased neuroplasticity - opening a
      window during which new learning can occur. This mechanism has been demonstrated in rodent
      models of depression. In BPD, negatively-biased social interpretations impede meaningful
      recovery and increase suicide risk over time. A post-ketamine neuro-plastic window may
      provide an opportunity for revisions of rigid social attributions. The investigators will
      test for changes in neuroplasticity using a cognitive psychology task and
      electro-encephalography.

      Baseline measures of demographics, life experiences, and symptoms may also be used to predict
      outcomes or as co-variates in our analyses.
    
  