
    
      Remission of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an achievable goal with currently available
      medications, including the anti-tumor necrosis factor (anti-TNF) agents. However, it is
      uncertain if patients with RA in clinical remission while treated with anti-TNF agents and
      background disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARD) would remain in remission if
      anti-TNF therapy was stopped. If remission can be sustained off anti-TNF agents, then
      patients may be spared the potential toxicity and costs of these medications.

      The Stopping Anti-Tumor Necrosis Factor Agents in Rheumatoid Arthritis (STARA) study is a
      multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled noninferiority trial that will test
      differences in time to relapse between patients with RA in remission who discontinue anti-TNF
      agents and patients with RA in remission who continue anti-TNF agents. The secondary
      objectives of the study are: 1) to determine if discontinuation of anti-TNF agents results in
      a difference in progression of joint damage on radiographs; 2) to determine if
      discontinuation of anti-TNF agents results in a difference in physical function, and 3) to
      identify predictors of relapse.

      Eligible subjects will have RA in remission for at least six months while taking etanercept,
      infliximab, or adalimumab. An eight-week run-in period prior to randomization will be used to
      confirm remission. Subjects will then be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive one of two
      blinded treatments: 1) matching placebo or 2) their currently used anti-TNF agent,
      respectively. All subjects will maintain their current background DMARD. Clinical assessments
      will be performed every 12 weeks. The primary outcome is 48-week relapse-free status.
      Secondary outcomes include change from baseline radiographic joint damage score at 48 weeks
      and 100 weeks, and change from baseline physical function score at 48 weeks. Subjects who
      relapse before week 48 will discontinue study medication and receive treatment through their
      rheumatologist. Blinded treated will end at week 48 and subjects will be followed for 52
      additional weeks. This study will provide important new information on the best treatment
      approach for patients with RA in remission.
    
  