
    
      BACKGROUND:

      ARDS affects approximately 150,000 people in the United States each year. Despite twenty
      years of research into the mechanisms that cause this syndrome and numerous developments in
      the technology of mechanical ventilation, the mortality rate has remained greater than 50
      percent. In addition to the tragic loss of human life, this condition poses a cost to society
      because these patients spend an average of two weeks in intensive care units and require
      multiple high tech procedures. Because of the overwhelming nature of the lung injury once it
      is established, prevention appears to be the most effective strategy for improving the
      outlook for those with ARDS.

      Basic research has identified numerous inflammatory pathways that are associated with the
      development of ARDS. Agents that block these mediators prolong survival in animals with lung
      injury, and a few of them have been tested in human patients. Because of the large number of
      putative mediators and the variety of ways that their action can be blocked, the possibility
      for new drug development is almost infinite. This is an exciting prospect, since it envisions
      the first effective pharmacologic treatment for ARDS. However, preliminary clinical studies
      have shown conflicting results, and there is an urgent need for a mechanism to efficiently
      and effectively test new drugs in ARDS. Treatment studies in patients with ARDS are difficult
      to perform for three reasons. First, the complicated clinical picture makes it difficult to
      accumulate a large number of comparable patients in any one center. Secondly, there is no
      agreement on the optimal supportive care of these critically ill patients. Finally, many of
      the patients meeting study criteria will not be enrolled in study protocols because of the
      acute nature of the disease process. For these reasons, therapeutic trials in ARDS require
      multicenter cooperation.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This study compared the effect of corticosteroids with placebo in the management of
      late-phase (greater than seven days) ARDS. The study determined if the administration of the
      corticosteroid, methylprednisolone sodium succinate, in severe ARDS that was either stable or
      worsening after seven days, would reduce mortality and morbidity. The primary endpoint was
      mortality at 60 days. Secondary endpoints included ventilator-free days and organ
      failure-free days. LaSRS was designed to include 400 patients and began recruiting in the
      Spring of 1997. In October 1999, the data and safety monitoring board (DSMB) reduced the
      recruitment target number to 200 patients because the eligible patients were fewer than
      anticipated.
    
  