
    
      Infant admission to the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) is an extremely stressful
      postpartum outcome, as evidenced by data showing significant depressive symptoms in some 63%
      of new NICU mothers. Thus, as part of a Family-Centered Care philosophy, focus on the
      emotional well-being of the mother (and indeed the entire family) should be widely adopted by
      NICU nursing units. In current clinical practice, however, the emotional well-being of NICU
      mothers is often ignored. At best, NICU mothers are screened for depression and if indicated,
      referred to a mental health professional. The extremes of no treatment and full-on mental
      healthcare comprise an inadequate approach for treating mothers dealing with a normative
      reaction to a stressful event. In alignment with the Nurse Parent Support Model, the
      investigators propose the implementation of Listening Visits as a cost-effective
      nurse-delivered supportive approach, proven to relieve moderately severe depressive symptoms
      in mothers of term infants. In the NICU setting, Listening Visits were first implemented in a
      phase-1 feasibility trial conducted by this research team. In that first trial, Listening
      Visits were delivered by a doctoral level nurse practitioner and showed promise as means to
      reduce distress in NICU mothers. A Listening Visit program for emotionally distressed NICU
      mothers is innovative because it is a cost-effective approach that uses resources that are
      largely in place, to serve a persistent unmet need in a vulnerable postpartum population. By
      having nurses provides support, the concept of emotional distress in NICU mothers is
      normalized. This new application of Listening Visits also directly aligns with the NINR
      emphasis on promoting coping to prevent compromising mood states. The promising results of
      the feasibility trial now must be challenged with a control group comparison to definitively
      attribute maternal improvements to Listening Visits. Thus the objective of the proposed
      research is to conduct a Phase 2 pilot RCT to evaluate Listening Visits provided by
      bachelor's-level NICU nurses as compared with the care currently provided by the NICU social
      work team. The investigators will assess the relative effectiveness of Listening Visits vs.
      standard care on depressive symptoms. 50 women will be randomized into this trial. Because
      outcomes of infants will be obtained, the IRB has required that they be enrolled by their
      mothers as subjects so that data on their outcomes can be obtained. However they are not
      receiving the intervention.
    
  