
    
      Background:

      Women over the age of 60 years have an estimated 10 to 15 % risk of recurrent urinary tract
      infections (UTI). This is believed to be due to hormonally induced changes in the vaginal
      flora associated with menopause. After menopause, there is a chemical changes in the vagina
      that may predispose to bacterial infections.

      The role of vaginal estrogen creams to restore vaginal atrophy and prevent urinary tract
      infections has been well characterized. Vaginal testosterone (VT) application use in
      postmenopausal breast cancer patients on aromatase inhibitors have been shown to improve
      vaginal pH, vaginal atrophy symptom scores, dyspareunia, and vaginal dryness. Although
      testosterone has been used to improve sexual function in postmenopausal women, the effects of
      VT on vaginal flora and recurrent UTIs are unknown.

      The purpose of this study is to determine whether topically applied vaginal testosterone
      cream is more effective than placebo in reducing the incidence of urinary tract infections in
      postmenopausal women with recurrent urinary tract infections and to ascertain the effects of
      topical estrogen on the vaginal pH and flora.

      Methods:

      This will be a multi-center randomized, double- blind placebo-controlled study. Participating
      clinic sites include Maimonides Medical Center and Northwell Health. Subjects will be one
      hundred postmenopausal women presenting to a gynecology, urogynecology or female urology
      clinic with a history of three or more microbiologically confirmed symptomatic episodes of
      urinary tract infection during the either the previous year or two or more within six months.

      Patients will randomly assigned to one of two regimens: one group will receive VT cream to be
      used once each night for two weeks followed by twice-weekly applications for eight months,
      and the other group will receive a placebo cream to be used in the same manner. Demographic
      data, vaginal exam including vaginal swab to assess vaginal flora, vaginal pH measurement and
      vaginal atrophy index measurement will be collected at the initial study visit, again at a
      study visit at 4.5 months and another at 9 months.

      Anticipated Results and Conclusion:

      It is anticipated that vaginal testosterone cream will reduce the incidence of urinary tract
      infections in postmenopausal women when compared to placebo. It is expected that vaginal
      testosterone will improve vaginal atrophy and flora, thus, decreasing the frequency of
      urinary tract infections. Future aims of the study will focus on immune-dynamics associated
      with vaginal testosterone administration.
    
  