
    
      Postoperative pain in children is difficult to assess and is associated with strong emotional
      component .

      Recently, there is an increasing interest to study magnesium analgesic effects. Magnesium,
      the fourth most common cation in the body, inhibits calcium entry into the cell via a
      noncompetitive blockade of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. Magnesium and the NMDA
      receptors are thought to be involved in the modulation of pain. Magnesium is also a
      physiological calcium antagonist at different voltage-gated channels, which may be important
      in the mechanisms of antinociception.

      As a NMDA antagonist, magnesium prevents the central sensitization from nociceptive
      stimulation. Many studies suggested that epidurally administered magnesium as an adjuvant
      could reduce the postoperative pain in adults. But few studies are available about the use of
      magnesium as an adjuvant in caudal block for postoperative analgesia in pediatrics.

      The aim of this study is to investigate the role of intravenous magnesium sulfate on
      postoperative pain management in paediatrics and to compare it with its effect when
      administered caudally in children undergoing lower abdominal surgeries.

      Objectives

        1. To determine the analgesic effect of intravenous magnesium in children undergoing lower
           abdominal surgeries.

        2. To evaluate and compare the efficacy of magnesium sulfate when administered
           intravenously versus caudally.

        3. To evaluate the sedative effect of intravenous magnesium in paediatrics.

        4. To illustrate the role of hypomagnesemia in post-operative pain.

      Population of study & disease condition Paediatric patients undergoing lower abdominal
      surgeries.

      Methodology in details Patients fulfilling the study inclusion criteria will be recruited and
      enrolled in the study after Ethical Committee approval. All parents will sign an informed
      consent to participate in the study after detailed explanation of the expected benefits and
      possible risks.

      Study groups This study will be performed in Cairo University specialized pediatric Hospital
      after approval of the Research Ethical Committee, and written informed consents from the
      parents.

      90 participants will be randomly assigned using an online randomization program
      (http://www.randomizer.org) and the sealed envelop method into three groups:

        1. Intravenous magnesium group (Group IV)

        2. Caudal magnesium group (Group CA)

        3. Placebo group (Group P).

      Preoperative assessment:

      History taking, clinical examination and routine laboratory investigations will be checked
      for all patients to exclude any of the above mentioned exclusion criteria.

      Intraoperative management:

      After arrival of the patient to the operating theater 5 leads electrocardiography (ECG),
      automated non-invasive blood pressure monitoring (NIBP) and a pulse oximetry will be applied.
      Anaesthesia will be induced by inhalation of 6- 8 % sevoflurane , by an anesthetist blinded
      to the group allocation. Once consciousness is lost , intravenous access will be established,
      fentanyl (1- 2 μg/kg ) and atracurium (0.5 mg/ kg) will be given to facilitate tracheal
      intubation. Anaesthesia will be maintained by 1.2 % isoflurane, atracurium top up doses under
      controlled ventilation.

      The intravenous solutions (magnesium 10% for group IV or saline 0.9% for group CA and P) will
      be started then caudal block will be performed by the same anesthetist. For caudal puncture a
      5 cm short beveled 22 G caudal needle will be used in the lateral decubitus position. After
      identifying the space using the loss of resistance technique with saline, the study solutions
      will be injected slowly with repetitive intermittent aspiration. Rescue analgesia in the form
      of fentanyl 1 μg/kg will be administered if haemodynamic parameters (blood pressure and heart
      rate) increased 20 % from the baseline.

      Surgery will be allowed to begin 10 min after performing the block. After emergence from
      anaesthesia, patients will be managed by an observer blinded to group allocation in the post
      anaesthesia care unit (PACU). Postoperative rescue analgesia in the form of rectal
      paracetamol (80-120mg) if pain score (Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario Pain Scale
      CHEOPS was > 8 to be repeated every 6 hours if needed not to exceed 5 doses / 24 hr.

      Statistical analysis:

      SPSS(Statistical Package for Social Sciences) version 20.0 will be used for data entry and
      data management. Mean ± standard deviation will describe quantitative variables and
      proportions for qualitative variables. ANOVA with mixed model will be used to show time
      effect (e.g change of pain score over time post-operatively) and to show group effect,
      (compare rate of change among 3 study groups). P value will be set significant at 0.05 level
      and always 2 tailed.

      Sample size (number of participants included) This study hypothesized that at least 2 of the
      3 study groups are significantly different regarding pain score after 6 hours
      post-operatively.With a type I error of 0.05, power of a test of 0.90 and a difference to be
      detected in pain score of 1.3 with background standard deviation of 0.9 (based on results
      from a study by H.-S. Na, J.-H. Lee, J.-Y. Hwang, J.-H. Ryu, S.-H. Han, Y.-T. Jeon and S.-H.
      Do.Effects of magnesium sulphate on intraoperative neuromuscular blocking agent requirements
      and postoperative analgesia in children with cerebral palsy.British Journal of Anaesthesia
      104 (3): 34450(2010)doi:10.1093/bja/aep379& Gamal T. Yousef, Tamer H. Ibrahim, Ahmed Khder,
      et al. Enhancement of ropivacaine caudal analgesia using dexamethasone or magnesium in
      children undergoing inguinal hernia repair. Anesth Essays Res. 2014 Jan-Apr; 8(1): 13-19.
      doi: 10.4103/0259-1162.128895 , which showed a mean score of 2.4±0.9 in caudal group with IV
      magnesium versus 3.7±0.9 in control group), at least 16 patients per group is needed. To
      warrant normal distribution of study variables a total of 90 patients will be recruited in
      this study who will be randomized into 30 patient per group .
    
  