
    
      Patients with cervical spinal cord injury demonstrate central sleep disordered breathing
      manifesting as central sleep apnea or a periodic breathing pattern. Understanding the causes
      of central sleep apnea may be critically important to understanding upper airway obstruction
      in susceptible individuals, given the critical role of ventilatory motor output in
      maintaining upper airway patency as evidenced by upper airway narrowing or occlusion at the
      nadir of ventilator drive during periodic breathing. This study is likely to identify
      therapeutic strategies that could be tested in large clinical trials, with the ultimate goal
      of improving quality of life among patients with cervical SCI who also experience central
      sleep disordered breathing.

      To this end the research proposal is aimed as follows:

      Specific Aim 1: Test the hypothesis that patients with cervical SCI will demonstrate greater
      magnitude of long-term facilitation (LTF) following episodic hypoxia during sleep, compared
      to patients with thoracic Spinal cord injury. This aim will be accomplished by measuring the
      effect of acute episodic hypoxic ventilation and upper airway mechanics in both groups.

      Specific Aim 2: Test the hypothesis that dampening peripheral chemoreceptor activity in
      patients with cervical SCI and central sleep disordered breathing (SDB) with supplemental
      oxygen will reduce central respiratory events and decrease respiratory variability during
      sleep. The aim will be accomplished by providing supplemental oxygen to participants with
      cervical SCI and central SDB.

      Specific Aim 3: Test the hypothesis that administration of trazodone, in patients with
      cervical spinal cord injury and central SDB will decrease respiratory related arousals and
      central apnea index, and the propensity to develop central apnea, compared to placebo. To
      accomplish this aim, the investigators will test the acute effect of trazodone on respiratory
      related arousals and central sleep apnea, and the chronic effect on central apnea indices and
      the CO2 reserve.

      The investigators will study subjects with SCI at T6 or above who are not on artificial
      ventilation. To characterize the sleep and breathing state of each subject, polysomnography
      and upper airway collapsibility will be measured at baseline. Then the following experiments
      will be conducted: an episodic hypoxia protocol vs normoxia will be used to determine whether
      cervical SCI will demonstrate greater magnitude of LTF. Experiments will be conducted to see
      whether dampening peripheral chemoreceptor activity in cervical SCI by giving supplemental
      oxygen will reduce the central respiratory events and reduce the breathing variability during
      sleep. A cross over experiment will be done to see whether administration of trazodone in
      patients with cervical SCI and central SDB decreases respiratory-related arousals and central
      apnea. The participant will be given the drug/placebo for one week then cross over after a 1
      week wash out period to placebo.
    
  