
    
      The aim of this pilot study project is to determine the feasibility of implementing a
      multifaceted KT intervention to promote the use of multimodal care by chiropractors managing
      patients with NSNP.

      Design: Cluster randomized controlled pilot and feasibility trial. Chiropractors in private
      practice in Canada will be randomized to receive either a theory-based tailored KT
      intervention in the experimental group or simply a printed copy of the guideline in the
      control group.

      Study population and sample size: 30 chiropractors will be recruited from a random,
      nationally representative sample of 200 chiropractors. Each chiropractor will recruit five
      neck pain patients for a total of 150 patients.

      The design of the KT intervention was informed by the results of a related qualitative study
      (Theoretical Domains Framework interviews) and consists of a series of three webinars, two
      online case scenarios, a self-management video on Brief Action Planning (BAP) and a printed
      copy of the practice guideline (Bussières et al., 2015).

      Primary feasibility outcomes for both chiropractors and patients include rates of: 1)
      recruitment, 2) study retention, and 3) adherence to the intervention (Tickle-Degnen, 2013).
      A checklist of proxy measures embedded within patient encounter forms will be used to assess
      chiropractors' compliance with guideline recommendations e.g., exercise and self-care
      prescriptions, at study onset and at three months follow-up.

      Secondary outcomes include whether or not the chiropractor's recommended multimodal care,
      scores on measures of behavioural constructs e.g., self-efficacy, knowledge.

      Primary clinical outcomes for patients includes measures of pain intensity and neck
      pain-specific disability.

      Analyses from this pilot study will focus on generating point estimates and corresponding 95%
      confidence intervals for parameters of a priori interest (e.g., recruitment, retention,
      adherence, pain intensity, neck disability index).

      Discussion: The main strength of this study includes its use of a representative sample and
      randomized controlled design. The results of this study will inform the design of a larger
      cluster randomized controlled trial aimed at confirming the effectiveness and increasing the
      use of multimodal care by chiropractors managing patients with NSNP.
    
  