
    
      The schools will be visited to announce this project on survey experiment and measuring
      visual acuity, for which all participants will receive free eye examinations. After receiving
      consent/assent, two data collection strategies will be applied in this survey - DCV and ICV,
      to identify individual perceptions of vision. In the arm of ICV, the self-assessment of
      vision (SAV) is listed before the vignette questions; however, in the arm of DCV, the
      self-assessed vision (PSAV) is listed after the vignette questions to estimate priming
      effect. With randomization prior to administration of survey, 50% of the students will be
      enrolled in "direct comparison against vignettes" (DCV) and another 50% for "implied
      comparison against vignettes" (ICV). Each participant will self-administer the survey. The
      objective measure of vision will be set up in a vacant classroom with assistance from members
      of the Health Center Jingning County. DCV, ICV, SAV, and PSAV are estimated from randomized
      survey questionnaires. Objectively measured vision is from simplified Snellen chart.

      Measures - All subjects will be asked to respond to the questions about vision acuity without
      glasses or contact lenses for themselves and these hypothetical scenarios. Information
      collected through the survey includes self-assessed vision, vignettes, clusters (school,
      grade, and class), whether the subjects wear glasses or contact lenses, and two demographic
      variables (age and sex).

      Self-assessed vision - Data of self-assessed vision is collected by asking students to think
      about their own vision without glasses or contact lenses. Specifically, each student was
      asked to respond to this question: "at the present time, would you say your distance eyesight
      is excellent, good, fair, poor, or very poor?" Vignettes - The DCV questionnaire asks
      subjects to jointly evaluate their own vision and vignette situations; meanwhile, the ICV
      questionnaire asks subjects to conduct single evaluation of vignette questions. Even though
      subjects in ICV questionnaires were not asked to compare their visual acuity with the
      hypothetical person Zhang, the experimenter could conduct the comparison through data
      analysis. Accordingly this approach is named the "indirect comparison against vignettes"
      (ICV).

      For example, in the DCV questionnaire, the subjects will be asked to respond to the following
      question:

      Sitting in the last row in the classroom, [Xiao Zhang] does recognize teacher's faces clearly
      but cannot identify small hand writing on the blackboard clearly. Would you say your distance
      eyesight is:

        1. Better than Zhang's

        2. The same as Zhang's

        3. Worse than Zhang's Comparatively, in the ICV questionnaire, the subjects will be asked
           to respond to the following question instead.

      Sitting in the last row in the classroom, [Xiao Zhang] does recognize teacher's faces clearly
      but cannot identify small hand writing on the blackboard clearly. Would you say [Zhang]'s
      distance eyesight is:

        1. Excellent,

        2. Good,

        3. Fair,

        4. Poor, or

        5. Very poor.

      Two vignettes are designed in this study. More specifically, two hypothetical persons with
      common Chinese names, Xiao Wang and Xiao Zhang will be introduced in the survey, who would be
      mentioned as V1 and V2 in the following discussion.

      V1: In the dining hall, [Xiao Wang] has no difficulty to see students on the same table
      clearly but he cannot not see students on next tables clearly.

      V2: Sitting in the last row in the classroom, [Xiao Zhang] does recognize teacher's faces
      clearly but cannot identify small hand writing on the blackboard clearly.

      The two vignettes is designed in the ascending level of visual acuity and the vignettes is
      arranged in the questionnaires in this way: V1 and V2.

      The question in DCV is, "Would you say your distance eyesight is better than Wang's, the same
      as Wang's, or worse than Wang's?" and the question in ICV was, "Would you say Wang's distance
      eyesight is excellent, good, fair, poor, or very poor?" respectively.

      Objective visual acuity - The simplified Snellen chart only consists of letter "E" with
      different directions, which was approved by the National Bureau of Standards in China to be a
      national standard in testing visual acuity (GB115331989). It was approved by the Ministry of
      Health to be used nationwide in China on March 27th, 1989. The simplified Snellen chart is
      used to estimate visual acuity with the respondent standing at 5 meters. The measurement
      ranges from 4.0 to 5.3, an arithmetic sequence with 0.1 progression. The larger the number
      is, the better the respondent's vision is.

      Capability to respond to this eye chart is most likely to be independent from educational
      level. Furthermore, simplified Snellen chart also rules out of the difficulties of Snellen
      letters and common misidentifications(Mathew, Shah et al. 2011). Therefore, it is less likely
      than a standard Snellen chart to underestimate true vision due to low literacy rate. In the
      line with vision 4.0, only one letter "E" is presented, and in the line with vision 4.1,
      there are two "E"s. Except those two lines, the probability to overestimate true vision by
      0.1 due to chance alone is smaller than 6.25% (i.e., 1/64), since a correct response to at
      least three "E"s in each line is required in this survey experiment. More specifically, the
      probability to guess the direction of one letter "E" correctly by chance is 1/4 and the
      probability to guess the directions of three "E"s correctly by chance is only 1/64. Using eye
      examination as a gold standard, the empirical research addressed the validity of vignette
      methods.
    
  