
    
      Design: Prospective, pilot, physiological study Setting: 20-bed general ICU, 13 bed surgical
      ICU, 10 bed neurosurgical ICU, "A. Gemelli" University hospital, Rome, Italy.

      Protocol

      Screening visit and oxygenation criterion validation Each patient meeting inclusion criteria
      will be evaluated for the presence of the oxygenation criterion. After endotracheal
      suctioning, eligible patients will be ventilated for 30 minutes with PEEP=5 cmH2O in the semi
      recumbent position and an ABG will be performed to compute PaO2/FiO2 ratio.

      Patients showing PaO2/FiO2≤150 mmHg will be enrolled. Patients showing PaO2/FiO2<200 and >150
      mmHg will be treated according to the standard clinical practice and reassessed for the
      presence of oxygenation criterion within 48 hours from the diagnosing of ARDS.

      To limit the exposure to low PEEP of possibly derecruiting patient with severe oxygenation
      impairment, the ABG certifying the oxygenation criterion will be permitted at any time during
      the 30-minute monitoring period.

      Procedures

      All patients will be sedated, paralysed with cisatracurium infusion and connected to a
      ventilator equipped with lung volume measurement module (Carescape R860 - GE Healthcare, USA)
      through a standard bi-tube low-resistance circuit with a low-dead space, low-resistance,
      high-efficiency heat and moisture exchanger. For the purpose of the study, the use of heated
      and humidified bi-tube circuits (Fisher and Paykel healthcare, humidification chamber
      temperature set at 37 °C, absolute humidity provided 44 mg H2O/L) will be reserved to
      patients that remain hypercapnic (ph<7.30 and PaCO2>50) despite all adequate ventilator
      settings provided by the study protocol.

      Each patient will be ventilated in volume-control mode, in the semirecumbent position (or
      smaller head elevation for patients with spine/pelvis movement limitations), which will not
      be changed throughout the study.

      Ventilation settings will be standardized as follows: VT = 6 mL/Kg (predicted body weight,
      PBW); inspiratory flow set at 60 l/min resulting in an end-inspiratory pause of 0.2-0.5 sec,
      I:E ratio 1:1 to 1:3, respiratory rate tailored to achieve 45 mmHg>PaCO2>35 mmHg, PEEP set
      according to the clinical judgment, FiO2 set to achieve a SpO2>88-95%. A Pplat < 30 cmH2O
      will be considered as a safety limit.

      Predicted body weight will be calculate as:

      Males: PBW (kg) = 50 + 0.91 (height in cm-152) Females PBW (kg) = 45.5 + 0.91 (height in
      cm-152) In case of hypercapnia with Ph<7.30 despite a respiratory rate=30-35, an increase in
      VT up to 8 ml/kg will be allowed.

      A dedicated orogastric or nasogastric tube provided with an oesophageal balloon (Cooper
      esophageal catheter) to monitor oesophageal pressure, estimate pleural pressure and compute
      transpulmonary pressure will be placed in all enrolled patients after inclusion. The adequate
      positioning of the esophageal catheter will be certified by an occlusion test, as previously
      demonstrated(15).

      The GE-dedicated pneumotacograph and differential pressure transducer will be connected to
      the respiratory circuit to record airway pressure (PAW) and flow. The oesophageal pressure
      (PES) will be measured using the previously inserted oesophageal catheter, that will be
      connected to the auxillary pressure port of the ventilator. All the three signals will be
      continuously acquired by the ventilator with an analog-digital converter at a sample rate of
      25 Hz (GE healthcare). A dedicated laptop connected to the ventilator will acquire PAW, PES
      and Flow signals through a dedicated software over the entire course of the study (Ohmeda
      research tool, GE healthcare).

      At study enrolment, an electrical impedance tomography (EIT) belt with 16 electrodes will be
      placed around the thorax between the 5th or 6th parasternal intercostal space and connected
      to a dedicated device to record electrical impedance signals of the thorax (Swisstom EIT,
      Switzerland).

      After included in the study, each patient will be treated as follow:

        -  30-minute period in the supine position (T0);

        -  120-minute period in the supine position with a 100 g/kg soft and smooth weight (warm
           saline bags) placed and secured on each emithorax (T1);

        -  120-minute period in the supine position after the weight is removed (T2). Mechanical
           ventilation settings will be kept unchanged over the course of the entire study. In case
           of drops in the SpO2, an increase in the FiO2 will be allowed to achieve the previously
           described oxygenation target.

      Measurements

      Patient's demographics will be collected at study entry: initials, age, sex, height, weight,
      BMI, cause of hospital and ICU admission, SAPSII, Apache, SOFA score, date and time of ICU
      admission, date and time of enrolment, comorbidities, NYHA category before respiratory
      failure, body temperature, chest x-ray (jpeg images), chest CT scan (whether available).

      During the study, each patient will undergo a standard ICU monitoring: ECG; Invasive blood
      pressure, SpO2, respiratory rate, diuresis.

      All the relevant data follow described will be collected at prespecified timepoints.

      The prespecified timepoints are:

        1. baseline, T0: after the 30-minute period in the supine position (study enrolment, no
           weight);

        2. T1a: 60 minutes after weights are positioned on the thorax;

        3. T1b 120 minutes after weights are positioned on the thorax, end of T1;

        4. T2a 60 minutes after weights are removed;

        5. T2b 120 min after weights are removed, end of T2, end of the study;

      At each timepoint the following data will be collected.

        -  Adverse events, if any.

        -  Respiratory rate, SpO2, pH, PCO2, PaO2, SaO2, PaO2/FiO2;

        -  Heart Rate, arterial blood pressure, central venous pressure; dosage of vasoactive or
           inotrope agents.

        -  End expiratory lung impedance (EELI) and tidal volume distribution. A ten-minute period
           EIT signals will be recorded and offline reviewed using a dedicated software (Swisstome
           EIT). Image acquisition rate will be 30 Hz. Lungs will be divided into four regions
           (ventral, mid-ventral, mid-dorsal and dorsal): the % of impedance variation related to
           tidal volume and the % EELI in the four regions as compared to the absolute values will
           be calculated (Appendix 3, Figures 4-5)(16).

        -  Respiratory mechanics End-expiratory airway pressure (PEEPAW) and the end-expiratory
           esophageal pressure (PEEPES) will be recorded during an 8-second expiratory hold.
           End-inspiratory airway pressure (PplatAW) and end-inspiratory esophageal pressure
           (PplatES) will be measured during a 2-second end inspiratory hold. Tidal volume (VT)
           will be measured as the integration of the flow-time curve during expiration.

      The following parameters will be calculated offline while reviewing signals:

      Airway driving pressure (∆P)=PplatAW-PEEPAW Transpulmonary end-inspiratory pressure
      (PplatL)=PplatAW-PplatESO Transpulmonary end-expiratory pressure (PEEPL)=PEEPAW-PEEPES Lung
      driving pressure (∆PL)= PplatL-PEEPL Lung plateau pressure, elastance derived
      (PplatL,EL)=PplatAW X (∆PL/∆P) Static respiratory system compliance (CstRS)=VT/∆P Static Lung
      compliance (CstL)=VT/∆PL Static Chest-wall compliance=VT/(PplatES-PEEPES) Oxygenation stretch
      index=PaO2/(FiO2x∆P)

      • Stress and strain (measured only at T0, T1b and T2b) End-Expiratory lung volume (EELV) at
      the set PEEP (PEEPSET) will be measured by nitrogen washin-washout technique with a 0.2
      change in the FiO2 (0.1 change in the FiO2 only allowed in case of baseline FiO2=0.9-1).

      A one-breath derecruitment maneuver from PEEPSET to PEEP 0 (ZEEP) will be conducted to assess
      baseline functional residual capacity (FRC), that will be measured as the difference between
      EELV at set PEEP and the lung volume increase above FRC, measured as the difference in
      expired tidal volume as PEEP is decreased from 0 cmH2O in one breath with respiratory rate
      set at 8-10 breaths per minute. In particular, the lung volume due to the presence of set
      PEEP (PEEPvolume) will be measured by subtracting the insufflated VT from the expired VT
      (i.e. the integration of the flow signal after 5s exhalation) during a 5-second exhalation
      just after PEEP is reduced from set PEEP to 0.
    
  