
    
      An inguinal hernia repair is a common outpatient procedure with a low rate of morbidity. One
      well-recognized complication of this operation is post-operative urinary retention (PUR),
      which is a failure of spontaneous voiding requiring insertion of a urinary catheter. The
      reported incidence of PUR ranges between 0.4 and 3% of open tension-free repairs. For
      laparoscopic inguinal hernia repairs that range is between 1 and 22. Since no randomized
      controlled trials have evaluated PUR as the primary outcome exist in literature, there is no
      consensus on whether catheter use aids in minimizing post-operative urinary retention.
      Routine use of intraoperative catheterization increases the risk of urethral trauma,
      catheter-associated infections and bladder damage leading to increased cost of care and
      potential patient morbidity. On the other hand, PUR is associated with additional procedures,
      such as catheterization, which may delay hospital discharge or increase the length of stay
      and cause patient discomfort. This work aims to study the effect of intraoperative catheters
      on PUR and whether the aforementioned risks associated with this procedure are justified.

      We hypothesize that the use of intra-operative urinary catheter reduces the incidence of
      postoperative urinary retention after laparoscopic inguinal hernia repair, thus justifying
      the potential complications associated with intra-operative catheter insertion.

      All patients will be asked to void in the pre-operative area prior to going into the
      operating room. Patients will be operated in the supine, and slight Trendelenburg position
      (15ยบ degrees), with arms tucked along the body. The procedure will be performed under general
      anesthesia. After induction of anesthesia, randomization will occur. It will be performed
      according to a computer-generated block randomization scheme. The randomization will be
      stratified for unilateral or bilateral hernias. Antibiotic prophylaxis will be performed
      according to institutional protocol. Pharmacological prophylaxis of venous thromboembolic
      events is usually not necessary for general laparoscopic inguinal hernia repair. Although, if
      deemed necessary, this will be performed per Surgical Care Improvement Project (SCIP)
      protocol and will not be considered a protocol deviation. Skin preparation and hair removal
      will be performed per SCIP protocol. All necessary materials, including the urine
      catheterization kit, will be available in the operative room before the start of the
      procedure.

      The Americas Hernia Society Quality Collaborative (AHSQC) registry will serve as the main
      platform for data collection. Registry-based trials use data available in a preexisting
      database to increase the efficiency of performing RCTs, decreasing the high cost and
      logistical challenges associated with operationalizing this type of research. Post-operative
      urinary retention will be defined as post-operative failure to void requiring straight
      catheterization, placement of an indwelling catheter or return to the emergency department
      due to failure to void after discharge from the hospital. Bladder scanning, its timing and
      specific criteria for placement of urinary catheter will be determined by the standard
      policies of each institution where the surgery was performed and the surgeon.

      Specific Aim #1: To determine if the use of intra-operative urinary catheter reduces the
      incidence of postoperative urinary retention after laparoscopic inguinal hernia repair. This
      will be assessed by comparing the PUR rates between the two study groups.

      Specific Aim #2: To determine if there is a difference in the rates of intraoperative bladder
      injuries between the study groups. This will be determined by comparing the rates of
      intraoperative bladder injuries between the two study groups.

      Specific Aim #3: To determine the rate of urinary tract complications after insertion of the
      intra operative urinary catheter for the control group. This will be accomplished by
      analyzing the rates of urinary tract injury, infections and bladder injuries due to
      intraoperative catheter placement.

      Specific Aim #4: To determine the rate of urinary tract complications after insertion of a
      urinary catheter for patients who develop PUR. This will be accomplished by analyzing the
      rates of urinary tract injury, or infections and bladder injuries due to catheter placement
      after patients develop PUR.
    
  