
    
      Hispanic/Latinos will comprise more than 30% of the U.S. population by mid-century, and
      Mexican Americans account for the largest share of this growing segment of society. This
      proposal aims to use door-to-door surveillance in Nueces County, Texas, a non-immigrant,
      bi-ethnic community, to determine the prevalence and trajectory over time of cognitive
      impairment and dementia in Mexican Americans and non Hispanic whites. The study will
      elucidate the mechanisms that explain the hypothesized ethnic disparity in Alzheimer's
      disease and Alzheimer-related dementias by evaluating the roles of vascular disease risk
      factors, educational attainment and socio-economic status among others. This research will
      also delve deeply into the differences in informal caregiving for Mexican American and non
      Hispanic whites with cognitive impairment and dementia. Caregiver burden and mental and
      physical health of caregivers will be examined toward efforts to develop interventions that
      build resilience in caregivers. A novel ability of this population-based study is to examine
      community resources for both patients and caregivers, and how these provisions differ by
      ethnicity. Using a rigorous mixed methods approach the study will identify the gap between
      available resources and needs for those with cognitive impairment and dementia. In this way
      we will be well positioned to propose ethnic-specific testable interventions that promote
      mental and physical health for those with cognitive impairment and dementia, as well as for
      those family members who provide the care. This research will therefore lead to improved
      well-being, autonomy and outcomes among those with cognitive impairment and dementia and
      their caregivers. The investigative team members have conducted research in this community
      for 20 years and are experts in Mexican American culture and health, cognitive impairment and
      dementia, epidemiologic methods, community needs assessment and health behavior research. As
      the Mexican American population continues its tremendous growth and aging it is vitally
      important to better understand the prevalence and outcomes of cognitive impairment and
      dementia in this population, and to rapidly develop interventions that address the burden of
      these common conditions in Mexican American adults, families, and communities.
    
  