
    
      DLBCL is an aggressive malignant disease which evolves from B-cells and affects mainly the
      lymphatic tissue. Due to its aggressive nature the disease is characterized by a fast course
      which is lethal without therapy. Potentially curative therapy options are available even at
      advanced stages. Standard-first line leads to a high initial response rate (85-90%) and an
      approximate cure rate of 50% of patients. Patients refractory to or with early relapse after
      this treatment (10-15%) have a very poor prognosis.

      Blinatumomab is a bispecific single-chain antibody derivative against CD19 and CD3, designed
      to link B-cells and T-cells resulting in T-cell activation and a cytotoxic T-cell response
      against CD19 expressing cells.

      This study consisted of a screening period, treatment period, and a follow-up efficacy and
      survival period. The core study comprises the treatment period to the 30 days after the last
      infusion. The first cycle consisted of a continuous intravenous (CIV) infusion over 8 weeks.
      Participants who achieved a Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) or had stable
      disease after the first treatment cycle were eligible to receive a second (consolidation)
      cycle of treatment over 4 weeks, following a 4-week treatment-free interval. After the last
      treatment cycle, efficacy and survival follow-up visits occurred for up to 24 months from
      treatment start. Participants who relapsed during the follow-up period may have received an
      additional 8 weeks of treatment.

      Two dose regimens were assessed in this study. Stage 1 comprised 2 dose cohorts. In Cohort 1,
      the first 6 participants were to receive blinatumomab in a dose-escalating manner: 9 µg/day
      for the first week, followed by 28 µg/day for the second week, then 112 µg/day for the
      remaining 6 weeks of treatment during Cycle 1. In Cohort 2, the next 6 participants enrolled
      were to receive a constant dose of 112 µg/day blinatumomab. Before the initiation of stage 2,
      a pre-planned data monitoring committee (DMC) meeting was held to assess the safety profile
      of Cohort 1 and Cohort 2. The dosing regimen with the more favorable benefit-risk profile was
      to be selected for Cohort 3.
    
  