
    
      Patients at risk for having prostate cancer usually undergo a biopsy of their prostate. This
      is most often done in the private urology office. A probe with an ultrasound is inserted into
      the rectum of the patient and biopsies are taken with a spring-loaded needle. Most urologists
      take four to six biopsies of each side of the prostate. Years ago, biopsies were
      traditionally done without any anesthesia. Patients experienced some pain with each firing of
      the spring-loaded needle, but this is generally tolerable. Recent studies have suggested that
      injection of local anesthesia (lidocaine) near the nerves of the prostate will improve pain
      sensation during the biopsy procedure. Local anesthesia can be given through a separate
      needle through the rectal probe just prior to biopsy. However, many urologists to date
      perform their biopsies without anesthesia. Some claim that the needle used for anesthesia
      causes pain itself. Others claim that the pain is so minimal that the additional use of
      lidocaine (and extra time) is not necessary. We plan to reexamine the use of lidocaine and
      perform the first study where each patient will receive lidocaine and placebo on separate
      sides of their prostate.

      Patients will undergo the traditional prostate biopsy procedure. They will be in the urology
      center at William Beaumont Hospital. Patients will lie on their side and an ultrasound probe
      will be inserted into the rectum. The size of the prostate will be measured with the
      ultrasound probe. A study coordinator will hand the physician a syringe containing either
      2.5mL of lidocaine or saline (placebo). Neither the patient nor the physician will know which
      solution the syringe contains. The 2.5mL of the first syringe will be injected in the
      traditional area that local anesthesia is injected (periprostatic area) on the right side.
      Next, the second syringe will be handed to the physician containing the opposite drug
      (lidocaine or saline) and the physician will inject this on the left side. Four to six
      biopsies will be taken on the right side, and the study coordinator will record patient pain
      on a 1 to 10 scale after injection of the 2.5mL, and after each biopsy. Biopsies will then be
      taken on the left side, and again, study coordinators will record results of patient pain on
      a 1 to 10 scale. At the end of the procedure, patients will be given a questionnaire to
      assess overall pain, tolerability of the procedure, and whether or not they could tell which
      side of their prostate received the anesthesia.
    
  