
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative illness (after
      Alzheimer's disease) affecting 1-2% of people over age 65.3 Although PD is traditionally
      characterized by its motor symptoms (e.g. tremor, stiffness, slowness), research demonstrates
      that cognitive dysfunction has a greater impact on patient suffering and caregiver burden
      despite being under-recognized. Cognitive dysfunction is a significant risk factor for
      psychosis, dementia, nursing home placement and affects 20- 40% of PD patients even at the
      time of initial diagnosis.4,5 In patients with PD surviving 20 years or longer, cognitive
      dysfunction is the leading cause of nursing home placement and three fourths of PD patients
      ultimately develop dementia.6

      We know that neurons in the brain communicate with each other by firing at certain
      frequencies. A growing literature shows that high frequency (30-50 Hz) brain activity called
      gamma activity is particularly important for communication between distant brain areas and is
      critical to normal cognition.7 Prior studies also show that gamma activity is reduced in PD.8
      However, we do not know why gamma activity is reduced in PD or the relationship between
      changes in gamma activity and cognitive dysfunction. We hypothesize that reductions in gamma
      activity are a key mechanism underlying cognitive dysfunction in PD and that interventions to
      increase gamma activity will improve cognition.

      To test this hypothesis we propose to use a novel combination of research methods including
      magnetoencephalography (MEG) and repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS). MEG
      measures magnetic activity over the scalp to determine brain activity. We will use MEG to
      determine whether reductions in gamma activity are related to cognitive dysfunction in PD.
      TMS uses a magnetic coil placed over the scalp to stimulate brain activity. While there is
      evidence that repetitive TMS (transcranial magnetic stimulation) increases gamma activity and
      may improve cognition, it has not been studied for this purpose in PD. We will apply
      repetitive TMS to PD patients to determine whether gamma activity and/or cognitive function
      may be improved non-invasively.
    
  