
    
      Lymphocyte/Hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) interactions via adhesion and phagocytosis are
      mediated as well as affected among others by Leptin, Endocannabinoids (CB) receptors,
      adiponectin, progesterone as well as by number of CD8 and NK related adhesion/phagocytosis
      candidate genes. Those pathways may explain the impaired activity of NK cells in Hepatitis C
      Virus (HCV)cirrhotic cases.

      In this perspective, we propose the following specific aims:

        1. To confirm by repeated gene arrays the pro/anti-fibrotic genes expressed by NK and CD8
           lymphocyte-subsets in human healthy volunteers and patients with HCV cirrhosis. Then to
           explore the same issue of lymphocyte gene array (NK and CD8 cells) in naïve and carbon
           tetrachloride fibrosis model in mice. Then to support results by the Real Time PCR and
           conduct bio-informatics assessments of results.

        2. Evaluate the role of Leptin, CB receptors and adiponectin in the lymphocyte/HSCs
           phagocytosis process. This would be tested both by in-vitro and in-vivo settings using
           cell cultures and knock-out mice (CB2-/-, Adiponectin-/- and leptin-/-Ob/Ob). The use of
           lymphocyte adoptive transfer model with immune manipulations will guide us for a
           specific functional role of each target gene in the specific lymphocyte subset.

        3. To evaluate how lymphocyte/HSC phagocytosis process affected by other CD8 and NK related
           gene candidates extrapolated from the results of earlier aims (see preliminary data).
           Suggested genes are including: Immune synapse genes (CHST13 and NLGN4X) to obtain the
           expected anti-fibrotic response. Genes with HSCs phagocytotic activity that is providing
           possible pathways for the HCV related escape from the expected anti-fibrotic response
           and eventually pro- fibrotic consequences (AIF1, CHST13, hnRPL). Killer cell lectin-like
           receptor subfamily C, member 2 (NKG2C; CD159c) is down expressed over HCV related CD8
           cells suggesting a decrease of HSCs killing by the CD8 cells. Progestin & adipoQ
           receptor family member IV (PAQR4): Progesterone and adipoQ receptors are down-expressed
           over HCV related CD8 cells. Adiponectin is anti-fibrogenic mediator and is a candidate
           as PAQR4 ligand. When PAQR4 receptor is down- regulated in CD8 cells, it is suggested
           that this would be a mechanism for immune impairment. Also, Moreover, Progesterone and
           adipoQ receptors down- expression is supporting our mice animal model results that
           pregnancy caused progression of hepatic fibrogenesis associated with increased CD8
           subsets and NK-T cells. We are going to evaluate the specific effect in the phagocytosis
           process.

        4. To evaluate if HCV by itself or HCV related proteins are directly responsible for the NK
           related impairment. Transgenic mice for the HCV envelop proteins will be used to assess
           alterations of lymphocyte subsets and phagocytosis ability.

      The expected results will extend the knowledge of hepatic fibrogenesis in particular but may
      provide more application in general immunology. Therefore, expected results will be
      potentially a new target for anti-fibrotic designs and possibly in other medical conditions.
      Not only liver cirrhosis will be potentially prevented following anti-fibrotic therapies but
      also the hepatocellular carcinoma
    
  