
    
      Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. A report published by
      the WHO in February 2014, estimated there were 1.83 million new cases and 1.59 million deaths
      worldwide in 2012. The American Lung Association reports 399,431 Americans living with lung
      cancer, with an estimated 221,200 new cases predicted to be diagnosed in 2015; of those cases
      158,040 patients will die of their lung cancer which accounts for approximately 29% of all
      cancer deaths in the U.S. Similarly, lung cancer is the most frequent cancer in China and is
      among the 1.96 million estimated annual cancer related deaths. Non-small cell lung cancer
      (NSCLC) accounts for about 85% of lung cancer in China, and approximately half of the
      patients present with advanced disease at the time of diagnosis.

      The prognosis for patients with advanced or metastatic NSCLC, either at initial diagnosis or
      recurrence, remains grim. The mainstay of standard of care has been chemotherapy with agents
      including platinum analogs, taxanes, vinca alkaloids, pemetrexed, vascular endothelial growth
      factor (VEGF) inhibitors. For patients with appropriate disease genotypes, first line therapy
      has also included, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitors or anaplastic lymphoma
      kinase (ALK) inhibitors.

      In both China and the US, first-line chemotherapy consists of a regimen based on one of two
      platinum-based drugs (etoposide cisplatin and etoposide carboplatin). The platinum analogs
      are commonly combined with paclitaxel, docetaxel, gemcitabine and vinorelbine while other
      drugs such as irinotecan, etoposide and vinblastine are also used.

      For those patients intolerant to platinum-containing regimen, platinum-free double-agent
      chemotherapy regimens are used as an alternative. For those patients with ECOG score as 2 or
      the elderly patients, single-agent or double-agent regimens are recommended. The chemotherapy
      of cisplatin plus vinorelbine may recombine human endostatin. China has approved that
      single-agent gefitinib may be used in first-line treatment of locally advanced or metastatic
      NSCLC patients with sensitive mutation of epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase
      gene.

      Second-line Chemotherapy: In both China and the US, the drugs used for second-line treatment
      include docetaxel, pemetrexed and the targeted drug EGFR-TKI.

      Several drugs [docetaxel, pemetrexed, erlotinib, gefitinib (outside U.S and in China), and
      ramucirumab combined with docetaxel] have been approved as single agents or combination for
      second line therapy for locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC, but with limited efficacy, that
      is, limited clinical significant improvement or overall survival.

      Docetaxel, a taxane, binds to and stabilizes tubulin, thereby inhibiting microtubule
      disassembly resulting in cell cycle arrest at the G2/M phase and cell death. In patients with
      NSCLC previously treated with a platinum-based chemotherapy, second line therapy with
      docetaxel afforded a median overall survival (OS) in the range from 5.7 to 7.5 months. The
      most common adverse reactions included infections, neutropenia, anemia, febrile neutropenia,
      hypersensitivity, thrombocytopenia, neuropathy, dysgeusia, dyspnea, constipation, anorexia,
      nail disorders, fluid retention, asthenia, pain, nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, mucositis,
      alopecia, skin reactions, and myalgia. Since the approval of docetaxel in 1999 as the second
      line treatment for advanced or metastatic NSCLC, other drugs, namely pemetrexed, erlotinib,
      have been approved in the same indication. However, despite the availability of newer
      treatment, patient survival did not demonstrably improve over docetaxel. The OS from these
      trials remained in the range of 5.6-8.3 months.

      With the advent of molecular profiling, it became possible to select patients based on
      disease genomic characteristics and match disease genotype with appropriate treatment. EGFR
      TKIs were found to be particularly effective in patients with EGFR mutation, and similarly
      crizotinib was highly effective in patients with ALK translocation. However, NSCLC patients
      with EGFR mutation or ALK translocation are the minority. For the 80-90% of patients in the
      U.S. without EGFR mutation, chemotherapy with docetaxel is the standard of care for the
      second line of treatment. As recently reported from the TAILOR trial, docetaxel demonstrated
      a statistically significant survival improvement compared to erlotinib. The median overall
      survival was 8.2 months (95% CI 5.8-10.9) with docetaxel versus 5.4 months (4.5-6.8) with
      erlotinib (adjusted hazard ratio [HR] 0.73, 95% CI 0.53-1.00; p=0.05).

      As discussed below, a retrospective analysis of the plinabulin phase II study suggests that
      plinabulin prolongs progression and survival in NSCLC patients with measurable lung tumors.
      Tumor size is a well known prognostic factor for survival in NSCLC; patients with large
      tumors have a shorter survival than patients with smaller tumors. Among patients with
      recurrent or metastatic disease, especially those wildtype for EGFR or ALK, the presence of
      large lesions carries particularly grim prognosis, and treatment of these tumors represents
      an unmet medical need.

      Large tumors carry a rich tumor vasculature which may make them more susceptible to drugs
      such as plinabulin. Plinabulin inhibits angiogenesis, disrupts existing tumor vasculature as
      well as induces cancer cell apoptosis.

      This study investigates the efficacy and safety of plinabulin and docetaxel combination in
      patients with wild type NSCLC and large tumors requiring 2nd line therapy for advanced or
      metastatic disease after failing a platinum-containing regimen. The primary endpoint is
      overall survival (OS) with docetaxel alone as active comparator.
    
  