
    
      Low back pain is a prevalent medical condition afflicting primarily older adults but
      affecting all age groups and due to acute and non-acute diagnoses. Multiple possible
      conservative therapies exist; however, their major drawback is that the time required to
      advance therapy is often prolonged and accompanied by persistent disability and psychological
      suffering. Thus, some patients seek surgery after exhausting other therapies and some
      patients seek surgery earlier in their course. For both groups, decisions to undergo surgery
      are based on personal circumstances, perspectives, and expectations of outcome. Prior studies
      have shown that patients typically have high expectations of orthopedic surgery. Although
      high aspirations can be motivating, they also may predispose to poor outcomes if they are
      unrealistic and cause patients to become discouraged with recuperation time and ignore
      recommended lifestyle changes that avert progression of disease. Expectations that are too
      low, conversely, also may predispose to poor outcomes if patients lack motivation to
      participate in rehabilitation and to follow postop precautions. In order to achieve maximum
      benefit from surgery, patients and surgeons need to share an understanding of what is
      possible, probable, and realistic, and to join together and work toward the same goals. The
      primary objective of this proposed cross-sectional study is to assess the concordance between
      patients and their surgeons regarding expectations of lumbar spine surgery. Patients
      scheduled for lumbar surgery will be dichotomized according to whether they have acute versus
      non-acute conditions. Several days before surgery patients will complete the validated Lumbar
      Spine Surgery Expectations Survey measuring their physical and psychological expectations.
      Also before surgery their surgeons will complete the surgeon's version of the same survey for
      each patient. The main outcome will be a comparison of the concordance within each
      patient-surgeon pair according to acute versus non-acute groups based on the concordance
      correlation coefficient. Multivariate regression analysis based on the GEE method will be
      used to assess covariates.
    
  