
    
      Posaconazole is a new extended spectrum triazole active against a range of yeasts and molds
      including Aspergillus, Candida, Coccidioides, Cryptococcus neoformans, Fusarium, and
      Zygomycetes. It may be used for the prevention of invasive fungal infections in
      immunocompromised patients including febrile neutropenic patients and those receiving
      immunosuppressant drugs for graft-vs-host disease during stem cell transplantation. It may
      also be used for treatment of systemic fungal infections.The use of posaconazole in ICU
      patients has been limited to stable patients to ensure reliable bioavailability from the oral
      formulations. Oral formulations have important limitation in that they cannot be used in
      critically ill patients who may be unable to take oral doses or bioavailability may be
      compromised due to erratic absorption. Recently, an intravenous (IV) formulation has been
      developed to address these limitations. Initial pharmacokinetic (PK) investigations of the IV
      formulation were conducted in hematology patients, with further data in other patient
      populations still forthcoming; particularly in the critically ill where the IV formulation
      would probably be used most frequently.

      Most of the available PK data for posaconazole is from non-critically ill patients who
      received the oral formulation. Although the absorption phase of the kinetics is not relevant
      for the IV formulation, data on the distribution, metabolism and elimination properties would
      still be informative of the IV kinetics. The tissue distribution of posaconazole is extensive
      with a very large volume of distribution owing to its high lipophilicity. It is highly bound
      to plasma proteins (98-99%) and therefore very likely to be affected by the variable changes
      in plasma protein concentration in critically ill patients. The major elimination pathway of
      posaconazoleis through biliary excretion (about 77%) of mainly the unchanged parent compound
      and the rest through renal execration of as a glucuronide conjugate.

      A number of studies have described PK variability of posaconazole due to altered
      absorption/bioavailability which can frequently result in sub-therapeutic plasma
      concentrations, forming strong case for therapeutic drug monitoring. Nonetheless, it is
      unclear whether the observed low concentrations can also be explained, at least in part, by
      other factors such as disease-related PK changes or if the obvious plausibility of altered
      absorption has masked such investigations. Most population PK models described so far are
      based on one compartment models, which do not reveal if the observed variability in
      concentrations is due to changes in PK parameters such as volume of distribution or
      clearances. The influence of disease state on these PK parameters has been extensively
      described for several antimicrobials in the critically ill patient populations. Although data
      on the new IV formulation of posaconazole in this patient population is lacking, there is
      evidence from previous PK studies on the oral formulation that PK variability not observed in
      healthy study participants was observed in patients with invasive fungal infections, although
      it was explained primarily in relation to altered bioavailability from the oral formulation.
      In surgical ICU patients low plasma concentration of posaconazole were observed, after
      administration via nasogastric tube. Similar findings were reported in general ICU patients.
      Although the explanation in these reports was again the irregular absorption, the influence
      of other pathologic changes remains to be investigated. A PK evaluation of IV posaconazole in
      critically ill patients, not confounded by the absorption factor, would reveal if there is
      any pathophysiology-induced PK alteration. Such a study will also give insight into the
      dose-exposure relationships and optimal treatment regimen.
    
  