
    
      The investigators will conduct an intervention study with the aim of improving stress
      resilience and mental health outcomes in at-risk freshman students. The investigators will
      also work closely with institutional officials to assess whether the intervention can improve
      student well-being. Specifically, the project aims to teach freshman students (who are at
      high risk for depression) skills in how to foster a mindful response to adversity at the
      beginning of the school term, along with periodic support reminders (via text message) during
      high stress/vulnerability periods over the course of the semester. The investigators will
      adopt a randomized controlled trial approach to rigorously evaluate whether this intervention
      can be adopted as a standard onboarding program for all incoming freshman students during the
      first weeks of orientation on the CMU campus. Participants will come for the study session
      and provide a dried blood spot sample and complete a battery of self-report questionnaires.

      Participants will attend a group training session, led by a professional instructor, about
      responding to adversity, which will include a description of the skills, a writing and
      sharing activity focused on the proposed approach, and a practice session. Following the
      training, participants will be instructed to practice the skills that the participants just
      learned during a group version of a standard stress-induction task called the Trier Social
      Stress Task (the TSST-G). Salivary cortisol measures will be collected throughout the TSST-G.

      The treatment condition will be trained in techniques designed to teach a "mindful approach
      to adversity". These techniques will include: normalizing, attention, equanimity,
      non-judgment, de-centering, accepting of experiences, and impermanence. Participants will be
      instructed on the mindset, asked to write about an instance of non-judgment and share with a
      partner, and then guided through a short training designed to practice each skill.

      The control condition will be trained in techniques designed to teach a typical narrative
      self-analysis / strengths-based approach to adversity. These techniques will include:
      choosing the best approach, minimizing stress, and identifying and enhancing personal
      strengths. Participants will be instructed on the mindset, asked to write about an instance
      of personal strength and share with a partner, and then guided through a short training
      designed to practice each skill.

      Daily diary measures will be collected for 7 days following the study session and 1 week
      before the follow-up session. Microhit boosters will be sent to participants at
      self-identified high stress periods, which remind participants of the training session
      skills.

      Participants will come for the follow-up session and provide a dried blood spot sample and
      complete a battery of self-report questionnaires.
    
  