
    
      Dosage and administration method: Fifteen subjects received umbilical cord mesenchymal stem
      cell therapy 3 times. Approximately 1 × 106/kg of human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells
      were administered by peripheral intravenous infusion once a month at 0, 4, and 8 weeks.
      Routine medications were used.

      Follow-up: Patient follow-up was performed 7 times at 0, 4, 8, 20, 32, 48, and 60 weeks.
      Blood and urine were collected for determination of urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio, 24-h
      urine protein ratio, liver and kidney function, fasting blood glucose, 2-h postprandial blood
      glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin, eGFR, blood lipids, and blood electrolytes at each
      follow-up visit. The daily dose of insulin was recorded. Blood samples were taken after each
      infusion of stem cells for flow cytometry and for the detection of CD3, CD4, CD8, CD28+,
      Treg, CD80, CD86, HLA-DR, CD83, and CD1a cells. Plasma levels of the cytokines IFN-gamma,
      TNF, IL-2, IL-4, IL-10, IL-6, IL-12P70, IL-8, and IL-1 beta were also determined.

      Endpoints:

      Primary endpoint: Safety and adverse events (safety and tolerability of umbilical cord
      mesenchymal stem cell therapy within 60 weeks): The number and severity of adverse events, an
      evaluation of their association with the umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cell treatment, and
      the outcome of the adverse events.

      The patients' discomfort and clinical symptoms during the study period were recorded.

      The subjects' relevant laboratory test indices, 12-lead electrocardiogram, vital signs, and
      physical examination results were recorded during the study.

      Secondary endpoint indicators:

      Efficacy measures: eGFR, urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and percentage changes of 24-h
      urinary protein quantities from baseline to 60 weeks.

      Data analysis:

      The number of adverse events and the number of severity adverse events were determined based
      on the changes in the data summary (i.e., descriptive statistics).

      A multilevel statistical analysis model (mixed effects model) was used to infer the
      relationship between treatment factors and key indicators, reflect the changing trend of key
      indicators in different time periods, and draw statistical analysis conclusions.
    
  