
    
      Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) affects nearly 1% of the pediatric population. The
      intrusive symptoms of this illness can interrupt normative development, causing significant
      psychological distress and producing life-long impairments in social, academic, and
      occupational functioning. Current research supports a neurobiologic model for OCD. Converging
      lines of evidence suggest that a post-infectious autoimmune-mediated process may be
      associated with the pathogenesis of some pediatric cases. This subgroup has been designated
      by the acronym, PANDAS (Pediatric Autoimmune Neuropsychiatric Disorders Associated with
      Streptococcal infections). The abrupt symptom onset and relapsing-remitting course of illness
      characteristic of the PANDAS subgroup appears to define a distinct cohort of patients, in
      whom symptom exacerbations occur synchronously with Group A beta-hemolytic streptococcal
      (GABHS) infections.

      We propose to perform prospective, longitudinal evaluations of a group of 72 children with
      recent onset OCD and 72 age-/sex-matched healthy volunteers. All children will undergo a
      comprehensive baseline assessment, including physical, neurological and psychiatric
      evaluations, neuropsychological testing, structural MRI and MRS scans, and laboratory assays.
      The children with OCD will be evaluated in the NIMH outpatient clinic at six-week intervals
      for a 28-month period to obtain prospective ratings of neuropsychiatric symptom severity,
      physical and neurological assessments, and anti-streptococcal antibody titers. At the end of
      the observation period, each OCD patient will be placed into a cohort based on the course of
      his or her symptoms: those displaying an acute onset and episodic course of OCD will be
      assigned to the "episodic" group, while those children with a gradual onset and stable course
      will comprise the "persistent" group. We hypothesize that the episodic group will have GABHS
      infections concurrent with their neuropsychiatric symptoms exacerbations and will meet
      criteria for the PANDAS subgroup. In contrast, children in the persistent group are not
      expected to have distinct periods of relapse nor a temporal association between GABHS
      infections and worsening of their symptoms. We expect that children in the PANDAS subgroup
      will demonstrate cross-reactive antibodies (antistreptococcal/antineuronal) during symptom
      exacerbations. At the conclusion of the study, we will perform group comparisons between the
      episodic OCD and persistent OCD cohorts, as well as between the patients and controls. The
      purpose of these comparisons is to identify baseline markers of membership in the PANDAS
      subgroup. The possibilities include distinctive HLA subtypes, quantitative differences in
      cytokines distribution, unique MRS chemical profiles, or a specific pattern of deficits on
      neuropsychological tests of basal ganglia function.
    
  