
    
      This is a feasibility study of the post-primary Active School Flag (PPASF) programme. Schools
      in Ireland that meet the eligibility criteria of; 1) second level education school, 2) has
      not already achieved the Active School Flag, 3) volunteered to be in the study were selected
      to take part in this pilot study. Schools not in the programme were matched to provide a
      comparison data set.

      Schools involved in the study are given resources to support the year long program so the
      school may achieve the PPASF certificate. To achieve the certificate, the schools needed to
      complete 17 tasks throughout the school year; 1) a staff slideshow, 2) an PPASF team
      slideshow, 3) class time slideshow 4) PPASF training day, 5) an PPASF awareness week (towards
      the beginning of the year), 6) website showcase, 7) PPASF whole school questionnaire, 8)
      PPASF launch event, 9) PPASF action plan, 10) 'Did You Know?' campaign, 11) PA module as part
      of Social, personal and health education (SPHE) subject for junior cycle students, 12) Active
      School WALKWAY, 13) Community Mapping of extra curriculum activities, 14) Community Event, 5)
      Active School Week, 16) PPASF accreditation visit, and 17) school PA space audits.

      The PPASF is part of the developing Healthy Ireland Demonstration Project, and the
      feasibility to collect data in the form of accelerometers, physical health measures and
      self-perceptions of health are also included in the feasilibility study.

      The feasibility study will be monitored quantitatively through a custom design fidelity check
      list, and in depth process evaluation that includes qualitative methods such as one to one
      interviews and focus group interviews throughout the academic year.

      The secondary outcomes are based on the hypotheses that 1) intervention schools will have
      more physical activity opportunities and thus 2) more physically active students, especially
      during the school day. Furthermore, there would be 3) a decrease in sitting time, 4) positive
      associations between academic related behaviours with physical activity behaviours, 5) and no
      increase in BMI.
    
  