
    
      Background

      The process of aging causes a progressive decline in functional capacities. Maintaining
      physical fitness appears to be an important factor to fight against frailty (40% more frailty
      in people > 65 years old), a condition that causes loss of independence but that is
      clinically reversible.

      Fragility is a condition that associates: slowed walking speed, sedentary lifestyle, weight
      loss, muscle weakness and low energy levels. It is therefore correlated with physical
      performance.

      Purpose

      A number of studies have demonstrated the benefit of physical activity in frail older people.
      Levels of adherence to physical activity programs are not well known but low adherence
      decreases the positive effects of the intervention. It seems therefore interesting to suggest
      another approach that integrates innovative technology (plate-forme Hu360®) that can improve
      the clinical condition of the frail older person, as well as levels of adherence.

      Abstract

      Highly diversified programs of physical activity in older people have shown their
      effectiveness in terms of improving functional capacities. Only one of these programs, to
      date, has used a motorized platform. The motorized platform allows the use of sensorimotor
      programs adapted to this population. Thus, for the user, a combination of motor and sensory
      capacities necessary to actively control different positions as well as reactions to maintain
      balance are stimulated, and are as important as psychomotor capabilities to maintain autonomy
      and the fight against losing independence.

      Demonstration of the effectiveness of this type of equipment would propose a new modality of
      physical activity adapted to this population. Use of this new equipment could allow the
      possibility of standardizing this activity, whilst continuing to individualize physical
      activity programs.

      Two phases for each group (Intervention/Control):

      Phase 1 (day 0 - week 6): 2x1 hour sessions per week using the Hu360® (Intervention group) or
      an adapted physical activity program (Control group) under supervision of a therapist who
      will adapt the program according to the progress of the patient, following a standardized
      procedure (exercises: postural/balance training, strength training for the legs/trunk and
      coordination and endurance activities)

      Phase 2 (week 6 - month 6): Physical activity program at home for both groups, performed
      independently.

      Blinded evaluations will be performed at 6 weeks and at 6 months for each group.

      The investigators hypothesis is that the use of the motorized platform will allow superior
      physical performance compared to a traditional physical activity program.

      Statistical analysis

      Data analysis will be realized, blinded to the treatment group. The analysis will be
      conducted with intention to treat.

      The principal analysis will be made using a linear mixed model for repeated data, taking into
      account stratification factors (gender and class Score SPPB at baseline) by random effect,
      without imputation of missing data. An exploratory analysis will be conducted on the
      principal outcome measure using a linear mixed model for repeated data, taking into account
      stratification factors and some covariates that may change the effect of the intervention,
      such compliance.

      Secondary outcome measures will be will be analysed in a similar manner by generalized linear
      mixed models. The tests will be bilateral. An error-correction modem of 5% will be considered
      during the analysis.
    
  