
    
      TYPES OF TISSUES TO BE BANKED

      Blood:

      Blood will be collected from the out-patient clinic, prospectively at the time of a
      clinically planned procedure or prospectively during a procedure performed solely for
      research. After informed consent is obtained, the patient/ subject will be asked to donate a
      one-time blood sample of up to 30ml. A portion of each blood sample will be used to generate
      a DNA sample, and the remainder will be used to separate out plasma, peripheral blood cells,
      and/or serum for future research studies, including but not limited to metabolomics,
      proteomics, biomarker measurements, and bioenergetic assays.

      Cerebrospinal Fluid:

      Cerebrospinal fluid 5-10ml may be collected prospectively from lumbar puncture or the subset
      of patients who have an external ventricular drain (EVD) placed as part of their clinical
      care. The standard clinical protocol for EVD includes the drainage of CSF externally into a
      collection bag. Once the volume of CSF drainage is recorded, the CSF is typically discarded.
      The collection of CSF will be coordinated with the subject's primary treatment team. At this
      time, CSF banking will not occur in subjects who do not have CSF collection planned as part
      of their clinical care.

      Body Tissue:

      The body tissue will be collected from the patients who undergo the carotid stent which is
      their routine medical treatment. Around 5mg tissue will be taken from the filter wire during
      the stenting operation and then stabilized by RNAlater reagent immediately. The tissue will
      be kept in -80oC freezer for future process.

      Buccal swab or saliva:

      Buccal swab or saliva (~5-10ml) may be collected from the patients, their family members
      and/or normal subjects for DNA and RNA extraction if necessary. It would be collected by the
      trained doctor, medical staffs or research assistant. The collected samples will be kept in
      -80oC freezer for future use, for example, extraction of DNA.
    
  