
    
      This study was carried out with the approval of ICF International ( Address: 11785 Beltsville
      Drive Suite 300 Calverton, MD 20705 USA). The data from the 2011 Bangladesh Demographic and
      Health Survey (BDHS), conducted under the authority of the National Institute of Population
      Research and Training (NIPORT) of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare of Bangladesh
      will be used for this study. Mitra and Associates, a Bangladeshi research firm located in
      Dhaka implemented the survey and ICF International of Calverton, Maryland, USA, arranged the
      technical support to the mission as the part of its international Demographic and Health
      Surveys database (MEASURE DHS). Procedures and questionnaires for standard DHS surveys have
      been reviewed and approved by the ICF International Institutional Review Board (IRB). (See
      more at:
      http://www.dhsprogram.com/What-We-Do/Protecting-the-Privacy-of-DHS-Survey-Respondents.cfm#sth
      ash.qc30dbXO.dpuf) The data collection processes for the BDHS was executed as per the
      approval of the ORC Macro-institutional review board. The survey protocol was reviewed and
      approved by the National Ethics Review Committee of the Bangladesh Ministry of Health and
      Family Welfare. As per BDHS guidelines, informed consent was obtained from all respondents
      before starting the interview along with an oral clarification offered by the interviewers
      themselves. Respondents were well informed with regards to the intended use of the gathered
      data (assessment of health needs and planning health services), the voluntary nature of the
      study, potential risks of participation in the study, the confidentiality of answers/results
      of the individual interview and biomarker assay, and that the examination was free of cost.
      Prior to the blood collection and examination, participants were also well informed about the
      purpose of the study.

      A stratified, multistage cluster sampling strategy was followed in order to construct a
      national representative household-based sample. To generate this, 600 primary sampling units
      (207 from urban areas and 393 from rural areas) were raised from the sampling frame created
      for the 2011 Bangladeshi census. From each primary sampling unit, households were nominated
      randomly and 17,964 households were selected for interview. Face-to-face interviews were
      effectively completed among 17,141 selected households. Finally, in these households a total
      of 18,222 ever married women age 12-49 were identified and 17,842 were interviewed
      successfully. A total of 5920 ever-married women aged between 15-49 years who resided in
      one-third of the randomly selected households were selected as subjects for the biomarker
      assay for anemia study.
    
  