
    
      SACRED involves a three-part study design, as outlined below, to include (1) initial TCD
      evaluation phase; (2) longitudinal TCD evaluation; and (3) treatment if warranted.

        1. The initial evaluation portion of SACRED will involve obtaining TCD examinations on
           children with SCA between ages 3-15 years, who are followed at Hospital Infantil Robert
           Reid Cabral in Santo Domingo to evaluate their risk of stroke. Up to 500 patients will
           be enrolled. All patients, including those who are already on hydroxyurea and
           transfusion therapy (whether for stroke or other clinical indications), will be included
           to obtain a one-year cross-sectional description of TCD velocities in this patient
           population. Patients who are already on therapy and identified to have elevated TCD
           velocities will be eligible for the treatment portion of SACRED as a conditional or
           elevated velocity would suggest that their present therapy was not optimized.

        2. In the longitudinal portion of SACRED, all enrolled children will undergo yearly TCD
           examination. The goal of serial examination is to help define the natural history of
           cerebrovascular disease, specifically to determine the incidence of new conditional or
           abnormal velocities. The goal is to obtain a total of 3 TCD examinations per enrolled
           patient, regardless of treatment status.

        3. In the treatment phase of SACRED, those children with TCD velocities between 170-199
           cm/sec will be eligible for protocol-directed hydroxyurea therapy. Most participants
           will initiate hydroxyurea treatment but those who are already on hydroxyurea and have
           conditional velocities will receive dose optimization. Participants will be followed
           until a common study termination date, defined as 3 years from the first treatment.
           Participants with abnormal TCD velocities ≥200 cm/sec will commence with transfusion
           therapy per current practice guidelines at the clinical site. Patients already on
           transfusion therapy identified to have conditional velocities will also be eligible for
           hydroxyurea and those with abnormal velocities may require re-calculation of transfusion
           dosing.
    
  