
    
      Purpose: Over the last 10 years, recommendations regarding the ideal level of oxygen for
      resuscitation in preterm infants have changed from 100 percent, down to low levels of oxygen
      (<30 percent), up to moderate concentration (30-65 percent). In addition, in 2010, oxygen
      saturation targeting was recommended as standard of care and this contributed to a change in
      clinical practice as clinicians were more likely and comfortable to start resuscitation at
      either 21percent (room air) or titrated levels of oxygen such as 30-40 percent. When the
      guidelines were again revised in 2015, the International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation
      (ILCOR) acknowledged that a critical knowledge gap continued to exist for the resuscitation
      of the preterm infants <37 weeks, highlighting the need to provide more concrete guidelines.
      This leaves clinicians in a challenging position. Despite the advances that have been
      achieved in perinatal and neonatal care, neonates are still vulnerable to the consequences of
      the oxidative effects from hyperoxia as well as the deleterious effects from hypoxia. A
      large, multi-centre international trial of sufficient sample size that is powered to look at
      safety outcomes such as mortality and adverse neurodevelopmental outcomes is required to
      provide the necessary evidenced to guide clinical practice with confidence.

      Hypothesis: the null hypothesis for this study is that the incidence of mortality or abnormal
      neurodevelopmental outcomes at 18-24 months corrected age will be no different by using
      either higher initial oxygen concentration of 60 percent compared to using lower initial
      oxygen concentration of 30 percent for resuscitation of preterm infants of 23 0/7- 28 6/7
      weeks gestation.

      Justification:

      The use of supplementary oxygen may be crucial, but also potentially detrimental to premature
      infants at birth. High oxygen levels may lead to organ damage through oxidative stress, while
      low oxygen levels may lead to increased mortality. Excess oxygen exposure during the early
      post-birth period is associated with many complications and morbidities of preterm birth.
      Preterm infants have lower levels of anti-oxidant pathways consistent with their expected
      fetal environment of low oxygen exposure. Excess of oxygen free-radicals in infants
      intrinsically deficient in enzymatic antioxidants and non-enzymatic antioxidants may
      contribute to these morbidities. Pulmonary oxygen toxicity, through the generation of
      reactive oxygen and nitrogen species in excess of antioxidant defenses, is believed to be a
      major contributor to the development of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD). Using lower oxygen
      concentrations at birth results in decreased oxidative stress markers and a decrease risk of
      developing BPD compared to higher oxygen concentrations. Other organs that may be damaged by
      such oxidative stress include kidneys, myocardium and the retina.

      There is equally growing evidence that using lower oxygen concentrations will lead to lower
      oxygen saturation levels and bradycardia, which may lead to increased rates of mortality in
      this vulnerable group of infants. An individual patient analysis of clinical trials reported
      that 46% of preterm infants resuscitated with initial low oxygen concentration did not reach
      SpO2 of 80% at 5 min. This was associated with increased risk of major intraventricular
      hemorrhage (IVH), and an almost five times higher risk of death in this vulnerable group of
      infants. These data provide a warning note for the use of higher vs. lower initial oxygen
      concentration during delivery room resuscitation. As the investigator proceed in determining
      a safe range for resuscitation of ELBW/ELGA infants, it is highly likely that the optimum
      level of oxygen concentration is between the two extremes of 21 percent and 100 percent.

      Objectives: To determine whether initial resuscitation of preterm neonates with 60 percent
      versus 30 percent oxygen results in better neurodevelopmental outcomes at 18-24 months.

      Research Method/Procedures: This will be a cluster crossover design, unmasked randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) comparing two oxygen concentrations at initiation of resuscitation.
      Infants will be placed on the resuscitation table with the initial steps of resuscitation
      carried out as per standard of care at each centre which usually follows current
      resuscitation guidelines. All centres will make every effort to establish adequate lung
      expansion using CPAP or positive pressure ventilation as needed. Enrolled infants will have a
      pulse oximeter sensor placed on the right arm in the first minute of life. Their
      resuscitation will be initiated with an oxygen concentration of 30 or 60 percent depending on
      the randomization sequence at the centre at the given time. Infants in the 30 percent group
      will remain in 30 percent oxygen until 5 min of age unless the infant's heart rate (HR)
      remains 100/min or less and does not show a tendency towards progressive increase before
      reaching 5 min of age or infant needs chest compression and/or epinephrine. No alteration in
      oxygen concentration will be made for an infant who is responding to resuscitation efforts
      with HR progressively increasing as minutes go by. At 5 min of age, the clinical team will
      assess oxygen saturation. If the saturation is less than 85 percent, oxygen should be
      increased by 10-20 percent every 60 sec to achieve saturations of 85 percent or greater or a
      saturation of 90-95 percent at 10 min of age. If saturations are greater than 95 percent at
      or before 5 min of age, oxygen should be decreased stepwise (every 60 sec) with an aim to
      maintain saturations of 85 percent or greater during 5-10 min of age or 90-95 percent at and
      beyond 10 min of age. The procedure for infants in the 60 percent group will be identical.
      The intervention duration for the trial will be the first 5 min after birth followed by
      initial monitoring/action for the next 5 min where titration in oxygen concentration will be
      made to achieve stability making a total of 10 min for study intervention. Titration of
      oxygen before 5 min after birth will only be made if the infant remains bradycardic (HR less
      than 100) and does not show a tendency towards a sustained increase in HR or if the oxygen
      saturation exceeds 95 percent. If the infant does not respond to ventilation with increasing
      HR in the first 5 min after birth, steps to ensure effective ventilation should be done
      before oxygen is titrated.

      Plan for Data Analysis: Generalized linear mixed model with binary outcome and maximum
      likelihood estimate will be used to evaluate the effect of an oxygen concentration on the
      primary outcome (as a composite between 18 and 24 months corrected age of all-cause mortality
      or the presence of a major neurodevelopmental outcome). To account for cluster crossover
      design of the study, effects of centers (clusters) and a period (oxygen concentration) within
      center will be considered random, and effects of a period (oxygen concentration) will be
      entered as a fixed effect. This hierarchical model allows for the correlation of patients
      within periods and within clusters. The model will be adjusted for gestational age and
      whether or not infant required mask ventilation as potential confounding variables. Similar
      generalized linear mixed models will be performed to evaluate the effect of group on
      secondary outcomes. In addition, three subgroup analysis will be performed: i) Gestational
      age will be categorized into 2 categories: 23+0- 25+6 vs. 26+0-28+6 weeks; ii) Breathing
      support will be categorized by infants supported only with CPAP vs. received mask
      ventilation; iii) Sex/Gender will be categorized into 2 categories: female vs. male. For
      subgroup analysis baseline characteristics will be compared using linear and generalized
      linear mixed models. Sensitivity analysis will be performed to analyze the missing data;
      however, a very low number of missing values are expected due to the design of the study.
    
  