
    
      -  The treatment is separated into three stages: 1) Initial treatment-chemotherapy and stem
           cell collection; 2) Treatment targeted directly to the main tumor-surgery and radiation
           therapy; 3) Intensified treatment: two stem cell transplants.

        -  Patients will receive intensive treatment with a combination of seven drugs which will
           be given every 3 weeks, or as soon as the patient's blood counts are within safe limits.
           A total of 5 or 6 courses of chemotherapy will be given. The third and fourth course
           will be followed by stem cell collections and the last course will be followed by bone
           marrow harvest in preparation for transplant.

        -  The first treatment involves a high-dose of Cisplatin intravenously once a day for 5
           days and VP-16 intravenously on days 2,3 and 4 of the treatment.

        -  The second course of treatment involves cyclophosphamide intravenously on day 1 and day
           2, adriamycin intravenously continuously over 48 hours, and vincristine intravenously on
           day 1.

        -  The third course of treatment involves ifosfamide daily on days 1-5 and VP-16 on days
           1-3. Mesna will also be given to prevent bladder irritation.

        -  During the fourth course patients will receive, carboplatin intravenously on days 1 and
           2 and VP-16 on days 1,2 and 3 of treatment.

        -  The fifth course of treatment will be identical to the second course.

        -  G-CSF (granulocyte colony-stimulating factor) stimulates bone marrow to produce more
           white blood cells and will be given subcutaneously until the patients' white blood cell
           counts are at an acceptable level. This may require 10-14 days of G-CSF treatment.

        -  After the first two treatments, and after the last course of treatment, patients will be
           evaluated for response. If significant tumor is still present in the bone marrow before
           the third treatment, stem cell collection will be delayed. If the bone marrow still
           shows disease after the next treatment, this plan of treatment will be stopped.

        -  Patients may undergo surgery after the last treatment to remove the tumor and to
           evaluate the remaining disease. After recovery, radiation therapy may be performed to
           the main tumor area.

        -  Patients will receive transplantations of stem cells twice during this study. After each
           preparative treatment, half of the patient's stored stem cells will be given
           intravenously. Until the stem cells restore safe levels of blood cells, the patient will
           be hospitalized (3-4 weeks or longer).

        -  The first treatment will begin with high doses of carboplatin and VP-16 daily for 3
           consecutive days followed by cyclophosphamide on the fourth and fifth days.

        -  Between 4-6 weeks after the start of the first course of high dose chemotherapy a second
           course consisting of melphalan and total body irradiation (TBI) will be given. Melphalan
           will be given daily for 3 consecutive days followed by TBI twice a day for 3 days.

        -  After each of the two high dose treatments outlined above, the stem cells that were
           previously harvested from the patient will be given back to them through a central line.

        -  Stem cells will be collected on 3 separate occasions following each of two cycles of
           chemotherapy. They will then be processed using a technique that attempts to separate
           stem cells from other cells, including any cancer cells that may be present.

        -  Bone marrow will also be harvested prior to the first transplant and will be used if
           blood counts do not recover after the stem cells are given.
    
  