
    
      The current obstetrical practice at birth in the United States is to cut and clamp umbilical
      cord of the infant immediately after birth. When immediate clamping occurs, 20 to 30% of the
      fetal-placental blood volume is left behind in the placenta. This blood contains enough
      iron-rich red blood cells to meet the infant's iron needs for the first 4 to 6 months of
      life. Delaying cord clamping has been shown to increase early iron stores without
      contributing to adverse outcomes. The investigators hypothesize that iron sufficiency is
      essential for long-term neurologic health. Iron deficiency in infancy adversely affects
      cognitive, motor, socio-emotional, and behavioral development. Human and animal studies have
      shown that inadequate iron stores in early infancy have an irreversible negative impact on
      the developing brain with deficits persisting even after iron levels have been restored by
      iron supplementation. Iron is an essential component of myelination which is critical for
      normal brain development and function. Myelination, which peaks during the first year of
      life, establishes and maintains efficient communication between the discrete regions of the
      brain.

      The gap is that the effect of increased iron stores from delayed cord clamping on myelination
      and long-term neurodevelopment during childhood is unknown. Our hypothesis is that placental
      transfusion affects myelination and early childhood neurodevelopment in the following ways:
      1) placental transfusion (delayed cord clamping or cord milking) leads to increased blood
      volume (BV) and red blood cell volume (RBCV) at birth; 2) increased RBCV results in more
      available iron for early body iron stores; 3) increased body iron stores provide essential
      iron supply for optimal brain myelination; 4) optimal myelination results in improved
      cognitive, behavioral and socio-emotional performance.

      The main objective of this study is to conduct a prospective cohort study following the
      children enrolled in a previous randomized controlled trial (birth to 24 months) known as the
      Infant Brain Study. The purpose is to measure the effects of cord clamping time on the
      structure and function of the developing brain at three and four years of age. The
      investigators will use a non-invasive neuroimaging technique to measure myelin acquisition
      over time and conduct neurodevelopmental assessments and correlate the findings with early
      iron stores and long-term developmental outcomes.
    
  