
    
      The incidence and prevalence of chronic heart failure is increasing. Despite the expansion of
      therapeutic options, overall survival and quality-of-life remain poor. When optimal medical
      therapy and cardiological interventions have failed to improve a patient's condition,
      surgical intervention may be a valid option in order to improve cardiac function. Different
      surgical treatments have improved clinical outcome. Unfortunately, heart failure surgery is
      associated with an increased risk of vasoplegia. This syndrome is characterized by
      hypotension and the continuous need of vasopressors, despite a normal or high cardiac index.
      The incidence of vasoplegia ranges from 11-31% in patients undergoing heart failure surgery.
      The prognosis of vasoplegia is poor. Prolonged hypotension and the accompanying hypoperfusion
      lead to end-organ dysfunction and is associated with an increased morbidity and mortality.
      The investigators hypothesise that the balance of the vascular system of patients with heart
      failure is fragile and therefore could easily be disturbed by a systemic inflammatory
      response syndrome (SIRS) caused by the cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) and surgical trauma,
      making these patients more prone to develop vasoplegia. Minimising this SIRS reaction could
      be a strategy to prevent vasoplegia. Therefore, the objective of this single-center,
      investigator-initiated study is to analyse the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of using
      CytoSorb in preventing vasoplegia in patients with heart failure undergoing cardiac surgery
      on CPB.

      CytoSorb treatment will be conducted intraoperatively and the device will be applied in a
      parallel circuit in the CPB. The total study intervention protocol takes 5 days and starts on
      the day of the surgery (day 0) and ends at day 4 postoperatively. Patient clinical data will
      be collected until day 30.

      The vascular reactivity in response to a vasoconstrictor will be assessed in all patients at
      4 different time points (before induction, after induction, after CPB before emergence, on
      day 1 postoperatively). During the vasoconstriction test, a bolus of 2 μg/kg phenylephrine is
      administered intravenously, after which the effect on the systemic vascular resistance is
      registered. Blood samples will be collected at the same time points and an additional blood
      sample will be collected at day 4 postoperatively.
    
  