
    
      Obesity:In adults, obesity is defined as a BMI of greater than 30 kg/m2. It is estimated
      that, by the year 2030, 38% of the world's adult population will be overweight and another
      20% obese.An expert panel convened by the NIH stated that for the first time in history, the
      steadily improving worldwide life expectancy could level off or even decline, as the result
      of increasing obesity.

      NAFLD and NASH:

      The Problem: Obesity is a chronic disease that is strongly associated with a number of
      diseases with an increase in mortality and morbidity. Metabolic syndrome (obesity, diabetes
      mellitus, hyperlipidemia) has been established as risk factor for primary nonalcoholic fatty
      liver disease (NAFLD) .In the US, recent estimates suggest that NAFLD affects 30% of the
      general population, 90% of the morbidly obese . NAFLD can progress to nonalcoholic
      steatohepatitis (NASH) in up to 25% . Of patients with NASH progression of fibrosis is seen
      in 26-37% and progressing to cirrhosis in 9-25 % . NASH cirrhosis can result in liver
      failure, portal hypertension, and hepatocellular carcinoma(HCC) .

      Current options in management of NASH: The goal of managing NASH is to eliminate risk factors
      and preventing fibrosis by treating metabolic syndrome, primarily obesity [10]. Although
      dietary modification and exercise can achieve weight loss, this is difficult to sustain .
      Very few effective medical therapies are available, and are associated with adverse effects.
      Although weight loss after bariatric surgery has demonstrated histological improvement in
      NASH, a recent Cochrane review concluded that there is insufficient data to determine if
      bariatric surgery is an effective treatment. Also high mortality rates are seen
      post-bariatric surgery.

      Thus a safe and effective minimally invasive option is needed. Based on currently available
      data, Left gastric artery embolization (LGAE) appears effective in inducing weight loss of
      about 10.5% in 3-6 months, with a high safety profile. In patients with NAFLD, a 3-5% weight
      loss is thought to improve steatosis, 7- 10% may be needed to improve necroinflammation.
      Thus, LGAE has the potential to reverse the histology of NASH to prevent progression to
      cirrhosis, HCC and its sequale.
    
  