
    
      Atrial flutter (AFL), a common atrial tachyarrhythmia may cause significant symptoms and
      serious adverse effects including embolic stroke, myocardial ischemia and congestive heart
      failure. Currently, radiofrequency (RF) catheter ablation of the cavotricuspid isthmus (CTI)
      is considered first-line therapy for treatment of CTI-dependent AFL. However, RF ablation of
      the CTI is associated with significant pain during lesion delivery. Furthermore, RF ablation
      can potentially injure cardiac structures adjacent to the CTI such as the AV node, tricuspid
      valve and right coronary artery. RF ablation can also lead to steam pops, cardiac tamponade
      and fatal complications have also been reported in association with CTI-ablation. Ablation
      using cryothermal energy (Cryo) has several potential advantages over RF ablation including
      greater catheter stability due to adherence to myocardial tissue during applications, reduced
      risk of thrombus formation, systemic embolization, and lower risk of myocardial perforation
      due to preservation of tissue architecture.

      The investigators have in a prospective randomized, single centre study (CRAFT) investigated
      efficacy and safety of RF versus Cryo for atrial flutter, and showed that cryoablation is as
      effective as RF ablation in the short and long term. The patients perceived significantly
      less pain and required significantly lower doses of analgesia and sedation during
      cryoablation compared to RF ablation. The study was powered for non-inferiority with 75
      patients in each group.

      The objective of the present study is to expand the findings from the CRAFT study in a larger
      cohort of patients, letting only operators experienced in cryothermic CTI ablation use Cryo
      as standard therapy focusing on efficacy, feasibility, procedure time, and patient content.

      To perform an ablation within the study, the electrophysiologist must have a previous
      experience of a minimum of 25 cryoablations of atrial flutter.
    
  