
    
      This study is an extension of the randomized controlled trial NT-DFU-AFF-01 in which subjects
      were randomized to SOC for 12 weeks or SOC and fresh hypothermically stored human amniotic
      membrane (Affinity; fHSAM) for 12 weeks to determine if addition of fHSAM to SOC results in
      faster healing of Wagner grade 1 and 2 DFUs compared to SOC alone.

      At 6 weeks, patients from this RCT (NT-DFU-AFF-01) with study DFUs that have not been reduced
      in area by at least 40% will be exited from the study and considered treatment failures. This
      group (Group 2C) will constitute the active population in this single arm study
      (NT-DFU-AFF-02). Study wounds will receive up to 12 weeks of continuing SOC and fHSAM.

      The standard of care therapy in this study is offloading of the DFU, appropriate sharp or
      surgical debridement, and aggressive infection management with the use of appropriate
      dressings (defined later in the protocol). A number of offloading systems are commercially
      available. The choice of offloading will be at the discretion of the principal investigator
      but should be total contact casting, fixed ankle walker boot, or equivalent device to the
      fixed ankle walker boot.

      The Screening Phase (1 day) consists of a series of screening assessments designed to
      determine eligibility followed by, for those who meet the eligibility criteria (described in
      more detail below), treatment. At the Screening Visit (S1), written informed consent from the
      subject will be obtained by the Investigator or suitably qualified designee before the
      performance of any other protocol-specific procedure. The Screening Period is designed to
      determine whether subjects are eligible to proceed to the Treatment Phase of the study.

      The Treatment Phase (12 Weeks) begins on the same day as the screening visit. During the
      Treatment Phase, subjects will be evaluated on a weekly basis. Efficacy evaluations each week
      will include Investigator assessment of ulcer healing and measurements of ulcer size using
      digital photographic planimetry. Safety evaluations during the Treatment Phase will consist
      of adverse event assessments at each visit.

      Subjects whose ulcers do not achieve closure at 12 weeks or who experience an amputation will
      be deemed treatment failures.
    
  