
    
      Rivaroxaban is a novel factor Xa inhibitor that is widely used for stroke prevention in
      nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, treatment of venous thromboembolism (VTE), and for VTE
      prophylaxis in patients undergoing knee or hip replacement surgery.

      Current standard measurements of coagulation are relatively poor at reliably measuring
      detecting Rivaroxaban effects and more elaborate means of testing such as measurement of
      factor Xa activity are not immediately available so not useful in Urgent situations such as
      traumatic injury or emergent surgical indications. Due to the unmet need to devise a strategy
      for detecting Rivaroxaban activity in urgent situations, unnecessary reversal, which can lead
      to significant complications and cost, often results.

      The investigators seek to devise a strategy for the assessment of Rivaroxaban activity in
      trauma and Emergency General Surgery (EGS) patient available as point-of-care testing.

      Thromboelastography (TEG) is a point of care, viscoelastic measurement of coagulation that is
      widely used in trauma and is viewed by many as superior to standard coagulation studies for
      the assessment of coagulopathy following injury and may be useful in detecting Rivaroxaban
      effect in trauma and EGS patients to assess the degree of functional factor Xa impairment.

      This proposed study is a observational, prospective, cross sectional, study evaluating the
      Pharmacokinetics of rivaroxaban utilization thromboelastography (TEG) in a population of 80
      trauma and emergency EGS patients who were taking rivaroxaban prior to admission and 20
      active control trauma and EGS patients who were not taking rivaroxaban prior to admission
      (matched by age gender injury mechanism or illness)

      Study activities:

      Prior to any resuscitation with blood, blood products, or reversal agents, the investigators
      will obtain a TEG as well as standard coagulation testing: prothrombin time, partial
      thromboplastin time,international normalized ratio (PT/PTT/INR). TEG and coagulation studies
      will be obtained as soon as possible on admission and again following reversal of rivaroxaban
      (if reversed as SOC) or at 24 hours post admission to assess for changes.

      To assess the efficacy of TEG in monitoring Rivaroxaban activity, the investigators will also
      perform a battery of coagulation tests at the same timepoints described above in order to
      attempt to assess the degree of functional factor X inhibition. The coagulation battery will
      include: thrombin time, thrombin generation, PT with neoplastine, ecarin chromogenic assay,
      as well as the anti-factor Xa chromogenic assay (Rivaroxaban assay) run by our Institute for
      Transfusion Medicine.

      TEG will be compared to these additional coagulation assays to determine whether prolongation
      of R time (the most sensitive measurement of coagulation factor activity) and other TEG
      parameters can be utilized as reliable measurements of Rivaroxaban activity. Each of these
      tests will be performed at the two aforementioned timepoints: admission and post reversal or
      24 hours post admission if clinical team does not opt to reverse patent.
    
  