
    
      Study Objectives:

        1. Evaluate the safety of a single administration of bone marrow mononuclear cells by
           retrograde coronary venous delivery.

        2. Evaluate the bioactivity of bone marrow mononuclear cells in mediating increased
           perfusion in viable underperfused areas of myocardium.

        3. Evaluate the ability of bone marrow mononuclear cells to improve myocardial function
           specifically regional wall motion and cardiac synchronisation.

        4. Evaluate the use of potential bioactivity assays and clinical outcomes for assessing
           bone marrow mononuclear cell- induced myocardial changes.

      Study Design:

      A phase I/II, randomised, double-blind, placebo controlled, single-centre study of bone
      marrow mononuclear cells by percutaneous retrograde coronary venous delivery to patients with
      ischaemic heart failure and no standard revascularisation options.

      Study Population:

      Patients with symptomatic ischaemic heart failure, not amenable to conventional
      revascularisation strategies (PCI, CABG, LVAD) or transplantation.

      Independent Eligibility:

      The results of the screening procedures will be compiled and submitted to an independent
      interventional cardiologist and cardiac surgeon who are not associated with the study for
      consideration for enrolment. It will be the independent reviewer's responsibility to confirm
      eligibility prior to a patient participating in the study.

      Product:

      Autologous bone marrow mononuclear, the first 6 safety and feasibility patients
      (open-labelled) will receive a sub-population of Indium-111 labelled cells to assess
      feasibility of delivery. The remaining patients will either receive Active: Bone marrow
      mononuclear cells and 5 % HSA Placebo: 5% HSA

      Route:

      Retrograde coronary venous delivery The total dose of bone marrow mononuclear cells or
      placebo will be divided into two, each administered as a 10ml bolus into a selective coronary
      veins. There will be significant patient heterogeneity regarding size of ischaemic viable
      territory present and anatomy of venous system. We aim to treat two veins, individual SPECT
      and venogram results will be used to direct the venous anatomy to be targeted. An attempt
      will be made to cover as large an area as possible of a patient's ischaemic viable territory.
      The total dose of cells will remain constant between patients.

      Safety:

      The first 6 patients will receive cells as an adjunct to Cardiac resynchronization Therapy
      and ICD. An external Data Safety and Monitoring Board has also been appointed to oversee this
      study.
    
  