
    
      An abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a 'bulge' caused by weakness of the wall of the aorta
      (main blood vessel) in the section that travels down through the abdomen. An AAA can grow to
      a large size over time and it may burst (rupture), causing life-threatening internal
      bleeding. The standard method to prevent the AAA from bursting is to re-line the aorta with
      an artificial piece of rigid tubing called a stent that has been covered with material. This
      is inserted through the blood vessels from the artery in the groin to stop the aneurysm from
      expanding and restore normal diameter of the aorta. This is commonly known as a 'keyhole'or
      minimally invasive approach called endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR).

      There have been many advances in stent-graft technology to improve the accuracy and
      effectiveness of the EVAR procedure. A new design of an existing stent-graft that is
      currently being used in patients in many hospitals is the GORE® EXCLUDER® Conformable AAA
      Endoprosthesis with ACTIVE CONTROL (also known as EXCC Device). This new device allows the
      operator to shape the upper end of the device so that it may be placed into the aorta more
      accurately, conforming to the shape of the aorta, potentially improving the fixation and
      long-term sealing of the aneurysm, which may translate to a reduction in the need for further
      procedures.

      This study is a prospective, multi-centre observational cohort registry of patients
      undergoing routine clinical treatment of AAA by the EXCC device. Recruitment will take place
      in approximately 20 experienced UK centres with extensive EVAR experience. Up to 200
      participants will be recruited over 12 months and followed-up to 1 year (participants will
      not undergo any procedure that is not part of their routine clinical care). Clinical data and
      device specific outcomes, including complications and re-interventions will be prospectively
      collected. In addition, the BSET-CLEVAR Registry Core Lab will evaluate both the
      pre-operative CT scan and the post-operative CT scan (obtained between 4 weeks and 3-months
      following EVAR), to assess the primary outcome of the study (endograft positioning accuracy
      and aortic neck coverage expressed as percentage of the total aortic neck assessed). Study
      outcomes will also include detailed analysis of pathological and anatomical features of the
      aneurysm and the EXCC device, which will be used for reporting the effectiveness of the
      graft. A detailed statistical analysis plan will be written prior to the final analysis.

      The Study Co-ordinating Centre based at Imperial College London is responsible for the
      overall coordination of the Study, including monitoring of the overall study progress and
      review of study data accuracy (which, if necessary, may be checked by auditing the source
      data).
    
  