
    
      The index of decayed-missing-filled permanent teeth (DMFT) records decayed (D), missing (M),
      or filled (F) teeth in an individual, but it fails to give information about the clinical
      outcomes of untreated dental caries. A new index complements the DMFT index by recording the
      advancement of the caries lesion into surrounding tissues, including pulpal involvement (P),
      ulceration due to tooth fragments (U), fistula formation (F) and abscess (A). The PUFA index
      has yet to be validated in the adult population. Other than indices, radiographs were
      sometimes used as a screening tool using the validated Periapical Index (PAI). Hence, the aim
      of this study is to evaluate the reliability and accuracy of PUFA and PAI in screening for
      clinical outcomes of untreated caries, specifically pulpal and periapical diseases. The study
      will be carried out in Primary Care Clinic, Faculty of Dentistry, Universiti Kebangsaan
      Malaysia. Consecutive sampling will be used; all eligible patients are invited to
      participate. The inclusion criteria are as follow:

      i. New patient, not receiving active dental treatment at the time of study ii. Adult patient
      (18 years old or above) iii. Having at least 12 teeth in the oral cavity iv. Presented with
      the clinical situation for which radiograph(s) were indicated v. No radiograph was taken
      within the last six months The reference standard is the clinical diagnosis, as categorized
      by the American Association of Endodontists. A comprehensive examination will be carried out
      for each tooth, followed by investigation using orthopantomography (OPG), periapical
      radiograph, periodontal probing, heat test, cold test, electric pulp tester when indicated,
      to aid in arriving at the definitive diagnosis.

      Two independent, trained dentists are employed to screen the participants using DMFT and PUFA
      indices, blinded to the clinical diagnosis and PAI scoring. The examination is done using
      only a mouth mirror.

      Another two independent, trained dentists, blinded to the clinical diagnoses and the PUFA
      scoring, will score each tooth on the orthopantomograph for the periapical status using the
      Periapical Index (PAI).

      The outcome of PUFA is dichotomized as Positive (PUFA>0) or Negative (PUFA=0) for each tooth.
      Similarly, the PAI was dichotomized as Positive (PAI≥3) or Negative (PAI<3). Intra- and
      inter-examiner reliability will be determined using Cohen's kappa. Sensitivity, specificity,
      positive predictive value, and negative predictive value will be calculated. ROC contrast
      estimation will be computed to compare the two index tests.
    
  