
    
      Chemotherapy-induced anaemia (CIA) is a significant health problem for patients with cancer
      undergoing chemotherapy, causing fatigue and reducing quality of life (QoL). Up to 75% of
      cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy reportedly experience
      mild-to-moderate anaemia (defined by a haemoglobin level of 9 to 11 g/dL). In clinical
      trials, erythropoietins (EPOs) have been shown to increase haemoglobin levels and improve
      anaemia and QoL in cancer patients. However, recent meta-analyses have highlighted possible
      safety issues regarding EPO exposure. Preclinical studies have pointed towards the role of
      EPO in augmenting tumorigenesis, metastasis, risk of thrombosis, and drug resistance in
      certain tumor types (e.g., breast cancer), as it can activate important antiapoptotic
      pathways targeted by current antineoplastic therapies, thus counteracting their effects.
      Current guidelines in western countries and China recommend restricted usage of EPOs and
      reduction / prevention of blood transfusions in the treatment of cancer-induced anaemia.

      However, the inadequate response to erythropoietic therapy has not been well-characterized
      through rigorous studies and hence remains poorly handled in routine clinical practice. A
      major cause for not responding to EPO treatment is likely functional iron deficiency (FID),
      which is defined as a failure to provide iron to the erythroblasts despite sufficient iron
      stores. Patients with FID require supplementation of usable iron to optimize response to
      erythropoietic therapy, which might not be accomplished with oral iron. In a recent
      prospective, open-label trial, patients receiving epoetin alfa for CIA who were treated with
      IV iron dextran had a significantly greater Hb response compared with those receiving oral
      iron. Meanwhile, in patients with CIA and no iron deficiency, IV iron supplementation
      significantly reduced treatment failures to darbepoetin without additional toxicity. However,
      whether that IV iron supplementation increases the risk of disease progression, incidence of
      thrombosis and heart failure as well as iron overload, is under careful investigation. Though
      the association between IV iron and serious AEs and mortality remains unclear, Zitt et al.
      found that the use of IV iron was associated with a 22% reduction in mortality. Therefore,
      investigators designed this multicentre, randomized trial to investigate EPOs in combination
      with IV iron with regard to an increase of Hb levels in patients who have inadequate
      responses to initial treatment with routine doses of EPOs.
    
  