
    
      The objective of this study is to evaluate the effect of milnacipran on pain processing in
      patients with fibromyalgia and to assess the correlation between this effect and neural
      activation patterns during functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI).

      NOTE regarding Changes in Outcome Measures

      In this Crossover Study, participants were involved for approximately 16 weeks in this
      sequence: a week of preparing for the initial assessments, baseline measurements (Week 0), 6
      weeks on placebo or study drug followed by measurements for effect of drug or placebo (Week
      6); a week of titration off of drug, if appropriate (or continued placebo, if on placebo),
      two weeks of washout, a new baseline assessment (Week 9), six weeks of study drug (or
      placebo), another set of measurements for effect of drug or placebo (Week 15), and a final
      titration period to maintain masking of assignment to drug or placebo. Of 17 participants who
      completed both sequences, data was analyzed for the 15 whose values for all measurement
      variables were usable.

      When Outcome measure data was originally and accurately posted for baseline and change after
      treatment, the time frames listed were 0 and 15 weeks, because the last assessment was
      gathered at approximately week 15 for each person whose data is in the data set. However,
      given the crossover design, it seems more accurate and understandable, to show the time frame
      for the outcome measure as 6 because the participants were each administered drug or placebo
      for six weeks total. (Of course for the Placebo then Study Drug arm, the placebo data was
      collected at week 6, and for the Study Drug then Placebo arm, the drug data was collected at
      week 6, and similarly for the first group the drug data was collected at week 15 (first
      assignment, plus 1 week titration, 2 weeks washout, new baseline at week 9, and final
      collection at week 15), and for the second group the placebo data was collected at week 15.

      Thus, outcome measures originally listed for 6 and 9 weeks, which were previously shown as
      "Data Not Reported" were effectively already included within the data presented for change
      from baseline shown in Week 15 in this fashion: 9 week data for the second assignment is part
      of the "week 0 data" for the first assignment, to get pre-treatment baseline for each
      treatment shown. Week 6 data is the post-treatment data which was shown as week 15, but is
      now recategorized as 6 week data. There is no, and never was, any data that could represent
      assignment to drug or placebo for 9 or 15 weeks.

      Additionally, several outcome measures based on fMRI values were always listed in the
      protocol as other outcomes (not secondary outcomes), but had been incorrectly posted in the
      earlier listings on ClinicalTrials.gov. They have been accurately reclassified in the 2017
      resubmission.
    
  