
    
      In September 2008, the Center for Social Innovation (C4) was awarded a Small Business
      Innovation Research (SBIR) contract from the National Institute of Mental Health to test
      innovative ways to disseminate evidence-based practices (EBPs) in community settings. C4
      selected the practice of Critical Time Intervention (CTI), a focused, time-limited case
      management model designed to prevent and end homelessness among people who have experienced
      mental illness, addiction, and trauma. CTI is widely recognized as an evidence-based
      practice. During Phase 1 of the project, C4 partnered with CTI experts at the Columbia
      University Mailman School of Public Health to develop and test a prototype version of an
      instructor-led online course that brought together live (synchronous) and multimedia
      self-paced (asynchronous) elements to train community-based social workers on the CTI model.
      The pilot study showed promising results in the areas of knowledge gain, knowledge retention,
      and confidence to implement the model. Based on these preliminary findings, C4 applied for
      Phase 2 funding, which was granted in September 2010.

      Phase 2 of the study was completed in February 2013. This phase of the study included full
      product development of the online course and a randomized controlled trial comparing the
      online course with face-to-face CTI training (provided by our partners at the Center for
      Urban Community Services or CUCS). Specifically, the study included 179 service providers
      from 19 agencies across the United States and Canada. We randomly assigned each agency to one
      of two study conditions: 1) online training + community of practice, or 2) face-to-face
      training + telephone coaching. After they completed the training, we examined satisfaction
      with the training modalities, knowledge gains and knowledge retention. We then followed
      agencies' CTI implementation process and assessed CTI implementation readiness, experiences
      in implementing CTI, fidelity to the CTI model over time, and the impact of CTI
      implementation on the clients served by these agencies.
    
  