
    
      Methods:

      We propose to study 20, non-smoking, asthmatic adults. Subjects will be recruited from
      outpatient asthma clinics in Edmonton. All subjects will meet GINA criteria for mild
      persistent to moderate persistent asthma. Following informed consent we will obtain blood,
      induced sputum and urine samples after an overnight fast and free of any caffeine for at
      least 24 hours. We will also obtain routine demographic information including age, sex, and
      usual asthma medication usage. We will obtain health related quality of life status using
      generic (15D) and disease specific (Asthma Quality of Life) questionnaires. Subjects will be
      instructed regarding use of peak flow meters and the typical symptoms associated with loss of
      asthma control. They will be instructed regarding accessing a dedicated asthma website that
      incorporates the above questions (Visit 1). There is also a place for subjects to enter twice
      daily peak flow measurements. The website is password protected and each subject can access
      only their own individualized data entry pages. A research coordinator is able to access any
      subject data again using a unique password. We will use this internet-based program to
      monitor daily PEF and daily asthma symptoms. Patients will be instructed to access the
      website daily and will reassessed at 2 weeks. Subjects will then be instructed to continue
      with their usual asthma management and to log on to the asthma website daily to record
      symptoms and twice daily peak flows. Only subjects meeting criteria for well controlled
      asthma (GOAL criteria) along with objective compliance with study protocols over 2 weeks will
      then be enrolled in the next phase of the study.

      Phase 1. After two weeks, subjects will return (Visit 2). At this time a blood (10 ml) and
      urine sample will be obtained and stored for subsequent metabolomic analysis. An exhaled gas
      sample will be collected and analyzed for nitric oxide concentration using a sensitive
      chemiluminescence technique. An induced sputum sample will also be obtained using
      standardized protocols and cell count and differential will be determined. The remainder of
      the sputum sample will also be stored for subsequent analysis. All tests will be performed in
      the morning after an overnight fast.

      Phase 2. During the second phase of the study, subjects will be instructed to reduce their
      controller medication (inhaled corticosteroid alone or combined inhaled corticosteroid with
      long acting beta 2 agonist) by 50% e.g. from 4 puffs daily to 2 puffs daily. Subjects will
      log on to their website daily for 4 weeks or until they experience a mild exacerbation (see
      definition below). If they experience a clinical exacerbation, they will be instructed to
      return to the hospital site where repeat blood, urine, exhaled air and sputum testing will be
      obtained (Visit 3a). They will be instructed to increase their controller medication and to
      continue with the increased steroid phase of the study. Those not experiencing a clinical
      exacerbation will return to the hospital site at the end of the four weeks (Visit 3b). They
      will have repeat blood, urine and sputum samples and will then be instructed to eliminate
      controller medication for four weeks or until they experience a clinical exacerbation. Those
      experiencing a clinical exacerbation will be treated as outlined above. Those continuing to
      experience clinical good control will be brought back at four weeks for repeat blood, urine,
      exhaled air and sputum analysis (Visit 3c). Throughout the 4-8 week period of inhaled steroid
      withdrawal, patients will be asked to save a urine sample three times weekly. These samples
      will be stored in pre-labeled containers in their freezer until picked up by the study
      coordinator at weekly intervals.

      Phase 3. After a patient experiences a mild exacerbation or at the end of 8 weeks of steroid
      reduction and elimination, patients will enter the final phase of the study. At that time all
      patients will be instructed to increase their controller medication back to their baseline
      values. They will be followed for four weeks and repeat blood, urine, exhaled air and sputum
      samples will be obtained (Visit 4). Finally, subjects will be instructed to double their
      usual controller medication for four weeks after which repeat blood, urine and sputum samples
      will be obtained. Again, subjects will collect and store urine samples at a frequency of 3
      times per week. The subjects will then be instructed to resume their usual asthma controller
      medication dosing and the study will be complete (Visit 5). All tests will be performed in
      the morning after an overnight fast.

      A mild exacerbation will be defined by any one of the following events:

        1. A decrease in peak flow to less than 80% of best effort for two consecutive days.

        2. An increase in reliever medication (fast acting beta 2 agonist) by 50% over baseline
           needs for two consecutive days

        3. Waking at night due to asthma on two consecutive nights A severe exacerbation will be
           defined as any need for additional medical contact for treatment of asthma (e.g.
           Emergency Room, Walk-in Clinic) or any hospital admission for asthma. The need for oral
           corticosteroids will also constitute a severe exacerbation. If at any point the subjects
           undergo a severe exacerbation, they will be examined by either their own treating
           physician or by one of the physicians associated with this study and appropriate
           escalation of treatment will be commenced. The REB will be informed of all severe
           exacerbations. The study coordinator and one of the study physicians will be available
           by pager around the clock during the course of the study.
    
  