
    
      DESIGN: A pragmatic multi-centre randomised clinical trial to test whether TARGeted
      Intraoperative radioTherapy as a tumour bed Boost (TARGIT-B) is superior in terms of local
      relapse within the treated breast compared with standard post-operative external beam
      radiotherapy boost in women undergoing breast conserving therapy who have a higher risk of
      local recurrence. Patients can be entered before the primary surgery or in a smaller
      proportion of cases, post-pathology. SETTING: Specialist breast units in UK, USA, Canada,
      Australia and Europe; 31 centres currently recruiting in the TARGIT-A trial and several are
      ready to join. TARGET POPULATION: Breast cancer patients suitable for breast conserving
      surgery, but with a high risk of local recurrence. Details of inclusion and exclusion are
      given in part 2. Briefly the patients should be either younger than 45 or if older, need to
      have certain pathological features that confer a high risk of local recurrence of breast
      cancer. HEALTH TECHNOLOGIES BEING ASSESSED. The TARGIT Technique: The Intrabeam® (Carl Zeiss,
      FDA approved and CE marked) is a miniature electron beam-driven source which provides a point
      source of low energy X-rays (50kV maximum) at the tip of a 3.2mm diameter tube. The radiation
      source is inserted into the tumour bed immediately after excision of the tumour and switched
      on for 20-35 minutes to provide intra-operative radiotherapy accurately targeted to the
      tissues that are at highest risk of local recurrence. The physics, dosimetry and early
      clinical applications of this soft x-ray device have been well studied. For use in the
      breast, the technique was first developed and piloted at University College London. The
      radiation source is surrounded by a spherical applicator, specially designed (and available
      in various sizes) to produce a uniform field of radiation at its surface, enabling delivery
      of an accurately calculated dose to a prescribed depth. It is inserted in the tumour bed and
      apposed to it with surgical sutures and/or other means. As the x-rays rapidly attenuate the
      dose to more distant tissues is reduced; this also allows it to be used in standard operating
      theatres. 20 Gy is delivered to the tumour bed surface in 20-35 minutes, after which the
      radiation is switched off, the applicator removed, and the wound closed in the normal way.
      This simple technique has potentially several advantages over convential external beam
      radiotherapy, interstitial implantation of radioactive wires or conformal external beam
      radiotherapy. The first pilot of twenty-five cases was at performed at UCL using TARGIT
      technique as a replacement for the boost dose of radiotherapy; full dose external beam
      treatment was subsequently given. The phase II study of 300 patients was published and
      recently updated with long term data along with favourable toxicity and cosmetic outcome
      results of individual cohorts. A mathematical model of TARGIT developed recently (funded by
      Cancer Research UK) suggests that it could be superior to conventional radiotherapy.
      Translational research has found that TARGIT impairs the surgical-trauma-stimulated
      proliferation and invasiveness of breast cancer cells. This effect of radiotherapy may act
      synergistically with its tumouricidal effect yielding a superior result. MEASUREMENT OF COST
      AND OUTCOME: Patient assessments will be clinical examination (6 monthly x 3 years then
      yearly x 10 years) and mammography (yearly). with ulstrasound (if needed) . Primary outcome:
      histologically/cytologically proven local recurrence. Secondary: site of relapse in the
      breast, overall survival, local toxicity (RTOG and LENT SOMA criteria), cosmesis, quality of
      life, patient satisfaction and health economics. The cost and cost-effectiveness of TARGIT
      versus EBRT, both as boost, will be calculated from a NHS and personal social services (PSS)
      perspective. Costs directly incurred by patients will also be assesed, since EBRT as a boost
      is likely to impose additional time and travel expense to patients and families.
    
  