
    
      Once eligibility criteria have been assessed and the informed consent is obtained,
      participants will undergo a screening process to further ensure eligibility. Screening prior
      to registration will comprise a review of pathology reports, postoperative magnetic resonance
      Imaging (MRI) images, operative reports, and medical history; general physical and neurologic
      exams; routine blood work; and urine pregnancy test for women of childbearing age.

      The study is intended to evaluate the response of radiation treatment (RT). The consent
      process will be performed between the surgery and the start of RT. RT will be prescribed as
      per the discretion of the treating radiation oncologist as per the University of Alabama at
      Birmingham Department of Radiation Oncology treatment protocol in combination with
      temozolomide.

      MRIs will be obtained before start of RT, after completion of 20 +/- 4 Gy. after completion
      of 40+/- 4 Gy and after the entire radiation treatment. Conventional MRIs including perfusion
      sequences and whole brain spectroscopy will be performed as a part of the research study. The
      data obtained from this research studies will not be used for clinical management.

      Volumes of the enhancing component, non enhancing component, choline/N-acetyl aspartate
      (Cho/NAA) will be measure before, during and after RT as described before. Cerebral blood
      volume (CBV) of the tumor will also be calculated from perfusion imaging at each time point.
      Apparent diffusion co-efficient (ADC) of the tumor will be calculated from the diffusion
      imaging.

      All the patients will be followed up with imaging and will be treated as per the standard of
      care. Patients will return for clinical evaluation and standard of care imaging approximately
      4 weeks from the completion of the radiation therapy. After that, all the patients will be
      treated with standard of care maintenance temozolomide therapy and will return every 2-3
      months for clinical evaluation and standard of care imaging.

      At the time of recurrence, the recurrence site will be assessed and will be compared with the
      imaging parameters obtained during radiation treatment. Time to recurrence will also be
      calculated and will be correlated with the imaging parameters.
    
  