
    
      Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) represents the most common cause of blindness in
      patients over the age of 60. The major cause of vision loss in this disease is due to the
      development of choroidal neovascularization. Several clinical trials have shown that eyes
      with predominately 'well-defined' areas of neovascularization (lesions having at least 50% of
      vessels which can be readily demarcated with fluorescein angiography) can benefit from
      treatment with photodynamic therapy (PDT). However, this treatment benefit only results in a
      reduction in the number of patients who suffer severe vision loss. Few patients demonstrate
      an improvement in visual acuity. In addition, other neovascular lesions such as those with
      predominate occult (vessels that are difficult to outline by fluorescein angiography) or pure
      occult do not demonstrate any substantial treatment benefit.

      Histopathologic studies have demonstrated the presence of an inflammatory response in the
      retina of patients with choroidal neovascularization as well as in eyes receiving PDT. In
      addition, in eyes receiving PDT, a vascular remodeling and continued neovascular process
      occurs. Therefore, the use of celecoxib (Celebrex® (Registered Trademark)), a specific
      cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, which possesses both anti-angiogenic as well as anti-inflammatory
      properties, may be beneficial in patients with neovascular AMD undergoing PDT.

      The study will be organized as a double-masked, randomized, placebo-controlled, prospective
      multi-center clinical trial to investigate the ability of celecoxib to alter the inflammatory
      and neovascular responses in AMD patients undergoing PDT. The results of this study will
      contribute to the design of a larger definitive clinical trial. The primary outcome measure
      is a drop of 15 letters or more in best corrected visual acuity following initial PDT
      treatment at 1 year. The secondary outcome measures are stabilization (drop of 4 letters of
      less from baseline) or improvement of best corrected visual acuity following initial PDT
      treatment at week 36, and an improvement by 5 or more letters in visual acuity from baseline
      to week 36, time to retreatment with PDT, number of retreatments with PDT and a change in the
      CNV size, the extent of leakage and staining detected by fluorescein angiography. Additional
      outcome measures will be the change in size and extent of vascular remodeling and choroidal
      new vessel formation as determined by optical coherence tomography (OCT) and high-speed
      indocyanine green angiography (HS-ICG).
    
  