
    
      Bipolar affective disorder (BPD, manic-depressive illness) is a common, severe, chronic and
      often life-threatening illness. Increasingly, it is being recognized that it is the
      depressive phase of the illness, which contributes much of the morbidity and mortality.
      Impairment in physical and social functioning resulting from depression can be just as severe
      as other chronic medical illnesses. Suicide is the cause of death in 10-20% of individuals
      with either bipolar or recurrent depressive disorders.

      The treatments for acute unipolar depression have extensively researched. However, despite
      the availability of a wide range of antidepressant drugs, clinical trials indicate that 30%
      to 40% of depressed patients fail to respond to first-line antidepressant treatment, despite
      adequate dosage, duration, and compliance. Very few studies have examined the efficacy of
      somatic treatments for the acute phase of bipolar depression. Thus, there is a clear need to
      develop novel and improved therapeutics for bipolar depression. Recent preclinical studies
      suggest that antidepressants may exert delayed indirect effects on the glutamatergic system.
      Furthermore, a growing body of data suggests that mood disorders are associated with regional
      volumetric reductions, and cell loss and atrophy. It is noteworthy that lamotrigine reduces
      glutamatergic neurotransmission, has antidepressant effects in bipolar depression, and a
      pilot study has suggested that NMDA antagonists may have antidepressant effects. Together,
      this data suggests that the glutamatergic system may play a role in the pathophysiology and
      treatment of depression, and the agents, which more directly reduce glutamatergic
      neurotransmission, may represent a novel class of antidepressants.

      Felbamate (Felbatol ® (Registered Trademark)) a dicarbamate, is FDA-approved as monotherapy
      and adjunctive therapy in adults with partial-onset seizures with or without secondary
      generalization and in partial and generalized seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut
      syndrome in children. Felbamate has significant antiglutamatergic and neuroprotective
      properties, and may prove to have antidepressant properties in bipolar patients. In this
      study, we propose to investigate the potential efficacy of felbamate, which reduces
      glutamatergic throughput via inhibition of glutamate release and NMDA, AMPA, and metabotropic
      glutamate receptor blockade.

      This is an 8-week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study that will examine the
      efficacy and safety of felbamate in acutely depressed bipolar patients who are considered
      treatment-resistant.

      This study has two phases. The first phase is the washout phase that will last for 7 days.
      The second phase is an 8-week acute treatment phase in which the efficacy and tolerability of
      felbamate and placebo are compared. Lithium can remain during Study Periods I and II if
      partial response to this agent is documented. Patients who complete the 8-week double-blind
      phase will receive clinical treatment. Acute efficacy will be determined by demonstrating a
      greater response rate using specified criteria.

      Patients, ages 18 or older, with a diagnosis of Bipolar I or II disorder, depressed (without
      psychotic features), will be randomized to double-blind treatment to receive either felbamate
      (600-3000 mg/day) or placebo for a period of 8 weeks. Following this acute period, the
      patients will receive treatment as clinically indicated. Approximately 52 patients with
      treatment-resistant acute bipolar depression will be enrolled in the study.
    
  