
    
      Tranexamic Acid has a long and proven history of clinical safety and effectiveness in the
      Orthopaedic literature. Its use in perioperative blood management in total joint arthroplasty
      is wide spread and is quickly becoming a standard of care. However, evidence on the
      effectiveness of TXA in lower extremity fracture care is more limited. There is a logical
      expectation that the use of TXA in lower extremity fracture care will provide a similar
      benefit in minimizing blood loss and reducing transfusion requirements, based on TXA's
      success in total joint arthroplasty, however this has not yet been validated in the
      literature. This study will seek to evaluate the effectiveness of TXA in perioperative blood
      management within a subset of lower extremity fracture, specifically intertrochanteric femur
      fractures. Hip fractures represent a common orthopedic injury in a fragile patient population
      that often necessitates post-operative blood transfusion thereby putting the patient at
      additional risk of complications. Intertrochanteric femur fractures have an increased risk of
      post-operative blood transfusion when compared to femoral neck fractures. It is presumed that
      the difference in blood loss between these two fracture types is caused by increased
      pre-operative bleeding of intertrochanteric fractures secondary to the extracapsular nature
      of the fracture, as opposed to a tamponade effect that occurs with intracapsular femoral neck
      fractures. It can therefore be expected that the use of TXA in intertrochanteric femur
      fractures will decrease perioperative bleeding leading to a decrease in total blood loss and
      a decrease in transfusion rates.

      Limited research has shown that TXA is effective in reducing perioperative blood loss in hip
      fracture when compared to placebo, but not as effectively as when used in joint arthroplasty.
      One explanation for this difference is that TXA is circulating at the time of iatrogenic
      fracture in total joint arthroplasty or given shortly after, whereas intraoperative TXA
      administration in hip fractures usually doesn't occur until 6-48 hours after the initial
      injury. Administering TXA at the time of hospital admission in intertrochanteric femur
      fracture allows the drug time to decrease blood loss resulting from the fracture as well as
      the subsequent surgical intervention.
    
  