
    
      The increasing prevalence of allergies represents a major problem for the health care system.
      Approximately 500 million people are suffering worldwide from allergic rhinitis (AR).
      Allergic rhinitis is a Type 1 hypersensitive disorder, initiated by IgE antibodies. Whereas
      seasonal allergic rhinitis (SAR) is caused by different allergens found outdoors such as
      grass, tree and weed pollen, perennial allergic rhinitis (PAR) is caused by allergens that
      are mainly found indoors such as dust mites, mould or animal hair.

      Specific immunotherapy (SIT) presently constitutes the only causal therapy available and is
      common practice. SIT is indicated in cases of IgE-mediated allergic diseases and includes two
      forms of treatment options: subcutaneous (SCIT) and sublingual immunotherapy (SLIT). Both
      therapies aim to train the immune system not react to supposed pathological allergens, but
      instead to develop tolerance to them.

      Even though allergy vaccinations have been applied for a century, the commonly used SCIT
      requires up to 90 injections over three to five years. Pollinex® Quattro is currently the
      only ultra-short term medicinal product which requires only four preseasonal injections. The
      immunological effect associated with Pollinex® Quattro shows an increase of allergen-specific
      IgG antibodies and a decrease of allergen-specific IgE antibodies as well as a shift from a
      Th2 to a more Th1 type-immune reaction. Previous studies on the therapeutic efficacy of
      Pollinex® Quattro have come to a positive conclusion in regards to tolerability and decrease
      of allergic symptoms. As an ultra-short course SCIT, Pollinex® Quattro might decrease the
      number of noncompliance and withdrawal for revaccination in patients that have already
      undergone an intensive immunisation therapy.

      In this non-interventional study, patients who were treated with Pollinex® Quattro and
      patients who decided to use anti-allergic drugs for the treatment of their grass pollen
      allergy were compared due to their allergic symptoms in the grass pollen season from May to
      July. For this purpose, the rhinoconjunctivitis and asthmatic symptoms as well as the use of
      concomitant medication were documented in a dia
    
  