
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximally tolerated dose (MTD) of intraperitoneal administration of an
      Edmonston's strain measles virus genetically engineered to produce sodium iodine symporter
      (NIS) (measles virus [MV]-NIS) in patients with recurrent ovarian cancer, delivered by
      adipose tissue derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSC). (Phase I) II. To assess the 12 month
      overall survival of patients treated with this regimen. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the tolerability of this regimen. (Phase II) II. To assess the 4 month
      progression free survival of patients treated with this regimen. (Phase II) III. To assess
      the response rate, progression-free survival, and overall survival of patients treated with
      this regimen. (Phase II)

      TRANSLATIONAL OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the time course of viral gene expression and virus elimination and
      biodistribution of virally infected cells at various time points after infection with MV-NIS
      versus MSC delivered MV-NIS using single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)/computed
      tomography (CT) imaging. (Phase II) II. To assess viremia, viral replication, and measles
      virus shedding/persistence following intraperitoneal administration. (Phase II) III. To
      assess humoral and cellular immune response to the injected virus. (Phase II) IV. To assess
      in a preliminary fashion the development of antitumor immune response. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study followed by phase II study.

      Patients receive oncolytic measles virus encoding thyroidal sodium iodide symporter
      intraperitoneally (IP) over 30 minutes on day 1 of cycle 1 and MV-NIS infected mesenchymal
      stem cells (MSC) (if MSC are not available, MV-NIS may be given alone) IP over 30 minutes of
      subsequent cycles. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 5
      years.
    
  