
    
      The recent years have highlighted the cumulative toxicities of long-term exposure to
      antiretroviral drugs. Cardiovascular disease is one of the most common comorbidities in the
      aging HIV-infected population. Coronary artery disease (CAD) results from a combination of
      increasing age, traditional risk factor such as smoking, toxicity from long-term ART, and
      potentially related to HIV immune activation.

      Most of boosted PIs and the NNRTI [efavirenz] are associated to an increase in triglycerides
      and total cholesterol plasma levels. In the ANRS CO8 APROCO COPILOTE cohort about 30% of
      patients developed hypertriglyceridemia. Prevalence of lipodystrophy and metabolic
      alterations and these alterations appear as early as 12 months after the initiation of PI
      therapy.

      The prevalence of osteopenia and osteoporosis in HIV-infected individuals is higher in
      HIV-infected compared with HIV-negative individuals ranging, from 23 to 65% for osteopenia
      and from 3 to 22% for osteoporosis according to the studies [13-16] with, as consequence, a
      higher prevalence of patients with fracture (p < 0.0001).

      Tenofovir is currently the most widely used antiretroviral drug. Globally, clinical trials
      have suggested that renal toxicity related to tenofovir is low (approximately 1%) in selected
      populations from clinical studies. However, observational cohort studies have suggested that
      this risk was higher with rates varying from approximately 2%.

      In a systematic review and meta-analysis whereas over time with longer exposure to
      antiretroviral drugs the overall relative risk of renal disease was 3.87 (95% CI: 2.85-6.85)
      in HIV-infected patients compared to HIV-uninfected in ART treated patients. 0.54 (95% CI:
      0.29-0.99) compared to naïve patients and 1.56 (95% CI: 0.83-2.93) in patients treated with
      tenofovir compared to patients without tenofovir.

      In the DAD study not only tenofovir but also abacavir, lopinavir/ritonavir and
      atazanavir/ritonavir were associated to high risk.

      The use of strategies that could minimize renal toxicity has to be investigated particularly
      in senior HIV infected population.

      Increased risk for drug-drug interactions: a cause of concern in the elderly. Aging increases
      polypharmacy prescriptions for treatment and prevention of comorbidities such as
      cardio-vascular disease, hypertension or diabetes. One major issue is the risk for drug-drug
      interactions in elderly ART treated HIV infected patients due to the common CYP450 cytochrome
      pathway, shared by ARV drug and drug for comorbidities.

      Monitoring concentration of these drugs is not easy in routine practice. Given these
      drug-drug interactions with potential severe clinical consequences, it is key to investigate
      alternative ART strategies with different metabolization pathways, such as raltegravir.

      Raltegravir and Doravirine: benefits and advantages in terms of toxicity. Overall, literature
      data showed that raltegravir and doravirine are two drugs with high antiretroviral potency,
      including in experienced HIV-treated patients, with very good tolerance profile and without
      expected drug-drug interaction between the two drugs. A new dual therapy strategy combining
      doravirine + raltegravir given once daily has to be evaluated.

      In the setting of dual therapies, and as background the excellent results in terms of
      efficacy of doravirine plus raltegravir (<2% of virological failure (95% confidence interval
      0.3 to 5.0) at week 96 of 165 participants in the ETRAL), we postulate that:

        -  The association of raltegravir 1200 mg QD and doravirine 100 mg QD (DOR/RAL) will
           maintain viral suppression in HIV-1-infected patients with suppressed viremia on ART,
           with a virological failure rate of <12% in a population of 100 patients

        -  DOR/RAL will be associated to a robust viral suppression with limited amount of blips

        -  DOR/RAL will be well tolerated over the study period

        -  Acquired resistance to doravirine or raltegravir will be limited in case of virological
           failure

        -  DOR/RAL will present a benefit for patients on metabolic parameters and general symptoms
    
  