
    
      Inflammatory polyarthritides are major causes of invalidity and morbidity. Treatment of
      rheumatoid arthritis (RA), the most common and most severe of these diseases, is clearly more
      effective when initiated early using aggressive therapeutic protocols. The recent
      availability of very effective but extremely costly biologic agents may further improve our
      treatment strategies. Specific arthritides (e.g., RA) were defined using sets of criteria
      that are unable to define prognosis and cannot be used to select which patients, early in the
      course of their disease, should be treated aggressively. A number of putative prognostic
      markers of severity are available, including anti-Sa and anti-Cyclic Citrullinated peptides
      (Anti-CCP) antibodies (Abs), whose presence is highly specific to RA. Anti-Cit Abs might
      characterize one of the severe subsets of RA, both clinically and pathogenically. However,
      these markers are not yet demonstrated to risk-stratify patients with arthritis of recent
      onset.

      Objectives. Our PRIMARY objectives are to evaluate the sensitivity, specificity, and positive
      likelihood ratios (+LR) of anti-Sa Abs to identify among patients with early polyarthritis
      (EPA) in the first 12 months of disease (median 4 months) those that will, at 18, 30, 42 and
      60 months into disease : 1- have persistent arthritis; 2- satisfy American College of
      Rheumatology (ACR) criteria for RA; 3- have developed a SEVERE disease (as defined by their
      Sharp/van der Heijde radiological score or their modified Health Assessment Questionnaire
      (M-HAQ) score, as well as by our composite index that includes both scores).

      In particular, we want to evaluate the size of the ADDITIONAL independent contribution of
      anti-Sa Abs to predict severe disease, when added to markers of poor prognosis in established
      RA (e.g., immunoglobulin M (IgM) Rheumatoid Factor (RF), "shared epitope", persistent high
      C-Reactive Protein (CRP) levels).

      Our SECONDARY objectives are to evaluate the sensitivity, specificity, and +LR : 1- of
      anti-CCP and anti-Sa Abs (individually and in sets) to identify among patients with EPA those
      who will develop a SEVERE disease after 18, 30, 42, and 60 months; 2- of novel genetic
      markers to identify among patients with EPA those that will develop a SEVERE disease after
      18, 30, 42, and 60 months; 3- of anti-Sa and anti-CCP Abs to identify among patients with EPA
      those patients who will require more intensive anti-rheumatic treatment (DMARD combinations
      and/or biologics) at 18, 30, 42 and 60 months; and 4- of serum and urine markers of cartilage
      degradation and regeneration to identify among patients with EPA those that will develop a
      SEVERE disease after 18, 30, 42, and 60 months.

      Methods. We set up a single-center longitudinal observational study (LOS) planned to include
      390 consecutive EPA patients observed over 5 years. EPA is defined as synovitis affecting 3
      or more joints for more than one month and less than 12 months, with few specific exclusions.
      At inclusion, and at each pre-defined time points after disease onset, extensive (but
      focused) demographic, clinical, serological, radiological and genetic data are collected,
      without interference with their treatment. Treating physicians and patients remain uninformed
      about the status of the patients regarding research data (genomic data, anti-Sa and anti-CCP
      Abs). About 250 such patients will have been included at the time of renewal. Loss to follow
      up (up to V4 in some patients) at each visit is about 5% and is mostly found in patients in
      remission. Data collected are used to verify whether patients have reached predefined
      outcomes including remission, persistence of arthritis, persistence of arthritis fulfilling
      RA criteria, DMARD use, and SEVERE disease.

      Discussion. We have now assembled a large cohort of patients with EPA that are thoroughly
      reassessed at regular intervals, allowing stratification of patients using outcome measures
      that have been set in advance. The information gained from this study may have very
      significant therapeutic and economic implications.
    
  