
    
      Patient perspective is essential as medicine progresses to become more patient centered.
      FACE-Q is a recently developed and validated patient-reported outcome measure (PROM) tool
      that allows clinicians to assess patient perspectives after skin cancer surgery of the face.
      The FACE-Q has more than 40 independent scales and checklist each measuring different patient
      reported outcomes (PRO).

      The FACE-Q utilizes five scales to measure the psychometric, QoL, patient experience, and
      cosmetic outcomes. The FACE-Q was validated in both surgical and non-surgical patients. This
      is a single-center project to establish a prospective database of clinical information from
      patients who utilize FACE-Q in a clinical investigation. This database is being established
      in efforts to promote research in various patient populations Rationale The purpose of this
      prospective database would be to evaluate levels of satisfaction and QoL across various
      interventions and patient populations after using the FACE-Q PROM. Long term data collection
      will include information related to QoL, patient experience, and cosmetic outcomes. Many
      areas related to patient reported outcomes in the context of facial reconstruction surgery
      are in their early years. There are many areas of research needed to aid in clinical decision
      making. The database will allow these questions to be answered using a retrospective model
      and will provide the background information required to mount larger scale randomized
      controlled trials, when possible. Information collected in the database will also allow
      meaningful research to be conducted in a timely and cost-effective manner. For example
      database information could help answer, "Which patient characteristics are associated with
      higher FACE-Q scores in non-melanoma facial cancer patients?". The investigators will
      initiate a line of investigations that will characterize adults who use the FACE-Q in various
      clinical contexts with the ultimate goal of improving patient outcomes.

      The study was designed in concordance with the Enhancing the Quality and Transparency of
      Health Research (EQUATOR) reporting guidelines using: The Strengthening the Reporting of
      Observational Studies in Epidemiology (STROBE), and Standard Protocol Items: Recommendations
      for Interventional Trials (SPIRIT) statements as well as based off previous prospective
      studies that used FACE-Q for PROMs.
    
  