
    
      Delirium is a common postoperative complication in the elderly. The incidence depends on
      several factors like the comorbidities of the patient and the type of surgery. Mortality is
      almost twofold increased after two years for patients suffering from delirium after surgery.
      Different studies showed that with a multimodal strategy it was possible to reduce the risk
      of delirium. As several different organ systems are involved in the development of delirium
      the patient's hemodynamic state seems to be important and is a target point of intervention.
      Also sufficient perfusion and oxygen delivery is essential in order to avoid impairment of
      the brain. Recent studies showed that goal directed hemodynamic management can reduce all
      kind of postoperative complications and improve outcome. However, whether the use of
      goal-directed hemodynamic management also improves the neurological outcome and reduces the
      rates of postoperative delirium has not been studied yet.

      Aim of this study is to investigate the impact of goal directed hemodynamic management using
      pulse contour analysis on the incidence of delirium in older patients undergoing non-cardiac
      surgery, presenting with an intermediate to high risk for delirium. This risk will be
      assessed preoperatively using a score suggested by Marcantonio.

      Patients will be randomized in one of two groups, the goal-directed therapy group and the
      control group. In the goal-directed therapy (GDT) group hemodynamic management is performed
      according to an established algorithm obtained by pulse contour analysis. To prove our theory
      that goal-directed therapy influences the brain by increasing oxygen supply we will use near
      infrared spectroscopy, which is safe and non-invasive, in our patients. The hemodynamic
      management is continued in the recovery room or at the intensive care unit according to the
      mentioned algorithm. The intervention will be terminated as soon as patients fulfil the
      standard criteria for discharge from recovery room or intensive care.

      In the control group hemodynamic management is performed according to heart rate and blood
      pressure without using extended monitoring.

      As the actual incidence has a significant impact on the number needed per group, we are going
      to perform an interims analysis after 100 included patients according to the O'Brian-Fleming
      technique. Is the difference of delirium between the two groups significant with an α < 0,002
      the study will be finished. Otherwise, the sample size needed per group will be determined
      assuming an α = 0,048, a two-tailed test and a power of 80%.

      UPDATE 19-10-2016:

      The interims-analysis of incidences after 100 patients revealed, that 86 patients per group
      will be needed (α = 0,048, power 80%).
    
  