
    
      Subjects will come for a total of nine testing visits during which evaluations will take
      place. Visits are structured as follows:

        1. After subjects review the study and give consent for study participation, a history and
           physical exam will be performed. Ankle brachial index, autonomic nervous system function
           tests, the Low-level Physical Activity Recall questionnaire and vital signs will be
           performed.

        2. Blood drawn for measurement of hemoglobin A1C, fasting glucose, fasting insulin, free
           fatty acids and microalbuminuria, c-reactive protein, interleukin 6, adiponectin, and
           creatinine and glycerol. Additional screening labs include complete blood count (CBC),
           follicle-stimulating hormone, urine protein and a lipid panel to assess whether women
           are pre- or post-menopausal (FSH), and overall health (CBC, lipids and urine protein). A
           dietary survey will be administered for food preferences for the three day study diet
           administered prior to visits 3-5 and 7-9. Dual-energy xray absorptiometry (DEXA) and
           body composition tests will be done to ensure that groups are weight similar (using
           fat-free mass). A pulmonary function test, resting electrocardiogram (EKG) and
           familiarization bicycle test will be performed.

        3. Subjects will receive a three day study diet prior to visit 3. A resting and exercise
           EKG will be performed on the day of the visit. A graded exercise test will be done to
           determine the VO2peak. Patients will have measures of cardiac function and endothelial
           function on visit 3 by plethysmography and cardiac echo. Vital signs will be taken at
           rest.

        4. Subjects will receive a three day study diet prior to visit 4. Calf muscle magnetic
           resonance spectroscopy (MRS) will be performed on a 3.0 T whole-body MRI scanner.

        5. During visit 5, arterial stiffness/endothelial function will be non-invasively measured
           by the Sphygmocor system. Subjects will also have three constant-load tests to measure
           VO2 kinetics where oxygen saturation (StO2) will be measured during exercise. A resting
           and exercise EKG and vital signs will be performed during the visit. Subjects will be
           randomized to taking sitagliptin plus placebo or glimepiride plus placebo and all must
           be taking metformin (1-2 grams /d) for 3 months. Sitagliptin and its placebo will be
           administered 100 mg/d. Glimepiride and its placebo will be administered 2 mg/day. During
           the treatment phase subjects will be given a log to keep track of their blood glucose
           each day.

        6. Visit 6 will consist of a physical exam with a clinician as well as a blood draw and
           check of vital signs during sitagliptin or glimepiride treatment.

        7. After 3 months of sitagliptin or glimepiride administration, Visit 3 will be repeated.
           Additional testing to be performed during visit 7 will include a physical exam performed
           by a study physician, blood work for covariate lab tests listed in Visit 2 and the
           Low-level Physical Activity Recall(LoPAR) questionnaire.

        8. During visit 8, visit 4 procedures will be repeated.

        9. During visit 9, the testing performed during visit 5 will be repeated.
    
  