
    
      Background

      Percutaneous tracheostomy (PCT) is commonly used in critically-ill patients who require
      long-term mechanical ventilation in the intensive care unit (ICU). While being effective and
      safe, this technique has some complications. These include paratracheal insertion of the
      tracheostomy tube, tracheal injury; puncturing the cuff and transfixing the endotracheal tube
      (ETT) during the transtracheal needle insertion; inserting the guide wire through Murphy's
      eye; or accidental extubation while withdrawing the endotracheal tube during the procedure
      leading to loss of the airway [1-6].

      Although using the fingertip to palpate the trachea and endotracheal tube is a useful
      technique to locate the tip of the endotracheal tube during the procedure, it is unreliable,
      particularly in patients with short and thick necks. There are reports of lower rates of
      acute complications under endoscopic (bronchoscopic) guidance [7-11]. However, there is no
      adequate controlled study showing that endoscopic-guided tracheostomy is superior to the
      'blind' one. Moreover, it is an expensive tool which is not readily available in some
      centers.

      Video guidance provides a cost-effective alternative to bronchoscopes, that may also reduce
      the risk of procedure-related complications such as paratracheal insertion of the
      tracheostomy tube, tracheal injury or cuff puncture [12].

      The goal of this study is to evaluate the safety, efficacy and operability of video-guided
      PCT compared with standard PCT. Video-guided PCT, a bedside safe and simple technique that
      can be performed in the ICU without the assistance of a pulmonologist, may overcome some of
      the limitations of the standard percutaneous tracheostomy.

      The technique is based on the ETView TVTTM, a commercially available ETT, embedded with a
      mini video-camera at the tip of the tube. It provides direct endoscopic visualization of the
      larynx and tracheal mucosa, and thereafter allows the determination of the tip of the
      transtracheal needle during percutaneous puncture of the trachea, and hence may reduce the
      likelihood of paratracheal insertion, tracheal injury, or other technical complications.

      The ETView TVTTM device is compatible with any medical grade NTSC video monitor, thereby it
      provides monitoring of the airways during the intubation and PCT procedure, as well as
      continuous viewing of the airways as long as mechanical ventilation is required.

      Study Objectives To compare video-guided PCT to the standard technique in terms of success
      rate, efficacy, safety, and outcomes..

      Study design The study will be conducted as a comparative, semi-blinded, matched one
      (according to sex, age and difficult airway - that will be assessed according to neck
      diameter and anatomical parameters). The setting will be the ICU of the Sourasky medical
      center. 60 consecutive adult critically ill patients who require elective tracheostomy will
      be recruited for the study. Informed consent will be obtained from the families or next of
      kin of all study patients. In the absence of relatives, consent will be given by an
      anesthesiologist/intensivist not related to the study. Both procedures will be performed by
      the same team of intensivists upon all study patients. During and following the procedure we
      will assess all of the parameters mentioned above.

      Methods

      The procedure

      The procedure will be performed by an ICU team which includes: an
      anesthesiologist/intensivist who executes the procedure, another anesthesiologist who applies
      anesthetics & analgesia, a nurse, and a forth person who takes time.

      During the procedures (either standard PCT or video-guided PCT) oxygen saturation, end tidal
      carbon dioxide (ETCO2), ECG, blood pressure, and arterial blood gases will be monitored
      continuously.

      The video-guided PCT procedure requires extubation and re-intubation with the TVTTM tube.

      Re-intubation with the TVTTM tube will be performed as any commonly practiced intubation.

      The ETView Tracheoscopic system (TVTTM) consists of an ETT, embedded with a video imaging
      device and a light source at its tip and an integrated cable with a connector, that may be
      wired to any video monitor.

      The imaging system will be used to monitor the airways while intubating and, beyond the vocal
      cords, to locate the transtracheal insertion site and needle. In addition, the light source
      will serve for transillumination of the neck soft tissues, in order to delineate the tracheal
      curvature and identify anatomical deviations.

      Anesthesia and analgesia will be routinely performed, and standardized for all the study
      patients. Low doses of the opiate fentanyl (2-3 μg/kg) and the short-acting sedative propofol
      (20 mg bolus, and 3-6mg/kg/h drip) will be administered at the beginning of the procedure.
      Rocuronium bromide, a brief acting muscle paralyzer, 0.6mg/kg, will also be used in most
      patients.

      Patient follow-up

      The executing physician will answer a questionnaire evaluating the intraprocedural
      difficulties, complications, feasibility, confidence, and operability. A second physician,
      blinded to the procedure performed, will monitor the study patients during the first 6h after
      the procedure, or until discharge. Follow-up will include documentation of any
      procedure-related complications, monitoring of respiratory/ventilatory parameters and length
      of stay (LOS) in the ICU beyond 6h (due to medical circumstances related to the procedure).

      All study patients will be placed with arterial lines through which we withdraw blood before
      and after the procedure, and when indicated by deterioration of respiratory parameters - for
      blood gas analyses (PaO2/FiO2, PaCO2, pH and BE). In addition, saturation will be documented
      hourly, and all patients will have chest x-rays performed immediately following tracheostomy.

      Safety will be assessed by the frequency of procedure-related complications. These include:

      A. Technical complications: False route/paratracheal insertion, injury to a thoracic vessel,
      tracheal/laryngeal/esophageal injury, accidental decannulation, puncturing the cuff,
      inserting the guide wire through Murphy's eye, malpositioning or kinking of the tracheal
      cannula, failed tracheostomy, multiple punctures (≥3).

      B. Clinical complications potentially related to the procedure:

      B.1. Intraprocedural: endotracheal bleeding (>100cc) and transfusion requirements (RBC, FFP
      or platelets), transient hypoxia/hypoxemia, hemodynamic changes (e.g., transient hypotension
      not related to anesthetics).

      B.2. Postprocedure: alterations in respiratory function (defined as >15% reduction in
      saturation or PaO2/FiO2, compared to baseline; Increased PaCO2 without change in saturation;
      the need to change ventilatory settings and/or add PEEP within the first 24 hrs),
      atelectasis, pneumothorax, pneumomediastinum, aspiration, early unexplained mortality (within
      the first 24 hrs).

      Operability will be evaluated via a questionnaire answered by the executing intensivist
      (enclosed within proposal documents). The main parameters they will be asked to evaluate will
      be: whether the transtracheal needle was recognized via the TVTTM (yes/no); intraoperative
      difficulties; number of technical complications; level of confidence; ease of performance
      ("best practice"); and need to convert to surgical tracheostomy procedure.

      In addition, another member of the team will measure operative time, which includes the total
      duration of the procedure; the time it took to recognize the tracheal insertion site and
      needle; and the time to perform the PCT, that we define as the time since ETT placement until
      successful tracheal placement is confirmed via air bubbles or ETCO2.

      Study size

      A power analysis for time to perform the PCT as the primary endpoint, with 80% power to
      detect a 5 minute reduction in this outcome and significance of 0.05 or greater, indicates
      that at least 17 patients would be required in each group. We wish to enroll 30 patients for
      each group.
    
  