
    
      The da Vinci robotic surgery system offers advantages such as immersive three-dimensional
      visualization, intuitive control, and high degree of movement freedom to the chief surgeon.
      However, major surgery remains a team-based effort. Apart from the chief surgeon who remotely
      controls the da Vinci system at the console, the success of robotic assisted surgical
      procedures also relies on the assistant surgeon positioned at the patient side, who provides
      assistance laparoscopically. Throughout a robotic assisted operation, the patient side
      surgeon is responsible for tasks such as the exchange of instruments, retraction of tissue to
      enhance operative fields, manipulation of instruments, etc. Literature has demonstrated that
      the performance of the assistant surgeon has an effect on the outcomes of robotic surgery
      such as operative time.

      Traditionally the patient side surgeon relies on the monitor mounted on the vision cart to
      guide his/her movement. The monitor provides real-time relay of the image captured from the
      endoscope, but does not provide the full three-dimensional stereo endoscopy view unless set
      up with specialized stereo-vision equipment. The position of the monitor is also often
      awkward, creating problems such as obstructed views and non-ergonomic positioning of the
      patient side surgeon to overcome the view obstruction. The complex three-dimensional set-up
      of endoscope, robotic instruments, and hand-held instruments inside the patient body could
      prove difficult to imagine from the patient side surgeon's perspective, and guesswork could
      be involved during transfer of instruments/objects towards the operative field as the
      hand-held instruments are often out of the visualized field of the endoscope.

      Augmented reality (AR) technology delivered via optical see-through head-mounted display
      (OST-HMD) could potentially be the solution to the aforementioned issues. OST-HMD, such as
      Microsoft HoloLens, can superimpose computer graphics on top of real-world view through
      optical combiners. The clinical application of such a technology has been gaining interest in
      the surgical community, with preliminary study demonstrating feasibility of AR technology in
      ureteroscopic procedures.

      The ARssist system is a novel AR system designed for the patient side surgeon in robotic
      assisted surgeries. It integrates the da Vinci surgical system and Microsoft HoloLens, and
      provides valuable AR information to the patient side surgeon including (i) three-dimensional
      real-time rendering of the endoscope, robotic instruments, and hand-held instruments within
      the patient body, and (ii) real-time stereo endoscopy that is configurable for the assistant
      surgeon's preferred hand-eye coordination. The ARssist system would in theory grant the
      patient side surgeon improved orientation and navigation of hand-held laparoscopic
      instruments, thus improving their laparoscopic performance and the performance of the surgery
      as a whole.

      Based on the Innovation, Development, Exploration, Assessment, Long-term Study (IDEAL)
      Collaboration group methodology of promoting surgical innovation and research through planned
      prospective studies within an established staged process, we propose a stage 1 (Innovation)
      study to evaluate the feasibility and safety of the ARssist system.
    
  