
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) continues to be the leading cause of death and disability
      worldwide. Cardiovascular disease can be age-related in both onset and progression. The aging
      process causes failure in protective vascular mechanisms leading to pathophysiological
      changes and increased risk of CVD. Heart healthy strategies including consumption of diets
      rich in fruits and vegetables reduce risk and prevent CVD. There is growing experimental
      evidence that certain fruits and berries including, cherries and aroniaberries, may be
      cardioprotective due to their antioxidant and vasodilatory properties, and beneficial
      modulation of immune function and inflammation. However, there are limited human studies that
      have examined these effects. In older adults, vascular aging predominantly includes increased
      arterial stiffness and endothelial dysfunction. Oxidative stress and inflammation are also
      linked to the aging process. Therefore, this study will investigate the effects of tart
      cherry and aroniaberry supplementation on endothelial function (flow-mediated brachial artery
      dilation) and arterial stiffness (cardio-ankle vascular index) as indicators of
      cardiovascular risk and atherosclerosis. These measurements also provide an assessment of
      arterial structure and function. Biomarkers of endothelial dysfunction, inflammation,
      vascular injury, oxidation, lipids, as well as flavonoid and phenolic acid profiles will also
      be examined. Importantly, the role of genetics and its environmental interactions as causal
      factors in CVD are not completely understood. There is also limited data on the plasma
      proteome and the changes in physiological processes that may result from interventions with
      diet or nutrients. This study will explore the association between responses to tart cherry
      or aroniaberry supplementation and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in loci related to
      the study s outcomes and to the risk of CVD. Moreover, the association between these two
      supplements and a proteomic panel of plasma proteins involved in several physiological
      pathways and CVD will also be investigated. In a randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled, crossover clinical trial, 96 healthy older adults (ages 55-70) will be
      given tart cherry alternating with aroniaberry supplementation daily for 3 weeks each while
      on their usual diet. This study will include an initial screening visit followed by 6 visits
      at 3 week intervals consisting of treatment, washout and placebo periods. This investigation
      will provide important information on the role of flavonoidrich nutrients and their effect on
      arterial structure and function. Relating genomic and proteomic signatures to the outcomes of
      this study will be useful in developing future therapeutic strategies to lower CVD risk.
    
  