
    
      Advocacy is an effort to correct or change situations that affect people, society and
      systems.The origin of advocacy is to provide active support in the Latin "Advocates"
      dictionary. It is defined as "defense work" in Turkish dictionary advocacy is an ethical
      dimension of nursing practices in nursing science that shows how nursing care is needed and
      how the nurse will approach the individual, group and society in need.Social justice advocacy
      has an increasing importance as people are affected by pressure from the social
      system.Disease, weakness and early deaths are more common in ethnic and diverse races, poor
      people and societies that do not receive services.Within the scope of advocacy, the duties
      and responsibilities of individuals, families and society have been determined by laws and
      regulations in order to protect and improve the health of the society. Advocacy is the
      nurse's professional role and ethical responsibility.Total 80 students (İntervention and
      control group)was selected randomly from 112 4 th grade student. Students were randomly
      assigned to the experimental group(n=40) and the control group(n=40). The experimental group
      students will take advocacy intervention courses The control group students will the routine
      curriculum. In this study, effect size will be determined with 5% error margin by using
      sample size power analysis Gpower 3.1.9.2 program. Accordingly, it was calculated that 35
      students were included in the intervention and control groups with 5% error margin and 80%
      power. İt was decided to include at least 40 people in each working group with 20% surplus,
      considering that they might be lost in data collection. Theoretical education, film and video
      screening, case study, Social Security Institution (SSİ) Study, WEB based work, The student
      will preparation of advocacy action plan, students prepared poster and advocacy awareness
      activity, poster were exhibited at the campus. Data Collection Tools: Student Information
      Form, Social Justice Advocacy Scale , Moral-Ethical Sensitivity Scale. Statistical
      Analysis:Similarity of experimental and control groups; number, percentage, average and
      standard deviation, pre-test, post test; scale scores difference in dependent groups t-test.
    
  