
    
      The study consists of 2 parts: Part 1 and Part 2. Part 1 is an open-label (a medical research
      study in which participants and researchers are told which treatments the participants are
      receiving), single-center, 2-period, sequential design part. It consists of a Screening phase
      (Day-21 to -2), Treatment Period 1 and Treatment Period 2. In treatment period 1, 8
      participants including two women will receive 840 milligram (mg) ibrutinib capsules + 6
      placebo capsules. In treatment period 2, participants will receive 1680 mg ibrutinib
      capsules. Treatment periods will be separated by a Washout period of not less than 7 days. A
      high-fat breakfast will be provided 2 hours before dosing. Blood samples will be collected
      after each dosing for pharmacokinetic assessments.

      Part 2 is a randomized (the study medication is assigned by chance), placebo (an inactive
      substance that is compared with a medication to test whether the medication has a real effect
      in a clinical study) and positive-controlled (participants are assigned to either a
      recognized effective treatment or the study medication), double-blind (neither physician nor
      participant knows the treatment that the participant receives), single dose, and 4-way
      crossover (the same medications are provided to all participants but in a different sequence)
      part. Participants will receive either of the 4 treatments: Treatment A (Ibrutinib 1680 mg +
      moxifloxacin-matching placebo); Treatment B (Ibrutinib 840 mg+ ibrutinib-matching placebo +
      moxifloxacin-matching placebo); Treatment C (ibrutinib-matching placebo +
      moxifloxacin-matching placebo); and Treatment D: (moxifloxacin 400 mg + ibrutinib-matching
      placebo). Each treatment period will be separated by a Washout period of not less than 7
      days. Electrocardiogram (ECG) will be recorded. Participants' safety will be monitored
      throughout the study.
    
  