
    
      Fast-track anesthesia (FTA) is a procedure that enables extubation in intensive care unit
      (ICU) within 6 h after surgery to facilitate the recovery of consciousness and autonomous
      breathing. It has been safely applied to cardiac surgery since the 1990s.

      FTA is feasible and safe and reduces the occurrence of ventilator induced complications,
      thereby decreasing ICU stay, resource use and cost.

      Ultra-fast tract anesthesia (UFTA) was developed after fast-track anesthesia to further
      optimize the use of medical resource. With UFTA, extubation is performed immediately or
      within 1 h after surgery in the operating room. The benefits of UFTA include lower incidence
      of postoperative complications, better hemodynamic performance, shorter ICU stay.

      Fast track and ultrafast track cardiac anaesthesia can be achieved by reduced opioid doses or
      opioid free with multimodal analgesia augmented with bilateral regional anaesthesia as pecto
      - intercostal plane block.

      Fast track and ultrafast track cardiac anaesthesia appear to demonstrate improved outcomes
      without compromising patient safety. Their benefits include shorter intensive care unit
      stays, reduced duration of mechanical ventilation and lower health care costs. Regional
      anesthesia has played an important role in enhanced recovery pathways for other surgical
      services and allows for reduced systemic opioid use during intraoperative and postoperative
      care.

      The anteromedial chest wall (i.e., the sternum and parasternal region) is innervated by the
      anterior branches of the intercostal nerves. These terminal anterior branches ascend in the
      parasternal region through the intercostal and pectoralis major muscles to innervate the
      superficial tissues. They can thus be targeted in one of two fascial planes: either deep into
      intercostal muscles and superficial to transversus thoracis muscles or superficial to the
      intercostal muscles and deep into pectoralis major muscle.

      The sensory innervation of the thorax is provided by the 2nd through 6th intercostal nerves.
      The intercostal nerves terminate in anterior cutaneous branches, which divide into medial and
      lateral branches, providing innervation to the anterior chest wall. A pecto - intercostal
      nerve block targets the anterior intercostal nerves just lateral to the sternum in the
      interfascial plane between pectoralis major muscle and external intercostal muscle.
    
  