
    
      Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) has been implicated, in part, as the cause of various
      laryngeal signs and symptoms (1-7). This is often termed reflux laryngitis, ear, nose, and
      throat (ENT) reflux, or laryngopharyngeal reflux (LPR). GERD was first described to be a
      causative agent in developing contact ulcers of the larynx (8), and since this early report
      other routinely observed laryngeal signs are now attributed to LPR. These include laryngeal
      edema/erythema, vocal cord granulomas and polyps, posterior cricoid cobblestoning,
      interarytenoid changes, and subglottic stenosis. In addition, patient symptoms attributed to
      LPR include hoarseness, sore or burning throat, chronic cough, throat clearing, globus,
      nocturnal laryngospasm, otalgia, post-nasal drip, and dysphagia.

      GERD occurs in 7% - 25% of the population on a daily or monthly basis, respectively (9). It
      is estimated that up to 10% of patients presenting to ENT physicians do so because of
      complaints that are thought to be related to LPR (2).

      The current management of patients with suspected LPR complaints include either 1. empiric
      therapy using proton pump inhibitors (PPI's) or 2. Ambulatory 24-hour pH monitoring to test
      for GERD before beginning treatment. Because of the uncertainty and subjectivity of the ENT
      laryngeal examination in diagnosing LPR, both algorithms fall short of ideal in treating
      these patients. In a recent review of the literature, remarkably, up to 50% of patients with
      laryngoscopic signs suggesting LPR do not respond to aggressive acid suppression and do not
      have abnormal esophageal acid reflux values on pH testing (10). Yet, in this subset of
      patients LPR continues to be implicated as the probable etiology of the patient's laryngeal
      signs and symptoms.

      Calabrese, et al. recently looked at the reversibility of GERD related ultrastructural
      alterations in the esophagus using a PPI. Lower esophageal biopsies were analyzed with
      electron microscopy (EM) for ultrastructural alterations attributed to GERD; that is,
      dilation of intracellular spaces. Patients were then treated with a PPI and re-biopsied for
      analysis of any changes of healing that may have occurred in these ultrastructural
      alterations. Not surprisingly, the ultrastructural alterations showed complete recovery
      (reduction of dilated intracellular spaces) after treatment with a PPI. Additionally
      resolution of patient's symptoms coincided with recovery of ultrastructural alterations (11).
      No such biopsies looking for LPR related changes in the larynx have ever been performed in
      human subjects. Our initial study which is also submitted for review will provide data on the
      prevalence of biopsy findings in controls, GERD and LPR patients. Subsequent to this
      prevalence study, the importance of these findings will be assessed based to determine if
      these findings will predict response to acid suppressive therapy.

      In sum, LPR is an extremely subjective diagnosis, in which nearly half of all patients do not
      have an abnormal 24hr pH study, nor do they respond to the standard GERD therapy of acid
      suppression. Finding an alternative objective criterion for GERD induced laryngitis would be
      an important clinical discovery. To date, there are no data on microscopic changes in the
      larynx of patients suspected of having LPR. The most important question which this protocol
      will address is if laryngeal findings specifically by either routine microscopy or electron
      microscopy would predict response to PPI therapy. This would then result in being able to
      identify GERD related laryngitis from non-GERD related causes.
    
  