
    
      The levonorgestrel intrauterine system (LNG-IUC) is one of the most effective, reversible
      methods of contraception currently available in the United States. User satisfaction is
      overall high , however the most often cited reason for discontinuation is irregular bleeding
      . The LNG-IUC has mainly progesteronic effects on the uterine cavity. Morphological changes
      of the endometrium are observed, including stromal pseudo-decidualization and glandular
      atrophy . These endometrial changes may contribute to the irregular uterine bleeding
      experienced by women using the LNG-IUC. Up to 14% of women will discontinue the LNG-IUC
      within the 5-year period due to abnormal bleeding and up to 66% of woman who request removal
      of the LNG-IUC will do so in the first 6 months of use . Women may be less likely to
      discontinue the LNG-IUC due to abnormal bleeding patterns if they are counseled appropriately
      beforehand, however the prospect of irregular bleeding with few options for management may
      dissuade some women from even trying the LNG-IUC. A recent Cochrane review identified the
      need for further investigation into the treatment of irregular uterine bleeding caused by
      progestin only contraception .

      One treatment for progestin-induced irregular bleeding is the administration of nonsteroidal
      anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDs). A 1999 study showed a significant decrease in the number
      of bleeding days in women using the levonorgestrel sub-dermal implant randomized to mefenamic
      acid 500 mg compared to placebo . A 2004 study found a 50% reduction in bleeding in depot
      medroxyprogesterone (DPMA) users randomized to mefenamic acid versus placebo . There have
      been no studies looking specifically at NSAIDs for the prevention or treatment of LNG-IUC
      related irregular bleeding. Naproxen is an antiprostaglandin that is commonly used in
      gynecological practice for relief of dysmenorrhea and has been used to treat menorrhagia. It
      is widely available, inexpensive, well-tolerated and has a low incidence of side effects.

      Previous studies have also shown the administration of estrogen alone and estrogen-containing
      oral contraceptives to users of subdermal levonorgestrel implants (Norplant®) resulted in
      decreased frequency of irregular uterine bleeding , . A prior randomized, controlled trial
      found a 0.1mg estradiol patch resulted in the clinical improvement of abnormal bleeding,
      however this finding was not statistically significant . A randomized, controlled trial of
      DMPA users found the cyclic administration of 0.1mg estradiol patches did not decreases
      irregular menstrual bleeding . In this study, the cyclic use of estrogen may have resulted in
      lower or inconsistent serum estradiol levels. Additionally, the progestational mechanism of
      action is more similar between levonorgestrel subdermal implants and LNG-IUC than depot
      medroxyprogesterone. No study has specifically addressed estrogen for treatment of irregular
      bleeding with the LNG-IUC.
    
  