
    
      This is a multi-center, open-label (doctors and patients know which drug is being given),
      Phase IIIb clinical trial to evaluate the effectiveness, safety and tolerability of the
      combination of PREZISTA (darunavir)/ritonavir and TMC125 when substituted for enfuvirtide,
      current protease inhibitor(s) and Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NNRTI(s))
      in antiretroviral resistant patients with viral suppression but who are intolerant of
      enfuvirtide. This study will be conducted in the U.S. at up to 5 sites where 40 patients will
      receive PREZISTA (darunavir) /ritonavir twice daily (600/100mg) and TMC125 (200 mg) twice
      daily over a 48-week treatment period.

      The study will consist of a total of 11 patient visits. At the screening visit (Week -1 to
      -6) blood will be collected from patients to determine eligibility. Once all data are
      available to determine the eligibility of the patient, the baseline visit will be scheduled
      and trial treatment initiated at this visit. The Baseline Visit (Day 1) will be followed by a
      48-week treatment period. The patient will be evaluated at Weeks 2, 4, 8, 12, 16, 24, 36, and
      48. Patients will be asked to return for a 2-week follow up visit at Week 50.

      Treatment will include PREZISTA (darunavir) /ritonavir and TMC125 plus continued nucleosides.
      The patient must continue all existing nucleosides in their background regimen for the
      duration of the study.

      During the treatment period, the patient will be seen at regular visits during which the
      investigator will assess the patient's medical condition, any Adverse Events and study drug
      compliance. Laboratory evaluations for efficacy and safety will be done at regular visits.
      Study patients will receive oral (by mouth) PREZISTA (darunavir) 600 mg and 100 mg of
      ritonavir twice a day in combination with TMC125 200mg orally twice a day for 48 weeks.
    
  