
    
      Schizophrenia is a severe mental illness that affects 1% of the population, but accounts for
      over $60 billion in costs to the national healthcare system. Negative symptoms of
      schizophrenia, including motivational deficits, are some of the most debilitating aspects of
      the disorder, being both difficult to treat and representing one of the most significant
      barriers to functional recovery. One pathophysiologic pathway that may contribute to these
      alterations in reward circuitry in schizophrenia is inflammation. Increased inflammation has
      been reliably linked to deficits in reward processing and decreased motivation via effects of
      inflammatory cytokines on regions of the basal ganglia, including the ventral striatum.
      Previous findings show that some patients with schizophrenia reliably exhibit elevated
      concentrations of inflammatory markers and that inflammatory cytokines may be related to
      negative symptoms including decreased motivation. Relevant to the impact of inflammation on
      insulin signaling, measures of insulin sensitivity are significantly worse in patients with
      schizophrenia, including at illness onset. Moreover, antipsychotic medications lead to
      metabolic syndrome, contributing to risk for insulin resistance and ultimately diabetes.
      Insulin resistance is believed to be caused by increased inflammation, and in turn can
      contribute to inflammation through alterations in glucose metabolism.

      This study uses an oral glucose tolerance test to test the hypothesis that insulin resistance
      drives inflammation. The researchers will recruit subjects with a range of insulin
      resistance, as measured by the Homeostatic Model Assessment of Insulin Resistance (HOMA-IR).
      This will allow the researchers to investigate the contributions of metabolic dysfunction and
      inflammation on inflammatory and metabolic markers, brain reward circuitry, motivational
      deficits, and negative symptoms.
    
  