
    
      This study is a Randomized interventional study to be done at neurosurgery department, Assiut
      Universitu Hospital, Assiut university, Egypt.

        1. Vertebroplasty To achieve a low complication rate, the most important factor which
           influences the result of the vertebroplasty is the visualization of needle placement and
           cement application. Vertebroplasty may be performed using both fluoroscopy, and CT
           scanning to obtain an accurate visualization of needle position and cement distribution.
           The monitoring of the distribution of the cement under direct fluoroscopic control is
           another crucial aspect of the procedure, independently from the technique used for
           needle placement.

           Vertebroplasty can be performed under local anaesthesia or a combination of conscious
           sedation in most patients, and is therefore particularly useful in patients with risk
           factors for general anaesthesia. General anaesthesia is required only in patients unable
           to cooperate due to pain or in very agitated patients.

           The access path depends on the level of the vertebral segment to be injected. In the
           lumbar spine, a transpedicular route is preferred. In the thoracic vertebrae, an
           intercostovertebral access is recommended. In the cervical vertebrae, an anterolateral
           approach is used.

           The cement should be injected while in its tooth-paste like phase to minimize
           complications from extravasation in the surrounding tissues, as the flow characteristics
           of the cement change over the time.

           Cement injection may be stopped when the anterior two thirds of the vertebral body are
           filled and the cement is homogenously distributed between both endplates. During cement
           injection, continuous fluoroscopic monitoring is performed to immediately detect
           extravasations of cement. In case of extravasation, the procedure must be interrupted.

           A direct correlation between the risk of extraosseous extravasation and the amount of
           cement injection has been proposed, but, to date, no studies have addressed the specific
           issue of the volume of cement needed during vertebroplasty. Normally, 2.5-4 mL of cement
           should provide good filling of the vertebra and achieve both consolidation and pain
           relief in patients with osteoporotic fractures.

        2. Kyphoplasty Kyphoplasty is normally performed under general anaesthesia in some patients
           as proper placement of the balloons is mandatory, and several steps need to be taken
           before cement can be injected.

      A mono- or bilateral trans- or para-pedicular approach is used to insert a working cannula
      into the posterior aspect of the vertebral body. The procedure is performed under fluoroscopy
      or CT scan control. With reaming tools, two working channels within the anterior aspect of
      the vertebral body are produced, and the appropriate balloon is inserted. To reduce the
      fractured vertebra and to produce a cavity, the balloon is inflated using visual volume and
      pressure controls. The behaviour of the vertebral body is monitored under fluoroscopic
      control. Inflation is stopped when a pressure above 250 psi is obtained, when the balloon
      contacts the cortical surface of the vertebral body, or if the balloon expands beyond the
      border of the vertebral body, and if the height of the vertebra is restored. Successively,
      the balloons are retracted and cement polymethylmetacrylate (PMMA) is injected using a blunt
      cannula under continuous fluoroscopic control.
    
  