
    
      After a pilot study regarding opioid use for patient after THR, the sample size for either
      treatment or control arm is calculated to be 35 patients per group to achieve adequate power
      to detect such a difference.

      Sealed opaque envelopes with allocation inside is prepared forehand and is subsequently drawn
      on the day of surgery. The attending anaesthetist receives the envelope right before
      induction, and opens the envelope after the patient is put under general anaesthesia (GA). If
      the operation is cancelled or the patient cannot use PCA post-operatively (e.g.
      post-operative mechanical ventilation) or post-operative delirium), the envelope is put back
      into the pool.

      After the patient is put under GA and turned lateral, the envelope is opened. For the
      treatment arm, lumbar ESP block is performed while for control arm no regional anaesthesia is
      performed nor saline is injected into the ESP. Before proceeding to ESP block, the back is
      cleaned with aseptic technique and draped. 40 mL of 0.25% levobupivacaine (or maximum of
      2mg/kg body weight made up to same volume) is injected into the ESP.

      After the injection, the surgeon is told not to infiltrate any local anaesthetics into the
      incision site or the wound. Intra-operatively, intravenous fentanyl is given as the only
      analgesic by the attending anaesthetist. Post-operatively, the patient is given fentanyl PCA
      of standard setting anaesthetist). The patient is also given all the pre-operative regular
      oral analgesic agents post-operatively, including paracetamol, NSAID, gabapentinoid and/or
      weak opioid (DF118 or tramadol).

      The patient is assessed by an independent assessor from the acute pain service team 24 hours
      after the operation, who is blinded from the allocation result. Primary outcomes, that are
      post-operative 12 and 24 hour PCA fentanyl use and pain score in numeric rating scale (NRS)
      from 0 to 10 at rest and upon mobilisation are assessed and documented in the electronic
      system and also the patient chart. Secondary outcomes like presence/absence of PONV and knee
      flexion power in MRC scale are also noted.

      The data are collected by the investigator and input to Excel 2003. 2-sided student's t test
      is used to compare the primary outcomes and also knee flexion power between treatment group
      and control group, while the rate of PONV between two groups is compared by Chi-square test.
      Multi-variate regression is done to control for the effect of oral analgesics on study
      outcomes.
    
  