
    
      The proposed study seeks to better understand genetic literacy in the U.S. Latino

      population by developing and validating a Spanish-language measure of genetic literacy and

      subsequently exploring the relationships between genetic literacy, personal characteristics,

      exposure to genetics, acculturation, and self-efficacy to discuss family health history

      information. This study is primarily informed by research in health literacy, which is
      defined as

      an individual s ability to understand and use health information to make informed decisions.

      Past research has modeled the effects of demographic factors, prior experience, and prior

      knowledge on health literacy, and in turn to health behaviors and outcomes. These same

      domains apply when considering the concept and operationalization of genetic literacy: an

      individual s ability to understand and use genetics-related information to make informed

      decisions.

      Numerous studies have reported the wide prevalence of disparities among minorities in various
      areas of healthcare, including use of genetics services, and many of these inequalities have
      been related to low health literacy. Latinos represent one group in particular that has been
      shown to have both low health literacy and some of the poorest health outcomes. A few studies
      have explored the public s knowledge of genetics, and differences in level of understanding
      were found amongst minority groups. Given the increasing importance of genetics in healthcare
      and the rapidly growing population of Latinos in the U.S., it is of particular importance to
      assess this population s genetic literacy. The first aim of this study is to develop a
      Spanish-language genetic literacy measure and validate it against an existing
      Spanish-language health literacy measure. Then this study will examine the relationship of
      genetic literacy in the Latino population to certain demographic characteristics, previous
      exposure to genetics, acculturation, and participants self-efficacy to discuss health history
      information with family members and providers. Study participants will be recruited through
      convenience sampling in three different areas of Maryland with a high percentage of Latinos.
      This study will contribute to the limited body of knowledge about genetic literacy in the
      Latino population, and expand understanding of how genetic literacy influences individuals
      genetics-related self-efficacy.
    
  