
    
      Despite most clinical guidelines throughout the world indicate that the clinicians take two
      bitewings for detecting caries lesions in primary molars of asymptomatic children, the
      evidence for this recommendation is based in cross-sectional studies performed in
      laboratorial setting or using convenience samples. The benefits and impact of performing
      radiographs on diagnosis and treatment decision of caries lesions in primary teeth,
      considering relevant outcomes for the patients, have not been evaluated yet. Thus, the aim of
      this study will be to evaluate the impact of performing radiographic examination for
      detecting caries lesions in primary teeth compared with the visual inspection performed
      alone, considering different outcomes related to the validity and children's health and
      welfare. For this, three different studies will be carried out according the following
      specific aims: (1) to evaluate the validity of radiographic examination adjunct to the visual
      inspection in detecting proximal caries lesions in primary molars in children with low and
      high caries experience through a cross-sectional design; (2) to evaluate the impact of
      radiographic examination adjunct to the visual inspection on the diagnostic and treatment
      decision of caries lesions in primary teeth in a before and after study; and (3) to evaluate
      the impact of radiographic examination adjunct to the visual inspection for detecting caries
      lesions in primary teeth on operative needs in the follow-ups and impact of oral health on
      the quality of life through a randomized clinical trial. To reach these objectives, 250
      children aged 3 to 6 years who looked for dental treatment in our dental school will be
      randomly allocated in two groups according to the diagnostic strategy used for caries
      detection: visual inspection performed alone (control group) or visual inspection associated
      to radiographic examination (experimental group). After elaboration of treatment decision
      plan for two examiners, the children will be treated and followed-up for 2 years, with
      evaluations after 12 and 24 months after the ingress of the children in the study. The
      primary outcome will be the number of dental surfaces with dental treatment need in the
      follow-up, considering the aim (3). Then, children allocated in the control group will be
      reevaluated using radiographic examination, and the performance of two strategies for
      detecting proximal caries lesions will be evaluated, using temporary separation with
      orthodontic rubbers for one week as reference standard method. Moreover, a new treatment plan
      will be performed and compared with the treatment plan based on visual inspection alone.
      These two parts of the research will be carried out to reach the aims (1) and (2),
      respectively. Our working hypothesis is that the radiographic examination would actually
      exert little influence on outcomes related to the validity and children's health and welfare,
      and that visual inspection would be enough as diagnostic strategy for caries detection in
      primary teeth.
    
  