
    
      The Vascular Join consists of two symmetrical parts, called Vessel Rings, each of which is
      fixed to the extremity of the two conduits being joined together. A third ring, called
      Coupler Ring, keeps the two rings together with a snap-on system and guarantees the
      continuity of the severed conduit in an end-to-end configuration. Each ring is made within a
      cylinder-type steel AISI 316L. The circular shape of the Vessel rings, the inner part in
      particular, provides a natural physiologic vascular reconstruction reducing the risk of
      thrombosis and myointimal hyperplasia at the anastomotic site.

      We propose to evaluate the ease of use, efficiency, security of the "Vascular Join" and
      long-term results (6 months) in patients with peripheral vascular disease requiring vascular
      bypass. Each patient has a proximal anastomosis and distal anastomosis performed with the
      "Vascular Join". Next, measure the flow in the bypass through an ultrasonic flow meter.

      The objective is to achieve a vascular bypass using the mechanical device described above and
      to define the incidence of major and minor vascular complications in the postoperative 7 days
      (or until discharge), as well as primary and secondary permeability bypass after 6 months.
      What we define as major vascular complications are death, stroke, acute occlusion, partial
      occlusion, and reoperation for redo the mechanical anastomosis. We define as minor
      complications residual pain, and bleeding.

      In the case of partial or complete failure of the mechanical suture, the surgeon can add
      points of suture or performing anastomosis with the traditional technique.

      After 6 months, a Doppler will allow us to compare to each patient, the morphology of the
      anastomoses performed with the "Vascular Join," and the permeability of the bypass. The
      results will be compared to historical results of primary and secondary permeability present
      in the literature.

      The 2 main objectives of this study are to assess if the device still works after 6 months
      (so called device's performance) and if it is as safe as standard technique (running or
      interrupted suture) in terms of incidence of complications as bleeding, infection and
      occlusion. Simple size has therefore been calculated in terms of equivalence risk. In this
      case the null hypothesis specify that the success rate Pc in the standard treatment is higher
      than the success rate PE in the vascular join treatment by at least some amount ß.

      The alternative hypothesis specifies that PC - PE < ß, which implies the 2 therapies are
      equivalent. The following formula provides the required number of patients for such a trial:

      Ho: PC >(or =) PE + ß vs H1: PC <(or =) PE + ß . Because, taking historical data as
      reference, the incidence of all complications in peripheral bypasses could be as high as 50%
      at 6 months, the number of 30 patients was selected.

      The post-operative treatment and remote monitoring of patients remained unchanged (Aspirin
      100 mg/d and control angiological at 3 and 6 months).

      Patient's follow-up is the same as any other patient receiving femoral artery bypass, which
      means physical examination and Doppler ultrasound of the bypass before the discharge, 1, 3
      and 6 months after the procedure.

      If the patient misses the scheduled control, the PI will apply the procedure in use at the
      Cardiovascular Surgery Dpt to contact him, which includes phone calls to the patient, the
      contact person he/her identified at the admission and to the GP.
    
  