
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common types of cancer in the world. High
      cancer recurrence is still the major cause of death of HCC patients. The major poor
      prognostic factors included vascular invasion, high α-FP, large tumor size, or tumor
      satellitosis, etc. Among the various literature reports with multivariate analysis, vascular
      invasion of the tumor is the major contribution of high recurrence and poor survival.
      Therefore, identifying differentially expressed genes between vascular-invasion and
      non-vascular invasion of HCCs is important.

      After suppression subtractive hybridization and microarray experiments, the investigators
      identified 20 differentially-expressed genes between vascular-invasive, and non-vascular
      invasive HCCs. One of the most interesting gene is leukocyte cell-derived chemotaxin 2
      (LECT2). Further evaluation of the role of LECT2 on HCCs, the investigators found (1) Higher
      invasiveness, the lower of LECT2 gene expression in the HCC cell lines. (2) Conditioned
      medium with high LECT2 content will inhibit HCC invasion. (3) The invasion ability decreased
      in LECT2-overexpression hepatoma cell line. (4) In transendothelial cell migration assay, the
      investigators could observed invasion ability increased when LECT2 was knockdown in HCC cell
      line. (5) The lower expression of LECT2 gene in human HCCs correlate with higher tumor stage,
      early recurrence, and poor prognosis. (6) In vivo experiments revealed LECT2 can inhibit the
      ability of intravasation or metastatic ability of HCC.

      Electrosensing antibody probing system (e- Ab sensor), which was developed for the rapid and
      sensitive detection of hapten, proteins, or viral antigen in medical samples, will be used
      for analyzing the interaction kinetics between specific anti- LECT2 and its antigen (LECT2
      with liver cancer) present in the specimens of patients with liver cancer. The system
      incorporates the use of engineered semiconductive antibodies or virus in vertical and lateral
      chip (eAbchip) or lateral flow through (eAbsignal) formats. In electrosensing antibody
      probing, semiconductive antibodies are bound as a suitable electrosensing probe, which
      specifically and selectively binds targeted molecules (i.e. specific LECT2) in the test
      specimens. From assessment of the electric signature of semiconductive mutation-specific
      anti-LECT2 antibodies, the eABprobe could offer sensitive detection and precise
      quantification of specific LECT2.

      To develop a real-time diagnostic technique with e- Ab sensor for specific LECT2 detection in
      clinical specimens of HCC patients, the investigators conduct a prospective clinical study.
      The investigators evaluate the performance of e- Ab sensor, including reproducibility,
      sensitivity, specificity, and cross-reaction. With such technique, the investigators can
      obtain LECT2 information of HCC patients in cost-saving and time-saving way and can offer
      more individualized treatment for our patients.
    
  