
    
      Parkinson disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease affecting at least 1 million people in
      the U.S. Each year, 9,000 PD patients undergo deep brain stimulator (DBS) placement into the
      subthalamic nucleus (STN-DBS), the most commonly used basal ganglia target. Despite motor
      improvement, up to 50% of patients have cognitive impairment after DBS. Cognitive impairment
      is associated with a 2-3 fold increase in mortality, progression to dementia, and nursing
      home placement. At present, subjects with cognitive impairment after DBS cannot be identified
      pre-operatively and the effects of DBS on cognitive function are not fully understood. A
      specific group of PD patients, carriers of mutations in the glucocerebrosidase (GBA) gene,
      are at particularly high risk for cognitive impairment. PD-GBA mutation carriers have
      dysfunction of the glucocerebrosidase (GCase) enzyme, resulting in more rapid accumulation
      and spread of Lewy bodies compared with non-mutation carriers. Clinically, PD-GBA mutation
      carriers have: (1) deficits in visual memory due to higher Lewy body burden in hippocampal
      and medial temporal regions, and (2) faster progression to dementia secondary to diffuse
      cortical Lewy body pathology. Approximately 10-17% of PD subjects with DBS carry GBA
      mutations, indicating that a substantial portion of the DBS population may be susceptible to
      cognitive problems. Importantly, STN-DBS itself can impair cognition through modulation of
      the striato-anterior cingulate cortex circuit, resulting in impulsivity and more errors when
      faced with tasks that rely on executive functions. Therefore, the central hypothesis is that
      PD-GBA mutation carriers have greater global cognitive decline after STN-DBS compared with
      PD-GBA mutation carriers without STN-DBS, and compared with non-mutation carriers with and
      without STN-DBS. This is a critical area of research because if an association between GBA
      and STN-DBS is detected, clinicians will be able to identify subjects at risk for worsened
      cognitive dysfunction through genetic testing and prevent harm by: (1) recommending that
      PD-GBA mutation carriers avoid STN-DBS, or (2) considering an alternative DBS target such as
      the globus pallidus interna (GPi) that may have less cognitive side effects. The following
      aims are proposed: Aim 1: Determine the longitudinal changes in global cognitive function in
      PD-GBA mutation carriers and non-mutation carriers with and without STN-DBS; Aim 2: Determine
      the specific pattern of cognitive dysfunction in PD-GBA mutation carriers and non-mutation
      carriers with and without STN-DBS; Aim 3: Determine the differential effects of DBS on
      cognitive function in the ON-stimulation state vs. OFF-stimulation state, comparing PD-GBA
      mutation and non-mutation carriers.
    
  