
    
      This is an open-label 2-period randomized cross-over trial in 16 healthy volunteers. Eligible
      volunteers will be randomized to 2 groups. Volunteers in Group A will receive in Period 1 a
      single dose of oral midazolam and a drug cocktail alone on Day 1 and 2, respectively
      (Treatment A). In Period 2, they will receive 150 mg TMC435 once daily on Days 1-11 with a
      single dose of oral midazolam and a drug cocktail on Day 10 and 11, respectively (Treatment
      B). Volunteers in Group B will receive in Period 1 Treatment B and in Period 2 Treatment A.
      There is a period of at least 14 days between the two periods to ensure that all drugs
      administered in the previous period have been degraded and will not interfere with the
      measurements of the following period. The cocktail consists of midazolam (administered
      intravenously (abbreviated as "i.v.", which means directly injected into a blood vein.
      Injection occurs over a period of 1 minute via a a small tube (canula) that is brought into
      the blood vein to ease slow injection of the drug), omeprazole, dextromethorphan, caffeine
      and warfarin. Each of these drugs is being degraded by a specific drug-degrading protein of
      the CYP family, and are therefore ideal tools to reveal the activity of this specific
      protein. The amount of TMC435, midazolam, cocktail drugs (and some of their metabolites, i.e.
      degradation products) in blood will be assessed on selected time points. Safety and
      tolerability of the coadministration of TMC435 and oral midazolam and of TMC435 and the drug
      cocktail will be assessed throughout the trial. Safety and tolerability follow up includes
      the assessment of several blood parameters (blood cells, biochemical activity of certain
      proteins, minerals, coagulation factors, …), of several parameters in urine (blood cells,
      proteins, glucose, …) and of the cardiac activity (via electrocardiogram, blood pressure,
      pulse rate). Healthy volunteers will receive treatments in either A-B sequence or B-A
      sequence. Treatment A consists of oral midazolam (0.075 mg/kg) on Day1 and cocktail (*) on
      Day2. Treatment B consists of TMC435 (150 mg q.d.) on Day1-11, oral midazolam (0.075 mg/kg)
      on Day10 and cocktail (*) on Day11. (*) Cocktail: 0.025 mg/kg midazolam (i.v.),
      dextromethorphan (30 mg, orally), caffeine (150 mg, orally), omeprazole (40 mg, orally) and
      warfarin (10 mg, orally) supplemented with vitamin K (10 mg, orally)
    
  