
    
      Osteoporosis is a common complication in chronic liver disease, especially in the late stages
      of the disease. The main mechanism involved in the development of osteoporosis in patients
      with cirrhosis is the deficit of bone formation due to the harmful effect of substances such
      as bilirubin and bile acids or the toxic effect of alcohol or iron on osteoblasts .

      Good nutrition and calcium and vitamin D supplementation are recommended for the prevention
      and treatment of osteoporosis. There are no specific guidelines for its pharmacological
      treatment, but bisphosphonates have been shown to be effective in increasing bone mass in
      patients with chronic cholestasis, with a good safety profile.

      Hospital admissions in relation to osteoporotic fractures in cirrhotic patients are frequent
      with a high morbidity and mortality rate. There are few studies evaluating the prevalence of
      osteoporosis in patients with cirrhosis with a different etiology from PBC and the existing
      series are published years ago with few patient numbers. There are no clear recommendations
      for osteoporosis screening in cirrhotic patients. A diagnosis and early therapeutic
      intervention before the onset of the complications derived would significantly improve the
      quality of life and decrease the morbidity and mortality associated with osteoporosis and
      fractures

      Objective:

        -  To assess the prevalence of osteoporosis and fragility fractures in patients with liver
           cirrhosis in our country.

        -  To assess the risk factors associated with osteoporosis and fractures in these patients.

      Method:

      Patients diagnosed with hepatic cirrhosis, other than PBC, will be included in any Child
      stage during a hospital admission. Epidemiological, demographic, clinical, analytical and
      imaging data (dorso-lumbar spine radiography, bone densitometry and Trabecular Bone Score)
      will be evaluated. Additional visits to those already carried out in normal practice will not
      be necessary. A descriptive statistic of the main variables will be carried out as well as a
      multivariate analysis to evaluate the predictive factors of osteoporosis and / or fragility
      fractures
    
  