
    
      There are two treatment phases in this study. But before you begin in the study, we will need
      to find out whether you are eligible for the study. You will undergo the following
      procedures.

        -  Medical history review and physical exam

        -  Blood tests for hematology, chemistries, PSA, and immune assays (approximately 4
           tablespoons of blood)

        -  EKG

        -  CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis and a bone scan

        -  Complete a pain questionnaire, quality of life questionnaire, pain medication diary, and
           symptom diary

      The initial treatment phase of this study consists of chemotherapy drug given weekly. You
      will receive 3 weekly chemotherapy treatments followed by 1 week with no treatment. Three
      weeks of treatment followed by one week of no treatment is considered 1 cycle, and you will
      receive a total of 4 cycles of chemotherapy over a 16-week period. Taxotere is given
      intravenously in the clinic on the 1st day of each weekly treatment.

      Treatment with taxotere is a currently accepted treatment for this stage prostate cancer.
      Your doctor may recommend you receive taxotere even if you do not participate in this study.
      During this phase of treatment, you will have blood draws on treatment weeks prior to having
      the chemotherapy. You will have a PSA drawn every month (weeks 5, 9, and 13). We will ask you
      to complete a pain questionnaire, quality of life questionnaire, pain medication diary, and
      symptom diary at weeks 5, 9, and 13. Some of the questions may be personal, such as "I am
      satisfied with my sex life" and "I worry about dying". You do not have to answer these
      questions if you do not want to. You will also have a physical exam at the beginning of your
      3rd cycle of treatment (week 9).

      The second phase of the treatment program is the experimental part: immunotherapy with IL2.
      You will be assigned to receive one of 4 doses of IL2. This is because we are testing what is
      the highest dose of IL2 that a subject can receive without having unacceptable side affects
      from the IL2. You will give yourself shots of IL2 under the skin twice a day for 5 days per
      week for 3 weeks. During the 3rd week of treatment there are 2 days when you have to give a
      higher dose of IL2 for boosting the immune cells (see below diagram). The 4th week will be a
      rest week where you do not receive treatment. One 4-week period of IL2 treatment is called a
      cycle. You will continue to receive cycles of IL2 treatment as long as your cancer shows no
      further growth. We will teach you how to administer the IL2 at home.
    
  