
    
      Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a relatively new treatment for skin cancer and sun-damaged
      skin, which may turn cancerous or pre-cancerous. PDT treatment consists of applying a gel
      containing aminolevulinic acid hydrochloride (licensed for clinical use as Ameluz®) to the
      abnormal area. Inside the diseased cells this gel is changed over a few hours into a
      light-sensitive chemical (photosensitiser) that reacts with light. The photosensitiser is
      inactive by itself. A red light is then shone on to the lesion; this reacts with the
      photosensitiser and destroys the abnormal cells. Only the treated area will be affected and
      inflamed. The area will be cured in most cases after the inflammation clears.

      Actinic keratosis (AK) is a type of pre-cancerous lesion caused by sun damage. If left, they
      can progress to become skin cancer. These can be treated in different ways, with different
      topical creams, liquid nitrogen or PDT. Some lesions may have reoccurred after topical
      creams, patients also have unacceptable amount of inflammation or the lesion involve too
      large an area. Liquid nitrogen is as good as PDT in treating AKs, however have been reported
      to leave a less good cosmetic result.

      PDT is a licensed treatment for AK. However, PDT has been shown to be less effective for AKs
      on certain areas such as hands and feet. Further understanding of the build-up of the
      photosensitiser may enable better cure rates at these body parts, enabling more patients to
      benefit from PDT.

      The proposed theory is that a longer application of the Ameluz gel will increase the amount
      of photosensitiser, which accumulates in the treated areas, and thus increase the amount of
      damage to cells, and mean that more patients have a successful treatment.

      The aim of this study is to investigate whether applying the Ameluz gel for 4 hours (trial
      group) rather than 3 hours (control group) will improve treatment success rates in AK lesions
      on hands, feet, arms and legs. The information gained from this study may result in better
      treatment design of PDT for AK.

      To do this the investigators plan to apply Ameluz® gel to AK lesions for either the standard
      3 hours or the currently unlicensed 4 hours. The investigators will then measure the amount
      of that has changed into the photosensitiser, using a special digital camera. This camera
      device is not invasive and does not have any side effects. Some patients may have multiple AK
      lesions on multiple sites; the investigator aim to treat all these in the same manner due to
      practicality, and will record data for these lesions as well.

      The investigator will record if patients report any associated pain during light delivery, as
      well as the temperature of the lesion during treatment. Some patients opt to have an external
      cooling system or water spray during the light treatment, but in order to standardise
      treatment during the trial this will not be used. The investigator will however give patients
      the option of taking paracetamol themselves prior to the treatment. A dermatology doctor will
      then review the patients at three months following treatment to see if their AK has been
      cured, and receive further treatment if needed.

      The pathway is the same as standard PDT treatment and does not involve an extra visit.
    
  