
    
      Background:

      MESA was derived from an NHLBI Task Force on Research in Epidemiology and Prevention in which
      investigation of subclinical disease and its progression to clinical disease was recommended
      as a major focus for future NHLBI population studies. This was followed by a Special Emphasis
      Panel on Longitudinal Cohort Studies in 1995, which strongly recommended studies based on
      subclinical disease measures, and the inclusion of underrepresented minorities in
      population-based research. A subsequent Special Emphasis Panel on Use of Cardiac EBCT and MRI
      in Epidemiologic Studies of Cardiovascular Disease in 1996 recommended inclusion of carotid
      and cardiac MRI and EBCT in elucidating the progression of subclinical to clinical disease
      and identifying subclinical disease characteristics most strongly associated with increased
      risk. Requests for Proposals were released in 1997 and awards were made in 1999.

      Design Narrative:

      Participants were examined at baseline for evidence of subclinical CVD using cardiac computed
      tomography (CT), cardiac MRI, carotid ultrasound, flow-mediated brachial artery dilation,
      radial artery tonometry, ankle-brachial index measurement; established and putative
      laboratory risk markers; and socioeconomic, psychological, behavioral, and environmental
      characteristics. Selected baseline components were repeated and additional components such as
      spirometry, retinal photography, genotyping, cognitive function assessment and, in subsets,
      abdominal aortic CT, carotid MRI, cardiac MRI tagging for measures of regional myocardial
      function, were introduced over five subsequent examinations through 2018. Stored blood
      samples have been assayed for putative biochemical risk factors and stored for case-control
      studies. DNA has been extracted for study of candidate genes, genome-wide scanning,
      expression, and other -omics investigations, and lymphocytes were cryopreserved for possible
      immortalization.

      MESA is unique in its composition of four ethnic groups, having a cohort free of clinical CVD
      at baseline, and having multiple - and in some cases unique - subclinical CVD measures over
      time in the same individuals. Data collected from a large number and variety of MESA
      ancillary studies, including major ancillary studies on air pollution, chronic lung disease,
      genetics, and sleep, further contribute to its uniqueness. For a list of all phenotypic data
      documentation and protocols, refer to the MESA website: www.mesa-nhlbi.org. The MESA data are
      available to qualifying investigators directly from the study and also through dbGaP
      (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gap) and BioLINCC (https://biolincc.nhlbi.nih.gov). A variety of
      stored biospecimens are also available from the study, including DNA, serum, plasma, and
      urine.
    
  