
    
      This is a prospective cohort study. Patients with lumbar degenerative diseases and symptoms
      of nerve compression (radiculopathy or neurogenic claudication) who will undergo surgical
      treatment for neural decompression (discectomy, foraminotomy or laminectomy).

      The cohort will be followed by a team researcher (not blinded to the purpose of the study) at
      preoperative (up to 1 month before surgery), immediate postoperative (12 to 24 hours after
      procedure), 06, 12 and 24 months after surgery. Imaging tests will be performed on the
      preoperative evaluation and at six months follow-up after the operation.

      The treatment will consist of lumbar decompression surgery, which may consist of discectomy,
      foraminotomy or laminectomy, according to the type and location of the compression. The
      choice of surgical technique will be made by the assistant surgeon.

      Patients will be divided into four groups regarding the type of soft tissue retractor and
      image magnification:

      Group 1: (minimally invasive microdiscectomy): surgeries performed with loupes or microscope
      plus minimally invasive soft tissue retractors (tubular or "Caspar").

      Group 2: (open microdiscectomy) surgeries performed with loupes or microscope plus
      conventional soft tissue retractors (auto static, "Taylor" or "McCulloch").

      Group 3: (endoscopic discectomy): surgeries performed by means of the "full endoscopic"
      technique;

      Group 4: (open discectomy "with the naked eye"): surgeries performed without image
      magnification. Use of conventional soft tissue retractors (auto static, "Taylor" or
      "McCulloch").

      Image Evaluation:

        1. X-Rays (anteroposterior, lateral, dynamic lateral films) - to evaluate and measure the
           presence of scoliosis, spondylolisthesis or Degenerative vertebral dislocations.

        2. MRI: to detect and to grade the presence of fat infiltration of the Psoas and Multifidus
           muscles (Arabanas et al); to grade Modic Signal and facet joint degeneration (Weishaupt
           et al).

      Sample size:

      For the sample size estimation, we considered the main outcome of the study, a 1.5-point
      change in the pain scale (VAS) among patients with fat infiltration (grades 1, 2, or 3) and
      without fat infiltration (grade 0), after 6 months of spine surgery, with 80% power and 95%
      confidence, the sample required for the study is 28 patients in each group considering a
      two-tailed test. Similarly to the previous study, we observed that the first 14 patients in
      the pilot study, 20% of patients had without fat infiltration, therefore, as the admission of
      patients into the study is consecutive, we expect to find this same percentage of patients
      without fat infiltration in the final sample of patients, so 140 patients are needed to get
      28 patients without fat infiltration. Predicting a loss of 20% of patients at 6 months of
      follow-up, the initial sample to be considered will be 168 patients to obtain the minimum
      number of patients required in each group.

      Statistics:

      Numerical variables with normal distribution will be described by means and standard
      deviations and variables with non-normal distribution by medians and interquartile ranges, in
      addition to the minimum and maximum values. The distributions of numerical variables will be
      verified by histograms, boxplots, and, if necessary, Shapiro-Wilk normality tests.
      Categorical variables will be described by absolute frequencies and percentages. The analyzes
      will be performed with the SPSS26 program, considering a 5% significance level.
    
  