
    
      Indications: Patients of advanced reproductive age wishing to receive preimplantation genetic
      screening in ART.

      Objectives: To demonstrate that Preimplantation Genetic diagnosis (PGD) will significantly
      reduce spontaneous abortions and increase ongoing pregnancy rates in patients of advanced
      maternal age (37-42) undergoing IVF.

      Test Method: Preimplantation Genetic Screening through FISH Treatment: In Vitro Fertilization
      treatment. The resulting embryos of the test group will undergo embryo biopsy followed by PGD
      with FISH using a 10-probe test with "no result rescue".

      Study Population: 978 infertile women undergoing ART Major Inclusions: Premenopausal
      infertile women wishing to conceive, aged 37 42 years, inclusive, regular menstrual cycles
      and screening early follicular phase FSH within normal limits.

      Major Exclusions: Clinically significant systemic disease; any contraindication to pregnancy
      or carrying pregnancy to term; known ASRM Grade III or IV endometriosis; clinically
      significant abnormal findings on a transvaginal ultrasound within 6 weeks prior to the
      beginning of OCP treatment; extrauterine pregnancy within 3 months prior to the beginning of
      OCP treatment; poor response in a previous ART cycle (≤ 3 oocytes retrieved); ≥ 3 prior,
      initiated, consecutive ART cycles without a clinical pregnancy; prior severe OHSS; TESA and
      TESE patients; patients carriers of chromosomal or genetic diseases.

      Randomization: Eligible patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to either:

      Group A: Hatching "or" Group B: Hatching + PGS Study Procedures The study will be conducted
      on an outpatient basis. All pre-study screening assessments will be performed prior to
      treatment start.

      Post-treatment Oocyte retrieval and embryology procedures will be Procedures performed
      according to the usual practice of the study center. Test Method Hatching, embryo biopsy,
      fixation and Fluorescence in-situ Hybridization (FISH) will be performed strictly in line
      with the methodology included in this protocol and only carried out by technicians certified
      by Reprogenetics.

      Primary Endpoint: ongoing pregnancy rate (past 2nd trimester). Secondary Endpoints:
      implantation rate, pregnancy rate, miscarriage rate and live birth.
    
  