
    
      This case-control study (the first phase of the GEMINI project) is primarily focused on
      exploring the etiology (etiologies) of squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus in northern
      Iran.

      Esophageal and gastric cancers, together, are responsible for more than 1,000,000 annual
      deaths in the world. In 1996, cancers of the stomach and esophagus ranked first and second
      respectively, among the most frequent cancers in Iran, excluding skin cancers. Some of the
      highest incidence rates for esophageal cancer in the world have been reported in Northeastern
      Iran, in Northern Gonbad, with Age Standardized Rates (ASR) of 109/100,000 in men and
      175/100,000 in women (1). These rates are approximately 40 times higher than those seen in
      the US. In this area, unlike most areas of the world, the incidence is higher in women than
      in men. Additionally, within 300 miles along the southern border of Caspian Sea, the rates
      fall to 10/100,000. The highest rates of EC in the world, a unique geographical distribution
      of cases, and an exceptionally high rate among women all make Northern Iran a very intriguing
      site for studying this disease.

      An upper-GI referral clinic (Atrak Clinic) has already been established in Gonbad, Golestan
      Province, and DDRC researchers have conducted feasibility studies in this clinic. For the
      case-control study, local internists and other health system workers will refer suspected
      cases of esophageal cancer to the Clinic. All such patients will undergo endoscopy and biopsy
      for ascertainment of diagnosis. Patients who have histologically confirmed esophageal
      squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus and consent to join the study will be enrolled as
      cases. There will be two control groups in this study, one selected from the neighborhood of
      case subjects and one from the patients referred to Atrak Clinic who do not have cancer. The
      neighborhood control group will serve as the primary control group. Both the cases and the
      controls will be interviewed and undergo collection of biological specimens including blood,
      hair and nails. Free (and optional) endoscopy will also be offered to the neighborhood
      controls. A four-year accrual of 300 cases, 600 neighborhood controls and 300 clinic controls
      is expected.

      Environmental risk factors (including life-style, habits, and nutritional status) will be
      assessed through questionnaires and objective measurements in biological specimens. The role
      of genetic polymorphisms will be studies using genomic DNA from cases and controls. A subset
      of samples collected from cases and controls will be used to evaluate gene expression
      patterns, using microarray analysis, differences in serum protein patterns, using SELDI
      analysis.
    
  