
    
      Objective To explore the efficacy and the optimal dose of sufentanil in PCIA in patients
      underwent moderate surgery for the purpose of providing reference in clinical practice.

      Methods 60 patients aging from 20 to 75，BMI 18 to 28 kg/m2，American Society of
      Anesthesiologists (ASA) grade I to II, anticipated surgery duration within 4 hrs and agreed
      to sign consent paper were scheduled for selective moderate surgery(including abdominal
      surgery and arthroplasty). Exclusive criteria: severe respiratory, cardiovascular or
      neurological disease, hepatic or renal dysfunction, psychiatric history or with unstable
      mental state, drug addiction or dependence. All patients were randomly assigned into 3
      groups, S1 received 1.5 ug/kg sufentanil in PCIA, S2 received 2.0 ug/kg sufentanil, S3
      received 2.5 ug/kg sufentanil. All patients received general anesthesia which was induced
      with midazolam 2mg, sufentanil 0.5ug/kg, propofol 2mg/kg, cisatracurium 0.2mg/kg and was
      maintained with continuous infusion of propofol, remifentanil and cisatracurium to maintain
      bispectral index (BIS) value between 40 and 60. Monitoring of MAP, heart rate (HR), pulse
      oxymetry (SpO2%), End-tidal CO2 (ETCO2), blood loss, and transfusion were recorded during
      anesthesia.

      After patient waked, a loading dose of 10 ug sufentanil was given per time according to the
      patients' pain level and the loading dose was repeated till the pain relived or the RR was
      less than 10 times per min. Then the patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) pump was attached,
      and the continuous infusion speed was set at 2 ml/h. The pump was set to give an amount of
      0.5ml at each press with a lockout interval of 10min. Patient was observed in the PACU for at
      least 30 min until the discharge criteria was reached. All the patients were followed-up at
      2h, 6h, 24h and 48 h after the surgery. Clinical evaluations included MAP, HR, respiratory
      rate (RR), SpO2%, total pressing times, total amount of sufentanil, additional analgesic
      requirement, VAS, numerical rating scale (NRS) and Ramsey sedation scale were recorded. Side
      effects include nausea and vomiting, urinary retention, pruritus, respiratory depression were
      also recorded. Overall satisfaction index were inquired as well.
    
  