
    
      A total of 20 clients will be enrolled in the study, 10 will be in control group and 10 in
      experimental group and will be assigned in a random order. All clients will be given
      standardized tests pre and post treatment to assess comprehension, expressive, reading and
      writing skills.

      Participants MRI reports will be collected to understand lesion sites and language outcomes.
      Both experimental and control group will receive individual, group and reading for an hour
      each. Participants in experimental group will receive an hour of individual phonology
      therapy. The participants in control group will receive traditional individual therapy. Both
      groups will receive group and an hour of reading aloud.

      Experimental Group Therapy will involve visual and auditory drills. It will also be
      structured, sequential, repetitive, and cumulative. The sounds targeted during treatment will
      be separated into five sets which will include 5 sounds - one short vowel and four
      consonants. For consonants that have two sounds, initially the hard sound will be taught. The
      soft sound will be taught when the participant is taught the different spelling rules (i.e.
      "silent 'e'"). Each set will be targeted for three weeks or until mastery.

      When teaching a new set of sounds, the clinician will teach the participant the placement of
      the articulators and the name of the letter. The participant will copy each letter in the set
      while receiving auditory bombardment of the sound. During auditory bombardment, the
      participant is encouraged to produce the sound.

      Procedure: The participants in the experimental group will receive an hour of phonology
      treatment, an hour of group therapy, and an hour of reading. The participants in the control
      group will receive an hour of individual therapy, an hour of reading and an hour of group
      therapy in a traditional setting. Both groups will work on writing, generative naming during
      group time, however, the experimental group will focus on self-cueing with the sounds they
      learn during the individual session. While the control group will simply follow the semantic
      feature analysis to retrieve the name. Both groups will be read to or read aloud depending on
      their level.

      The participants in the experimental group will be taught all consonants and vowels over the
      course of 16 weeks.

      Visual Drills Step 1: Production of individual sounds - The clinician will show the subject a
      letter and the subject will name the letter and produce the corresponding sound. If the
      participant does not produce an accurate response, the participant will be provided a visual
      of the placement of the sound. If the target is still not produced, the clinician will
      provide the correct response and the participant will imitate the clinician. They will repeat
      the production three times, write the letter, and produce the letter name three times.

      Auditory Drills

      *For all auditory tasks, the clinician's articulators should be covered. In this section the
      clinician will produce the sound with his or her mouth covered and the subject will repeat
      the sound heard and then write the corresponding letter on the paper. If the participant
      still responds incorrectly, the clinician will write the target letter, name the letter, and
      have the participant copy and repeat the accurate response. Each sound should be targeted 5
      times per session.

      Step 2: Sound to letter identification/letter naming -The participant will be provided with a
      sheet with all of the letters in the set being targeted. The clinician will produce one
      sound, the client will repeat it to ensure comprehension, and the client will identify the
      letter that is associated with the sound by pointing to it. In addition, the participant will
      say the letter name. If the participant gets it incorrect, the clinician will tell the
      participant the sound that corresponds with the letter he identified and the clinician will
      repeat the target sound providing the placement cues (i.e. removing cover from articulators).
      If the participant still responds incorrectly, the clinician will identify the target letter
      and have the participant copy the response. Each sound should be targeted 5 times per
      session.

      Step 3: Initial sound discrimination - The clinician will ask the participant if a word
      starts with a certain sound. (i.e. "Does 'bag' start with /d/?") If the participant responds
      incorrectly, the clinician will explain why the response is incorrect and repeat the stimuli
      while providing placement cues (i.e. removing cover from articulators). If the participant
      still responds incorrectly, the clinician will show him the written word and repeat the
      stimuli. If the participant still responds incorrectly, the clinician will provide the
      accurate response with an explanation. This task consists of five trials.

      Initial sound identification - When the participant reaches 90% accuracy on the initial sound
      discrimination task, the clinician will provide the participant with a CVC word verbally and
      ask him to identify the initial sound by pointing to the letter in a sheet containing all the
      sounds within that set and naming the letter. If the participant responds incorrectly, the
      clinician will explain why the response is incorrect and repeat the stimuli with providing
      placement cues (i.e. removing cover from articulators). If the participant is still unable to
      do this, the clinician will reduce the amount of choices to three. If the participant is
      still unable to complete the task, the clinician will provide the correct response with an
      explanation. There will be five trials for this task.

      Initial sound generation - Once the participant reaches 90% accuracy on the initial sound
      identification task, the clinician will verbally provide the participant with a CVC word and
      ask the participant to produce the initial sound in the stimuli and name the letter. If the
      participant is unable to produce the initial sound, the clinician will repeat the word with
      her mouth uncovered to show the participant the articulatory placement. If still unable to to
      produce the sound, clinician will isolate the initial sound with her mouth uncovered. There
      will be five trials for this task.

      Blending & Segmenting Drills - This will be introduced after the subject learns one consonant
      and a vowel.

      Step 4: Segmentation - The clinician will provide the participant with a CV or VC word
      consisting of two letters from the set. The participant will repeat the word and then segment
      the two sounds. When the participant reaches 90% accuracy, the participant will repeat a CVC
      word and segment the three sounds.

      Step 5: Blending - When the participant reaches 90% accuracy on the segmentation task, the
      clinician will provide the participant with two sounds from the set with a two second pause
      in between. The participant will repeat the two sounds in isolation and then blend them
      together. If the participant is unable to blend the sounds, the clinician will produce them
      in isolation with a one second pause in between. If the participant is still unable to
      produce the target response, the clinician will repeat the sounds in isolation with a one
      second pause in between and then produce the target word and the participant will repeat the
      target. When the participant reaches 90% accuracy blending two sounds, the participant will
      complete the above task with three sounds (CVC). There will be five trials for this task.

      Step 6: Reading CVC Words - Once the participant reaches 80% accuracy identifying, producing,
      and blending, the participant will read aloud CVC words that contain sounds being targeted in
      therapy.

      Writing CVC Words to Dictation - Once the participant reaches 80% accuracy identifying,
      producing, and blending, the participant will write CVC words to dictation given by the
      clinician (words will contain the target sounds).

      Group Therapy:

      Step1: Generative Naming Participants will be asked to generate items to a given verb or a
      noun category. They will be encouraged to write the items and read them using phonology
      treatment protocol. The control group will follow traditional generative naming method. The
      control group will be given phonemic cues if needed to recall words however that will not be
      the first option. Clients will be asked to write sentences and read sentences using the
      generated list to a given action verb or noun.

      Step 2: Picture naming - The participant will be provided with a picture that has an initial
      sound that is one of the target sounds. If the participant is unable to name the picture, the
      clinician will instruct the participant to try to write the word or the initial letter. The
      clinician will inform the participant that the first letter is one of the target sounds. If
      the participant is unable to write it, the clinician will provide 3 choices, all of which are
      target letters. If the participant is able to produce the first letter, the clinician will
      instruct him to produce the sound that corresponds to the letter. If the participant is still
      unable to produce the target response, the clinician will expand the phonemic cue to a
      syllabic cue. If the participant is still unable to produce the correct response, the
      clinician will provide a semantic cue or another cue that works for the participant.

      Reading - All clients will be given 15 sentences to work on reading. The sentences will
      target the sounds taught in individual therapy. Clients that cannot read will be read to by
      volunteers.
    
  