
    
      80 children between the ages of 6yr and 17 yrs. scheduled for ambulatory peripheral
      orthopedic procedures in the operating rooms of Batson Children's Hospital will be enrolled
      in the study. Written informed consent will be obtained from the parents or legal guardian
      and assent will be obtained from patients when possible.

      Once enrolled in the study, patients will be randomly assigned to one of two groups General
      anesthesia only (GA group) and General Anesthesia combined with regional anesthesia (RA
      group). Once the patients are brought to the operating room standard ASA monitors will be
      applied. After mask induction with O2/Nitrous oxide(N2O)/Sevoflurane(Sevo), a peripheral
      intravenous line will be inserted and secured. Additional IV medication propofol 2-3mg/kg
      will be given prior to insertion of appropriate size laryngeal mask airway (LMA). Patients in
      GA group will undergo the procedure under general anesthesia with Sevo/O2. Patients in the RA
      group will receive a peripheral nerve block appropriate for the procedure after induction of
      general anesthesia with O2/N2O/Sevo. The attending anesthesiologists will perform the nerve
      block under ultrasound guidance (Sonosite machine with high frequency probe) using 22G
      stimulating needle under aseptic precautions. 0.5% ropivacaine up to a total dose of 3mg/kg
      will be used for the block.

      Anesthesia is maintained in both groups with O2/Sevo titrated to minimum alveolar
      concentration (MAC of) 1.5 . After surgical incision, doses of 0.05mg/kg morphine is given IV
      every 5 min as needed titrated to HR and BP within 10% change from baseline.

      Additional IV morphine at the dose of 0.05mg/kg will be given every 10 minutes in the
      recovery room (PACU) as needed for pain ( Visual Analog score -VAS score >4). Total morphine
      consumption, length of recovery room stay and side effects such as nausea or vomiting will be
      recorded in the PACU.

      The patients in the study will be given the following

        1. A prescription for oral analgesics (lortab: hydrocodone 5mg with acetaminophen 325mg).

        2. A handout about the nerve block and post op care (for patients in RA group)

        3. A handout depicting the visual analog scale

        4. Data sheet with date, time, pain scale and pain meds , satisfaction scale, documentation
           of side effects along with a stamped return envelope.

      The parents will be educated about assessing pain and visual analog scale score. The parents
      will be instructed to give one or two pills depending on the weight (one pill for weight
      <50kg and 2 pills for weight >50kg)every 4-6 hrs. as needed for pain (VAS score more than 2).

      The patients will be followed by phone by research nurse blinded to the group on
      postoperative day 2 and day 8. They will be asked about the total use of analgesics at the
      end of day 2 (first 48hrs) and day 7. Family satisfaction on a scale of 1 to10, Incidence of
      other side effects such as nausea, vomiting, sleep disturbance, feeding difficulty and
      prolonged numbness or motor block will also be collected.

      The parents will also be requested to return the data sheet in the stamped return envelope to
      the research team.
    
  