
    
      This is a phase III, multi-center, open-label, randomized, non-inferiority clinical trial
      with the hypothesis that robotically assisted radical hysterectomy with tumor containment
      prior to colpotomy is non-inferior to abdominal radical hysterectomy with respect to disease
      free survival.

      A t the commencement of surgery, a thorough inspection of all peritoneal surfaces should be
      performed. The location of any suspected metastatic disease should be documented in the
      operative report and a biopsy should be performed to confirm the diagnosis. If
      intraperitoneal disease is detected, the radical hysterectomy should be abandoned. In
      patients with macroscopic evidence of metastatic disease to the lymph nodes, intraoperative
      frozen section should be performed to confirm the presence of metastatic disease.
      Intraoperative management will be left to the discretion of the surgeon. Patients who have
      confirmed macroscopic lymph node metastases intraoperatively will be excluded from final
      analysis and replaced due to the controversy surrounding the decision to perform a radical
      hysterectomy in this setting. Patients in whom the radical hysterectomy is abandoned will be
      deemed non-evaluable and excluded from final analysis and will be replaced. For all patients,
      the surgeon should document operative time from incision to close, detailed description of
      operative findings, intraoperative complications, and blood loss. For patients randomized to
      the robotic arm, the surgeon should document the use of and specify the type of vaginal
      manipulator and the reason for conversion to laparotomy (if applicable). Transcervical
      manipulators are not permitted.

      Standard arm: Radical hysterectomy is performed as per standard technique (peon radical
      hysterectomy (Piver type 2 or 3 or Querleu & Morrow Type B or C) with salpingectomy +/-
      oophorectomy. Ovaries may be removed or preserved +/- transposition. Prior to colpotomy, the
      vagina must be closed over the tumor (ie, Wertheim clamps, contour stapling device).

      Study arm: Radical hysterectomy is performed as per standard robotic technique (Querleu &
      Morrow Type B or C) with salpingectomy +/- oophorectomy. Ovaries may be removed or preserved
      +/- transposition. Colpotomy may be made intracorporally or vaginally. Vagina must be closed
      prior to intracorporeal colpotomy (see below, #10)
    
  