
    
      Full history taking including a detailed history including medical and obstetric history,
      full obstetric examination and ultrasound evaluation to confirm gestational age and to
      exclude any of the exclusion criteria. Women who plan to deliver a live birth singleton via
      cesarean delivery at Kasr El-Ainy teaching will be considered for inclusion in the study.
      Women who desire a Copper IUD for postpartum contraception will be approached for study
      participation. The postpartum contraception plan will be documented during their prenatal
      course. It is also addressed by the obstetrical team upon admission to Labor & Delivery at
      El-Kasr El-Ainy teaching hospital. The obstetrical team will identify subjects who present in
      labor who meet the criteria and express interest in intrauterine contraception. Immediately
      after cesarean delivery, consented subjects will be randomized to immediate post placental
      IUD placement within 10 minutes or IUD placement at their routine standard postpartum visit
      (6 to 8 weeks postpartum).

      For women randomized to the immediate post placental IUD insertion (n=33) the following will
      be done:

        -  after placental delivery, uterine cavity will be examined to exclude the presence of
           malformations or fibroids.

        -  Uterus will be stabilized by grasping it at fundus and the copper IUD (CuT 380 PREGNA
           IUD) will be placed (within 10 minutes following the placental delivery) through the
           uterine wall incision high up in the uterine fundus (either by hand or using its
           applicator).

        -  Before closing the uterine incision, the IUD strings will be guided to the lower uterine
           segment without trimming (If the cervix is closed, it should be dilated from above using
           a dilator).

        -  Enough care should be taken not to dislodge the IUD from its fundal position or to
           include the strings in uterine sutures.

        -  The IUD threads will protrude through the cervix in some cases its trimming will be done
           during follow-up if the patient is feeling any discomfort.

        -  Before discharge, the patient will be given a card including the intervention done (date
           & procedure), the follow-up schedule and investigator contacts. Also, they will be
           informed about normal postpartum symptoms, IUD side effects & possible complications
           (abdominal cramps, heavy puerperal bleeding, expulsion or protrusion of string) and
           instruct to seek medical help (to call the principle investigator) if any of the
           following warning signs have happened (severe lower abdominal pain, severe vaginal
           bleeding, infected discharge or lochia, fever, IUD expulsion & suspicion of pregnancy).

      Subjects who are randomized for IUD insertion at their post puerperal visit will be assisted
      in scheduling a postpartum visit and IUD placement with their usual obstetrical care
      provider.

      For women randomized for IUD insertion at their postpartum visit (n=33) the following will be
      done:(n=33):

        -  IUD will be inserted 6 - 8 weeks following caesarean delivery (during the post puerperal
           visit).

        -  Vaginal speculum will be inserted to expose the cervix & to exclude concomitant
           infection or bleeding.

        -  The anterior lip of the cervix will be grasped using ring forceps followed by uterine
           sounding to assess uterine cavity length.

        -  The IUD loaded sheath applicator (CuT 380 PREGNA IUD) will be introduced gently through
           the cervical canal and advanced slowly towards the uterine fundus.

        -  When fundal placement is confirmed, IUD will be released & the sheath will be withdrawn
           followed by trimming of the IUD string at 1 cm below the level of cervix.

        -  Following the insertion, transvaginal ultrasound (TVUS) will be done to assure fundal
           placement.

        -  Difficulties in insertion and patient discomfort will be recorded. Before leaving the
           clinic, the patient will be given a card including the intervention done (date &
           procedure), the follow-up schedule and investigator contacts. Also, they will be
           informed about potential IUD side effects & possible complications (abdominal cramps,
           vaginal bleeding, expulsion) and instruct to seek medical help (to call the principle
           investigator) if any of the following warning signs have happened (severe lower
           abdominal pain, severe vaginal bleeding, infected discharge, fever, IUD expulsion &
           suspicion of pregnancy).

      All women who are going to have their IUD placement in post puerperal visits their contact
      numbers will be taken.

      follow-up visits at 6 weeks ,3 & 6 months post-insertion will be scheduled. At 6 weeks
      post-insertion visit, participants (will be assessed via ultrasound and (to detect IUD
      expulsion or displacement) and speculum examination ( to detect presence of IUD threads).

      At 3 months post-insertion visit, all subjects will be examined. Examination will include
      ultrasound (to detect IUD expulsion or displacement) and speculum examination ( to detect
      presence of IUD threads if not detected at 6 weeks post-insertion visit).

      At 6 months post-insertion visit, all subjects will be examined & answering a simple
      questionnaire. Examination will include ultrasound (to detect IUD expulsion or displacement)
      and speculum examination ( to detect presence of IUD threads if not detected at 3 months
      post-insertion visit). The questionnaire will include questions regarding they have had a
      known expulsion, pregnancy event, or elective IUD removal and about the ease of placement and
      overall satisfaction with the timing of placement.
    
  