
    
      The Motivated to Move study is a single-centre, pilot randomized controlled trial that has
      been designed based on experience to be minimally intrusive to the busy lives of patients and
      families. As part of a typical Exercise Medicine Clinic (EXMED) visit, children receive an
      individualized physical activity prescription to follow for the next three months.
      Participants of Motivated to Move will receive this prescription and be randomized to either
      a MONITOR group or USUAL CARE. The monitor group will wear a step counter to track if
      participants are meeting the activity prescription. This study will determine if this step
      counter affects the participants' motivation, self regulation, and perceived competence with
      respect to physical activity, which will be measured with questionnaires.

      Participants enrolled in the Motivated to Move study will undergo a total of 3 study visits
      over the course of 6 months. All study visits will take place as part of the patient's EXMED
      clinic visits, which are scheduled every 3 months. Eligible patients will be identified by a
      member of the EXMED team and be invited to learn more about the Motivated to Move study. All
      interested patients will have the opportunity to speak with the study research coordinator
      about the study. Consent and/or assent (as appropriate) will be obtained from patients who
      would like to participate in the Motivated to Move study. Upon providing consent, all
      participants will undergo a similar protocol, which includes a total of 3 study visits that
      coincide with a clinic appointment:

      At the baseline study visit all participants will be asked to complete a series of
      questionnaires related to motivation, self-regulation, and perceived competence with respect
      to physical activity. Participants will then meet with the Exercise Physiologist to perform a
      fitness assessment. Next, participants will discuss the results of the fitness assessment and
      develop goals with the Kinesiologist. Participants will also receive a detailed,
      individualized physical activity prescription for the next three months. At the end of the
      clinic visit, the research assistant will randomize each participant into one of two groups:
      no activity monitoring (USUAL CARE) or activity monitoring with feedback (MONITOR). All
      participants, regardless of group, will be given an accelerometer (research-grade physical
      activity monitor), which is worn around the waist for 7 days. This protocol (with the
      exception of randomization) will be repeated at the participant's 3-month and 6-month study
      visits. Upon completion of the 3 study visits, participants will complete a brief
      questionnaire to assess the acceptability of the activity monitoring and questionnaires.
    
  