
    
      Omega-3s are important for heart, brain, and joint health. Most Americans have low levels of
      omega-3s, especially the long-chain fatty acids eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and
      docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), in their blood. The only way to know blood levels of omega-3s is
      by measurement. The Omega-3 index, a measure of EPA+DHA levels in blood, is determined in a
      single drop of blood obtained from a finger stick. Blood levels of EPA+DHA can be improved by
      simple dietary changes.

      Twenty-two percent of family physicians report knowing their Omega-3 Index. DSM Nutritional
      Products Inc will announce the "Know Your O" program at the American Association for Family
      Physicians (AAFP) meeting at the Orlando Convention Center, Orlando FL, Sept 21-23, 2016 and
      encourage health professionals to visit the DSM booth (#616) and participate in a dietary
      survey and have their blood fatty acids measured. After learning more about the study at the
      DSM Nutritional Products Inc booth, participants will sign an Informed Consent Form, complete
      an Omega-3 Index Test Request form, and write their name, date of birth and collection date
      on an OmegaQuant LLC filter paper. Participants will then have a finger stick by a
      representative from InHouse Physicians, 333 N. Randall Road, Suite 140, St. Charles, IL
      60174. Tel (630) 244-0887. Website: www.inhousephysicians.com. The Omega-3 Index Test
      Request, Informed Consent form and Filter Paper with dried blood sample will be stapled
      together, packaged with all other samples obtained at that location, and shipped by DSM
      Nutritional Products Inc to OmegaQuant LLC. Within 2 weeks of receiving the blood sample,
      OmegaQuant LLC will email the Omega-3 Test results directly to each participant. After
      removing personal information, OmegaQuant LLC will share blood fatty acid and omega-3 dietary
      intake results with DSM Nutritional Products Inc for statistical and reporting purposes. DSM
      Nutritional Products Inc will be unable to link data to any individual. There are no other
      obligations for participants.
    
  