
    
      This is a Phase II, single-center, single-arm, Open-Label Study to Evaluate Lazanda in Cancer
      Patients Receiving Palliative Radiation.

      The primary objective of this study is to assess the change in patient reported positional
      pain intensity (PI) as measured by an 11-point numerical rating scale (NRS-11) in cancer
      patients with bone metastases assessed at a simulation visit and each subsequent daily
      palliative radiation fraction. The primary objective will be measured using the pain
      intensity difference (PID) of the NRS-11 from the time of laying down on the hard surface (0
      minutes/ PI0) to the 15 minutes after laying down on the hard surface timepoint at baseline
      (the simulation visit) and at each subsequent study visit (PID15= PI0- PI15).

      Study participants will be recruited across all oncology disease teams. Potential
      participants will be identified in weekly palliative care or disease team patient triage
      meetings. In order to meet eligibility for participation, a patient must be greater than or
      equal to 18 years old, have histologically-confirmed cancer with symptomatic bone metastases,
      an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status less than or equal to 3, and
      are planned to receive hypofractionated palliative radiation less than or equal to 10
      fractions. Qualifying subjects must be opioid-tolerant, defined as greater than or equal to
      60mg morphine or equivalent, and be on a stable dose of oral opioids for greater than or
      equal to 1 week. Stable baseline opioid dosage is defined as a dosage that does not fluctuate
      by more than 50% from the average dosage over one week prior to screening. Patients must also
      be on a stable dose of adjuvant pain therapies for one week prior to screening. Patients will
      be excluded if they are receiving or have received another investigational agent within 30
      days or monoamine oxidase inhibitor within 14 days prior to Lazanda administration, have
      known hypersensitivity to fentanyl or opioids, have known, planned interventional procedures
      such as surgery that may affect study outcomes, are pregnant or nursing, have a disorder or
      current medication use likely to adversely affect normal functioning of the nasal mucosa,
      have uncontrolled or rapidly escalating background pain, or are medically unstable, require
      immobilization with a thermoplastic mask for radiation treatment.

      Upon confirmation of all eligibility criteria, the subject will be enrolled. Each enrolled
      subject will undergo a baseline evaluation on a mock hard surface within 1 week prior to the
      time of CT simulation, to establish baseline NRS pain scores.

      Subject will receive Lazanda at their mock hard surface visit , radiation simulation visit
      and again as pre-medication prior to each radiation treatment (fraction), for an estimated
      treatment period of 10 days based on the patient's radiation treatment plan. Lazanda will be
      self-administered intranasally by subjects participating in this study.

      NRS pain scores will be collected at three time points at baseline : 15 minutes prior to
      laying on the hard surface (T-15), at the time of laying on the hard surface (T0), and at 15
      minutes after laying on the hard surface(T+15). Exact time of each pain score rating will
      also be collected.

      After the mock visit subject will then undergo radiation therapy simulation procedures
      (within approximately 2 weeks of radiation therapy) followed by hypofractionated radiation
      therapy, according to University of California, San Diego (UCSD) Radiation Oncology standard
      procedure and treatment plan determined by the subject's radiation oncologist. During
      radiation simulation and daily during each visit to the radiation center for
      hypofractionation delivery, subjects will have vital signs and weight collected. An ECOG
      performance status will also be assessed daily during radiation therapy. At the time of
      radiation simulation and daily during radiation therapy, subjects will complete the BPI-sf ,
      Medication Use Diary, Laxation Diary, and Nausea/Vomiting Diary. As with the mock hard
      surface evaluation, NRS pain scores will also be collected at three time points during each
      visit to the radiation center.

      Subjects will receive study drug, Lazanda at 100mcg dose, 15 minutes prior to simulation
      (T-15) at the radiation therapy simulation visit. Lazanda dose titration will follow the
      guidelines as indicated in the product package insert from the radiation simulation visit
      through the end of radiation therapy.

      Subjects will undergo a post treatment follow-up period after completion of their radiation
      therapy. During this follow-up period, subjects will complete the BPI-sf, Medication Use
      Diary, Laxation Diary , and Nausea/Vomiting Diary daily for 2 days.
    
  