
    
      Prospective, multicenter, phase II clinical trial to determine the efficacy of plitidepsin in
      patients with relapsed/refractory (R/R) AITL. The primary endpoint will be overall response
      rate (ORR) according to the Lugano classification response criteria per independent review.

      Medical specialists (radiologists and hematologists) who are directly involved in the care of
      patients with AITL (but are not participating in this trial as investigators) will review all
      efficacy data (including radiological assessments, bone marrow biopsies) and will assign the
      best response and the date of objective response or progression/censoring according to their
      independent evaluation.

      Central pathological review of each patient's original diagnosis report(s) will be required
      before inclusion.

      Two futility analyses of the primary endpoint (ORR according to the Lugano classification
      criteria and per Independent Review Committee (IRC)) are planned around six months after
      approximately 25% and 50% of eligible patients (i.e., 15 and 30 patients respectively with
      AITL confirmed by central pathological review) have been treated. Two or less responders out
      of 15 patients or seven or less responders out of 30 patients, according to boundaries and
      sample size assumptions, will mean that the alternative hypothesis could be rejected, and
      thus recruitment might be stopped at the time of the first or second futility analysis,
      respectively. Otherwise, accrual will continue to 60 patients with AITL confirmed by central
      pathological review. This decision will be taken at the time by an Independent Data
      Monitoring Committee (IDMC). The IDMC, which will include specialists in peripheral T-cell
      lymphomas (PTCL) supported by a medical statistician, will review data provided by the
      Investigators, the IRC efficacy assessments and safety information and will advise whether
      the study should continue. Recruitment can continue during the review period.

      If there are 19 or more responders of 60 patients, the efficacy of plitidepsin will be
      considered as clinically relevant in AITL patients.

      Central pathological review will be conducted by experienced pathologists appointed by the
      Sponsor and available to the investigative sites for consultation about AITL diagnosis
      confirmation. Central pathological review is required for (a) local histopathology reports
      prior to patient treatment, and (b) tumor samples before each futility analysis and at the
      end of the study.

      The central laboratory pathologists will be responsible for (a) approving patient inclusion
      on the basis of investigative site pathology reports provided during screening, (b) analyzing
      tumor biopsies (initial diagnosis and/or relapses) to confirm the AITL diagnosis, and (c)
      analyzing blood samples to identify plasma biomarkers and extract DNA.

      Tumor samples (initial diagnosis and relapses) are required for central review to confirm
      AITL diagnosis but not to approve inclusion. Archived tissue samples of representative tumors
      must be sent for central review and biomarker analysis. If the diagnosis biopsy is not
      available (because the patient was diagnosed at another site, for example), the most recent
      representative biopsy (relapse and/or progression) will be used. Submitting both, however, is
      strongly recommended. Tumor blocks will be returned to the centers.
    
  