
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the morbidity, mortality, and overall outcome in patients with hematologic
           malignancies, breast cancer, or other chemosensitive solid tumors treated with
           disease-specific dose-intensive conditioning regimens and autologous peripheral blood or
           bone marrow transplantation.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to risk group (standard vs high). Standard risk
      includes acute leukemia in first relapse or second remission; lymphoma in responding first
      relapse or second remission; or breast cancer at risk for recurrence. High risk includes all
      others. Patients receive specific conditioning regimens according to diagnosis as outlined
      below.

      Conditioning

        -  Regimen A (standard risk non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and under 60 years of age)-Etoposide,
           cyclophosphamide, and total body irradiation (TBI) (VCT): Patients receive etoposide IV
           continuously over 26 hours beginning on day -5 and cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on
           day -4. Patients undergo TBI on days -3 to -1.

        -  Regimen B (any risk Hodgkin's lymphoma and under 60 years of age)-Cyclophosphamide,
           carmustine, and etoposide (CBV): Patients receive etoposide IV continuously over 34
           hours beginning on day -8; cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on days -7 to -4; and
           carmustine IV over 2 hours on day -3.

        -  Regimen C (any risk patient with prior exposure to high-dose etoposide and
           cyclophosphamide and under 60 years of age)-Melphalan and TBI (MEL/TBI): Patients
           receive melphalan IV over 30 minutes on day -4. Patients undergo TBI on days -3 to -1.

        -  Regimen D (multiple myeloma or amyloidosis)-Melphalan only (MEL only): Patients receive
           melphalan IV over 30 minutes on day -2.

        -  Regimen E (any patient unable to receive TBI)-Busulfan and cyclophosphamide: Patients
           receive oral busulfan (or busulfan IV over 2 hours) on days -7 to -4 and
           cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on days -3 and -2.

        -  Regimen F (any risk breast cancer)-Cyclophosphamide, carboplatin, and thiotepa (STAMP
           V): Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 24 hours, carboplatin IV over 24 hours,
           and thiotepa IV over 24 hours on days -7 to -4.

        -  Regimen G (solid tumors other than breast or testicular cancer)-Thiotepa and carboplatin
           (TT/CARBO): Patients receive thiotepa IV over 2 hours on days -6 and -5 and carboplatin
           IV continuously over 96 hours beginning on day -6.

        -  Regimen H (recurrent or primary progressive testicular cancer)-Etoposide and carboplatin
           (VP/CARBO): Patients receive etoposide IV over 2 hours and carboplatin IV over 30
           minutes on days -6 to -4.

      Stem Cell Infusion

        -  In all regimens, patients undergo autologous stem cell infusion on day 0. Treatment
           continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 450 patients (50 patients [25 per stratum] per regimen) will
      be accrued for this study within 10 years.
    
  