
    
      The current American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) guidelines
      for ACS patients requiring CABG surgery after treatment with dual antiplatelet therapy
      recommend delaying surgery for 5-7 days after discontinuation of therapy, to allow for the
      dissipation of its antiplatelet effects. This treatment-devoid waiting period puts the ACS
      patients at risk for further cardiovascular events. Any means to shorten this vulnerable
      period would be of critical value. One possibility to speed up the recovery of the inhibited
      platelets is to administer infusions of fresh platelets. In fact, platelet transfusions are
      frequently administered to patients during surgery who had received prior antiplatelet
      therapy. However, the degree to which these transfusions restore platelet function in the
      recipient subjects' blood and the time from dosing when they are most effective are unknown.
      The timing is critical in scenarios where urgent surgery is required because infusion of
      platelets too soon after antiplatelet dosing could render them useless by the residual drug
      in circulation.

      The aim of the present study is to investigate the restoration of platelet function of
      ticagrelor-treated subjects by adding donor platelets to their blood. The study would have 2
      arms mimicking different clinical scenarios:

        1. Clinical Scenario 1 - Patient given a loading dose (LD) of ticagrelor in the emergency
           room, requires surgery: A single LD of ticagrelor (180 mg) with aspirin (325 mg) will be
           given to study subjects and platelet testing will be performed after addition of fresh
           platelets to their blood ex vivo. Donor platelets will be added at 4-, 6-, 24- and
           48-hours post-dose, to assess the time required for normalizing subject's platelet
           function after a LD of ticagrelor.

        2. Clinical Scenario 2 - Patient on maintenance dosing (MD) of ticagrelor, requires
           surgery: Subjects will receive ticagrelor (90 mg twice daily) with aspirin (81 mg once
           daily) for 3-7 days. After the last dose, platelet testing will be performed after
           addition of fresh platelets to their blood ex vivo, at 4-, 6-, 24- and 48-hours
           post-dose to assess the time required for normalizing subject's platelet function after
           daily treatment with ticagrelor.

      Platelet testing will be carried out using the following methodologies:

        1. Platelet Aggregation - VerifyNow P2Y12 assay.

        2. Platelet Aggregation - Multiplate Analyzer.
    
  