
    
      Ticagrelor is an oral, reversibly-binding, direct-acting P2Y12 receptor antagonist used
      clinically for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in patients with acute coronary
      syndromes (ACS). Guideline recommendations on the use of dual antiplatelet therapy have been
      formulated that ticagrelor 90 mg twice daily plus aspirin in preference to clopidogrel 75mg
      daily plus aspirin for ACS patients. However, few East Asian patients have been included in
      these trials to assess the use of these drugs. In addition, a growing body of data supported
      that East Asian might have different adverse event profiles (thrombophilia and bleeding) and
      "therapeutic window" compared with white subjects. In Korea and Japan, it has been recently
      reported that low doses of ticagrelor might have a more potent inhibition of platelet
      aggregation than clopidogrel (75 mg once daily) in healthy subjects and patients with stable
      coronary artery disease, respectively. But it is still not clear whether a low dose of
      ticagrelor is superior to clopidogrel in diabetic patients with stable coronary disease. A
      recent study on pharmacokinetics and tolerability of ticagrelor has found that maximum plasma
      concentration and area under the plasma concentration-time curve of ticagrelor (90 mg twice
      daily) and its active metabolite (AR-C124910XX) tended to be approximately 40% higher in
      healthy Chinese volunteers compared with Caucasian subjects. This data also suggested that a
      low dose of ticagrelor might be more appropriate for Chinese patients with coronary heart
      disease. In view of a large diurnal variation with a single daily dose, a lower dose twice
      daily may be a better choice for Chinese patients.

      Recent studies found that antiplatelet drugs might have anti-inflammatory effects and protect
      endothelial function. ACS patients treated by ticagrelor had a significantly higher increase
      in levels of circulating progenitor cells compared to those treated by clopidogrel,
      suggesting a benefit on endothelial regeneration that may participate in the pleiotropic
      property of the drug. This may prompt the regression of blood vessels and the endothelium
      stability. But it is not very clear that the effect of low-dose ticagrelor on vascular
      endothelial function in diabetic patients with stable coronary artery disease.

      Therefore, the investigators performed this randomized, single-blind clinical trial to
      observe the effects of different doses of ticagrelor and standard-dose clopidogrel on
      platelet aggregation and endothelial function in diabetic patients with stable coronary
      artery disease.
    
  