
    
      The study involves a baseline questionnaire, educational intervention, and follow-up
      questionnaire by phone 12 months after the intervention takes place. All eligible, consented
      patients will complete the baseline questionnaire, conducted by an ACTION research staff
      member. The baseline questionnaire (attached at end of protocol) will include the following
      instruments that have been field-tested by our team in previous and ongoing studies: 1.)
      Willingness to Consider Joint Replacement Question 2.)Knowledge Regarding Knee OA and Joint
      Replacement (developed by The Foundation for Informed Medical Decision Making) 3.) Hospital
      for Special Surgery Knee Expectations Survey 4.)Socioeconomic Survey 5.) Access to Health
      Care, Charlson Comorbidity Index 6.) Quality of Life Shortened Form-12v2. This survey can be
      done over the phone or in person. It should take approximately 30-40 minutes. At the
      completion of the baseline questionnaire, patients will be randomized into either study
      Decision Aid (DA) (hereafter referred to as DA intervention) arm or the attention control
      arm. Patient appointments for the DA intervention or attention control activity will be
      scheduled to occur 2 weeks prior to the patients appointment with an orthopedic specialist
      (up to the date of the appointment). The DA intervention (referred to as an information
      session in patient material) will be completed by an ACTION research study interventionist
      (the interventionist will not administer the baseline assessment). In the intervention arm,
      patients will be shown a decision aid video entitled, Treatment Choices for Knee
      Osteoarthritis. The patients are then given a brief education intervention called AskMe3,
      which is a brief communication skill-building intervention developed by the Partnership for
      Clear Health Communication. AskMe3 instructs patients 3 questions to ask their doctor: a)
      what is my main problem b) what do I need to do c) why is it important for me to do this? The
      completion time for the educational intervention will be approximately 1 hour. The attention
      control arm will be conducted by the ACTION research staff. Patients will be given written
      educational material adapted from the NIH/National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal
      and Skin Diseases publication Osteoarthritis to review at his/her leisure. (A copy of the
      information contained in the informational pamphlet is attached at end of protocol). The
      completion time for the attention control arm is approximately 10 minutes. Follow-up
      procedures will occur at the following time points: 1.) approximately 6 months after the
      participants intervention, an ACTION team staff member will review their medical chart to see
      if the participant had knee joint replacement surgery 2.)12-months post intervention
      participants will be contacted to find out if they had knee joint replacement surgery and a
      medical chart assessment will occur at this time as well. All follow-up procedures will be
      administered by an ACTION research team member that was not involved in the educational
      intervention. Participants in both the DA intervention and the attention control will
      complete a 12-month follow-up (completed approximately 12 months post intervention)survey
      over the phone. The survey will be comprised of the following: Willingness to consider joint
      replacement, Hospital for Special Surgery Knee Expectations Survey, Knowledge Regarding Knee
      OA and Joint Replacement, and a survey regarding surgery for joint replacement. At the time
      of the 12-month follow-up, the patient's medical record will be accessed to check for a joint
      replacement procedure.
    
  