
    
      The administration of music as an adjuvant to medicine during the recovery after surgery
      especially should be further explored by examining the physiological parameters of what takes
      place in the human body when pain and anxiety are present.

      Permision to conduct this study have been granted by the National Medical Research Registry
      of the Ministry of Health of Malaysia, the Medical Research Ethics Committee from Universiti
      Putra Malaysia as well as University of Malaya.

      During the intervention, the standard course of treatment by the attending physician will not
      be interrupted. The patients have the liberty to drop out from the study at any point of time
      without any repercussion.

      The Standard Operating Procedure for all information obtained in this study will be kept and
      handled in a confidential manner, and destroyed thereafter analysis in accordance with
      applicable laws and regulations by the Ethics Committee of Universiti Putra Malaysia. When
      publishing or presenting the study results, the identity of the patients will not be
      revealed. Only individuals involved in this study such as the researchers, attending
      physicians, qualified monitors and auditors, Universiti Putra Malaysia or its affiliates and
      governmental or regulatory authorities can access the data from this study.

      The sample size assessment to specify the number of participants was necessary to demonstrate
      an effect.

      Data collected will be coded and transferred into the SPSS (Version 25.0) for analyses.
      Appropriate tests will be selected based on whether the data is normally distributed or not.
      P-value will be set to 0.05 to indicate level of significance with confidence interval of
      95%. Depending on the distribution of the data, the appropriate statistical analysis will be
      determined to compare pre- and post-test results. Descriptive statistical analysis will be
      performed on all study variable at each time point. Spearman correlation coefficient will be
      used to determine the correlation of the main study outcomes, which are pain and anxiety.
      Inferential statistical analysis such as t-test and Chi-square will be used to determine the
      existence of significance differences in demography of the patients. Paired t-test will be
      used to differentiate the results between the pre- and post-test for the pain and anxiety
      scores. A normality test, Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, will be performed to look at the
      distribution of the data. For comparison between the experimental and control group, the
      Mann-Whitney U and one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) tests will be performed to using the
      median and mean scores from both groups and as well the dosage of analgesia prescribed to
      both groups.

      Missing information will be recorded but not included in the data analysis. Data collected,
      processed and churned for results and reported by the researcher will be closely monitored by
      a certified medical statistician who has been appointed to advice the research team. The
      supervisory committee will retain all rights to advise on the development of the research.
    
  