
    
      Spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is usually caused by rupture of an intracranial
      aneurysm, but in up to 15% of patients with spontaneous SAH, no discernible bleeding source
      can be identified despite of repetitive radiological imaging. The blood distribution can be
      described as perimesencephalic/prepontine or non-perimesencephalic. Depending on the pattern
      of SAH the clinical course of the patients can be similar to aneurysmal SAH. In general,
      patients with a perimesencephalic SAH (PM-SAH) are considered to achieve good outcome and to
      have lower rebleeding risk. However, long-term outcome data on patients suffering from
      spontaneous non-aneurysmal SAH (non-aSAH) is scarce and lacking for physical and
      psychological outcome. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to investigate the
      long-term physical and psychological outcome in patients suffering from non-aneurysmal
      spontaneous SAH.

      SAH was confirmed on computed tomography (CT) or lumbar puncture. Only patients with a
      non-traumatic SAH were included. In our hospital algorithm all patients with SAH underwent
      angiography including 3D digital subtraction angiography (DSA) since 2002 to rule out
      intracranial sources for SAH. In case of a negative initial angiography, DSA was repeated
      after 14 days. Additionally, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of head/spine was performed to
      rule out any spinal bleeding sources. In patients with blood distribution exceeding the
      typical perimesencephalic pattern, a third DSA was performed 3 months after SAH. The first
      (short-term) follow-up (F/U) was performed six months after ictus. Outcome was measured
      according to the modified Rankin Scale (mRS) and stratified into favorable (mRS 0-2) and
      unfavorable (mRS 3-6) after six months. Patients with non-aSAH were divided into
      perimesencephalic SAH (PM-SAH), non-perimesencephalic SAH (NPM-SAH) and excellent Outcome
      group (mRS 0). Also the NPM-SAH group was further stratified into Fisher 3 blood pattern and
      NPM-SAH without Fisher 3 blood pattern.

      Patients, at least 18 months after ictus of a non-aneurysmal SAH, received a regular mail
      including a letter explaining the study purpose and the postal questionnaire consisting a
      short-form health survey with 36 simple questions. If we didn't receive answers after three
      months we made telephone interviews with the patients' family members or their general
      practitioner.
    
  