
    
      Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains the leading cause of cancer death in men and women
      in the United States. Despite advances in the treatment of advanced NSCLC in the last decade,
      survival outcomes remain poor. Treatment benefit from cytotoxic chemotherapy has reached a
      plateau and further progress will depend upon identifying novel methods to target tumor
      cells.

      Harnessing the human immune system to target lung cancer could result in the development of
      effective treatment options against lung cancer and potentially enhance the effect of
      cytotoxic chemotherapy. Lung cancer cells produce a number of abnormal proteins or abnormal
      amounts of certain proteins found in normal lung cells. In some cancers, the abnormal protein
      expression may lead to an immune response against the cancer cells much in the way the immune
      system responds to an infection. In progressive lung cancer however, the immune system fails
      to identify or respond to these abnormalities and the cancer cells are not attacked or
      destroyed for reasons not yet fully understood. This clinical trial proposes a novel method
      to stimulate the immune system to recognize the abnormal components found in lung cancer
      cells and to stimulate an immune response that destroys or blocks the growth of the cancer.

      This new method of treatment helps the immune system of lung cancer patients to "identify"
      and target the cancerous tissue. As an example, patients who receive an organ transplant to
      replace a damaged kidney or heart are treated with special drugs to supress their immune
      response from destroying or "rejecting" the transplanted organ. This "rejection" occurs when
      the patient's immune system responds to differences between the cells of the transplanted
      organ and their own immune system by attacking the foreign tissue in the same way as it would
      attack infected tissue. When the differences between foreign tissues and the patient's body
      are even larger, perhaps like differences between organs from pigs and the immune system
      cells of humans, the rejection is very rapid, highly destructive and the immunity it
      generates is long-lasting. This is called hyperacute rejection and the medicine used to
      immunize patients in this protocol tries to harness this response to teach a patient's immune
      system to fight their lung cancer just as the body would learn to reject a transplanted organ
      from an animal.

      To do this, we have placed a mouse gene into cultured human lung cancer cell lines. These
      cells will express a sugar that will stimulate a strong immune response in humans. These
      cancer cells are irradiated to prevent any growth and then injected along with chemotherapy
      to patients with lung cancer. The presence of the sugar will stimulate the patient's immune
      system to kill the injected immunotherapy cells. As part of the process of destroying the
      immunotherapy cells, the patient's immune system is stimulated to identify as many
      differences between these cancer cells and normal human cells. This extra stimulation is
      thought to encourage immune responses against the lung cancer in the patient based on shared
      abnormalities of lung cancer immunotherapy cells and the patient's lung cancer cells.

      In this experimental therapy, patients are given docetaxel or injections of an immunotherapy
      consisting of three types of modified lung cancer cells. We propose to test these treatments
      in patients with lung cancer who have progressed after initial chemotherapy to demonstrate
      that treatment of immunotherapy results in improved tumor stabilization or response and could
      potentially improve the patient's overall survival.
    
  