
    
      Hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) reduces physical function and muscle mass and
      increases fatigue. Neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES), when used as a stand-alone
      intervention, improves muscle strength and muscle mass in non-cancer patients with chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease and chronic heart failure. The use of NMES to combat disuse
      atrophy and functional decline may be particularly useful in the HCT setting as patients
      undergo intensive preparatory chemotherapy and often experience symptoms including severe
      fatigue that leave them inactive or isolated for extended time periods surrounding the
      transplant. However, its use in the setting of cancer has not been well-established. This
      proposal will contribute to developing strategies toward optimizing the safety and outcomes
      associated with HCT in Veterans with hematologic malignancies. The overall goals of this
      study are to assess 1) the efficacy of an NMES vs Sham intervention on HCT-induced reductions
      in physical function and muscle mass and worsening of patient-reported fatigue and QOL and 2)
      the association between physical function and prolonged recovery of patient-reported fatigue
      and QOL. The investigators hypothesize that 1) NMES will attenuate the acute HCT-induced
      negative impact on physical function, body composition, QOL, and fatigue compared to Sham
      intervention, and 2) baseline physical function will be a significant predictor of 6-month
      recovery of patient-reported fatigue and QOL. Aim 1: To determine the efficacy of NMES vs.
      Sham for attenuation of HCT-induced reductions in physical function, muscle mass, and
      patient-reported QOL and fatigue in patients undergoing autologous HCT. Patients will be
      randomized 1:1 (NMES:Sham) stratified by diagnosis. Physical function, body composition, QOL,
      and fatigue will be assessed at baseline (Pre, after admission to the Bone Marrow Transplant
      Unit but before initiation of preparatory chemotherapy) and 28 plus or minus 5 days after HCT
      (Follow-up 1; FU1). The primary outcome will be between-group difference in 6MWT change at
      FU1 compared to Pre (N=23/group; 46 total). Secondary outcomes include: body composition
      measured by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry; previously validated questionnaires (Functional
      Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue; Muscle and Joint Measures) to assess
      patient-reported fatigue, QOL, symptom burden, and functional status; standard of care
      clinical/laboratory data regarding co-morbidities, adverse events, hospitalizations,
      treatment history, functional status, and clinical course; and NMES process measures such as
      feasibility, acceptability, adherence in number of sessions, accurate use,
      duration/intensity, complications, and satisfaction. Aim 2: To determine predictive ability
      of baseline 6MWT on delayed recovery of physical function, QOL, and fatigue, patient-reported
      outcomes, physical function, and chart review will be collected 6-months after HCT (FU2).
      6MWT at Pre will be used to determine significant predictors of QOL and fatigue at FU2 (N=46)
      as assessed by previously validated questionnaires. Clinical measures extracted from medical
      charts will include changes from FU1 to FU2 in standard of care clinical/laboratory data
      regarding co-morbidities, adverse events, hospitalizations, functional status, treatment
      history, disease trajectory, and survival. Aim 3 (exploratory): To investigate the acute
      impact of NMES vs. Sham during HCT on various aspects of physical function and
      patient-reported QOL for determining potential endpoints for future clinical trials.
      Exploratory measures of function (stair climbing power; muscle strength; sit-to-stand;
      handgrip strength; peak oxygen consumption) assessed at Pre and FU1 will be used to determine
      significant predictors of exploratory QOL measures (Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory; Short
      Form-36; European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer QOL Questionnaire)
      assessed at FU2.
    
  