
    
      Background: High prevalence of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is noticed in Yun-Lin,
      Chiayi area in Taiwan. Patients with maintenance hemodialysis (MHD) in this area have the
      highest risk for HCV infection. Understanding the natural history of HCV and its association
      with inflammation, nutrition and outcomes in dialysis patients may provide more information
      for anti-HCV management strategies in dialysis and other patient populations.

      Objective: We hypothesize that HCV infected MHD patients have distinct metabolic, and
      inflammatory characteristics that can be linked to adverse conditions and increased higher
      morbidity and mortality.

      Design: A cross-sectional study is conducted in one regional teaching hospital with its
      medical alliance dialysis clinics. A cohort of 200 MHD patients including 70 HCV subjects are
      recruited. Basic data and dialysis characteristics are collected. Metabolic syndrome (MS) is
      defined according to International Diabetes Federation (IDF) consensus 2005. Insulin
      resistance (IR) is defined by HOMA index. Comorbidity is rated by Charlson Comorbidity Score.
      Malnutrition-inflammation score (MIS) is used to rate the severity of
      malnutrition-inflammation complex syndrome (MICS). Nutritional and appetite status are
      evaluated by appetite and diet assessment tool (ADAT) and anthropometric evaluation.
      Inflammatory status is measured by biomarkers such as serum concentrations of C-reactive
      protein, tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-1β, interleukin-6, adiponectin, leptin and
      plasminogen activator inhibitor-1. Ankle-brachial index (ABI)test is used to predict the
      severity of peripheral arterial occlusive disease (PAOD). We use Beck's depression inventory
      to assess depression status and apply SF36, WHOQOL and EQ-5D questionnaires to assess
      health-related quality of life (HRQOL). Outcome evaluations are based on mortality and
      hospitalizations followed prospectively for up to 6 months.
    
  