
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the equivalence of paclitaxel given every two weeks with cyclophosphamide and
      doxorubicin hydrochloride (CA) given every two weeks as adjuvant therapy for women with 0-3
      positive axillary lymph nodes, for disease-free survival.

      II. To determine if longer therapy, 12 weeks, is superior to shorter therapy, 8 weeks, of
      either CA or paclitaxel for disease-free survival for women with primary breast cancer with
      0-3 positive axillary lymph nodes.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the equivalence of paclitaxel given every two weeks with CA given every two
      weeks, and the potential superiority of longer vs. shorter therapy, in relation to overall
      survival, local control (regardless of metastatic status) and time to distant metastases
      (regardless of local recurrence status).

      II. To compare toxicities of short and long course CA and paclitaxel as adjuvant therapy for
      women with 0-3 positive axillary lymph node breast cancer.

      III. To determine the effect of long and short course CA and paclitaxel on the induction of
      menopause for pre-menopausal patients.

      IV. To assess the discrepancy of myelosuppression among the common multidrug resistance
      protein 1 (MDR1) haplotypes in the CA treatment arm.

      V. To assess the effect of MDR1 haplotypes on disease-free survival (DFS) adjusted for
      treatment.

      VI. Exploratory analysis of the effect of cytochrome P450, family 3, subfamily A, polypeptide
      5 (CYP3A5), cytochrome P450, family 2, subfamily C, polypeptide 8 (CYP2C8), and cytochrome
      P450, family 2, subfamily B, polypeptide 6 (CYP2B6) polymorphisms on DFS and toxicity.

      VII. To identify genetic markers associated with the risk of developing neutropenia in
      adriamycin/ cyclophosphamide-treated breast cancer patients.

      VIII. To identify genetic markers associated with the risk of developing peripheral
      neuropathy in paclitaxel-treated breast cancer patients.

      IX. To identify genetic markers associated with differences in the efficacy of each
      chemotherapy regimen.

      X. To examine genetic associations with other response and toxicity phenotypes that become
      apparent during future analysis of Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) 40101 data.

      XI. To identify copy number variants associated with adriamycin/cyclophosphamide-induced
      neutropenia and paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV
      on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV on day 1.
      Treatment repeats every 14 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM III: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14
      days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM IV: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days
      for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Note: Randomization to Arms II and IV is no longer available, effective 12/15/2007.

      After completion of study treatment patients are followed up for 4-6 weeks, every 6 months
      for 2 years, and then annually for up to 13 years.
    
  