
    
      Objective: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD), the leading cause of blindness in people
      over age 65 in the United States, is a heterogeneous clinical entity in which retinal
      degeneration occurs predominantly in the macula in the context of aging and leads to
      impairment of central visual acuity. AMD occurs in two general forms, one of which involves
      choroidal neovascularization (CNV) with subsequent formation of a disciform scar. This is
      often referred to as the neovascular or wet form. A second form, the subject of this study,
      is termed dry or atrophic macular degeneration and involves a constellation of clinical
      features that can include drusen, pigment clumping and/or retinal pigment epithelium (RPE)
      dropout and geographic atrophy (GA). GA can begin as a thinning of the RPE with involvement
      of the underlying choriocapillaris and subsequently lead to an atrophic change in the macula.
      Inflammation may play a role in the pathogenesis of GA. Sirolimus inhibits the production,
      signaling and activity of many inflammatory factors relevant to the development of GA.
      Therefore, the objective of this study is to investigate the safety and possible efficacy of
      serial sirolimus intravitreal injections in participants with bilateral GA.

      Study Population: Six participants with bilateral GA associated with AMD will be enrolled.
      Initially, 10 participants with bilateral GA associated with AMD were to be enrolled.
      However, only six will be enrolled, as sirolimus intravitreal injections will no longer be
      administered to participants.

      Design: In this single-center, prospective, controlled, unmasked, Phase I/II study, one eye
      of eligible participants was initially randomized to investigational product (intravitreal
      sirolimus) while the fellow eye was observed. Participants initially received a 20 μL (440
      μg) intravitreal injection sirolimus in the study eye at baseline and every two months
      thereafter unless contraindicated. As of September 2012, sirolimus intravitreal injections
      were no longer administered to participants. Both the study and fellow eyes will be observed
      every two months until the study terminates. The study will not terminate until all
      participants have been followed through Month 12.

      Outcome Measures: The primary outcome is the rate of change in area of GA based on masked
      grading by an external Reading Center of fundus photographs in the study eye and fellow eye
      at Month 12 compared to baseline. Secondary outcomes will include changes in best-corrected
      visual acuity (BCVA), changes in drusen area based on masked digital grading of fundus
      photography, absolute and relative changes in area of GA measured using fundus photography
      and autofluorescence imaging, and development of exudative AMD measured using optical
      coherence tomography (OCT). Safety outcomes will include the number and severity of adverse
      events (AEs). Ocular safety outcomes will be indicated by changes in visual acuity, ocular
      surface changes, intraocular inflammation and any other ocular changes not consistent with
      the natural progression of GA.
    
  