
    
      Thoracic epidural analgesia (TEA) is commonly used for pain management in donor
      hepatectomies. TEA reduces activation of the sympathetic outflow, surgical stress response,
      and pain-associated tachycardia and hypertension which can cause perioperative myocardial
      ischemia. TEA decreases stress-induced gastrointestinal disruption, immunosuppression, and
      decreases postoperative opioid requirement. TEA promotes expiratory intercostal and abdominal
      muscle tone and facilitates diaphragmatic excursion thus reduce the risks of atelectasis,
      pneumonia, and respiratory failure. However, TEA has its own drawbacks, e.g. hypotension
      caused by the inhibition of the sympathetic outflow, which can be associated with the
      administration of large amounts of crystalloids and colloids. Other complications may include
      failure to produce analgesia in 20% of patients3, intravascular cannulation leading to local
      anesthetic toxicity, unintentional dural punctures, paraesthesia, post-operative
      coagulopathies, epidural abscess, and epidural hematomas resulting in paraplegia1, 3.
      Considering these merits and demerits, TEA is the widely accepted choice for postoperative
      analgesia in living related donor hepatectomies1, 3,4, 5.

      Erector spinae plane block (ESPB) is a novel ultrasound-guided regional anesthesia technique
      described in 2016 6 for the management of thoracic and abdominal pain. Ultrasound guidance is
      used to inject a local anesthetic in the interfacial plane between the erector spinae muscle
      and the associated transverse process of the spine. The mechanism of action is by the spread
      of local anesthetic anteriorly to the dorsal and ventral rami of the thoracic and abdominal
      spinal nerves 7. The absence of blood vessels in this vicinity shows the usefulness of this
      technique in the patients, who are prone to coagulopathies making it safer with lesser
      expertise, and with less procedural complications 8. The ESPB is an avascular plane block
      therefore, it results in lower plasma volumes rise due to reduced uptake of the local
      anesthetic by plasma hence the duration of action of local anesthetic is long. An ESPB at T5
      level is sufficient to have a unilateral multi-dermatomes sensory block ranging from T1 to L3
      level10 when used as a continuous block. Various case reports demonstrate its efficacy in a
      wide spectrum of specialities like acute and chronic pain management, thoraco-abdominal
      surgeries, neuropathic and post-traumatic pain 4, 7, 8,9 , 10. A comparison of continuous
      epidural versus single shot intrathecal morphine was made and assessed the quality of
      analgesia by a visual analog scale (VAS) and the additional IV analgesic requirements were
      56% in cases of epidural 11 used for sample size calculation.

      However, no randomized control study has been performed to compare the efficacy of a
      continuous ESPB with that of a continuous TEA for living related donor hepatectomies. Thus
      the aim of this study is to compare the postoperative analgesic efficacy and adverse effects
      of continuous ESPB to that of a continuous TEA in patients undergoing adult living donor
      hepatectomies. Investigators have hypothesized that continuous ESPB would provide better
      postoperative analgesia with fewer adverse effects. The primary outcome is post-operative
      pain scores using the visual analog scale (V.A.S) for pain at rest and at maximal inspiration
      during the post-operative period at PACU, 1, 6, 12, 24 and 48 hours. The secondary outcomes
      include lung incentive spirometry volumes, the dosage of adjunct nalbuphine used,
      hypotension, tachycardia, post-operative coagulopathy, early mobilization and discharge from
      surgical I.C.U (S.I.C.U).

      Methodology After approval from the institutional and ethical review board and written
      informed consent, patients were randomized into either the TEA group or the ESPB group using
      the sealed enveloped method.

      Study design The study will be a single-blinded, prospective, comparative, randomized control
      trial. The participants will be assigned to one of two groups; Group A will include patients
      receiving continuous TEA, whilst Group B will include patients receiving continuous ESPB.
      Both groups will receive their respective intervention after induction with standard general
      anesthesia.

      Blinding is done at the level of assessor. The primary assessor will be blind with the type
      of technique applied and fill the Proforma according to standard routine with the same drug
      infusion.

      Study population The study will include all adult patients undergoing elective living related
      donor hepatectomies for liver transplant surgery.

      Study setting Study will be conducted in the liver transplant operating rooms of Shifa
      International Hospital.

      Study duration The study duration will be of up to 12 months from the date of approval of the
      study from the hospital's institutional and ethical review board.

      Randomization Randomization will be done by the simple random sampling technique using the
      sealed envelope method.

      Sample Size Sample size was calculated by the WHO sample size calculator and using the
      following parameters; Level of significance - 5% Power of the test - 80% Proportion of
      patients requiring opioid in epidural group - 0.56 (ref no.13) Anticipated proportion of
      patients requiring opioid in ESP group - 0.25 Sample size - 30 patients in each group

      Induction of General Anaesthesia In the operating room, the patient will be positioned on the
      operating table; the standard monitors: non-invasive blood pressure, ECG, pulse oximetry will
      be applied. A 20 gauge intravenous cannula will be secured on the dorsum of the hand and
      connected to a maintenance intravenous fluid therapy. The patient will be pre-oxygenated for
      3 minutes with oxygen. The patient will be administered injection Ondansetron (0.1mg/kg) and
      injection Midazolam (0.02mg/kg) intravenous to start with. The patient will be induced with
      injection Buprenorphine (0.02mg/kg) and injection Propofol (2 mg/kg) mixed with Lidocaine (60
      mg), and atracurium (0.5 mg/kg), after which an endotracheal tube will be inserted and
      mechanical ventilation will be initiated. A radial arterial line and a central venous line
      will be inserted. Both TEA and ESPB catheters will be placed after induction of general
      anesthesia for surgery by experienced practitioners in the left lateral decubitus position.

      Data Collection Data for the study will be collected by a standardized performa which will
      record all the required variables of the study. Confidentiality of patient's data will be
      maintained.

      Data Analysis The data will be analyzed by using the IBM SPSS software, version 25.0, for
      Windows.
    
  