
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Work-related asthma is asthma that is attributable to, or is made worse by, environmental
      exposures in the workplace. Published estimates of the proportion of adult asthma
      attributable to occupational factors have varied widely, depending on population,
      methodology, and definitions, from 2 percent to 33 percent. Occupational asthma is of great
      public health importance because it is potentially preventable, can cause substantial
      disability, and in some cases is completely curable. Among adults in the United States,
      asthma has become a major public health problem, with rates most elevated among low income,
      urban, African American and Latino sectors of the population, and with substantial evidence
      suggesting potential occupational contributions to the excess rates. These important sectors
      of the U.S. population have, however, been inadequately represented in the occupational
      asthma research literature.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This was a case control study of physician-diagnosed asthma, occupation, industry, and
      workplace environmental exposures designed to evaluate the hypothesis that a substantial
      component of the asthma burden in a low income, urban, largely minority population was due to
      occupational factors. The study design addressed a variety of methodologic challenges
      including healthy worker effects, difficulty contacting and recruiting this potentially high
      risk population, large numbers of potential etiologic agents, mixed exposures, small
      workplaces, and low absolute incidence of occupational asthma.

      The study population was the catchment population of Bellevue Hospital, a general hospital in
      lower Manhattan, New York City, with busy ambulatory care services that serve low income
      working communities. Cases and controls were recruited from among outpatients and inpatients
      at Bellevue Hospital and interviewed face-to-face or by telephone. Occupation, industry, and
      occupational exposures were determined by questionnaire supplemented by a Job Exposure
      Matrix. Odds ratios (ORs) of association between asthma and specific industrial,
      occupational, and exposure categories, controlled for major confounders, were estimated. The
      ORs were used to calculate occupation- and industry-specific Attributable Fractions, and an
      overall Population Attributable Fraction of asthma attributable to occupational factors. New
      onset occupational asthma and work-aggravated asthma were investigated separately.
    
  