
    
      Operating a motor vehicle requires a complex set of skills, the most important of which is
      the ability to continuously visually attend to the roadway. Glances away from the roadway
      significantly increase one's risk for a motor vehicle crash (MVC). Teen drivers evidence far
      more extended glances away from the roadway than experienced drivers. Further, teens with a
      diagnosis of Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) emit 3-times more extended
      glances away from the roadway than typical teens. There is a clear need for interventions,
      particularly one that targets extended glances away from the roadway, to address the driving
      deficits of teens with ADHD. The proposed research will test the efficacy of the FOcused
      Concentration and Attention Learning (FOCAL) intervention, which targets reducing the number
      of extended glances away from the roadway, among teens with ADHD. The PC-based FOCAL training
      provides teens with an operational understanding of the dangers of extended glances away from
      the roadway and trains them on limiting the length of the teens' glances. The investigators
      have enhanced the FOCAL intervention (now termed FOCAL+) to include multiple training
      sessions and to integrate practice on a driving simulator with immediate feedback regarding
      extended glance behavior. In this randomized trial, teens with ADHD will be randomly assigned
      to receive either FOCAL+ or a sham placebo group. Immediately after 1 month of training
      sessions and 6-months post-training, teens' driving skills will be assessed using a driving
      simulator. In addition, teens will have cameras installed in their cars for 12-months which
      record driver behavior and road conditions during irregular events (e.g., hard-braking,
      swerving). Using data from driving simulation, cameras installed in the teen's car, and teen
      driving records, the investigators will examine the short- and long-term efficacy of the
      FOCAL+ intervention on 1) decreasing rates of extended glances away from the roadway among
      teens with ADHD, and 2) improving driving performance among teens with ADHD.
    
  