
    
      Asia has the unenviable reputation as being the epicenter for type 2 diabetes. The Asian
      phenotype has been shown to be most susceptible to diabetes than Caucasians. More
      importantly, the transition from prediabetes to diabetes is more drastic and severe in
      Asians. The glycemic index (GI) was first introduced in 1981 as a classification of the blood
      glucose raising potential of carbohydrate foods. There is substantial evidence suggesting
      that consumption of low glycemic index (GI) foods minimize blood glucose fluctuations, and
      help in the prevention and management of diabetes and prediabetes. Given the rising incidence
      of prediabetes and diabetes in Asia, dietary interventions to complement pharmacological
      management of diabetes are increasingly being encouraged. The majority of studies on GI and
      Glycemic Response (GR) have been conducted on Caucasian populations. Asians have been shown
      to have a greater GR to the same food compared to Caucasians. Simple dietary modification
      such as increasing dietary fiber in a food has been shown to reduce GR. However, it is
      unclear if a palatable, low-viscous, soluble fiber and maltodextrin have comparable effect.
      Although viscous insoluble fiber has been shown to also suppress appetite, it was unclear if
      similar effects could be obtained when it is replaced with soluble fiber. Using the
      continuous glucose monitoring system (CGMS), Henry and his colleagues have demonstrated that
      exchanging high-GI bread with a low-GI bread could improve the 24h glucose profile. More
      recently investigators have shown, using the CGMS, that the consumption of a low GI breakfast
      and afternoon snack was capable of attenuating 24-hour blood glucose profiles, minimizing
      glycemic excursions and reducing food intake in healthy Asian males. These simple dietary
      interventions appear to be an acceptable approach in improving overall glycemia and energy
      balance in Asians.
    
  