
    
      Bikram yoga is a trademarked form of yoga in which a series of 26 yoga postures are performed
      in a heated (41ºC), humidified environment over a 90-minute period. Bikram yoga has rapidly
      gained popularity with approximately 300 studios currently operating in the U.S. The
      90-minute session consists of pranayama (breathing), and standing, balancing, strengthening,
      and stretching asanas (postures) all performed in a sauna-like environment. Although this
      highly controlled style of yoga provides an optimal choice for interventional research
      studies, few studies have attempted to elucidate the health benefits associated with Bikram
      yoga.

      Subjects will be randomly assigned to one of three groups: heated Bikram yoga (41ºC), room
      temperature Bikram yoga (22ºC), or control in which the participants will be instructed not
      to alter physical activity patterns. Collected data from this interventional study will be
      analyzed by ANOVA and/or ANCOVA with repeated measures. Pearson correlation coefficients will
      be used to examine associations between variables of interest. A significance level of p<0.05
      will be employed to determine statistical significance.

      A total of 80 sedentary (<2 days of physical activity weekly) male and female adults between
      the ages of 40 and 60 years will be recruited and studied. Twenty subjects in each group will
      complete 12 weeks of Bikram yoga at room temperature (22ºC), Bikram yoga in a heated
      environment (41ºC), or a control period during which participants will be instructed not to
      alter physical activity levels. Based on a previous study competed by the investigators which
      employed Bikram yoga as an intervention, a dropout rate of 25% is anticipated. Therefore, as
      the goal of the investigators is to have a minimum of 60 subjects (20 per group) complete the
      12-week intervention, the investigators will recruit and enroll 80 subjects.

      Once participants report to the laboratory, height and weight will be measured and a finger
      prick will be performed. Body composition will then be measured via dual energy x-ray
      absorptiometry scan.

      Endothelial function will be measured non-invasively via flow-mediated dilation. This
      technique involves ultrasound imaging of the upper arm to obtain an image of the brachial
      artery. Once baseline images are acquired, a cuff placed around the forearm will be inflated
      for 5 minutes. More images will be acquired after the cuff is deflated and the images will be
      analyzed to determine the percent change in arterial diameter from baseline.

      Arterial stiffness will be measured using pulse wave velocity. Tonometric sensors will be
      placed on the carotid and femoral pulse sites and blood pressure cuffs placed on the arms and
      ankles to determine brachial and tibial arterial blood pressure. The distance between the
      carotid and femoral pulse sites will be measured and pulse wave velocity will be determined
      as distance traveled divided by the time between the initiation of the carotid and femoral
      pulses.
    
  