
    
      The ultimate outcome of hepatitis c viral infection is determined by the host immune
      response. Patients with acute hepatitis c viral infection who did not clear the virus
      developed chronicity. Persistant hepatitis c virus -specific cytotoxic T-cell responses in
      the liver have been associated with the development of hepatic inflammation which may
      ultimately lead to liver cirrhosis. One of the potential mechanisms that might modulate
      hepatitis c virus -specific immune responses is the inhibitory role of the regulatory T
      cells.

      Regulatory T cells are a subtype of T-cells that play a fundamental role in maintaining
      immune homeostasis to balance between the tissue-damaging and protective effects of the
      immune response. Regulatory T cells are characterized by the expression of the Forkhead box
      protein P3 transcription factor in the nucleus and is generally accepted as the single best
      marker for regulatory Tcells. In cases of hepatitis c virus infection, the role of regulatory
      Tcells is still controversial and most of studies yielded conflicting reports. This conflict
      may be explained by the heterogeneity in the methods and sites of studying the frequency of
      regulatory T cells.

      There are strong evidences that regulatory T cells and their cytokines may play an important
      role in the induction of tolerance in the liver.

      Interleukin 35 is an immune-suppressive cytokine expressed in stimulated human regulatory
      Tcells during inflammatory responses and consists of Interlukin-12a ( Interleukin 12p35
      subunit) and IL-27b chains, encoded by the Interleukin 12A and Epstien Bar I3 genes,
      respectively. It is a novel heterodimeric cytokine belonging to the Interleukin 12 family,
      and little is known about its receptor. Activated peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC)-
      derived human regulatory T cells have been shown to express and secrete large amounts of
      Interleukin 35, which contributes significantly to the suppressive capacity of regulatory T
      cells in an Interlukin 35-dependent manner.

      Additionally, human regulatory T cell -derived IL35 is required for the conversion of human
      conventional cluster of differentiation 4+Foxp3_ T cells into induced T regulatory 35 cells,
      which then promote the generation of more induced T regulatory 35 cells via Interleukin 35
      secretion, resulting in infectious tolerance (18). In addition, Interleukin 35 has been shown
      to suppress the T helper (Th) cells Th1 and Th17.

      In this study, investigators will evaluate the possible role of regulatory T cells and their
      cytokines in different groups of hepatitis c infected patients by investigating the frequency
      of regulatory T cells and serum level of IL35 and examining their relationship to the various
      patterns of hepatitis c viral persistence, hepatitis c virus pathogenesis, complications with
      cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma in an attempt to estimate the future value of using
      anti IL35 and regulatory T cell depletion in those patients.
    
  