
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The WCGS began in 1960 with 3,524 male volunteers who were employed by 11 California
      companies. Subjects were 39 to 59 years old and free of heart disease as determined by
      electrocardiogram. After the initial screening, the study population dropped to 3,154 and the
      number of companies to 10 because of various exclusions. The cohort comprised both blue- and
      white-collar employees. At baseline the following information was collected:
      socio-demographic including age, education, marital status, income, occupation; physical and
      physiological including height, weight, blood pressure, electrocardiogram, and corneal arcus;
      biochemical including cholesterol and lipoprotein fractions; medical and family history and
      use of medications; behavioral data including Type A interview, smoking, exercise, and
      alcohol use. Later surveys added data on anthropometry, triglycerides, Jenkins Activity
      Survey, and caffeine use. Average follow-up continued for 8.5 years with repeat examinations.
      During the 8.5 year follow-up, coronary heart disease occurred in 257 of the initially
      disease-free group, of whom 50 died of coronary heart disease. There were 90 non-coronary
      disease deaths. Multiple logistic analyses confirmed the roles of blood pressure, serum
      cholesterol and cigarette smoking as risk factors. The study also found that Type A behavior,
      as assessed by a Structured Interview, was associated independently with the risk of coronary
      heart disease and constituted a 2:1 risk.

      In 1982, Dr. Richard Brand and Dr. David Ragland at the School of Public Health, University
      of California at Berkeley, conducted a Mortality Follow-up of the 3,014 WCGS subjects living
      in 1969. The purpose of the 1982 follow-up was to locate the original participants, determine
      vital status, and obtain information about the health status of the participants who were
      still alive, and cause of death of participants who had died between 1969 and 1982. All
      individuals contacted were asked to participate in the proposed 25-year follow-up physical
      examination. At that time in 1983 there were 2,534 surviving subjects. All data gathered by
      the 1982 Mortality Follow-up were used in the 25-year follow-up.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The follow-up evaluated the power of cardiovascular disease risk factors, as measured in
      1960, to predict coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality over 25 years and to predict
      stroke. It also evaluated the power of changes in cardiovascular disease risk factors as
      observed across the seven repeat exams from 1960 to 1969, to predict long-term morbidity and
      mortality and provided the basis for a potential future follow-up of an aging cohort.

      The 25-year follow-up extended the existing database by adding current risk factor status and
      cardiovascular disease morbidity data collected by physical examinations and personal
      interviews. The new data included physical, physiological, and biochemical variables, health
      behavior, medical and family history, and Type A behavior. Existing mortality records were
      updated and used to determine cause of death and, where possible, the extent of
      cardiovascular pathology.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  