
    
      Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) is a frequent disease that affects 4% of the male population
      and 2% of the female population, with well known repercussions on the quality of life
      (daytime drowsiness, concentration issues, increased motor vehicle accidents, etc) and
      cardiovascular risk (increased risk of strokes, hypertension, diabetes, CAD, etc.). It is
      caused by an intermittent relaxation of the throat muscles during sleep, thus blocking the
      airways and leading to snoring and apnea.

      Treatment can involve diets and sports, sleep hygiene techniques, mandibular advancement
      devices. But the CPAP (continuous positive airway pressure) device remains the first line
      therapy for OSA. It is very effective at reducing apnea-hypopnea (AHI) and oxygen
      desaturation indexes (ODI), but poor compliance is often noticed, with only 46% of patients
      still using the device at 6 months.

      Despite numerous studies on the subject, very few have included a large number of
      patients(>150) or long follow up time (>1 year), or reached conclusive evidence concerning
      the factors that influence CPAP compliance.

      In order to determine these factors, the investigators have taken into account approximately
      450 patients over a timeframe of 5 years who have used a CPAP device during the course of
      their disorder, and established a Kaplan-Meyer estimation of their survival function. The
      investigators have then used anthropometry (BMI, neck circumference, sex, age, etc.),
      polysomnography (Epworth score, AHI, ODI, sleep efficiency, etc.) and CPAP (pressures, leaks,
      etc.) data with a Cox regression in order to determine the factors that influence the
      compliance of a patient.

      The results will allow us to establish the average compliance of a patient under CPAP
      therapy, as well as the reasons leading to its termination, the factors predicting a
      decreased compliance and the consequences of stopping the treatment. This will allow us to
      set up multiple methods of improved follow-up in patients that are predicted recalcitrant to
      CPAP therapy.
    
  