
    
      Individuals suffering from Serious Mental Illnesses (SMI) such as schizophrenia, bipolar
      disorder or depressive disorders are at risk for serious adverse psychiatric, other health,
      and social outcomes. Essential to controlling chronic psychiatric and health disorders is
      adherence to medications that are prescribed to address the symptoms and causes of these
      health conditions. Medication adherence is particularly challenging for those with SMI. Good
      adherence is defined as 80% or more of medication taken, whereas the average patient with
      schizophrenia or bipolar disorder takes 50-70% of prescribed medications. For individuals
      with SMI, important barriers to adherence include cognitive impairments and lack of illness
      insight, meaning that they are not aware of the symptoms and consequences of their illness.
      Inquiries about drug intake by psychiatrists, relatives, or others has been linked to greater
      adherence. Positive relationships with physicians, psychiatrists and their staff have been
      found to be significant predictors of good adherence in SMI patients, while difficulties in
      building a therapeutic alliance and poor clinical-patient relationship are significant
      predictors of nonadherence. Failure to recognize nonadherence may prompt physicians to
      misattribute poor outcomes to treatment failure, leading to inappropriate dosage increases or
      unnecessary medication switches. Moreover, non- adherence in SMI patients is associated with
      greater economic and social burden, due to higher hospitalization rates, longer hospital
      stays, more emergency room and emergency psychiatric visits, greater risk of suicide and
      violence towards others, and higher rates of deleterious psychotic relapses.

      The Medherent© Medication Management Device (MMD) is a tool developed by Terrapin Pharmacy to
      improve medication adherence through the integration of medication dispensing and prompts to
      consumers to take medications, with real-time electronic feedback to care managers about
      consumers' adherence behaviors and daily health status. This MMD builds on adherence
      interventions proven effective in SMI patients and enables care managers to expand the number
      of individuals that they can care for effectively.

      This study uses a stepped-wedge design with 150 individuals across all study sites and
      approximately 150 individuals to answer the following aims:

        1. Measure the effect of the Medherent platform and interventions on adherence and
           medication use.

             1. Measure change in adherence by triangulating self-report data, clinician
                observation, biological measures, chart reviews and clinical outcomes before and
                after exposure to the Medherent intervention. Medherent device data will also be
                used to measure the consumer levels of adherence to medications.

             2. Document pharmacy interaction issues (e.g. arranging refill times, responsiveness
                to prescription changes), device fail rate, and remaining user interface issues
                (e.g. acceptability of adherence prompts, operating system issues).

        2. Measure the effect of Medherent use on clinical outcomes and health service costs.

             1. Change in clinical relationships, attitudes about medications, and acute care
                service use (e.g. hospitalizations and emergency department visits) will be
                measured by consumer interviews, chart reviews, Medherent dispensing data, and
                claims data (Medicaid)

             2. Using Medicaid data, pharmacy data, and agency clinical data we will develop a cost
                model for Medherent users before and after enrollment and develop a matched
                comparison group using other Maryland Medicaid recipients who have not been
                enrolled in the Medherent treatment arm to measure changes in health service
                utilization and the corresponding costs.
    
  