
    
      Sedation is used for 30 to 70 % of all intensive care unit (ICU) patients. Deep sedation can
      be used for lot of disease like acute respiratory distress syndrome, septic shock.

      Deep sedation was defined by RASS (Richmond Assessment Sedation Scale) below -3.

      Deep sedation can be associated with increased mortality, length stay, duration of mechanical
      ventilation, acute brain dysfunction.

      The french exploration neurologic group in ICU developed a score used Brainstem response
      patterns in patient deeply sedated by midazolam and showed that a high BRASS score is
      associated with high mortality at day 28.

      The investigators think that BRASS score isn't associated with the medication used for
      sedation.

      In this study the investigators included all patients sedated independently of medication
      used for sedation, we also excluded patient with neurologic disorder.

      The main objective is to shown that high BRASS score at admission of patient without
      neurologic disorder sedated is predictive of 28-day mortality.

      The BRASS score will be done in the 6 hours within admission. The Richmond Assessment
      Sedation Scale (RASS) and Full Outline of unresponsiveness (FOUR) will be performed.

      The patient characteristic's will be recorded (sex, age, Simplified Acute Physiology Score II
      (SAPS II), medical or surgical admission, diagnosis at ICU admission (ARDS, sepsis,…), the
      reason of initiation of mechanical ventilation, the reason of sedation (agitation, analgesia,
      asynchrony with ventilator).

      The medication for sedation and the level at time of examination, the time between admission
      and examination will be recorded.

      For the outcome, the duration of mechanical ventilation, the duration of sedation
      administration, the occurrence of delirium evaluated by Confusion Assessment Method-
      intensive care unit (CAM-ICU), the length stay in ICU, death at day 28 and 90 will be
      reported.
    
  