
    
      Background: The Screening Inventory of Psychosocial Problems (SIPP) is a short, validated
      self-administered questionnaire to identify psychosocial problems in cancer patients. The one
      page 24-item questionnaire assesses physical complaints, psychological complaints, and social
      and sexual problems. There is very little known about the effectiveness of using the SIPP in
      consultation settings.

      Aim: The aim of this study is to test the hypothesis that using the SIPP may prevent
      underdiagnosis of early symptoms reflecting psychosocial problems, should facilitate
      communication between physicians and patients about psychosocial distress and may contribute
      to adequate referral to relevant psychosocial caregivers.

      Methods: A Cluster Randomized Controlled Trail (CRCT) is developed using a Solomon four-group
      design (two intervention and two control groups) to evaluate the effects of using the SIPP.
      Radiotherapists instead of patients are at random allocated to experimental or control
      groups. All included patients are randomized into the groups with and without
      pre-measurement. Psychosocial distress, quality of life, patients' satisfaction about
      communication with their radiotherapist during first consultation and the number and type of
      referred patients to psychosocial caregivers are assessed. Self-administered assessments are
      conducted at four times: pre-test before first consultation (T1), and post-tests directly
      following the first consultation (T2), three months (T3) and one year after (T4) the first
      measurement. Medical information are gathered from patients' medical records. Furthermore, a
      process evaluation is carried out.

      Relevance: Using the SIPP may lead to a reduction of psychosocial problems and better quality
      of life, both on the short and long term. If the SIPP proves to be effective, the results of
      this project may contribute to motivate health care workers to use the SIPP as a standard
      method for early detection of psychosocial distress in oncology departments in the
      Netherlands and abroad.
    
  