
    
      In this herein described pilot study 6 subjects will receive three different topical doses of
      Lidocaine 2.5% and Prilocaine 2.5% cream (2.5% lidocaine, 2.5% prilocaine, ACTAVIS
      LABORATORIES UT INC, US ) to select an optimal dose for the main study. Oraqix® gel (2.5%
      lidocaine, 2.5% prilocaine, Dentsply Pharmaceutical Inc., US) will be applied to assess
      whether it can be used as negative control in the main study. Blood samples will also be
      drawn at prior to dosing to establish a baseline, and at defined time points post-dose to
      assess systemic drug levels. Furthermore, lateral diffusion from a dosed site to an adjacent
      (non-dosed) test site will be evaluated in this pilot study. Different non-invasive devices
      will be tested to identify influencing factors for skin penetration in order to complete the
      available information on skin characteristics for the main study.

      This pilot will be a single center, open label, exploratory research study to assess the
      dermal PK of marketed topical formulations of lidocaine/prilocaine in six healthy volunteers
      using dOFM. The study will be performed at the Clinical Research Center of the Medical
      University of Graz/Austria.The study comprises three visits, a screening visit (Visit 1), a
      study visit of approximately 28 h (Visit 2) for application of dermatological drug products,
      and an End-of-Study visit (Visit 3). In Visit 2 each subject will have nine test sites, four
      on the left thigh, four on the right thigh (resulting in 8 test sites on both thighs) and one
      on the arm. Each of the nine test site will have 2 dOFM probes resulting in 18 dOFM probes
      per subject. On six of the eight test sites on the thighs three different doses of Lidocaine
      2.5% and Prilocaine 2.5% cream cream will be applied (5 mg/cm², 10 mg/cm² or 15 mg/cm²) to
      assess the dose for the main study. On another test site on the thighs Oraqix® gel will be
      applied to check if Oraqix® can be used as negative control in the main study. On the
      remaining test site on the thighs as well as on the test site on the arm no products will be
      applied to test for potential cross-talk between test sites by lateral diffusion and systemic
      redistribution, resulting in seven treated and two non-treated sites per subject.
      Additionally 8 blood samples will be drawn to rule out systemic appearance of lidocaine
      and/or prilocaine. Further, devices to identify possible factors influencing skin penetration
      will be measured on each thigh (e.g. TEWL).
    
  