
    
      Background: Interscalene plexus blockade (ISB) is frequently used during surgery of the upper
      limb. The use of ultrasound has significantly reduced time of onset and total volume of local
      anesthetics in comparison to nerve localization by stimulators. (1-4) The introduction of
      this technique has been correlated with decreased volumes of effective local anesthetics from
      40 milliliters and more down to 10 milliliters and less.(3-4) As the injection site of ISB is
      located in close proximity to the anatomical structures of the spinal cord, spread of local
      anesthetics could potentially cause adverse events, including contralateral blockade and
      total spinal anesthesia. Case reports on these complications have been published previously.
      (5-11)In a recently published study we showed that the phenomenon of epidural spread can be
      reproduced in cadavers and seems to be positively correlated to injection-volumes exceeding
      10 milliliters.(12) Moreover, we observed a trend towards cranial spread of the contrast
      agent in all investigated specimens along the course of the nerval roots towards the spinal
      cord. In another cadaveric study by Orebauch et al., cranial epidural spread was also
      detectable following injection of dye into the nerval roots of the brachial plexus.(13)
      Magnetic resonance imaging has not yet been used for visualization of the spread of local
      anaesthetics in ISB.

      Given that ultrasound provides excellent visualization of target-structures in regional
      anesthesia and therefore enables physicians to place injection needles with enormous
      accuracy, the question arises whether there is a critical volume for local anesthetics
      increasing complications such as epidural spread and in consequence contralateral blockade.

      The aim of this study is to confirm the findings of our cadaveric study in vivo and to show
      that the frequency of epidural spread correlates with injection of increased volumes of local
      anesthetics.

      Primary endpoint: Spread of local anesthetics to the epidural space

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  Contralateral epidural spread.

        -  Spread of local anesthetics to the phrenic nerve.

        -  Bed side spirometry and ultrasound investigation of the diaphragm in the PACU.

        -  Oxygen saturation in the PACU

        -  Self-reported block duration.

        -  Self reported pain scores for the first 24 postoperative hours

        -  Time to first analgesic consumption on demand.

        -  Total analgesic consumption (ropivacaine PCA).
    
  