
    
      Septic shock is a leading cause of death around the world, with a mortality that often ranges
      30-50% but in some locations may be even higher. Despite advances in critical care medicine
      over the last several decades, few therapeutic interventions have demonstrated mortality
      benefit in this population besides antimicrobial medications, intravenous fluids, and
      controlling the source of the infection; multiple agents which at one time showed promise
      have ultimately failed to deliver meaningful clinical benefit. As such, there is an ongoing
      need to identify therapeutic interventions which can modify the course of disease for these
      patients.

      Septic shock is traditionally characterized by a hyperdynamic hemodynamic profile with a high
      cardiac output (CO) and low systemic vascular resistance (SVR) in association with excessive
      catecholamine stimulation. Tachycardia is a common finding in septic shock as an early
      compensatory mechanism to increase cardiac output in the setting of low SVR. Often
      tachycardia persists beyond the initial stages of septic shock, and has been associated with
      restricted diastolic ventricular filling, increased oxygen requirements, and
      tachycardia-induced cardiomyopathy, as well as myocardial depression, immunosuppression, and
      direct myocyte toxicity via calcium overload. Generally, clinical practice has been to avoid
      trying to control the tachycardic response for fear of worsening cardiac output and causing
      cardiovascular collapse. However, a recent single center randomized trial of the intravenous
      beta-1 adrenoreceptor antagonist esmolol demonstrated that control of heart rate to a more
      'normal' range was safe, well-tolerated, and appeared beneficial, with a 30% reduction in
      mortality found in this trial.

      While an intriguing concept with results that appear promising, further investigation among
      an ICU cohort in the United States is necessary before the administration of beta-blockade
      therapy to a patient in septic shock should be implemented in routine clinical practice. We
      hypothesize that the provision of esmolol to patients in vasopressor-dependent septic shock
      with tachycardia will lower the heart rate, thereby improving diastolic filling time and
      improving cardiac output, resulting in a reduction in need for vasopressor support. To test
      our hypothesis, we are conducting a Phase II randomized trial to determine if esmolol
      decreases vasopressor requirements (primary endpoint) and alters the inflammatory cascade as
      well as oxygen consumption in patients with septic shock (secondary endpoints).
    
  