
    
      Postoperative recurrence and metastasis of hepatocellular carcinoma(HCC）is the main problem
      during the treatment. Although with the development of medical science, some drugs have been
      found for the prevention and treatment of postoperative recurrence of HCC (such as
      postoperative application of interferon to prevent early tumor recurrence), but there is
      still no drug widely recognized.

      Transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) is a palliative treatment for hepatocellular
      carcinoma. TACE can detect the early recurrence of tumor after liver resection, and has a
      complementary treatment effect on hidden residual lesions. For patients with high-risk, the
      tumor recurrence rate can be significantly reduced, and the tumor-free survival can be
      prolonged by TACE. Therefore, patients with high-risk of recurrence after resection were
      routinely arranged TACE treatment as an adjuvant treatment after surgery.

      Lenvatinib is a multi-target receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI), which mainly inhibits
      vascular endothelial growth factor(VEGF) receptor-1, 2, 3; fibroblast growth factors(FGF)
      receptor-1, 2, 3, 4; platelet derived growth factor receptor(PDGFR)α; RET and KIT, thereby
      inhibiting tumor cell proliferation, inducing apoptosis, and acting as an anti-angiogenesis.
      The REFLECT study showed that the median overall survival(OS) of the patients in the
      lenvatinib group was 13.6 months (95% CI, 12.1-14.9) and that in the sorafenib group was 12.3
      months (95% CI, 10.4-13.9) , which reached a non-inferiority end point (HR = 0.92; 95% CI,
      0.79-1.06). In addition, all secondary endpoints in the lenvatinib group were significantly
      better than the sorafenib group. A subgroup analysis based on Chinese patients showed that
      the OS of Lenvatinib was significantly 4.8 months longer than sorafenib group (15.0 months vs
      10.2 months). Other three secondary endpoints, progression-free survival(PFS) (9.2 months vs
      3.6) and time to progression(TTP)(11.0 months vs 3.7 months) and objective response rate(ORR)
      (21.5% vs 8.3%), were also significantly better in Lenvatinib group. Based on the above
      datas, lenvatinib will become a new choice for Chinese patients with HCC. It has also been
      approved by the FDA and CFDA as the first-line treatment for patients with advanced HCC.

      So, this study is to observe the effect of lenvatinib combined with TACE in preventing the
      recurrence in high-risk patients with HCC.
    
  