
    
      Transitions of patient care among inpatient providers occur frequently and require providers
      to transmit critical clinical information. If information is omitted or misunderstood during
      a hand-off, serious clinical consequences may result for patient care. In fact, studies have
      shown that hand-offs are often variable and represent a major gap in safe patient care. For
      patients cared for by resident physicians, dangers posed by poor communication may be
      amplified since the implementation of resident duty hour restrictions in July 2003 has
      increased transfer frequency.In addition, few trainees receive formal training on hand-offs.
      The Joint Commission currently requires hospitals to implement a standardized, interactive
      approach to hand-off communications. Unfortunately, due to a lack of valid, standardized
      tools to evaluate hand-off quality, hospitals and educators cannot assess whether their
      hand-offs meet these criteria. More recently, the Institute of Medicine has recommended that
      all residents receive formal education on hand-off strategies.

      Education about best practices during hand-offs and assessment of hand-off quality is needed
      for several reasons: to improve clinical practice through evaluation and feedback, to
      illuminate areas of deficiency in current practices and to maximize patient safety in this
      era of duty hour restrictions. At the University of Chicago and Yale, investigators have
      extensive experience in describing hand-off quality, designing and implementing novel
      curricula to improve hand-off education amongst varying levels of trainees and have
      elucidated the relationship between patient care outcomes and poor hand-off quality.
      Therefore, drawing from our preliminary work in this area, and relevant practices in other
      industries, we aim to develop and test a generalizable tool to evaluate hand-offs in clinical
      settings.
    
  