
    
      Despite the increasing emphasis placed on patient-clinician communication about end of life
      care, efforts to guide the patient to make an informed end-of-life treatment decision often
      fail. Past efforts to enhance end-of-life discussions were insufficient to create treatment
      decisions that were consistent with the patient's values and the surrogate's ability to make
      end-of-life decisions for his/her loved one when required. The importance of effective
      end-of-life discussions has been documented extensively, yet systematic explorations of the
      effects of such dialogue with African Americans are nearly absent from the literature. The
      proposed study is designed to test the ability of an hour-long intervention, Patient-Centered
      Advance Care Planning (PC-ACP), to enhance clinicians' communication about end-of-life care
      with patients and surrogates. The specific aims are (1) to evaluate the feasibility and
      acceptability of PC-ACP among African American patients with End-stage Renal Disease and
      their surrogates and (2) to examine preliminary effects of PC-ACP on patient and surrogate
      outcomes (patients' perceived quality of communication, surrogates' level of comfort in
      decision making for the patient, patients' difficulty in making choices, patient-surrogate
      congruence in goals of care, and patients' and surrogates' psychosocial/spiritual
      receptiveness) at one week following receipt of the intervention. A randomized, controlled,
      pre and post study will be conducted. Subjects (patient-surrogate dyads) will be randomized
      to PC-ACP or to a usual care control group. Data to assess feasibility, clinical and
      sociodemographic data, and baseline measures of patient and surrogate outcomes will be
      collected when subjects enter the study. Measures of the patient and surrogate outcomes and
      data to assess acceptability of the intervention will be administered at one week follow up.
      Findings from this study are critical to strengthening PC-ACP and designing a randomized
      controlled trial to test its efficacy for improving the quality of patient-clinician
      communication and the quality of decision making for future medical care with African
      American patients, in comparison with non-Hispanic Whites.
    
  