
    
      As survival has improved for the 2 million people with cardiorespiratory failure managed
      annually in US intensive care units (ICUs), research has clarified how these survivors suffer
      from severe and persistent symptoms of psychological distress-depression, anxiety, and
      post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)-after discharge. However, few interventions exist that
      are relevant to patients' experiences and that also accommodate their many physical, social,
      and financial barriers to personalized care. To fill this gap, we developed a telephone- and
      web-based coping skills training (CST) program.

      CST is an empirically-supported psychosocial intervention that targets the use of the
      adaptive coping skills to decrease psychological distress and improve quality of life. We
      conducted a multicenter randomized clinical trial (RCT) called CSTEP that compared CST to an
      education program (EP) among a general sample of ICU survivors who received mechanical
      ventilation for cardiorespiratory failure. CST reduced depression symptoms and improved
      quality of life at 6 months in a pre-specified subgroup with elevated baseline distress. This
      RCT also identified key questions regarding best practices for identi-fying patients who are
      highly distressed yet whose physical illness is manageable, as well as delivering the
      intervention in a more convenient, and scalable manner. In a recent RCT testing a mindfulness
      intervention (LIFT), we found that a self-directed mobile app approach increased dose,
      adherence, and retention. However, many patients reported low enthusiasm for a
      meditation-based intervention.

      What is needed before a second multicenter RCT is to apply the promising CST content to a
      LIFT-inspired mobile app-based delivery system, and then to test it within a targeted patient
      population with a high likelihood of response (i.e., high baseline psychological distress).
      Therefore, we propose a 2-year R34 mixed-methods project that includes a pilot RCT in which
      we will randomize 45 cardiorespiratory failure / insufficiency survivors to one of three arms
      in equal ratios: intervention plus therapist for non-responders (n ~15), intervention without
      a therapist (n ~15), and usual care control (n ~15). Randomization will be stratified by ICU
      service (medical vs. surgical), baseline HADS score (<14 vs. ≥14), and age (<50 vs. ≥50). Our
      specific aims will: (1) Optimize the usability of a self-directed mobile app (Blueprint) and
      an automated post-discharge distress screening system; (2) Test two promising iterations of
      Blueprint vs. usual care in a pilot 3-arm RCT with 3-month follow up, and (3) Explore
      facilitators and barriers to Blueprint implementation, using these data to inform any
      necessary final revisions to the Blueprint app.
    
  