
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Arterial hypertension affects over 50 million Americans. While drug treatment is effective,
      exercise would be safer, might be cheaper, and would bring added health benefits if it could
      replace drugs in controlling hypertension.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Randomized, controlled trial. Known hypertensives (n=162) whose diastolic blood pressures
      rose to between 90 and 104 within four months of discontinuing medication under careful
      observation had their pressures controlled with enalapril. Oxygen consumption (V02) peak was
      measured during cycle ergometry. Eligible subjects were randomly assigned to 18 months
      participation in one of three groups: 1) high intensity endurance training (35 minutes three
      times/week at heart rate at 70-85 percent of V02 peak), 2) moderate intensity endurance
      training (35 minutes three times/week at heart rate of 50-70 of V02 peak), and 3) contact
      control. Enalapril was forward or back titrated or discontinued to maintain a normal blood
      pressure. After 12 months participation, medication was withdrawn under careful supervision
      from all subjects still taking it. The trial tested the hypotheses that: 1) a greater number
      of subjects undergoing either or both of the two 18 month exercise training programs would be
      able to stop anti-hypertensive medication than non-exercising controls, 2) moderate and high
      intensity endurance training were equally effective in replacing drugs in the treatment of
      mild essential hypertension, and 3) subjects that were successful at withdrawing
      anti-hypertensive medication would have: greater improvements in V02 peak, better initial
      psychological status or greater improvements in psychological status, and greater compliance
      with the exercise training program.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  