
    
      Choroidal neovascularization (CNV), a complication of age-related macular degeneration (AMD),
      is the most common cause of profound visual loss in the United States. Laser photocoagulation
      has been shown to retard visual loss, however only about 20% of patients with CNV are
      eligible for laser treatment.

      Conventional laser photocoagulation of CNV requires laser intensities adequate to coagulate
      proteins in the target tissue. Due to the proximity of CNV to the center of vision (fovea),
      the intensity of laser irradiation necessary, and the heat conduction in the ocular tissues,
      collateral tissue damage often results which further compromises vision. Recently, a new
      class of compounds (angiostatic steroids) have been found to inhibit the formation of new
      blood vessels (i.e. neovascularization) in the eye. One new angiostatic steroid, anecortave
      acetate (AL-3789), may represent a breakthrough in the therapy of ocular neovascular diseases
      such as AMD and diabetic retinopathy. Anecortave acetate suppresses the formation of new
      blood vessels in a variety of models of neovascularization. Unlike some of the angiostatic
      steroids, anecortave acetate appears to be lacking in the pharmacological activities typical
      of the steroid family (i.e. glucocorticoid, anti-inflammatory, cardiovascular, neurologic,
      diuretic, etc.) Additionally, anecortave acetate has been shown to arrest lipopolysaccharide
      (LPS) and basic fibroblast growth factors (bFGH) induced corneal neovascularization, to
      attenuate oxygen-induced retinopathy and to inhibit the growth of a highly vascularized
      intraocular tumor.

      The purpose of this study is to treat a small number of patients who would not normally
      qualify for the other anecortave acetate studies. These patients who are not eligible for the
      other anecortave acetate studies have no other treatment options and will likely experience a
      poor visual outcome as a result of their AMD. These patients are excluded from other studies
      because of "occult" neovascularization and visual acuity worse than 20/40. Sub-Tenon's
      injection of either 15 mg or 30 mg of anecortave acetate will be administered at the
      University of Iowa. The patients will be followed for a minimum of 24 months.
    
  