
    
      There is now ample clinical evidence that hydroxyurea is a safe and effective medication for
      adults and children with sickle cell anemia (SCA), and most hematologists agree the
      short-term safety and efficacy of hydroxyurea has been proven. The National Heart, Lung, and
      Blood Institute have recently released evidence-based guidelines for SCA, recommending that
      hydroxyurea be offered to all affected children as young as nine months of age, regardless of
      clinical severity. Despite the overwhelming evidence demonstrating safety and efficacy,
      hydroxyurea remains underutilized for a variety of reasons. In this prospective study, the
      investigators will utilize innovative strategies designed to address and overcome some of the
      barriers that currently limit the use of hydroxyurea for children with SCA. The investigators
      will utilize novel laboratory techniques and pharmacometric modeling in order to accurately
      predict the most effective hydroxyurea dose referred to as the maximum tolerated dose. The
      investigators aim to develop a screening urine test to objectively and accurately determine
      adherence to hydroxyurea therapy. In addition, the study will document critical laboratory
      and clinical characteristics of this unique population of patients with SCA who begin
      hydroxyurea at a young age.

      This study will follow two groups of patients. The first group, referred to as the New
      Cohort, will include mostly young infants who are not receiving hydroxyurea therapy upon
      entering the study. The starting dose of hydroxyurea for each of the participants in the New
      Cohort will be individually determined using the novel population PK/PD dose-prediction
      model. The second group of study participants, referred to as the Old Cohort, will include
      patients who are already receiving hydroxyurea therapy upon study entry. Both the Old and New
      Cohort (New Cohort) will be included in the development of a urine biomarker of adherence and
      will be followed throughout the study to document the effect hydroxyurea has upon organ
      function and quality of life. It is important to note that this is not a therapeutic drug
      trial. Prior to enrollment in the study, participants, along with their families and clinical
      providers, have decided to initiate hydroxyurea therapy for clinical indications. Except for
      the dose prediction model for the New Cohort, participants will be treated and monitored
      according to the routine clinical practice guidelines of the Cincinnati Children's Hospital
      Comprehensive Sickle Cell Center.
    
  