
    
      BACKGROUND: Fatigue is one of the most common, disabling, and distressing symptoms
      experienced by people with end-stage renal disease (ESRD; kidney failure). There are
      currently few evidence-based treatment options to address fatigue in the ESRD population.
      Energy conservation education (ECE) is a rehabilitative approach shown to improve
      fatigue-related outcomes in other chronic disease populations, that has yet to be studied in
      people with ESRD. The investigators recently developed a novel ECE program for people with
      ESRD, conducted acceptability and usability testing, and showed improvements in fatigue and
      disability in single-case studies. A large randomized controlled trial (RCT) is now required
      to establish the efficacy of the PEP program, but additional feasibility information is first
      needed to design the definitive RCT.

      OBJECTIVES:

        1. To estimate the proportion of ESRD patients that are eligible for the RCT, will consent
           to participate, and will complete all study procedures

        2. To identify the optimal primary outcome for the RCT and estimate the treatment effect
           size for RCT sample size calculations

        3. To examine treatment fidelity to the PEP program among non-rehabilitation staff who
           undergo program administration training

        4. To explore the effects of the PEP program on fatigue and disability at 3 months
           post-treatment

      METHODS: Single-center, 1:1, parallel-arm pilot RCT. Adults on hemodialysis in Calgary at 4
      dialysis units will be screened for eligibility. Prospective participants will be identified
      and approached by a clinical team member to assess their interest in the study. Interested
      patients will then be approached by a research team member to undergo informed consent and
      eligibility screening. Consenting participants will be randomized using a computer-generated
      randomization list and blocked randomization. Patients and outcome adjudicators will be
      blinded as to which is the treatment vs. control condition (blinding of providers is not
      feasible). Participants randomized to intervention will undergo the PEP energy conservation
      education program, consisting of two web modules and 4-7 sessions with a study clinician.
      Participants randomized to control will review the "Living with Kidney Disease" patient
      handbooks with a study clinician. Routine demographic and clinical data will be obtained at
      baseline, and the following measures will be administered to participants at baseline,
      mid-treatment, immediate post-treatment, and three months post-treatment: the Fatigue
      Severity Scale, Fatigue Impact Scale, Fatigue Management Questionnaire, Reintegration to
      Normal Living Index, and Canadian Occupational Performance Measure. A sample size of 40
      patients (20 per arm) will provide an optimal estimate of treatment effect size for RCT
      sample size calculations, given 80% power, a small/medium effect size, and an attrition rate
      of ≤20%.

      DATA ANALYSIS: The proportion of patients meeting each of the feasibility endpoints
      (eligibility, recruitment and attrition rates) will be calculated. Pre-to-post effect sizes
      will be calculated for all outcome measures used, and the outcome measure with the largest
      effect size will be chosen as the primary outcome for the RCT. Sample size calculations will
      then be made using the treatment effect size and variance from the pilot RCT data. Audio
      recordings of treatment sessions will be reviewed and rated using a Likert-scale rating
      system to estimate treatment fidelity. Effect sizes will also be calculated from
      pre-intervention to 3 months post-intervention.

      IMPLICATIONS: Findings from this pilot RCT will help in the design of a robust RCT of the PEP
      program, which has the potential to improve fatigue management in the ESRD population.
    
  