
    
      Many patients with Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) do not benefit or show only partial
      benefit from current psychotropic therapies. This trial was conducted for the purpose of
      determining the effectiveness of risperidone as an adjunctive treatment in patients with GAD
      who demonstrate a less-than-optimal response to their current anxiolytic treatment (either
      allowed antidepressants, benzodiazepines, or buspirone, or combination). Patients were
      randomized (patients are assigned different treatments based on chance) to either risperidone
      or placebo for 4 - 6 weeks of double-blind (neither the patient nor the physician knows
      whether drug or placebo is being taken, or at what dosage) treatment. Patients randomized to
      risperidone continued on their current anxiolytic treatment (treatment for anxiety) and
      received risperidone 0.25 mg per day for the first 3 days, 0.5 mg per day for days 4 through
      14, and 1 mg per day for days 15 through 28 of the trial. If clinically indicated, on day 29,
      the dose could be increased to 2 mg per day for the rest of the trial (4 to 6 additional
      weeks). At each dose level, risperidone was taken by mouth in a single daily dose. Patients
      were asked questions every one or two weeks, depending on the phase of the trial, to
      determine efficacy (effectiveness) and safety. The study hypothesis is that risperidone will
      be more effective as an adjunct to standard psychotropic treatments for symptoms of
      Generalized Anxiety Disorder than placebo, as measured by a composite of the four most
      troubling symptoms identified at baseline.

      Risperidone 0.25 mg per day for the first 3 days, 0.5 mg per day for days 4 through 14, and 1
      mg per day for days 15 through 28 of the trial. If clinically indicated, on day 29, the dose
      could be increased to 2 mg per day for the rest of the trial (4 to 6 additional weeks). At
      each dose level, risperidone was taken by mouth in a single daily dose.
    
  