
    
      In the United States, patients dependent upon parenteral nutrition (PN) receive parenteral
      fat emulsions composed of soybean oils. Lipids are necessary in PN dependent patients due to
      their high caloric value and essential fatty acid content. They have been implicated in
      predisposing patients to PN associated liver disease. Phytosterols such as those contained in
      soybean oils are thought to have a deleterious effect on biliary secretion.

      Children requiring prolonged PN are at risk for developing PN associated liver disease. We
      hypothesize that although omega-6 fatty acid emulsions prevent fatty acid deficiency, they
      are not cleared in a manner similar to enteral chylomicrons and therefore accumulate in the
      liver and resulting in steatotic liver injury. We further hypothesize that a fat emulsion
      comprised of omega-3 fatty acids (i.e., fish oil) such as Omegaven™ would be beneficial in
      the management of steatotic liver injury by its inhibition of de novo lipogenesis, the
      reduction of arachidonic acid-derived inflammatory mediators, prevention of essential fatty
      acid deficiency through the presence of small amounts of arachidonic acid, and improved
      clearance of lipids from the serum. Animal studies have shown that IV fat emulsions (IFE)
      such as fish oil that are high in eicosapentaenic and docashexaaenoic acid reduce impairment
      of bile flow which is seen in cholestasis caused by conventional fat emulsions. Intravenous
      omega three fatty acids may be well tolerated and might reduce the inflammatory effect in the
      liver of prolonged PN exposure and could potentially reverse any hepatic dysfunction due to
      PN/IFE use. By administering Omegaven™ in place of conventional phytosterol/soybean fat
      emulsions we may reverse or prevent the progression of PN associated cholestasis and thus
      allow the patient to be maintained on adequate PN until they are able to ingest adequate
      nutrition enterally.
    
  