
    
      Iron deficiency and anemia are common in cancer patients. Data from the University of
      Wisconsin (UW) suggest that more than 50% of ovarian cancer patients undergo blood
      transfusion during their cancer treatments. Transfusion rates are particularly high in
      patients who receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT), despite multiple opportunities to
      diagnose and treat anemia prior to surgery. Blood transfusions have been associated with
      worse survival in ovarian cancer patients. Seventy-seven percent of ovarian cancer patients
      who receive NACT at the UW are anemic prior to surgery, and the same percentage receive a
      perioperative blood transfusion, defined as a blood transfusion within 72 hours of surgery.
      Iron deficiency without anemia is also common in cancer patients, though little has been
      published regarding how frequently it occurs in ovarian cancer patients. Functional iron
      deficiency, a lack of iron incorporation into erythroid precursors despite adequate iron
      stores, is also common in cancer patients. Study investigators hypothesize that IV iron
      sucrose infusions given to iron deficient ovarian cancer patients prior to debulking surgery
      can improve pre-operative iron stores and decrease transfusion of packed red blood cells in
      the peri-operative period.

      Eligible participants will have a new epithelial ovarian cancer diagnosis, with planned
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy and interval debulking surgery. The study cohort will consist of
      participants with iron deficiency without anemia (defined below) prior to starting
      chemotherapy. Iron deficient participants with anemia are already offered iron sucrose
      infusions as part of their standard of care treatment.

      The study group will include participants with planned neoadjuvant chemotherapy and debulking
      surgery with a normal Hgb within 30 days of study enrollment. Iron studies including
      ferritin, transferrin, total iron binding capacity (TIBC), reticulocyte count and serum iron,
      will be performed on these participants for research purposes only. Consent will be obtained
      prior to drawing research-related iron studies. The majority of participants will have Hgb
      levels available in their records from the last 30 days, either from the UW, or from a
      referring institution. If this is not the case, pre-chemotherapy lab studies will be obtained
      the day of their visit, which would routinely include a Hgb level.

      Participants will sign a consent to receive four IV iron sucrose transfusions, prior to their
      debulking surgery, and be followed for prospective data collection. Consent will be signed
      for the infusion and for prospective data collection related to future laboratory studies and
      rates of transfusion of blood products. Participants with a normal Hgb and normal iron
      studies will participate in the prospective data collection portion of this study only.
      Prospective data collection will continue until subjects have completed first-line
      chemotherapy.

      Subjects will be enrolled until 21 evaluable participants have been enrolled. Evaluable
      participants will have true or functional iron deficiency without anemia and have received at
      least one IV iron sucrose infusion.

      Iron studies will be repeated 21 days (+/- 7 days) after last infusion in participants who
      receive IV iron sucrose. Participants with persistent iron deficiency will be referred to
      hematology.
    
  