
    
      Disorders of motivation, such as apathy, are among the most prevalent symptoms in
      neuropsychiatric disorders and during chronic diseases. They have a major impact on patients'
      physical activity and lifestyle, and on their involvement in their own care. They affect a
      wide range of morbidity outcomes, alter functional recovery in rehabilitation, impair
      long-term disability, and prevent patients from returning to an active and independent life.
      Yet, the neural bases of motivational deficits remain largely unknown. Current diagnostic
      tools are sparse and cannot distinguish between distinct mechanisms responsible for apathetic
      syndromes. Besides, current treatments remain extremely limited. However, recent advances in
      the field of neuroeconomics - the science of decision-making - have provided concept and
      tools to study the neurobiological bases of elementary cognitive processes underlying
      motivated behaviors. These theories suggest that the brain implements optimization processes
      that determine our behaviors by minimizing the cost of our actions while maximizing their
      expected benefits. The adaptation of tools developed for basic research now enables the
      assessment of these cognitive mechanisms.

      Elementary deficits of motivation will be assessed with a phenotyping battery of motivation
      tests in 20 healthy subjects, 20 patients with a recent stroke in the medial prefrontal
      cortex, and 20 patients with a stroke in the insula. This battery will allow us to
      characterize, at the patient's level, elementary processes such as the encoding and the
      learning rate of goal values or effort costs, the modulation of value with delay or episodic
      context, the modulation of cost with fatigue, and the resolution of cost-benefit trade-offs.
      We will monitor morbimortality outcomes, such as the functional recovery in rehabilitation,
      the delay of professional activity recovery after stroke, disability, quality of life and
      burden for caregivers. Symptom-Lesion mapping studies and voxel-based morphometry studies
      will be performed using whole brain MRI measures of structural and functional integrity.
    
  