
    
      There is no substantial evidence that a fever lower than 41°C is harmful to the welfare of an
      otherwise healthy child, although they can be dangerous to children already in critical
      condition [1,2]. However, fevers in healthy children commonly cause anxiety in parents and
      caregivers, so parents and physicians often give antipyretic medications to lower the fever
      [3,4]. Ibuprofen and acetaminophen are two of the most commonly used medications in children.
      Most major pediatric medical associations agree about appropriate dosages for children, but
      give no clear guidelines on whether ibuprofen or acetaminophen should be used [3,5].
      Physicians commonly make the decision between the two based on their personal opinions of the
      efficacy and safety of the medications, or based on habit [6]. Survey data shows that more
      than half of physicians use combinations of both acetaminophen and ibuprofen to treat fever,
      either simultaneously or on an alternating schedule, with a variety of dosing patterns [6]. A
      majority of physicians believed there were established guidelines supporting this use, but in
      fact there are not [6].

      Combining the two medications is widely theorized to improve effectiveness, but clinical
      trials comparing combination treatments to ibuprofen and/or acetaminophen alone have shown
      inconsistent results [4,7-12]. Several pharmacodynamic studies have shown that ibuprofen and
      acetaminophen both produce their largest effects on temperature within the first hour
      following dosage [9,10,13-16]. Despite this, only one study has been performed examining the
      change in temperature at intervals shorter than 30 minutes, and that study used substandard
      monitoring methods [10].

      This study will use gold-standard monitoring methods to take temperatures every five minutes
      through the first one to four hours of treatment. Understanding the pattern of temperature
      change in the acute stages after dosing will help settle the debate about the optimal
      medication choice for treating childrens' fevers.
    
  