
    
      Upon meeting the inclusion criteria and providing informed consent, each participant will
      complete a series of cognitive assessments and tDCS at the hospital outpatient clinics or
      inpatient department. Participants were randomly allocated to anode tDCS group with cognitive
      training, anode tDCS group and the sham group. There are about 20 participants in each group.
      Participants were studied using a double-blind design. Study participants and all personnel
      responsible for the effects of the participants remained masked to allocated condition and
      allocation parameters. Only tDCS administrators had access to the randomization list; they
      had minimal contact with the participants, and no role in cognitive assessments. For the
      first 30 participants, allocation was decided by draw. For the subsequent 30 patients,
      allocation was according to computer generated random numbers. Each participant would be
      treated for 10 days in two weeks by HD-tDCS.

      Before the tDCS, a series of cognitive assessments and neuropsychological tests were obtained
      by a trained investigator to assess baseline. Each assessment will involve a set of
      assessment tools, including Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale
      (ADAS-Cog), Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) and associative memory as the primary
      outcome measure and various other tasks and questionnaires to measure cognition(DS, Stroop
      test, VFT, SDMT), memory (AVLT, AMT, working memory test), emotion(HAMA-17, HAMD-14,
      eye-tracking technolodgy), executive function(SST, WSCT, GDT) and stimulation tolerability.
      All the tests are conducted in two days. The participants had receiving a magnetic resonance
      imaging scan in multi-modalities, and electroencephalography (EEG) record.

      Evaluations were conducted one week after treatment and at the end of two weeks of treatment,
      as well as the Global Index of Safety to assess adverse events of the stimulation.
      Participants were instructed to focus their answers on the past 7/14 days. The participants
      had also receiving a battery measure of neuropsychological tests, magnetic resonance imaging
      scan in multi-modalities, and EEG record. All tests were instructed to finished within 24
      hours after the last stimulation. One month and three months after the last stimulation,
      participants were interviewed to obtain the same assessment as before. They were instructed
      to focus their answers on the past months.
    
  