
    
      This randomized controlled trial will evaluate an innovative telephone-based breastfeeding
      education and promotion intervention that will be implemented in a low-income, predominately
      Latina population. The intervention was developed in association with national breastfeeding
      experts, local public health department and WIC personnel and community leaders.
      Additionally, it will also be informed by focus groups that are currently being conducted in
      the community with a particular emphasis on cultural barriers to breastfeeding in Latina
      populations. The intervention consists of scripted education and support protocols delivered
      by telephone daily, in English and Spanish, by a trained nurse over the first two weeks after
      delivery and will be funded by the Division of General Pediatrics. In the evaluation mothers
      will be randomized during the first 24 hours after delivering a healthy baby to the
      intervention arm or to usual post-partum care. The trial will assess the impact of the
      intervention on duration of breastfeeding and exclusivity of breastfeeding at 1, 2, 3 and 6
      months post-partum. In addition, it will assess cost-effectiveness of the intervention and
      secondary and process-of-care outcomes related to maternal satisfaction with feeding,
      confidence with breastfeeding and utilization of health services.

      The specific aims of this project are:

        -  To evaluate in a randomized controlled trial the effect of a telephone-based
           breastfeeding support and education intervention compared to usual post-partum care on
           a) the duration of breastfeeding at 1, 2, 3 and 6 months and b) the exclusivity of
           breastfeeding at 1, 2, 3 and 6 months in low-income, primarily Latina women.

        -  To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the telephone-based intervention compared to usual
           care

        -  To compare secondary outcomes for mothers in the intervention versus control groups such
           as maternal satisfaction and confidence with feeding, reasons for discontinuing
           breastfeeding and utilization of acute, preventive health care services and
           hospitalizations

        -  To better understand unmet needs in women who breastfeed and how well the intervention
           addressed these needs by conducting qualitative interviews

      The major hypotheses are:

        1. a) Proactive telephone contact in the early postpartum period using scripted protocols
           will increase breastfeeding rates in low-income women from a current baseline of 30% to
           45% at 3 months and from 20% to 35% at 6 months.

           b) Proactive telephone contact in the early postpartum period using scripted protocols
           will increase exclusivity from a current baseline of 15% at 3 months to 30% and from 10%
           at 6 months to 25% compared to the usual care group.

        2. The telephone-based intervention will be cost-effective compared with routine care with
           use of formula.

        3. The telephone-based intervention will be associated with higher levels of maternal
           satisfaction overall.

        4. Confidence with breastfeeding will be higher in breastfeeding mothers in the
           intervention group compared to breastfeeding mothers in the usual care group.

        5. Compliance with scheduled preventive visits will be higher in the intervention group and
           use of acute health services, including clinic and emergency room visits will be lower
           in the intervention group compared to the usual care group. Hospitalizations will not
           differ significantly between the groups.
    
  