
    
      Pregnancy is a special physiological stage for women, and the changes of Qi and blood in the
      body can be reflected in time by the dynamic changes of pulse, which provides an important
      basis for clinical diagnosis and treatment. Pregnancy is a very complex and coordinated
      physiological process, in which the physiological changes related to pulse changes include:
      1. Changes in blood pressure. Relatively speaking, in the middle trimester, the blood
      pressure is low; at the end of the pregnancy, the blood pressure increases slightly, the
      general systolic blood pressure does not change, the diastolic blood pressure decreases
      slightly due to peripheral vasodilation, hemodilution and placental arteriovenous short
      circuit, and the pulse pressure increases slightly. 2.The change of cardiac output. Cardiac
      output increases gradually from 8-10 weeks of gestation and reaches the peak at 32-34 weeks
      of pregnancy until delivery. 3.The change of blood volume. The maternal blood volume begins
      to increase from 6-8 weeks of pregnancy and reaches the peak at 32-34 weeks of pregnancy
      until delivery. The above physiological changes are closely related to the physiological
      function of Zang-fu organs, which leads to the change of slippery pulse. With the continuous
      development of modern pulsology, Professor Lucheng Song has been studying the knowledge of
      modern physics such as hemodynamics, hydrodynamics and acoustics based on his long-term
      clinical practice. By touching different levels of depth and the part of radial artery, it is
      found that the formation mechanism of pulse information, especially unsmooth pulse, is
      similar to the principle of sonar emission and reception: the heart is equivalent to the
      transmitting device of sonar wave. Each contraction of the heart produces a cluster of
      powerful sound waves, which are rapidly transmitted to the whole body along the arterial wall
      and the blood in it as a medium.More than 90% of the arterial blood flow of normal organs and
      tissues is a steady laminar flow, which does not produce turbulence, so there is abnormal
      vibration when a certain organ and tissue has pathological changes. The arterial blood flow
      is squeezed and deformed which causing turbulence and produces abnormal vibrations, which are
      fused with a larger cluster of sound waves transmitted by the heart and then transmitted to
      the whole body. The investigators can feel this kind of sound waves which combine abnormal
      vibration waves by touching different levels of arteries close to the body surface, including
      the radial artery. At the same time, Professor Lucheng Song's team has conducted in-depth
      research on the characteristic unsmooth pulse of stable coronary heart disease, liver
      cirrhosis, gastritis and other diseases.Different pulse sound waves were collected by using
      Pulse Detection System of Sound Waves(PDSSW),and ideal results were obtained through
      analysis. During pregnancy, due to the significant increase in blood flow and maternal
      changes,the shape of sound waves transmitted to the radial artery in the artery will be
      changed. Professor Lucheng Song found in clinical practice that the pregnant pulse will have
      different sensations of smoothness and penetration in different parts of the finger, by
      touching different levels of depth and the part of the radial artery. It was found that the
      pulse condition of normal pregnant women in the middle and third trimester of pregnancy was
      different from that of normal non-pregnant women in different level and part of radial
      artery.Based on the above analysis, this study will use PDSSW to collect the pulse waves of
      76 the Middle and Third Trimester of Pregnancy and 76 relatively healthy women.Fourier
      transform, wavelet analysis, Hilbert-Huang transform and other methods will be used to
      identify the different characteristics of the sound wave signals, and observe the
      time-frequency domain characteristics of the trial group and the control group. Then
      diagnostic tests will be performed to calculate the sensitivity and specificity of PDSSW in
      the diagnosis of the middle and third trimester of pregnancy women.This trial will further
      verify the effectiveness of pulse diagnosis and lay a foundation for the diagnosis of
      complication of pregnancy by pulse diagnosis instruments.
    
  