
    
      Outcomes for children with recurrent or progressive high-grade glioma (brain tumor) are very
      poor, and there are a lack of effective salvage therapies once a patient fails standard
      treatments. Novel innovative treatments are greatly needed.

      G207 is an oncolytic herpes simplex virus-1 (HSV) that has been successfully engineered to
      introduce mutations in the virus that enable it to selectively replicate in and kill cancer
      cells, but not normal cells. Replication of G207 in the tumor not only kills the infected
      tumor cells, but causes the tumor cell to act as a factory to produce new virus. These virus
      particles are released as the tumor cell dies, and can then proceed to infect other tumor
      cells in the vicinity, and continue the process of tumor kill. In addition to this direct
      oncolytic activity, the virus engenders an anti-tumor immune response; the virus is
      immunogenic and produces a debris field which exposes cancer cell antigens to immune cells,
      which can target other cancer cells. Thus, the oncolytic effect of the virus and the immune
      response that the virus stimulates provide a dual attack against cancer cells. In preclinical
      studies, a single 5 Gy dose of radiation within 24 hours of virus inoculation to the tumor
      increased virus replication and tumor cell killing. Radiation may also enhance the immune
      response against the tumor.

      The University of Alabama at Birmingham has conducted three phase I trials of G207 injected
      into the recurrent tumor alone or combined with a single dose of radiation in adults with
      recurrent high-grade gliomas. In these trials, high doses (up to 3 x 10^9 plaque-forming
      units) of virus were safely injected directly into the tumor or surrounding brain tissue
      without serious toxicities. Radiographic and neuropathologic evidence of an antitumor
      response was seen in some patients. Preclinical laboratory studies have demonstrated that a
      variety of aggressive pediatric brain tumor types are sensitive to G207.

      A Phase I study of intratumoral G207 alone or combined with a 5 Gy dose of radiation in
      children ages 3-18 with biopsy-confirmed recurrent/progressive supratentorial brain tumors
      recently completed the highest planned dose level (UAB1472; NCT02457845). The study used a 3
      + 3 design with 4 dose cohorts.12 Patients underwent stereotactic placement of up to 4
      intratumoral catheters. The following day they received a single controlled-rate infusion of
      G207 (1 x 10^7 or 1 x 10^8 pfu) over 6 hours. Cohorts 3 and 4 received a 5 Gy radiation
      fraction to the gross tumor volume within 24 hours of G207. Twelve subjects with progressive
      high-grade glioma received G207. Twenty adverse events, all grade 1, were attributed to G207.
      G207 was determined to be safe and tolerable in children and a recommended Phase 2 was
      established (1 x10^8 followed by 5 Gy radiation to the tumor).

      This study is a phase II, open-label, single arm clinical trial of G207 alone or combined
      with a single low dose of radiation in children with recurrent or progressive high grade
      glioma. The primary objective is to assess the efficacy. The secondary objective is to
      confirm the safety and tolerability of G207 and to survey for virologic shedding following
      G207.

      Subjects will receive G207 at 1 x 10^8 plaque-forming units (pfu), intratumorally via
      controlled rate infusion through up to 4 silastic catheters over a 6 hour period. The subject
      will then receive a single 5 Gy dose of radiation to the tumor within 24 hours of virus
      inoculation.
    
  