
    
      Most autoimmune diseases are thought to develop as a result of chronic immune activation and
      dysregulation after selected environmental exposures in genetically susceptible individuals.
      Current evidence suggests that the adult and juvenile forms of systemic rheumatic disorders
      -- defined here as rheumatoid arthritis (RA), systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), systemic
      sclerosis (SSc), and idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIM) -- share many common clinical
      manifestations, immune responses, genetic, hormonal and environmental risk factors, and
      possible pathogeneses. Conversely, other studies imply that each rheumatic disease, as
      currently defined, may be composed of more homogeneous subgroups, known as elemental
      disorders, with different pathogeneses. This protocol will explore pathogenic mechanisms for
      systemic rheumatic disorders and possible elemental disorders through the evaluation of
      families with monozygotic or dizygotic twins or other siblings discordant for systemic
      rheumatic disorders (twin-sib pairs). Parents, normal volunteers and offspring of
      microchimeric female twin-sibs will also be evaluated as needed for the experimental designs
      of each portion of the protocol. A clinical evaluation, using standardized physician and
      patient clinical and environmental exposure questionnaires, and specimen collections from 400
      twin-sib pairs discordant for systemic rheumatic disorders will be performed to confirm
      diagnoses, document medical histories and assess possible risk factors implicated in the
      development of autoimmunity. This study will evaluate children, who will make up 25-50% of
      the twin-sib pairs, and adults in similar ways to attempt to understand possible similarities
      and differences in pathogeneses of systemic rheumatic disorders based upon age of onset.
      Hypothesis-testing studies will assess differences in peripheral blood cell gene
      activation/suppression, levels and types of microchimerism between affected and unaffected
      individuals, selected genetic risk factors for these disorders and occupational and hormonal
      exposures hypothesized to be potential risk factors for these diseases. Exploratory studies
      will be conducted to begin to assess other environmental risk factors for systemic rheumatic
      disorders and to better understand associations among phenotypes and genotypes. Biologic
      specimens -- including blood, urine, and other clinical specimens or biopsies no longer
      necessary for clinical care -- will be collected for directed biomarker assays and the
      development of repositories for future research.
    
  