
    
      An aneurysm is a localized bulge in the wall of an artery. Aneurysms of the aorta are prone
      to progressive dilatation, which if left untreated ultimately results in rupture, internal
      bleeding and death. Traditional open surgery involves aortic exposure through a long
      incision, aortic clamping to interrupt blood flow, and replacement or repair of the dilated
      aortic segment using a fabric conduit (graft), which is sutured (anastomosis) to the
      nondilated arteries above and below the aneurysm. Some subjects are able to withstand such a
      large operation better than others, but many suffer complications, and all suffer pain,
      debility, and a lengthy stay in hospital.

      Endovascular aneurysm repair is a less invasive alternative that substitutes a trans-arterial
      route to the aneurysm for direct exposure, and stent-mediated attachment for sutured
      anastomosis. Compared to open surgical repair, endovascular repair is associated with less
      physiological derangement, less pain, less blood loss, lower complication rates and shorter
      hospital stay. Consequently, endovascular repair has become standard therapy for aneurysms of
      the abdominal aorta and descending thoracic aorta, where there are no vital branches and
      endovascular exclusion rarely causes ischemic complications.

      Open surgical repair of the proximal aortic arch requires hypothermic circulatory arrest,
      because it deprives the heart of its outflow and the brain of its inflow. Endovascular repair
      also obstructs outflow from the heart, but only for a few seconds, while the graft is
      released from its delivery sheath. The greater problem is inflow to the brain. In
      anticipation of aortic arch exclusion, the brachiocephalic circulation requires an
      alternative source of blood. One alternative is bypass from the ascending aorta. However,
      this requires median sternotomy and partial aortic clamping, both of with are potential
      sources of morbidity.
    
  