
    
      Atopic Dermatitis (AD) affects between 10% and 30% of all children, making it one of the most
      common childhood diseases. Recent epidemiological studies report a trend toward the
      increasing prevalence of AD in children. Symptoms of AD include dry, scaly, and intensely
      itchy skin. A number of treatments are available for these patients. Topical corticosteroids
      are commonly prescribed. Topical immunomodulators without the potential for steroid atrophy
      are also used. A non-steroidal topical, Eucrisa (crisaborole) ointment, is specifically
      indicated for mild to moderate atopic dermatitis and was approved for marketing in the U.S.
      for the treatment atopic dermatitis in December 2016. The 2% ointment is approved for use in
      patients ages 2 and older. Unfortunately, many people with atopic dermatitis do not
      adequately respond to topical treatment.

      It is widely recognized that adherence to oral medications is poor. Adherence to medication
      in chronic disease is worse. Adherence to topical medication for chronic disease in children
      is horrible. In a previous study, the investigator found that the adherence of children to
      topical triamcinolone for atopic dermatitis was poor. Adherence dropped by roughly 60-70%
      over the first 3 days of treatment. While that study analyzed adherence over 8 weeks, the
      long-term adherence to topical treatment in patients with atopic dermatitis is not well
      characterized.

      Measures to improve adherence have the potential to improve treatment outcomes. Adherence to
      topical treatment tends to improve around the time of office visits (so called, "white coat
      compliance"), much as tooth flossing behavior improves around the time of dental visits.
      Standard-of-care treatment of atopic dermatitis generally involves having patients return in
      roughly 4 weeks to assess treatment efficacy. Clinical trials generally have more frequent
      visits. The investigator's recent studies have suggested that adherence may be improved with
      virtual medical visits, alleviating the need for more frequent in-person office visits that
      can be costly and negatively impact access to care.
    
  