
    
      Renal cell cancer, also referred to as kidney cancer, is diagnosed in approximately 170,000
      people worldwide annually, resulting in 82,000 deaths. Treatment for metastatic kidney cancer
      is difficult. Almost all of the patients die from their disease.

      In 2006 a new drug called sunitinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, transformed treatment
      options. It targets the development of new blood vessels within the cancer. Although the
      results with this drug are impressive, patients develop resistance a median after 11 months
      to the drug, relapse and die of renal cancer. It is currently standard practice to switch to
      everolimus when resistance to sunitinib occurs; this is associated with clear clinical
      benefit.

      POTENTIAL RISKS FOR PATIENTS RECEIVING AZD2014:

      The main risks and burdens to the patients participating in the study are the potential for
      side effects of the AZD2014 drug. The phase I study using this drug has been completed,
      therefore we know it is safe to administer to patients and we have a good idea of what side
      effects the drug causes. But as the drug is given to larger numbers, additional side effects
      may be discovered. The activity of the drug has not been evaluated in kidney cancer.
      Therefore we are not sure if AZD2014 will work

      POTENTIAL RISKS FOR PATIENTS RECEIVING EVEROLIMUS:

      Everolimus is the current standard therapy for these patients so the risks associated with
      study drug for these patients are the same as standard of care.

      POTENTIAL RISKS FOR ALL PATIENTS:

      SIDE EFFECTS:

      Side effects will be closely monitored during and after the study. Patients are required to
      attend clinic weekly for the first four weeks and then every 4 weeks whilst they are on study
      medication where adverse events will be recorded.

      The patient information sheet includes details on expected adverse events for patients to
      look out for and also details that unexpected events may occur. Patients are provided with
      the research nurse and principal investigator contact details should any adverse events occur
      during the course of the study.

      Other medical professionals are informed that patients are receiving an experimental drug
      (through GP letter and labelling of hospital records). There will be an independent data
      monitoring committee for the trial which will closely assess the side effects of the drugs on
      a regular basis and the trial results to make sure there are no risk excess to patients.
    
  