
    
      Since the birth of the first baby born from in-vitro maturation (IVM) in 1991, this technique
      has been considered an alternative solution for treating infertility beside conventional
      controlled ovarian stimulation for in-vitro fertilization (IVF). Since then, there are
      already more than 5000 children born from IVM, and that number is on the trend of increasing.

      Regarding technique, immature oocytes (germinal vesicle - GV) were aspirated from secondary
      follicles sized from 2-10mm, under follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) priming or no ovarian
      stimulation at all. Afterward, the maturation process was undertaken in an artificial medium,
      out of a living body. This technique, by reducing the usage of external hormones, is highly
      effective in minimizing the risk of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) in women with
      high antral follicle count, especially polycystic ovarian syndrome, with a rate of OHSS
      recorded as low as 0 percent. Alongside that, the pregnancy rate, as well as the live birth
      rate of IVM, when proceeded well, is not lower than conventional IVF. Until now, there is
      only one randomized controlled trial comparing these two techniques directly.

      Due to differences in the process of culturing between IVM and IVF, primarily the maturation
      is undertaken in an artificial medium, the health of children born from IVM received many
      interests. Numerous studies have been conducted to compare the development of children born
      from IVM and IVF. Neonatal outcomes of children born from IVM and IVF are considerably
      comparable. And the development of children born from these two techniques is not
      significantly different. All the information, as mentioned above, was not from randomized
      controlled trials but retrospective or prospective cohort studies. Thus, we conduct a follow
      up of our RCT to investigate the development of children born from IVM and IVM, to give
      strong evidence about the safety of IVM in women with high antral follicle count or
      especially PCOS.
    
  