
    
      Regular aerobic exercise with sufficient intensity can improve overall health, however daily
      energy expenditure is low in those with SCI, especially in those with high level lesions. The
      investigators have developed Functional Electrical Stimulation Row Training (FESRT) that
      couples volitional arm and electrically controlled leg exercise, increasing the active muscle
      and resulting in benefits of large muscle mass exercise. Despite the potential for enhancing
      aerobic capacity, those with high level lesions (T3 and above) have a remaining obstacle to
      attaining higher work capacities: a level of pulmonary muscle denervation. The investigators
      preliminary work suggests this limits the aerobic capacity that can be achieved with FESRT.

      External ventilatory support could improve the ability to exercise train and hence enhance
      the adaptations to chronic exercise in high level SCI. Non invasive ventilation (NIV) during
      exercise training has been shown to improve gains in exercise capacity in those with
      similarly restrictive breathing. Therefore, the investigators hypothesize that the use of NIV
      during FESRT will reduce ventilatory limits to exercise, leading to increased aerobic
      capacity in high level SCI. In addition, pharmacologic treatments may augment respiratory
      control and improve exercise ventilatory responses. Buspirone can reverse respiratory
      abnormalities consequent to SCI in rats, and humans case reports suggest successful Buspirone
      treatment of respiratory dysfunction

      Therefore, the investigators propose a double-blind 2x2 trial of 6 months of FESRT with NIV
      or Sham and Buspirone or Placebo in individuals with acute, high-level SCI. The investigators
      hypothesize that both NIV and Buspirone will improve ventilatory exercise responses and that
      combined treatment will have the greatest effect. This will result in greater improvements in
      aerobic capacity and concomitant increases in pulmonary function and reductions in
      cardiometabolic risk. This work proposes two approaches to overcome ventilatory limitations
      to exercise in high level SCI and allow for greater improvements in cardiopulmonary capacity
      - one that overcomes mechanical limitations of paralyzed pulmonary musculature and one that
      treats loss of serotonergic respiratory control, both of which may contribute to blunted
      ventilatory responses. The ultimate purpose of this research is to optimize exercise for a
      population that both needs and seeks the broad range of benefits that exercise can confer.
    
  