
    
      Introduction. Breast cancer is one of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in the
      world.Treatment with hormone therapy reduced the likelihood of tumor recurrence and
      metastasis in the patient. However, it has adverse effects such as: loss of bone mineral
      density, increase in body weight, metabolic changes (lipid and low grade systemic
      inflammation) and, consequently, lower quality of life. Physical training has been used as a
      means of reducing these and other adverse effects, but there is no definite protocol on which
      training model is effective, especially in patients who only use Tamoxifen or Aromatase
      Inhibitor as an adjuvant therapy for treatment of breast cancer.

      Objective: To compare the effect of aerobic training on body composition, metabolic and
      inflammatory variables, physical activity level, sleep, anxiety, depression, body image,
      fatigue, strength, flexibility and quality of life of women undergoing breast cancer
      treatment use Tamoxifen and Aromatase Inhibitor and women without cancer.

      Method. The sample will be formed by women without cancer and under treatment with hormone
      therapy being accompanied by the public service for treatment of breast cancer of the city of
      Presidente Prudente. Where participants will be distributed in six groups submitted to
      intervention with aerobic training: Tamoxifen group with face-to-face training (GTP);
      Aromatase Inhibitor Group with face-to-face training (GIP); Tamoxifen training group by
      distance monitoring (GTA); Training group Aromatase inhibitor by distance monitoring (GIA);
      Group without training with cancer (GC) and Group training face-to-face without cancer
      (GTSC). A 24-week notification in which the face-to-face training group will undergo aerobic
      training three times a week on interspersed days and the group accompanied at a distance will
      perform as a preferred activity under a distance supervision of professionals every 14 days
      of return to attend the UNESP for the adequacy of the analysis and selection of attendance to
      the proposed activities. Evaluations of the variables of interest at the baseline of the
      intervention will be performed after 12 weeks and soon after the intervention. The
      investigators will analyze: biomarkers will analyze: biomarkers (Tumor Necrosis Factor-Alpha
      (TNFα), (LDL), High Density Lipoprotein (HDL), and Very Low Density Lipoprotein (VLDL), as
      well as in the lipid profile (triglycerides, total cholesterol and low density lipoprotein
      (LDL) fractions) ), glycemia, insulin, anthropometric measurements, physical activity level,
      sleep, pain, anxiety, depression, body image, fatigue, strength, flexibility. Trainings will
      be performed within the target zone of maximum heart rate. Comparisons between groups at each
      time point will be performed using Student's T-test for independent samples. The comparisons
      of the variables of interest at the initial moment and after 12 and 24 weeks will be made
      through the multivariate analysis, where the group effects, time and interaction of both will
      be compared. All analyzes will be performed in SPSS software version 24.0 and significance of
      5%.
    
  