
    
      This study is a cross-sectional survey of patients who were scheduled for elective surgical
      procedures and their surgeries were cancelled or postponed during the first wave of COVID-19
      pandemic. The survey consists of a semi-structured questionnaire that is provided in the
      English language. A subsequent translation in patients' own Language will be provided based
      on geographical distribution. The survey will be conducted online, via email, or via
      telephone call based on the available and best method of participation according to involved
      hospital. Participants will be aware of the nature of the study and informed that their
      participation will be voluntary. Collected data will be confidential and anonymous.

      The questionnaire is developed based on a literature review and clinical experience. Initial
      testing of the questionnaire will be performed with 20 patients to assess the reliability and
      inter-rater variations. Ambiguous questions and questions with a high rate of "I do not know"
      the answer will be excluded. To ensure high compliance, the questionnaire included the least
      possible number of questions. The questionnaire consists of closed questions except for two
      open questions that explore patients' suggestions to decrease the insult of cancellation on
      his life.

      After initial testing, the final questionnaire will be formulated. The first sector of the
      questionnaire includes patient demographics and baseline characteristics; the second sector
      is regarding patient clinical condition, diagnosis, and scheduled surgery. The following
      sector examines the process of delivering the cancellation to the patient and requirements
      for re-scheduling. Patients will be classified into satisfied or dissatisfied according to
      the responses in this sector. The following sector addresses the course of care after
      cancellation and whether the patient conducted the surgery elsewhere or not. The last sector
      explores the impact of cancellation on patient health, career, and financial aspects. The
      impact of cancellation on patients' life will be classified into negative/positive/neutral
      based on the answers to this sector.

      Statistical analyses will be performed using SPSS v. 20. Data distribution will be tested for
      normality using the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test and the Shapiro-Wilk test. Categorical variables
      will be expressed as group percentages and will be compared for independent samples using the
      Chi-square test. Continuous data of the survey will be presented as medians with ranges or
      means and standard deviations. A comparison of continuous data will be compared for
      independent samples using the T-test or Mann-Whitney test according to the data distribution.
      Spearman correlation coefficient will be used for further assessment of the strength of the
      association between variables. The statistical significance level will be set at <0.05.
    
  