
    
      Following consent and a screening visit to assess eligibility and clinical status (i.e.
      historical, physical and biochemical parameters including glycemic control and a pregnancy
      test in females), a baseline visit with diabetes educator will take place to provide standard
      diabetes education, nutrition and exercise prescription.

      Nutritional assessment for vitamin/mineral deficiency will be performed per clinical care
      guidelines at the screening visit. Subjects will be asked to take nutritional supplements
      (i.e. vitamins and minerals) per current clinical guidelines for post-bariatric patients.
      Stable doses of supplements will be established for at least 2 weeks prior to randomization.
      Thirty-six subjects with recurrent diabetes that are naïve to hypoglycemic agents with HbA1c
      greater than or equal to 6.5% and less than 10% will be randomly assigned to a six month
      course of a) canagliflozin 100mg for 2 weeks titrated up to 300 mg daily (N = 24) vs. placebo
      (n= 12) at the randomization. Patients taking an anti-diabetic medication will be asked to
      wash out for 8 weeks prior to the randomization visit. At randomization, biochemical
      assessment of glycemic parameters (fasting glucose, HbA1c), lipid panel, complete metabolic
      panel, uric acid, leptin, total and HMW adiponectin, C-reactive protein and urine for
      albumin/creatinine ratio will be performed. Dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scan will
      be performed for body fat composition.

      Following randomization, subjects will be clinically evaluated at three office visits at 6
      weeks, 3 and 6 months by PI and/or the research staff. The primary outcome measures at 6
      months post-randomization include HbA1c followed by the change in HbA1c from randomization.
      Secondary measures include fasting glucose, BMI, change in body weight, blood pressure, lipid
      profile. Symptomatic hypoglycemia (blood glucose < 70) and drug related side effects (i.e.
      mycotic genital infections, urinary tract infection) will be monitored with adverse event
      reporting. Metabolic testing in all subjects at randomization and at 6 months will include a
      DXA scan for body fat composition and blood for leptin and adiponectin levels.

      Rescue glucose lowering therapy will be provided for the control group for blood glucose >250
      mg/dl. If chronic uncontrolled hyperglycemia (HbA1c >10%) occurs then basal bolus insulin
      will be implemented.
    
  