
    
      To estimate the sample size for stratum 1 (SFT), a Simon's optimal 2-stage phase II design
      has been used, having considered the published response rate based on Choi criteria in SFT
      patients which correspond to 40% in monotherapy. For a design with P0=0.40, P1=0.60; α=0.1
      and β=0.1. At the first stage, 18 patients should be enrolled into the study, if there are
      fewer than 8 responses (7 or less) the trial will be terminated and it will be concluded that
      pazopanib is not sufficiently active. At the second stage, another 28 patients (total 46
      patients) would be enrolled into the study. To reject the null hypothesis for the SFT stratum
      23 responses or more (Choi criteria), out of the 46 patients, are needed.

      To estimate the simple size for stratum 2 (EMC), a Simon's optimal 2-stage phase II design
      has been used, having considered the very scarce published information on response rate based
      on RECIST criteria. For a design with P0= 0.05, P1= 0.25, α=0.1 and β=0.1. At the first
      stage, 9 patients should be enrolled into the study, if there are not responses the trial
      will be terminated and it will be concluded that pazopanib is not sufficiently active. If
      there is at least 1 response in this first stage, the trial will be continued and at the
      second stage, another 15 patients (total 24 patients) would be enrolled into the study. To
      reject the null hypothesis for the EMC stratum 3 responses or more (RECIST criteria), out of
      the 24 patients, are needed.

      For variables that follow binomial distributions (e.g. response rate) frequency and
      percentages will be calculated, together with their corresponding exact 95% confidence
      intervals. For time-to-event variables (e.g. PFS or OS) Kaplan-Meier estimations will be
      used. To analyze the reduction of risk and the influence of other variables on time-to-event
      variables Cox Regression will be applied. To correlate pharmacodynamics markers and
      biomarkers with clinical response standard methods for bivariate and multivariate regression
      and correlation will be used.
    
  