
    
      Personalized Medicine approaches to cancer management require detailed diagnostic
      evaluations. Broad genomic profiling,using whole genome (DNA) and whole transcriptome(RNA)
      sequencing platforms,holds the promise of identifying tumor related mutations that are
      amenable to targeted therapies, with the potential for improved clinical outcomes and lower
      toxicities compared to traditional cytotoxic chemotherapy. Proteomic approaches may add
      additional insights into treatment selection by identifying protein biomarkers known to
      induce drug resistance or indicate drug sensitivity for chemotherapy, monoclonal antibody
      therapy, hormonal therapy, targeted therapy and immunotherapy. The full value of these
      approaches has not been realized in routine clinical cancer care.

      GPS Cancer™ is a comprehensive test available through NantHealth. GPS Cancer which integrates
      whole genome (DNA) sequencing, whole transcriptome (RNA) sequencing, and quantitative
      proteomics through mass spectrometry, provides oncologists with a comprehensive molecular
      profile of a patient's cancer to inform personalized treatment strategies. GPS Cancer testing
      is conducted in CLIA-certified and CAP-accredited laboratories.

      Hypothesis:

      1. The addition of proteomics to next generation sequencing (NGS) via the NantHealthGPS
      Cancer test and the incorporation of whole genome sequencing will identify treatment
      algorithms with increased likelihood of successful clinical outcomes in patients with
      advanced cancers.

      Study Design(summary):

        1. The patient population will consist of 160 total individuals with tumor tissue available
           for NantHealth GPS Cancer testing: (1) pancreatic cancer patients ineligible for
           curative surgery, (2) metastatic breast cancer, (3) advanced stage
           (non-resectable/metastatic/incurable) lung cancer, (4) metastatic non-resectable
           malignant melanoma, (4) metastatic colon cancer not amenable to curative therapy, and
           (5) metastatic hormone refractory prostate cancer.

        2. The treating oncologists will declare any planned treatment strategies before the
           testing results are obtained.These plans will be compared retrospectively with the
           actual treatment plans delivered to the patient to determine the "change rate".

        3. The executive steering committee will review the NantHealthGPS Cancer reports and
           compare the results against the actual delivered therapy. Patients will be segregated
           into cohorts of "GPS treatment concordant" and "GPS treatment discordant".

        4. A cohort of patients with similar diseases(matched via the COTA Nodal Address system)
           will be drawn at a ratio of 3 to 1 from the COTA database.

        5. The time on chosen therapy (time to treatment failure) will be calculated for the cohort
           of patients with "GPS treatment concordant", "GPS treatment discordant", and "matched
           controls". The times will be compared using standard statistical analyses.

        6. The total cost of care for the three treatment cohorts will also be compared.

        7. Subjects must possess medical insurance coverage from Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of
           New Jersey in order to participate. A maximum of 160 patient samples will be tested.
    
  