
    
      Study design. This is a randomized study. Freshman students at Universidad Juárez Autónoma de
      Tabasco (UJAT) are subjected to clinical laboratory tests as part of their enrollment process
      to the University. Fifty women will be invited to participate, because DACS' enrollment is
      predominated by women. Blood samples will be taken for clinical and molecular analyses at the
      start and end of the protocol (three months). Anthropometric measurements will be taken also
      at the start and end of the study. During the 3 months, a dish containing traditional food
      will be provided 5 days per week. The food will contain an average of 600 Kcal, ≤ 50 mg of
      cholesterol, ≥ 10 g of fiber, ≥ 130 g of vegetables, and ≤ de 200 mg of sodium. Each dish
      will be accompanied with 3 standard-sized corn tortillas. The control group will receive
      habitually consumed fast food provided by the cafeteria of the campus at a similar caloric
      proportion (Muñoz et al., in press)

      Anthropometrics. To determine the body mass index (BMI), according to World Health
      Organization (2011) guidelines, a clinical balance with a stadiometer (Básculas Nuevo León®,
      Mexico) with a weighing capacity of 200 kg will be used. The balance will be calibrated daily
      during the whole time of students' recruitment. The BMI will be calculated according to the
      Mexican standard NOM-043-SSA2-2011 (2012). To measure hip and waist perimeters, millimetric
      non-extensible fiber glass tapes will be used, with a length of 1.80 m and a width of 1 cm
      (Vitamex® Mexico). For the population of this region, the desirable hip measure for women is
      of 80 cm and of 90 cm for men (WHO, 2011). The waist/hip ratio (WHR) is calculated by
      dividing the waist perimeter by the hip perimeter, where a value of 0.85 for women and of
      0.90 for men are considered the cut-off limits (He et al., 2009). The waist-to-height ratio
      (WHtR) is calculated by dividing the waist measurement by that of height, where a value below
      0.5 is considered desirable (WHO, 2011).

      Biochemical parameters. Blood samples from participants will be procured by personnel of the
      clinical analyses laboratory of UJAT after a 12-hour fasting period. Sterile equipment will
      be used and blood will be collected in Vacutainer® Serum tubes (BectonDickinson, Franklin
      Lakes, New Jersey, USA). Glucose (GPA), triglycerides (TG), and total cholesterol (TC) will
      be measured by means of a dry analytical methodology in an automated equipment VITROS® 250
      (Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics Johnson & Johnson, Rochester, NY, USA).The same equipment will be
      used to perform liver function tests, albumin, globulins, alkaline phosphatase, lactic
      dehydrogenase, aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase.

      Glycosylated hemoglobin. The Glycohemoglobin Pre-Fil of StanbioLab® kit of reagents (Boerne,
      Texas, USA) will be used. For each standard and sample, the absorbance range will be
      calculated according to the formula provided by the manufacturer. The conversion factor will
      be used, and results will be reported as HbA1c. Values between 4.2% and 6.2% will be
      considered normal.

      microRNA determination. For the determination of miRNA, the reagent kits of Quiagen® will be
      used. The kit miRNeasly Serum/Plasma will be used to obtain the RNA. Once the RNA has been
      purified from the blood samples, the oligo T retrotranscriptase reaction will be performed
      using the miScript II RT kit and the buffer miScript HiSpec. Afterwards, the amplification of
      the miARN of interest will be made in a real time thermocycler with the miScript miRNA
      polimerase chain reaction (PCR) Array Human Diabetes kit. To visualize amplicons, the
      investigators will use the miScript SYBR Green PCR kit. Results will be assessed with the
      software of the real time thermocycler to measure differences in transcription levels. The
      thermocycler will analyze the increments-decrements in the signals of the selected miARN:
      miR-320, miR-33a/b, miR-145, miR-335, and miR-124a. The miScript Primer Assay from Quiagen®
      will be used. As controls of the amplification reactions, the investigators will use mi-rtc
      as control of the efficiency of the retrotranscriptase and mir-3p from C. elegans as a PCR
      control.

      Statistical analysis. For data processing, version 21.0 of the Statistics Package for the
      Social Sciences (SPSS, Chicago, Illinois, USA) will be used. For data analysis, descriptive
      statistics with central tendency will be used, as well as contingency tables. The test for
      related samples will be used to compare variables in the groups, according to the biochemical
      markers and gender of participants, Pearson's correlation test will also be used to compare
      variables among groups and gender. Statistical significance will be set at p ≤ 0.05.

      Ethical considerations. The study was submitted for approval to the Research and Ethics
      Committees of the DACS to be registered at the Research Division of the Universidad Juárez
      Autónoma de Tabasco, code UJAT-DACS-2015-IA-08. The study complies with the Helsinki
      Declaration of the World Medical Association. The design complies with the regulations
      contained in the General Law on Health Research of Mexico.
    
  