
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate both toxicity and immune response efficacy of PR1 peptide (PR1 leukemia
      peptide vaccine) administered subcutaneously.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate possible clinical efficacy of PR1 peptide vaccine preparation with Montanide
      ISA 51 or Montanide ISA 51 VG adjuvant, in high-risk HLA-A2 positive patients with myeloid
      leukemias.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I dose-escalation study of PR1 leukemia peptide vaccine, followed by
      a phase II randomized study.

      Patients receive PR1 leukemia peptide vaccine with Montanide ISA-51 (ISA-51) subcutaneously
      (SC) once every 3 weeks for 18 weeks, for a total of 6 vaccinations. Patients also receive
      sargramostim (GM-CSF) SC with each vaccination.

      Cohorts of 3 patients receive escalating doses of PR1 leukemia peptide vaccine until the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at
      which 2 of 3 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Additional patients are accrued to the phase II portion of the study and are randomized to
      receive one of three dose levels of PR1 leukemia peptide vaccine with ISA-51. Patients in
      each of the 3 arms receive treatment as in the phase I portion of the study.

      Patients achieving a clinical response and/or clinical response to the vaccine whose disease
      progresses within 6-12 months after the first set of vaccinations may receive additional
      vaccine as before.

      Patients achieving a clinical response or immune reaction to the vaccine are followed at
      least monthly until death or until the clinical response and/or immune reaction is lost.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3-9 patients will be accrued for the phase I dose escalation
      portion of this study. A maximum of 60 patients (20 per arm) will be accrued for the phase II
      randomized portion of this study.
    
  