
    
      Baseline assessment:

      All patients will be invited to complete self-administered questionnaires for demographics
      and baseline symptom assessment

        -  Demographics: age, gender

        -  Screening of functional gastrointestinal disorder based on the Rome III questionnaires

        -  Functional dyspepsia symptom questionnaire: an 8-item dyspeptic symptom score
           questionnaire using 4-point (0-3) Likert scale based on recall of the past 7 days for
           assessment of epigastric pain, epigastric burning, belching, bloating, postprandial
           fullness, early satiation, nausea and vomiting. Functional dyspepsia will be further
           classified into epigastric pain syndrome (EPS) and postprandial distress syndrome (PDS)
           according to the Rome III definitions.

        -  Global dyspeptic symptom assessment: a dichotomous patient-reported scale in which they
           are asked to give a response of either "Yes" or "No" to the inquiry "Do you have
           adequate relief of dyspeptic symptom over the last 7 days?"

        -  GERD symptom questionnaire: Patients will also be asked to report the frequency of
           heartburn or acid regurgitation over the last 3 months. Patients with frequency of
           reflux symptoms of more than twice per month are deemed to have concomitant GERD and
           they will be excluded from the study.

        -  Psychological disorder: Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ) will be used for screening of
           concomitant psychological disorder such as depression and generalized anxiety disorder.

      Upper endoscopy and BRAVO pH capsule insertion:

      Upper endoscopy will be arranged within 2 weeks of baseline assessment in order to exclude
      organic pathology such as peptic ulcer, esophagitis and neoplasm. The position and morphology
      of gastroesophageal junction is assessed during withdrawal of endoscope after deflation of
      stomach at end-expiratory of the patient in left lateral body position. The morphology of
      gastroesophageal junction will be graded according to the "flap valve" concept. In order to
      avoid the confounding effect of gross anatomical disruption of gastroesophageal junction on
      acid exposure at SCJ, patients with grade IV disruption of gastroesophageal junction, which
      refers to patulous hiatus with axial displacement of SCJ, will be excluded.

      After completion of endoscopy examination, the BRAVO delivery system will be passed orally
      into esophagus in the same body position. The endoscope is then reintroduced to facilitate
      positioning of the delivery system under direct visualization. The BRAVO pH capsule will be
      placed at 1 cm proximal to SCJ for monitoring of acid exposure at SCJ.

      Recording of esophageal pH profile and symptoms:

      The wireless esophageal pH monitoring will last for 48 hours. During the study period, the
      patients will be instructed to engage in their usual daily activities. The patients will be
      given a diary documenting meals, sleeping and dyspeptic symptoms. The patient has to return
      the Bravo data recorder after 48 hours.

      Randomization of treatment:

      After completion of BRAVO pH monitoring, patients will be randomly assigned to either
      esomeprazole 20mg daily or identical looking placebo for 8 weeks. The random allocation
      sequence will be obtained from a computer-generated list of random numbers in blocks of 10.
      Concealed allocation is achieved by an independent staff who assigns treatments according to
      consecutive numbers in sealed envelopes. Study medications are dispensed as sealed packages
      in consecutive numbers. Medication adherence is measured by pill counts during final visit
      (V2).

      Follow-up assessment:

      The patients will report their individual dyspeptic symptoms on weekly basis using a self
      administered symptom questionnaire. At week 4 and week 8, they will need to give an
      additional rating on their overall symptom response using global symptom assessment. The
      patients are required to give a dichotomous response of either "yes" or "no" to the question
      stating "Do you have adequate relief of symptoms over the past 7 days?"
    
  