
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the progression-free survival of patients with stage IIIB or IV non-small cell
           lung cancer treated with pemetrexed disodium with or without sorafenib tosylate as
           second-line therapy.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the tumor response rate and duration of response in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity profile of these regimens in these patients.

      Tertiary

        -  Assess polymorphisms and gene expression in circulating peripheral mononuclear cells and
           circulating tumor cells of pemetrexed disodium target genes and genes encoding enzymes
           involved in the transport, activation, and inactivation of pemetrexed disodium.

        -  Correlate haplotype-tagged single nucleotide polymorphisms or gene expression levels
           with intracellular levels of pemetrexed disodium polyglutamates, toxicity, and/or
           efficacy of pemetrexed disodium.

        -  Assess the expression and polymorphisms in the target genes (i.e., TS, DHFR, GARFT) and
           methylthioadenosine phosphorylase (as antibodies become available) in paraffin-embedded
           tissue and compare results to those obtained in circulating tumor tissue, correlating
           results with response.

        -  Correlate predictive markers of hypertension (e.g. pharmacogenetics, vascular
           endothelial growth factor [VEGF]-A, sVEGF receptor-1, and ADMA) with clinical toxicity
           and outcomes.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to ECOG
      performance status (0 vs 1) and North Central Cancer Treatment Group membership. Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral sorafenib tosylate twice daily on days 1-21 and pemetrexed
           disodium IV over 10 minutes on day 1.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes on day 1. In both arms,
           courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      Blood and tissue samples are collected for pharmacokinetic analysis and research studies.
      Gene expression assays and polymorphism studies (e.g., using polymerase chain reaction) of
      circulating peripheral blood mononuclear cells are conducted for reduced folate carrier,
      multidrug resistance-associated protein, folate receptor, BCRP, folylpolyglutamate synthase,
      MTHFR, methionine synthase, methylthioadenosine phosphorylase, TS, dihydrofolate reductase,
      GARFT, endothelial nitric oxide synthase, angiotensinogen, dimethylarginine
      dimethylaminohydrolase, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and VEGF receptor.
      Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays and immunohistochemistry are also conducted.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years.
    
  