
    
      The feasibility phase of this study (Phase I) is a prospective, single arm, single-center
      feasibility study to determine the distance of the PICC tip to the upper Caval Atrial
      junction upon observation of maximum p-wave after PICC tip placement using the Sherlock 3CG
      system. Subjects judged by site personnel to require PICC placement will be screened against
      the study inclusion/exclusion criteria. Those subjects meeting the study criteria will be
      offered enrollment into the study. Informed consent will be obtained prior to subject
      enrollment.

      PICC nurses who have been fully trained in the correct use of the Sherlock 3CG Tip
      Positioning System will perform the PICC placement procedures in the fluoroscopy suite.
      Serious adverse events (SAEs) will be collected, but collection of non-serious AEs will be
      limited to those adverse events (AEs) considered to be study procedure and/or device-related.

      Subject follow up will be complete 30 days following the date of the study PICC procedure.

      The results of the feasibility phase will be used to determine:

        1. the distance, if any, that is required to move the PICC tip upon observation of the
           maximum p-wave amplitude in the pivotal phase of the study (See Section 3.5.3), in order
           to have the PICC tip at the upper cavoatrial junction.

        2. the movement of the cardiovascular anatomy, if any, when the arm is adducted from above
           the head to the side of the subject.

        3. the movement of the PICC tip when the arm is moved from the 90° angle to the side.

      Phase II (Pivotal) will not begin until the Phase I (feasibility) is complete. The Phase II
      study is a prospective, single-center, controlled, blinded, randomized study to compare the
      Sherlock 3CG as a tool in guiding PICC placement to the standard "blind" technique (control).
      Subjects judged by site personnel to require PICC placement will be screened against the
      study inclusion/exclusion criteria. Those subjects meeting the study criteria will be offered
      participation into the study. Informed consent will be obtained prior to subject enrollment.
      Subjects will be randomly assigned to either the Sherlock 3CG group or the control group in a
      1:1 fashion. Due to the different placement techniques being utilized, the PICC nurses and
      study coordinator will not be blinded to the study device. PICC nurses who have been fully
      trained in the correct use of the Sherlock 3CG will perform the PICC placement procedures in
      the fluoroscopy suite. Serious adverse events (SAEs) will be collected, but collection of
      non-serious AEs will be limited to those AEs considered to be study procedure and/or
      device-related. Subject follow up will be complete 30 days following the date of the study
      PICC procedure.

      Randomization did not occur due to early termination. All participants were assigned to
      Sherlock 3CG in phase I. Randomization would have occurred at the start of Phase II, but
      Phase II was not initiated due to early termination. Phase II was cancelled.
    
  