
    
      Leptin is an adipocyte-derived hormone that can be thought of as a signal from adipose tissue
      to the rest of the body conveying information about long-term nutritional status. Patients
      with the very rare condition of generalized lipodystrophy have leptin deficiency secondary to
      lack of adipose tissue. The combination of leptin deficiency and ectopic lipid deposition in
      patients with lipodystrophy leads to metabolic complications including severe insulin
      resistance and diabetes, hypertriglyceridemia, nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, and polycystic
      ovarian syndrome. Between 2000 and 2014, the NIDDK IRP conducted an open-label clinical trial
      of the recombinant human leptin analog, metreleptin, in patients with generalized and partial
      forms of lipodystrophy. This study showed that metreleptin ameliorates metabolic and
      endocrine abnormalities in lipodystrophy, including reducing food intake, improving insulin
      resistance and diabetes, reducing ectopic lipid, and normalizing reproduction. Based on these
      data, metreleptin was approved by the FDA in February, 2014, for patients with generalized,
      but not partial, lipodystrophy.

      Currently, metreleptin is not available as an approved drug outside the US and Japan, and it
      is available on a compassionate use basis only in a few additional countries. The purpose of
      this study is twofold:

        1. To provide access to metreleptin to patients with generalized lipodystrophy, including
           those who have previously received metreleptin through NIH studies (protocols 02-DK-0022
           and 13-DK- 0057) AND/OR who cannot obtain metreleptin through approved or compassionate
           use mechanisms in their home country

        2. To continue to collect data on the long-term efficacy of metreleptin in ameliorating the
           metabolic complications of generalized lipodystrophy.

      Metreleptin will be given at doses of less than or equal to 0.24 mg/kg/day, adjusted based on
      body weight and metabolic control. Patients will be seen approximately once per year at NIH
      for evaluation, and potentially less frequently for those who are medically stable and have
      difficulty traveling to the US. Laboratory evaluation will be obtained more frequently by the
      patient s home providers as clinically indicated. The primary outcomes of the study are
      improvements in serum triglycerides and hemoglobin A1c levels. Secondary outcomes include
      measures of steatohepatitis and ectopic lipid, body composition, bone mineral density and
      bone mineral metabolism, and pituitary and reproductive function.

      Metreleptin is supplied by Amryt Pharma. Neither the NIH nor Amryt Pharma can guarantee that
      leptin will be available for these patients indefinitely and/or after the study ends.
    
  