
    
      During the visit in the obesity clinic, eligible patients will be approached for
      participation by the sub-investigator. Interested patients will receive information regarding
      the study and receive the information sheet containing the informed consent form. After
      signing the informed consent form, volunteers will be invited to come to the clinical
      research center:

        -  Healthy volunteers: Gastrointestinal physiology will be analyzed during two visits using
           a telemetric capsule. During the first visit, the physiological conditions of interest
           will be analysed in fasted state using the telemetric capsule. During the second visit,
           the physiological conditions of interest will be analysed in fed state using the
           telemetric capsule.

        -  Obese volunteers: Gastrointestinal physiology will be analyzed during two visits using a
           telemetric capsule. During the first visit, the physiological conditions of interest
           will be analysed in fasted state using the telemetric capsule. During the second visit,
           the physiological conditions of interest will be analysed in fed state using the
           telemetric capsule.

        -  Volunteers after Sleeve Gastrectomy: Gastrointestinal physiology will be analyzed during
           three visits using a telemetric capsule, scintigraphy and via the collection of
           gastrointestinal samples. During the first visit, the physiological conditions of
           interest will be analysed in fasted state using the telemetric capsule. During the
           second visit, gastrointestinal samples will be collected at the level of the sleeve, the
           duodenum and jejunum via aspiration through multiple lumen catheters in fasted and fed
           state. During the third visit, gastric emptying will be observed via scintigraphy in fed
           state.

        -  Volunteers after Roux-en-Y gastric Bypass: Gastrointestinal physiology will be analyzed
           during three visits using a telemetric capsule, scintigraphy and via the collection of
           gastrointestinal samples. During the first visit, the physiological conditions of
           interest will be analysed in fasted state using the telemetric capsule. During the
           second visit, gastrointestinal samples will be collected at the level of the pouch, the
           Roux limb and the common limb via aspiration through multiple lumen catheters in fasted
           and fed state. During the third visit, gastric emptying will be observed via
           scintigraphy in fed state.
    
  