
    
      1. Research purposes:

           The main purpose: to detect the relationship between the changes in the airway
           microecology and the activation of macrophages, as well as the progression and
           heterogeneity of the early disease of COPD in patients with early COPD.

           The basis of the question:

           The current study found that the number of patients with COPD in my country is close to
           100 million, and the number of deaths due to COPD every year ranks third among the
           deaths of each single disease in my country. However, the research on the pathogenesis
           of COPD has been slow and there is still no breakthrough. The results of research have
           brought innovations to the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The study
           found that the airway microecology has undergone significant changes in patients with
           moderate to severe COPD, but whether the airway microecology changes in the early COPD?
           If it changes, the airway microecology changes slowly in the early stage. What is the
           role in the evolution of obstructive lung disease? There is no relevant research report.
           This study intends to collect bronchoalveolar lavage fluid to detect the airway
           microecology and the activation of macrophages, and observe the changes in the airway
           microecology and the activation of macrophages in early COPD patients, as well as the
           early COPD Correlation between disease progression and heterogeneity.

        2. Research design:

           Planned number of cases: 70 cases of COPD high-risk patients/early COPD/mild-moderate
           COPD patients, a total of 210 cases. The main center plans to enroll 28 cases, each
           sub-center plans to enroll 26 cases, and each center enters the group competitively.

        3. Clinical trial process:

           3.1 Sign informed consent and collect relevant clinical data; for patients who are
           clearly diagnosed as COPD, the treatment plan formulated in the "Global Initiative for
           the Diagnosis, Treatment and Prevention of COPD" (the 2021 version of the GOLD
           Guidelines) Carry out standardized treatment.

           3.2 Under local anesthesia, perform bronchoalveolar lavage and recover bronchoalveolar
           lavage fluid;

           3.3 The recovered bronchoalveolar lavage fluid is divided into two parts. One part uses
           16SrRNA high-throughput sequencing to detect the characteristics of the airway
           microecological composition of early COPD patients, and analyze the heterogeneity of the
           microecological composition of individual samples of early COPD patients. The other part
           of the specimen was centrifuged to separate the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid supernatant
           and cells.

           3.4 The cells in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid were separated from macrophages by
           differential adhesion method, and M1 (CD68+CD80+CD86+CD163-CD206-) and M2
           (CD68+CD80-CD86-) were detected by flow cytometry. CD163+CD206+) ratio; 3.5 The
           above-mentioned patients and healthy volunteers were followed up for 4 times in 4 years,
           and the changes in relevant clinical data were recorded. Primary endpoint: changes in
           lung function in high-risk patients with COPD/early COPD and mild-to-moderate COPD
           within 48 months; secondary endpoint: patients with high-risk COPD/early COPD patients
           and mild Changes in clinical symptoms in patients with moderate chronic obstructive
           pulmonary disease within 48 months. Analyze the correlation between airway
           microecological changes, the heterogeneity of microecological composition ratio,
           macrophage activation and the disease progression and heterogeneity of early COPD
           patients.

           (Remarks: If the subject has an acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary
           disease at the time of follow-up, he will be treated according to the diagnosis and
           treatment standards, and the visit task at this node will be completed after the acute
           exacerbation is relieved for 1 month. )

        4. quality assurance of clinical trial data

           The quality control of this clinical trial is under the control and control of the 9th
           People's Hospital Affiliated to the Medical College of Shanghai Jiaotong University. The
           research work is carried out in accordance with GCP, SOP and quality control
           requirements, the clinical research plan is formulated, and GCP training is conducted
           for the relevant researchers participating in the test.

           4.1 The plan before the trial is started shall be submitted to the ethics committee of
           the Ninth People's Hospital Affiliated to the Medical College of Shanghai Jiaotong
           University for approval;

           4.2 According to the GCP guidelines, necessary steps should be taken in the design and
           implementation stage of the study to ensure the accuracy, consistency, integrity and
           credibility of the collected data;

           4.3 The participants will conduct the test in strict accordance with the GCP standard in
           China, collect and record the contents in the case report form truthfully, carefully and
           in detail according to the SOP of clinical trial standard, and verify the contents to
           ensure the reliability of the data;

           4.4 The researchers fill in the information required by the program into the case report
           form (CRF), and the supervisor will verify that the information is complete and
           accurate, and guide the staff of the research center to make necessary corrections and
           supplements;

           4.5 All instruments, equipment, reagents, standard products, etc. used in various
           inspection items in clinical trials shall have strict quality standards and ensure that
           they work under normal conditions;

           4.6 The statistical problems in the test plan shall be submitted to the statistical
           experts for examination and verification;

           4.7 During the trial, researchers monitored the research process, informed consent, the
           correctness and completeness of data in case report form (CRF).

        5. record, preservation, sharing agreement and declaration of conflict of interest of
           research materials

           According to GCP principle, the researcher shall keep all the detailed original
           documents of the subjects, and record the contents of the test process, drug use,
           laboratory examination data, safety data and efficacy evaluation in the case report
           form. The recorded data shall be complete, timely and clear. The case report form,
           original documents, medical records, etc. shall be clear, detailed and easily recognized
           by the personnel participating in this clinical trial.

           The key investigator must sign at least the selected confirmation page and completion
           page of the case report form to verify the accuracy and integrity of all data.

           The case report form and original documents can only be modified by the investigator. No
           modification to the case report form and original document shall be allowed to smear out
           the original data. The correct method of modification is to mark single line on the
           original data, then write the modified data next to the original data, and sign the date
           and the abbreviation of the modified personnel.

           The test data shall be kept for 10 years after the end of the test. However, if required
           by the current regulations or in agreements with the sponsor, the information should be
           kept for a longer period of time.

           The research results are shared by the contribution ranking of each center. There is no
           conflict of interest in each research center.

        6. statistical treatment scheme

           6.1 filling in the case report form (CRF) The investigator should complete the filling
           of case report form in time, modify it according to the correct modification method, and
           the completed case report form shall be reviewed and signed by the main researchers.

           6.2 statistical analysis method and statistical description

           6.2.1 Treatment of missing value of main efficacy index data: when some subjects lack a
           major efficacy data, the method of filling deficiency is determined from the statistical
           and professional perspective. If the case is missing, the data of the previous
           measurement shall be transferred.

           6.2.2 Case analysis of incomplete test: the reasons for exfoliation should be analyzed
           one by one.

           6.2.3 Descriptive statistics: mean, standard deviation, maximum value, minimum value,
           median, confidence interval, frequency (composition ratio), etc.

           6.3 Statistical expression

           6.3.1 The report mainly uses tables to show that the tables are self-evident, that is,
           they have table questions, table notes and examples.

           6.3.2 The results of repeated measurement data are expressed in tables and statistical
           charts are attached to increase readability.

           6.4 statistical software

           SAS 9.1.3 and Das for clinical trial 3.0 software were used to analyze the software
           simultaneously, and the results were confirmed.

        7. modification and interim analysis in the course of the test

      Once the research plan has been discussed by the research group and reviewed by the ethics
      committee, it is not allowed to change at will; before the modification is implemented, the
      researcher must report the content and reason of the modification to the ethics committee of
      clinical trial for approval, and then carry out the research according to the modified
      scheme.
    
  