
    
      Diastolic heart failure or heart failure with preserved systolic function is the leading
      cause of heart failure in elderly subjects (more than 2/3 of heart failure in subjects over
      60 years). Its main etiology is high blood pressure. Diagnosis of diastolic heart failure
      remains controversial in clinical practice. It is based on ultrasound and biological
      criteria. These are mainly acute edema of the lung for patients with preserved Ejection
      Fraction and high Brain Natriuretic Peptid. It is now recognized that the "primum movens" of
      this type of heart failure is the increase in myocardial stiffness secondary to left
      ventricular hypertrophy. The noninvasive evaluation of this parameter would allow a more
      accurate and reliable diagnosis since it does not depend on the loading conditions, unlike
      the heart failure and the trans-mitral Doppler). However, the absence of a non-invasive tool
      for the direct evaluation of diastolic (so-called passive) rigidity prevents the use of this
      diagnostic parameter. Investigators propose here to non-invasively evaluate the myocardial
      stiffness in the elderly patient with diastolic heart failure thanks to a new imaging tool
      using an innovative ultrasonic technology, the ultrafast-echo associated with its
      elastographic mode "ShearWave Imaging". Investigators have been working for several years in
      collaboration with the Langevin Institute on this technology, which has recently been
      validated on experimental models. Its principle is based on the creation of a shear wave from
      a standard ultrasound probe and the calculation of the velocity of this wave thanks to the
      very high temporal resolution of the ultrasound system, this speed being correlated to the
      myocardial rigidity. The human study was recently made possible by the development of a
      phased array probe with the ability to work with the elastography mode ("ShearWave Imaging").
    
  