
    
      INTRODUCTION Pneumonia in the intensive care unit (ICU) constitutes the most frequent
      infection and is most often associated with the application of the mechanical ventilation.
      VAP (Ventilator - Associated Pneumonia) is defined as the nosocomial pneumonia in a patient
      on mechanical ventilatory support (by endotracheal tube or tracheostomy) for more than 48
      hours. The risk for such complication is proportionally increased with the duration of
      hospitalization. The symptoms include the appearance of pulmonary infiltrate, fever,
      leukocytosis and purulent tracheobronchial secretions although this symptomatology is not
      always present. VAP is usually caused by nosocomial species and especially by gram negative
      bacteria such as Acinetobacter baumannii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Klebsiella pneumoniae.

      VAP is frequently complicated with the entry of bacteria in the circulation of blood
      resulting in bacteremia and sepsis. In this respect, this disorder is associated with
      substantial morbidity and devastating costs of hospitalization. Notably, the cost of one
      episode of VAP is estimated in 57000 $ per occurrence.

      Inhaled antibiotics achieve high (both peak and trough) concentrations in respiratory
      secretions. Endobronchial antibiotics have been given initially in cystic fibrosis patients
      for the prevention of Pseudomonas aeruginosa pneumonia. More recently, some studies reported
      on the use of endobronchial antibiotics in non-cystic fibrosis patients for VAP treatment.
      There are only a few, relatively small, one-centre studies about the prevention of VAP; in
      those studies Colistin was given by instillation or nebulization and decreased the incidence
      of Gram-negative pneumonia.

      AIM To study prospectively the effect of nebulized colistin on the incidence of Ventilator
      Associated Pneumonia due to gram negative bacteria in the ICU.

      STUDY DESIGN Parallel two group blinded randomized controlled clinical trial. The trial
      medication will be commenced within 12 hours of randomization. The treatment group will
      receive nebulized colistin (500000 international units of colistimethate sodium, three times
      a day) for 10 days.

      The control group will receive normal saline 0.9% for 10 days. PRIMARY OUTCOME The incidence
      of VAP due to gram-negative bacteria at the 28th day following randomization INTERVENTIONS
      Experimental group: nebulized colistin (colistimethate sodium, 500000 international units,
      three times a day) for 10 days Control group: nebulized Normal saline 0.9%, three times a day
      for 10 days TIMELINE All patients undergoing invasive mechanical ventilation will be assessed
      for eligibility after 48h of invasive mechanical ventilation. Patients will be included and
      randomized and a tracheal aspirate, blood culture, rectal swab will be sampled.

      Patients will receive their first treatment delivery within 12h following randomization.

      Patients will be assessed daily until extubation or day 28 - whichever occurs first - for
      suspicion of ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP) according to accepted criteria (see
      'Definitions'), clinical pulmonary infection score computation, systemic antibiotic delivery,
      acute kidney injury, ventilator associated events. Weaning from mechanical ventilation will
      occur based on treating physician decision (an informative-training session on 'weaning' will
      take place in all centres at the beginning of the trial).

      RANDOMIZATION AND BLINDING Randomization (based on tables of random numbers) will be
      centralized and stratified on centre and systemic antibiotic delivery the day of
      randomization.

      Study drug and placebo will be prepared by blinded staff not involved in included patients'
      care. Blinding will be maintained throughout the study except in case of a deliberated
      decision on unblinding.

      SAMPLE SIZE The hypothesis is based on data of a previous trial on this topic (Karvouniaris
      et al 2016); the incidence of VAP due to gram negative bacteria was 25% in the control group
      (normal saline group). For a reduction to 12,5%, a sample of 152 patients is necessary in
      each arm of the study, with a probability of a two-tailed Type I error of 0.05 and a power of
      80%. This hypothesis represents an important relative risk reduction which is clinically
      meaningful in case of a positive trial. The population of the study will be at least of 304
      patients (152 in each group) as it has been calculated by the following analysis: All
      statistical analyses will be performed or supervised by E Zintzaras, Professor of Biometry
      Head, Department of Biomathematics, University of Thessaly School of Medicine, Larissa,
      Greece.

      FEASIBILITY The project has been endorsed by two research centres (University Hospital of
      Larissa and Evaggelismos University Hospital of Athens) with significant expertise in
      randomized clinical trials in the area of VAP prevention, mechanical ventilation and sepsis.

      The cooperation of the two centres resulted in the following published trials:

      Vasopressin, steroids, and epinephrine and neurologically favorable survival after
      in-hospital cardiac arrest: a randomized clinical trial. Mentzelopoulos SD, Malachias S,
      Chamos C, Konstantopoulos D, Ntaidou T, Papastylianou A, Kolliantzaki I, Theodoridi M,
      Ischaki H, Makris D, Zakynthinos E, Zintzaras E, Sourlas S, Aloizos S, Zakynthinos SG. JAMA.
      2013 Intermittent recruitment with high-frequency oscillation/tracheal gas insufflation in
      acute respiratory distress syndrome.Mentzelopoulos SD, Malachias S, Zintzaras E, Kokkoris S,
      Zakynthinos E, Makris D, Magira E, Markaki V, Roussos C, Zakynthinos SG.Eur Respir J. 2012
      Mar;39(3):635-47.

      One of the centres has experience in studies regarding VAP prevention:

      Nebulised colistin for ventilator-associated pneumonia prevention.Karvouniaris M, Makris D,
      Zygoulis P, Triantaris A, Xitsas S, Mantzarlis K, Petinaki E, Zakynthinos E.Eur Respir J.
      2015 Dec;46(6):1732-9.

      Effect of pravastatin on the frequency of ventilator-associated pneumonia and on intensive
      care unit mortality: open-label, randomized study.Makris D, Manoulakas E, Komnos A,
      Papakrivou E, Tzovaras N, Hovas A, Zintzaras E, Zakynthinos E.

      Crit Care Med. 2011 Nov;39(11):2440-6. EXPECTED DURATION OF THE STUDY

        -  Enrollment: 24 months

        -  Duration of the study for a participant: 28 days

        -  Total duration of the study: 30 months
    
  