
    
      Study using induced blood stage malaria infection to characterize the activity of MMV390048
      against early Plasmodium falciparum blood stage infection. There will be two or more cohorts
      of 8 subjects. In the first cohort a single dose of 20 mg of MMV390048 will be investigated.
      Depending on the data obtained, the dose in Cohort 2 may be adjusted but will not exceed the
      maximum tolerated dose (or highest achieved dose based on a predefined exposure cap) as
      determined in an ongoing single ascending dose study. Each participant will be inoculated on
      Day 0 with ~1,800 viable parasites of Plasmodium falciparum-infected human erythrocytes
      intravenously. On an outpatient basis, participants will be monitored daily until positive
      for presence of malaria parasites. Once positive they will be monitored twice-daily until
      treatment, for adverse events and the unexpected early onset of symptoms, signs or
      parasitological evidence of malaria. On the day designated for commencement of treatment,
      participants will be admitted to the study unit and monitored. The threshold for commencement
      of treatment will be when quantification of all participants is ≥ 1,000 parasites/mL. If the
      quantification of any participant is ≥ 5,000 parasites/mL, and is accompanied by a clinical
      symptom score >5, or if clinical or parasitological evidence of malaria occurs in any
      participant before all participants have reached the treatment threshold (quantification of ≥
      1,000), then treatment of that participant will begin within a 24 h period.

      Following treatment with MMV390048, participants will be followed up as inpatients for at
      least 72 hours to ensure tolerance of the treatment and clinical response, then on an
      outpatient basis if clinically well for monitoring of safety and clearance of malaria
      parasites. Compulsory treatment with Riamet® (artemether-lumefantrine) will start on day 16
      (±3 days) post study treatment unless required earlier. Early intervention can occur if
      either poor responses or fast responses are seen following MMV390048 treatment. This is to
      ensure participant safety and to avoid participant inconvenience if useful data cannot be
      obtained. Pre-emptive treatment with Riamet® can commence whenever necessary. Participants
      will be treated with a single dose (45 mg) of primaquine (Primacin™) at the end of their
      Riamet® treatment if gametocytes are identified, to ensure complete clearance of any
      gametocytes present.
    
  