
    
      Rectal cancer is a common problem worldwide and the standard potentially curative treatment
      for locally advanced disease includes radical surgery appreciating oncological principals.
      Sphincter-saving procedures have been practiced in order to prevent a permanent stoma;
      however, patients underwent low anterior resection may suffer from several problems including
      incontinence particularly if the initial tumor is located too close to the anal canal. The
      actual frequency of incontinence is still unknown because of wide variation rates in several
      reports ranging between 0 to 80%; and may be a long-term problem since a series has presented
      an incidence of 36% 10 years after surgery.

      Several mechanisms may cause incontinence after low anterior resection, thus several
      therapeutic instruments have been described considering the underlying reason. The most
      reasonable suspect is probably an injury to the sphincters at the time of surgery or
      secondary to preoperative radiation therapy, which is a commonly used modality in order to
      reduce local recurrence and increase the possibility of sphincter-saving procedures with the
      shrinkage of the tumor. Surgery and/or (chemo)radiation may not only generate sphincter
      injury, but also cause nerve damage and consequent denervation of the sphincters. Internal
      sphincters are responsible for resting pressure. Incontinence is more often and obvious if an
      intersphincteric resection with a hand-sewn coloanal anastomosis is attempted, since this
      procedure indicates the removal of internal sphincters. Several studies have revealed that up
      to 20% of patients have internal sphincter injuries after low anterior resection proven with
      endoanal ultrasound or manometer; and diminution in size of sphincters and decrease in
      resting pressure are correlated with incontinence grade. Mechanical anal sphincter injury may
      occur during the insertion of stapler; thus, incontinence may also be observed in patients
      with more proximally located tumors. The effect of radiation therapy on sphincter functions
      is also well-known, and a prospective randomized trial has shown that radiotherapy is
      significantly increasing incontinence rate. Another mechanism in incontinence may be related
      to the reduction of the capacity of neorectum, since descending colon, which is the
      reconstructing organ in most cases is narrower than rectum itself. Several reservoir
      techniques including coloplasty, colonic j-pouch and side-to-end anastomosis have been
      described in order to increase pooling volume of neorectum. Some other factors including
      decrease in sensitivity of anal canal and anal transitional zone, alteration in rectoanal
      inhibitory reflex, motility dysfunction of neorectum and incomplete evacuation may separately
      cause incontinence or increase the severity of symptoms. Instead of a sole origin, a
      combination of several reasons may be present at the same time making the problem more
      complex and the solution tougher. The treatment of incontinence is problematic, and not
      always able to increase quality of life. Biofeedback and rehabilitation therapies are
      harmless and easy to use; thus, generally selected as the initial treatment modalities,
      however may be effective in a small portion of patients. More complex treatment techniques
      including sacral nerve stimulation decrease the severity of symptoms, however the
      implantation of the device is a costly, staged procedure. Little is known about the
      effectiveness of other techniques such as injectable substances on incontinence observed
      after low anterior resection. Some patients may require fecal diversion in order to achieve a
      better quality of life.

      Platelet Rich Plasma (PRP) is a thrombocyte enriched liquid, and it increases cell
      proliferation and collagen formation where it is injected. Platelets activate some growth
      factors, cytokines and other bioactive mediators, and consequently initiate and regulate
      wound-healing period. PRP has been used in several chronic diseases for initiating and
      fastening the reconstruction phase, particularly for the tendon, muscle, ligament and
      articular system related injuries and inflammatory situations. The effects of PRP on symptoms
      and healing rate in patients with lateral epicondylitis and its superiority over bupivacaine
      or steroid injections have been shown in cohort and prospective randomized trials. PRP is
      also tested for the treatment of perianal fistula. When PRP injection is combined with
      mucosal advancement flap procedure, it has been shown to decrease the recurrence rate. In an
      animal model, PRP injection into the gastrocnemius muscle has shown to increase the strength
      of the muscle healing. Although it has a potential, -to the best to our knowledge- there is
      no study evaluating the safety and effectiveness of PRP injection for incontinent patients
      after low anterior resection.

      Methods:

      This project is a single arm, cohort study evaluating the safety and effectiveness of PRP
      injection into the anal sphincter on incontinence and related quality of life in incontinent
      patients after low anterior resection for rectal cancer. All participating patients will be
      informed about the protocol and PRP application, and informed consent will be obtained. The
      study will be run at Department of General Surgery at Istanbul Medipol University Medical
      School (IMU) and be completed in 24 months. Local Ethical Committee has approved the protocol
      (protocol number: 66291034-29) and The Scientific and Technological Research Council of
      Turkey (TUBITAK) has granted the study (project number: 117s133). First patient accrual is
      planned to happen before August 2019. For the first year, only the patients who had their
      previous cancer operation at IMU will be included to the study, but in case of a shortage in
      number of patients by the end of August 2020, the inclusion of the patients who had their
      initial surgeries in other institutions will be permitted.

      Local Ethical Committee and governors of TUBITAK will be free to monitor the trial progress
      at any time. Actual status of the study will be reported to TUBITAK for observation and for
      the continuity of grant imbursements annually (twice during the study period) and after the
      finalization of data analysis and publishing. Interim analysis will not be stated, since the
      design has not been classified as high risk.
    
  