
    
      Open-label, parallel group study. Twenty adults each with untreated OSA, CPAP-treated OSA,
      and no OSA will undergo a stepped-dose target-controlled opioid (remifentanil) infusion,
      measurement of opioid effects (miosis, respiratory rate, end-expired CO2, thermal analgesia)
      and plasma drug concentrations. Remifentanil clinical effects, pharmacodynamics
      (concentration-effect relationships), and pharmacokinetics will be compared between the three
      groups, as will relationships between effects and nighttime hypoxemia (assessed by home PSG).

      The ultimate long-term goal for this research is to improve the perioperative care and pain
      management of patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). While patients with OSA are
      believed to be more sensitive to the analgesic and adverse effects of opioids, there are no
      studies that assess the effects of the OSA gold-standard treatment, namely CPAP, on this
      purported sensitivity. Furthermore, OSA is a heterogeneous disease and not all patients who
      carry an OSA diagnosis are likely to have the same opioid sensitivity. At present no easily
      administered test is able to determine the degree of opioid sensitivity of an individual
      patient.

      The specific goal of this research is to validate or refute, the untested yet "conventional
      wisdom" that adults with untreated OSA have increased sensitivity to the clinical effects of
      opioids, especially ventilatory depression. We will test the presumptive hypotheses that a)
      untreated OSA increases ventilatory, miotic, and analgesic effects of opioids, b) the
      magnitude of increase is proportional to the degree of nighttime hypoxia, and c) CPAP
      treatment of OSA normalizes altered opioid responses.

      These hypotheses will be tested by evaluating the pharmacodynamics (concentration-effect
      relationship) of the prototype opioid remifentanil in patients with and without OSA using
      objective opioid sensitivity markers to determine if patients with OSA have increased
      sensitivity to opioids and to determine if treatment with CPAP alters this purported
      sensitivity. Our study drug, remifentanil, is an ultra-short acting μ-selective opioid
      agonist, which is the same receptor at which longer acting opioids such as morphine act.
      Since the site of action of remifentanil is the same as other opioids, the results of this
      study will be able to be generalized to other opioids, improving our clinical understanding
      and practice in this patient population. Opioid effects will be determined by the decrease in
      pupil diameter, which is the most sensitive measure of opioid effects at the drug
      concentrations and subanesthetic doses to be used. The degree to which changes in pupil
      diameter correlate with changes in respiratory rate will be compared.
    
  