
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose(s) and the recommended phase II dose(s) of
           everolimus when administered with standard-dose temozolomide in patients with newly
           diagnosed, recurrent, or progressive glioblastoma multiforme.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the efficacy of this regimen in patients with measurable disease at baseline.

        -  Identify correlates of activity by molecular study of paraffin-embedded tumor samples
           from these patients.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, nonblinded, parallel-group, multicenter, dose-escalation
      study of everolimus. Patients are stratified according to concurrent use of enzyme-inducing
      antiepileptic drugs (yes vs no).

      Patients receive oral temozolomide once daily on days 2-5 in course 1 and on days 1-5 in all
      subsequent courses. Patients also receive oral everolimus once daily on days 1-28. Treatment
      repeats every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients with newly diagnosed disease receive up to 6 courses of treatment. Patients with
      recurrent disease who achieve a response (partial or complete response) or stable disease may
      continue treatment until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients per stratum receive escalating doses of everolimus until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2
      of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity during the first course of therapy.
      Once the MTD is determined, an additional 6 patients are treated at the MTD.

      Patients' archival diagnostic tumor tissue is evaluated during study for correlative
      molecular studies (by immunohistochemical staining) of mammalian target of rapamycin
      inhibition status (mTOR activity) and pretreatment molecular markers. Blood samples are taken
      periodically during course 1 for pharmacokinetic studies.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed at 4 weeks. Patients with stable or
      responding disease are then followed every 3 months until relapse or progression.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  