
    
      Objectives:

      Primary:

      To show that for the treatment of subjects with acute heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT)
      danaparoid use is not inferior to argatroban in terms of efficacy. The primary efficacy
      endpoint (composite endpoint) is defined as treatment response at Day 44.

      A subject will be considered a treatment responder, if none of the following events occur by
      Day 44:

        -  New or extended venous and/or arterial thrombosis, including gangrene/skin necrosis
           Note: 'thrombosis' denotes venous and/or arterial here and throughout the protocol

        -  All-cause mortality

        -  Unplanned amputation, including ischemic gut resection

      Secondary/Exploratory:

      To collect additional efficacy data

        -  Percentage of subjects with increase in platelet count to values ≥ 100,000/ μL at day 14

        -  Deaths due to TE or bleeding up until Day 44

        -  Incidence of fatal or non-fatal major bleeding up until Day 44

      Note: As outlined by the Control of Anticoagulation Subcommittee major bleeding in
      non-surgical subjects is defined as:

        1. Fatal bleeding, and/or

        2. Symptomatic bleeding in a critical area or organ, such as intracranial, intraspinal,
           intraocular, retroperitoneal, intra-articular or pericardial, or intramuscular with
           compartment syndrome, and/or

        3. Bleeding causing a fall in hemoglobin level of 20 g/L (1.24 mmol/ L) or more, or leading
           to transfusion of two or more units of whole blood or red cells

             -  New or extended thrombosis, including gangrene/skin necrosis

             -  Unplanned amputation, including ischemic gut resection

             -  All-cause mortality

      Exploratory

        -  Time to first event (new/extended thrombosis, all cause mortality, unplanned amputation)

        -  Time to reach consistent increase in 3 consecutive alternate day platelet count
           measurements during acute treatment

        -  Incidence of new or extended TE events, including gangrene/skin necrosis up until Day 14

        -  Incidence of all-cause mortality up until Day 14

        -  Incidence of unplanned amputation up until Day 14

        -  Incidence of fatal or non-fatal major bleeding up until Day 14

      To describe the safety of danaparoid in comparison to argatroban

        -  All-cause mortality

        -  Incidence of fatal and non-fatal major bleeding events (as defined above) during the
           acute treatment and then the entire follow-up period (until Day 44)

        -  Incidence of serious adverse events (SAEs)

        -  Incidence of adverse events (AEs)

        -  Changes in vital parameters (heart rate, blood pressure, and respiratory rate) and
           12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG)

        -  Incidence of positive pre-danaparoid cross reactivity in the Heparin-induced Platelet
           Activation (HIPA) assay (Greinacher. 1991)

        -  Safety laboratory parameters

      Design:

      This is a Phase 3, open-label, randomized, active-controlled, multi-center study to evaluate
      the safety and efficacy of danaparoid versus argatroban in treatment of subjects with
      acuteHIT.

      Subjects who develop a reduction in platelet count (PC) greater than or equal to 30% compared
      with the higher of their pre-heparin treatment count or their highest platelet count after
      the start of heparin either

        1. Between Days 4 and 14 of the start of heparin treatment with or without thrombosis or

        2. At Day 1 of heparin treatment and recent heparin exposure (within the last 30 days with
           or without thrombosis) and who have a score on the 4Ts test of >3 will be considered for
           study enrollment as a Suspected HIT.

      Subjects who have tested negative in available screening tests for HIT within the last 48
      hours before enrollment will not be considered for study enrollment, unless new clinical
      symptoms occurred.The following will occur for all subjects (regardless of whether they had a
      screening HIT test performed in the enrolling hospital or not):

        1. All heparin administration must be ceased after strong clinical suspicion of HIT, based
           on clinical evaluation of the subject, including the use of heparin-bonded vascular
           access catheters and circuits as well as heparin flushes.

        2. Subject must be randomized into the study and treated with the study drug or transferred
           to alternative non-heparin anticoagulant in situations where study drug cannot be
           started within 2 hours after stop of heparin.

        3. A blood sample may be taken at the same time for HIT testing according to local
           practice.

        4. The investigator will assess the subject for eligibility for the HITSOVA study by
           clinical criteria (4T score >3) and inclusion and exclusion criteria.

        5. If eligible, written informed consent will be obtained from the subject or a legal
           guardian and the subject will be randomized to receive study drug. .

        6. A new blood sample for HIPA/ PF4/heparin IgG ELISA and anti-danaparoid antibodies and
           cross reactivity has to be obtained to allow consistent blood sample labelling and
           documentation before start of study drug, regardless whether another blood sample for
           HIT testing according to local practice had been obtained at the time of suspicion of
           HIT

      Note, although use of non-heparin treatment for suspected HIT is allowed before enrollment of
      the subject into the HITSOVA study, the study drug should be started as soon as possible, but
      no later than 48 hours. In such situation, all time points specified in this protocol, will
      be calculated from the time of first dose of study drug.

      HIT diagnosis will be confirmed serologically by the HIPA assay and a specific PF4/heparin
      IgG ELISA test for the HIT IgG by the nominated central laboratory based in Greifswald,
      Germany Subjects with a positive HIPA assay and a positive HIT IgG antigen test with optical
      density (OD) > 0.5 will be classified as confirmed HIT, and treatment with randomized study
      drug will continue.Subjects with negative HIPA assay and a positive HIT IgG antigen test with
      an optical density (OD) >0.5 and subjects with a positive HIPA assay but a negative HIT IgG
      antigen test OD ≤0.5 will be classified as suspected HIT and treatment with randomized study
      drug will continue. These subjects will later be adjudicated retrospectively by the
      Adjudication Committee (AdjC) and then grouped into highly likely HIT or non-HIT.

      All other subjects will be considered as non-HIT and the subjects will be removed from the
      protocol, study drug will be discontinued, and further procedures and treatment will be given
      at the discretion of the Investigator according to local standard practice. These subjects
      will be followed to Day 44 after their first dose of study drug for assessment of safety.

      During the treatment period if it becomes necessary for an operation, invasive vascular
      procedure or acute kidney injury requiring the use of an extracorporeal circulation machine
      develops, then specific dosing instructions are available.

      If the acute kidney injury does not recover during the treatment period and the use of an
      extracorporeal circulation machine is required longer, then the subject will not be eligible
      to be included in the per protocol set (PPS), but will still be eligible to be included in
      the full analysis set (FAS).

      Study Population:

      All subjects who develop a reduction in platelet count (PC) ≥ 30% compared to the higher of
      their pre-heparin treatment count or their highest platelet count after the start of heparin
      at either

      a) between Days 4 and 14 of the start of heparin treatment with or without thrombosis or b)
      at Day 1 of heparin treatment (and recent heparin exposure within the last 30 days) with or
      without thrombosis and who have a score on the 4Ts test of >3 and who are later suspected HIT
      by the HIPA assay or HIT IgG..

      Clinical signs of HIT are

        -  New thrombosis, on either side (arterial or venous) of the circulation

        -  Acute systemic reaction when heparin infusion was given:

             -  Fever

             -  Chills

             -  High blood pressure

             -  Tachycardia

             -  Shortness of breath

             -  Chest pain

        -  Transient global amnesia

        -  White clot syndrome

        -  Skin necrosis

        -  Occlusion of an extracorporeal circuit

      Pediatric subjects will not be included in every country in this study. The countries that
      allow inclusion of pediatric patients are France, USA,and Italy.

      It is anticipated that some subjects will be dosed with alternative non-heparin
      anti-coagulants prior to completing enrollment steps for this study. These subjects can be
      enrolled in the study as long as the exposure to those treatments is less than 48 hours.

      Baseline/screening (Day 0) and enrollment into the study (Day1) can occur on the same day. In
      this case the assesments for Day 0 and Day 1, should only be performed once.
    
  