
    
      Some persons are more likely to develop alcoholism than others. Understanding the difference
      between persons at high vs. low risk of developing alcoholism could be important for both
      prevention and treatment strategies.

      Tolerance for the sedative effects of alcohol has been shown in young adults to predict
      development of alcoholism later in life. The basis for this increased risk is unclear. It may
      be that persons who tolerate alcohol well as young adults experience more of the rewarding
      effects of alcohol (e.g., euphoria), or that they experience less of the negative effects of
      alcohol (e.g., sedation), or some combination of the two. Fortunately, brain-imaging tools
      can shed light on the brain's reward response mechanisms to alcohol. Differences in the
      reward circuits of persons who experience a euphoric response to alcohol may help explain why
      some people go on to develop alcoholism while others do not. Both human and animal research
      point toward a difference in the density of dopamine receptors in the striatum of
      alcohol-preferring and non alcohol-preferring subjects. The following experiment is designed
      to examine the relationship between response to alcohol, dopamine receptor density in the
      striatum, and dopamine release in response to alcohol.

      We propose classification of subjects as 'low response' or 'high response' on the basis of
      their level of response to a controlled alcohol challenge in the laboratory, using the
      established methods of Schuckit et al to gather systematic data on subjects' response to
      alcohol. Next, baseline levels of dopamine D2 receptor density in mesolimbic reward circuits
      of subjects in each group would be assessed in the PET scanner by using the radioactive
      dopamine antagonist C-11 raclopride. C-11 raclopride binds to D2 receptors, which will
      provide a signal proportional to the number of D2 receptors present. This will allow us to
      measure and compare the baseline D2 receptor density in high and low response groups.
      Directly after obtaining this baseline D2 receptor measurement, we propose administration of
      a controlled alcohol challenge. Acute alcohol administration causes release of dopamine in
      the striatum, and can dislodge a portion of the C-11 raclopride that was bound to D2
      receptors. This will allow us to compare high and low response groups for differences in the
      displacement of C-11 raclopride induced by dopamine release, thereby providing a measure of
      dopamine release in response to alcohol.

      The data obtained will allow us to compare the response to alcohol of young adults who are
      high vs. low responders. It will also permit comparison of these groups in terms of baseline
      striatal dopamine receptor density and striatal dopamine release in response to alcohol.

      Results of this experiment may identify a physiological basis for the increased risk in some
      young adults for development of alcoholism. It may also provide a model for further studies
      of the relationship between response to alcohol, risk for developing alcoholism, and brain
      reward mechanisms.
    
  