
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare disease-free survival of women with stage II or III breast cancer at high risk
           of relapse treated with neoadjuvant or adjuvant chemotherapy and/or hormonal therapy
           with vs without zoledronate.

      Secondary

        -  Compare time to bone metastases, as first recurrence, in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare time to bone metastases, per se, in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare time to distant metastases in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare overall survival in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the reduction in skeletal-related events (fractures, spinal cord compression,
           radiotherapy to the bone, surgery to the bone, and hypercalcemia) before and after the
           development of bone metastases in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the safety and toxicity of zoledronate in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Correlate prognostic factors, such as estrogen-receptor and progesterone-receptor
           status, TNM stage, tumor grade, HER2/neu status, and menopausal status with treatment
           outcome in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine more specific prognostic indicators for the development of bone metastases and
           factors that are able to predict specific benefit from bisphosphonate treatment using
           proteomics, tissue micro-array, and other modern techniques in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, parallel-group, multicenter study. Patients are
      stratified according to participating center. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive neoadjuvant or adjuvant chemotherapy and/or hormonal therapy.
           Patients also receive concurrent zoledronate IV over 15 minutes every 3-4 weeks for 6
           doses, every 3 months for 8 doses, and then every 6 months for 5 doses in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive neoadjuvant or adjuvant chemotherapy and/or hormonal therapy
           alone.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed annually for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3,300 patients (1,650 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      this study within 3 years.
    
  