
    
      Mild cognitive impairment in older adults. Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) is recognized as
      an early stage cognitive disorder, a condition where patients live independently and are able
      to still perform many instrumental activities of daily living.1,2 Individuals with MCI
      typically present with subtle cognitive changes that can worsen over time.3,4 MCI prevalence
      is estimated to be as high as 19% among older adults in the US,3,5 with 10-13% progressing to
      dementia, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), every year.6-8 With no known cure for MCI,
      current treatments focus on the maintenance of cognitive function, management of behavioral
      symptoms, and slowing or delaying the symptoms of disease.9 Characteristics of sleep in MCI
      and AD. Recent research concludes that individuals with cognitive impairment experience more
      disruptive sleep and sleep disorders than those without cognitive concerns.10-12 Older adults
      also more likely to have MCI, and other age-related sleep changes include a decrease in total
      sleep duration, decreased sleep efficiency, increased sleep fragmentation, increased sleep
      onset latency, and decreased slow wave and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. In a review
      examining the effect of poor sleep on cognitive outcomes, poor sleep was identified as a risk
      factor for cognitive decline and AD.10 Recent research seeks to understand the mechanisms
      underlying this relationship using neuroimaging as well as sleep and cognitive functioning
      data. Although exact mechanisms underlying this relationship are not yet known, and possibly
      interactive, healthy sleep promotes maintenance of brain health, and may delay symptoms of AD
      and other dementias.10 Insomnia in older adults. Insomnia affects up to 25% of older adults.
      It is characterized by difficulty falling asleep and/or maintaining sleep as well as impaired
      functioning during waking hours.13 Individuals with insomnia have decreased work
      productivity, more accidents, more hospitalizations, and overall greater healthcare costs
      compared to their healthy counterparts.14,15 Insomnia symptoms can also affect significant
      others and caregivers. Specifically, nighttime activities can disrupt partners' sleep, which
      may impact the ability for him or her to function normally and provide care, as insomnia has
      been associated with decrease in measures of attention.16,17 Although everyone is at risk for
      developing insomnia, there are certain factors that increase one's risk. For example,
      predisposing factors include older age, female gender, and a positive family history of sleep
      disorders.18 The most common precipitating factors are psychological stress and major life
      changes. Factors known to perpetuate insomnia are typically behavioral and cognitive
      reactions, which are learned responses to sleep problems (e.g., daytime napping).

      Treatment of insomnia. Treatment is recommended in two forms: pharmacological and
      behavioral-based interventions. Most commonly, sleep disturbances are treated with
      medication.19 Although pharmacological interventions can be effective in the short-term, they
      do not treat underlying predisposing, precipitating, and/or perpetuating factors of insomnia.
      Older adults experience pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic changes associated with aging;20
      are more susceptible to consequences of potentially inappropriate medications;21 and are most
      likely to experience negative side-effects of polypharmacy.22 Age-related issues are
      especially concerning when using traditional benzodiazepines and non-benzodiazepine receptor
      agonist sleep aids such as zolpidem, eszopiclone, and zaleplon. Use of traditional sleep aids
      in older adults has been associated with serious adverse events (e.g., cognitive impairment,
      falls).23,24 Despite evidence regarding adverse consequences, pharmacological treatment of
      insomnia remains the most common treatment for insomnia.

      Non-pharmacological treatment of insomnia. Cognitive-Behavioral Treatment for insomnia
      (CBT-I) is a non-pharmacological intervention that is effective in treating insomnia in older
      adults, even when present with comorbid medical and psychological conditions.25 CBT-I focuses
      on the maladaptive behaviors and dysfunctional thoughts that perpetuate sleep problems, and
      typically consists of five primary treatment components: sleep restriction, stimulus control,
      cognitive restructuring, sleep hygiene, and relapse prevention.26,27 Although there are
      effective treatments for insomnia, less than 15% of all adults with chronic insomnia are
      estimated to get any treatment for insomnia.28 Even for those seeking CBT-I, access is
      extremely limited due to the small number of clinicians trained in behavioral insomnia
      treatment.29 Internet CBT-I. The Internet has the potential to overcome barriers related to
      obtaining face-to-face CBT-I. Older adults have historically had limited Internet access, but
      this is changing dramatically. In 2000, only 14% of adults over the age of 64 used the
      Internet.30 In 2017, 66% of adults over 65 years of age and 87% age 50-64, reported Internet
      access.30 Almost 50% of older adults describe the Internet as ''quite a bit'' to
      ''extremely'' helpful to find new knowledge about their disease, treatment options, and drug
      therapy.59 Older adults are also more likely to use technology when presented with the
      potential benefits.57 Internet-delivered interventions for older adults have also been shown
      to be feasible and effective. For example, Internet-delivered interventions for dementia
      caregivers improved caregiver confidence, depression, and self-efficacy.31 The CBT-I internet
      intervention, Sleep Healthy Using Internet (SHUTi) for Older Adult Sufferers of Insomnia and
      Sleeplessness (OASIS), was developed for adults over age 55.

      Sleep diaries and actigraphy. Sleep diaries are often used both as a behavioral tool during
      CBT-I as well as a way to determine the effect of CBT-I on sleep. For the latter, sleep
      diaries are kept by the patient both prior to and following the intervention and the patient
      reports on various sleep factors each night. From this self-reported data, sleep variables
      can be calculated, such as sleep onset latency (SOL), wakefulness after initial sleep onset
      (WASO), total sleep time (TST), total time spent in bed (TIB), sleep efficiency (SE), and
      sleep quality.32 This data can also be collected passively through the use of actigraphy.
      Actigraphy is an objective, non-invasive, and minimally burdensome approach to continuously
      measure gross motor activity and provide wake/sleep timing. Although actigraphy is considered
      less reliable in patients with insomnia compared to polysomnography (PSG),33 actigraphy
      provides the opportunity to collect multiple nights at little to no extra burden to
      participants. There is also a strong correlation between sleep diaries and actigraphy. Most
      notably, Chambers34 found a substantial within-participant correlation (r = .80) between
      actigraph and sleep diaries, and, we plan to use actigraphy for similar within-participant
      analyses examining sleep variability and patterns.

      The proposed research focuses on individuals with Mild Cognitive Impairment and insomnia,
      positing that improved sleep will moderate further cognitive decline. Before undertaking
      large-scale interventions to determine efficacy of SHUTi OASIS in this population and
      long-term cognitive outcomes of improved sleep, there must be preliminary work to determine
      feasibility of delivering the intervention to older adults with MCI and insomnia. To better
      understand sleep patterns of individuals with MCI and insomnia, actigraphy data will be
      collected and analyzed to identify within-participant sleep patterns.
    
  