
    
      Successful models of injury prevention in occupational health settings focus largely on motor
      skill education for employees. Sports-related injury prevention programs lack this critical
      component. This research question is being asked to help inform the development of a
      comprehensive implementation strategy for a high school sports injury prevention program.

      The Hospital for Special Surgery (HSS) Sports Safety ACL Program is a unique, public health
      approach to ACL injury risk management. The program offers pioneering education to those
      directly responsible for the safety of young athletes. The program offers diverse educational
      opportunities and innovative risk management resources directly to coaches, parents,
      administrators, and young athletes. The program has already held over 200 live workshops,
      teaching coaches, parents and young athletes how to identify injury risk factors and how the
      relationship between movement quality and sports performance impacts injury rates. Though
      several research studies have been conducted with the HSS Sport Safety Program, this study is
      the first to evaluate the association between athlete motor learning and movement quality.

      Currently anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury prevention programs focus on clinicians and
      coaches leading a series of neuromuscular training exercises repeatedly throughout a sports
      season to improve athlete strength, balance, flexibility, and agility. While this has shown
      been shown to be effective in controlled research settings, there have been many problems
      with implementation, including low compliance. Hartigan et al recently conducted a study
      showing that athletes had improved jumping and landing technique after viewing video
      feedback. This is evidence that movement education/feedback has the ability to affect motor
      skills. Demonstrating an association between motor skill education and improved movement
      quality would allow the responsibility of ACL injury prevention to be more readily shared by
      both sports medicine clinicians and athletes.

      This evidence would provide support for the public health approach to ACL injury risk
      management on which the HSS Sport Safety Program was based. In addition, providing solid
      evidence of the program's success will make the program more marketable to schools, clubs,
      and other sports groups nationally and internationally.
    
  