
    
      Background:

      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is chronic systemic inflammatory disease often leading to damage
      and disability (Lee DM, et al.). RA is associated with a shorter life expectancy (Pincus T,
      et al.) and, if untreated, can lead to significantly lower quality of life and functional
      impairment (Bradley EM, et al.).

      The concept of tight control, involving the treatment of patients to specified targets with
      close monitoring and treatment adjustment when necessary, has been trialed in early RA. Many
      targeted studies have demonstrated improved outcomes or faster target achievement in early
      RA.

      The TICORA trial, which studied a group of patients who had active disease but who had not
      progressed to multiple DMARDs or biologic therapy, demonstrated that the usage of an
      intensive outpatient management strategy (IOMS) of RA improved clinical outcomes measures
      (Grigor C, et al.). Indeed, the results from this clinical trial have shown that strict
      control and intense follow up, which are based on titration of treatment in accordance to a
      standardized protocol, improved disease activity, physical function and quality of life of
      patients without additional cost.

      The proposed study will evaluate the application of two types of IOMS. The first IOMS will
      consist of titration of treatments based on the attainment of a DAS28 score under 2.4
      (DAS28-IOMS). The second IOMS will consist of titration of treatment based on the attainment
      of zero swollen joints (0SJ-IOMS) (28 joints evaluated). Investigators should aim at
      achieving those targets within a reasonable period of time, i.e. during the first six months
      of treatment with adalimumab. In addition, investigators should aim at attaining these
      targets within reasonable limits for each individual patient. The clinical impact of these
      two IOMS will be compared to that of routine care (RC).

      The results of this study will have significant implications not only for the individual
      subjects but also from the societal perspective since it may enhance the overall real-life
      effectiveness of the treatments and will identify the best approach to maximize on the
      benefits of treatment with HUMIRA®.

      Primary Objective:

      In patients with RA that are initiated on treatment with adalimumab:

        -  The primary aim of the current study will be to assess the effect of two IOMS versus RC
           on the outcomes of patients with RA that are treated with adalimumab. The secondary aim
           will be to assess the differential effect of a DAS28-IOMS and a 0SJ-IOMS in this patient
           population.

      Secondary Objectives:

      In patients with RA that are initiated on treatment with adalimumab:

        -  To compare the therapeutic effectiveness of DAS28-IOMS, 0SJ-IOMS and RC as measured by
           the proportion of subjects achieving target scores of the DAS28.

        -  To compare the impact of DAS28-IOMS, 0SJ-IOMS and RC on patient subjective assessment of
           functional status as measured by the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ).

        -  To compare the impact of DAS28-IOMS, 0SJ-IOMS and RC on patients' perception of their
           disease as evaluated by the Work Limitation Questionnaire (WLQ).

        -  To compare the impact of DAS28-IOMS, 0SJ-IOMS and RC on patients' satisfaction with care
           as evaluated by the change of patients' satisfaction measured on a Likert scale.

        -  To compare the therapeutic effectiveness of DAS28-IOMS, 0SJ-IOMS and RC as measured by
           the proportion of subjects achieving good or moderate European League against Rheumatism
           (EULAR) responses.

        -  To compare the impact of DAS28-IOMS, 0SJ-IOMS and RC on the frequency of serious adverse
           events or protocol-specified adverse events.

      Tertiary Study Objectives:

      In patients with RA that are initiated on treatment with adalimumab:

        -  To compare the therapeutic effectiveness of DAS28-IOMS, 0SJ-IOMS and RC as measured by
           the proportion of subjects achieving target scores of the CDAI and the SDAI.

        -  To describe the impact of individual components of the DAS28 on clinical decisions
           regarding patient management.

        -  To describe the impact of the CDAI on clinical decisions regarding patient management.

        -  To describe the impact of the SDAI on clinical decisions regarding patient management.

        -  To describe the impact of the HAQ on clinical decisions regarding patient management.

        -  To describe and compare the impact of a DAS28-IOMS, 0SJ-IOMS and RC on patients'
           compliance to treatment.

        -  To describe and compare the impact of a DAS28-IOMS, 0SJ-IOMS and RC on changes in
           concomitant anti-rheumatic medication use.
    
  