
    
      Recent evidence suggests that, in obese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus of long
      duration, and / or poorly controlled with conventional therapy, bariatric surgery promises
      diabetes remission rates significantly higher than those attainable with traditional
      treatment, irrespective of initial BMI and the loss of body weight of the patients.

      This has ensured the growing conviction in the international scientific community that
      bariatric surgery should not be considered as an alternative to conventional obesity and
      diabetes therapies only after the failure of traditional treatments, but should be performed
      with the intent to prevent complications associated with these diseases, and therefore at
      their onset [23]. Furthermore, the use of BMI as the main parameter to guide the indication
      of bariatric surgery is increasingly being called into question with regard to the presence
      of comorbidities such as diabetes, as it is the distribution of obesity, together with the
      presence of comorbidities such as diabetes, rather than the degree of obesity that predicts
      the onset of related complications.

      Bariatric surgery is currently regarded as a "last resort" for both the treatment of obesity
      and its associated comorbidities, such as diabetes, particularly in patients with a BMI ≤ 35.
      Despite this, it is now apparent that initial BMI and body weight loss resulting from
      bariatric surgery have no connection with the metabolic effects of the procedure, such as on
      the treatment of diabetes. In fact, according to the current national and international
      guidelines (which are based on a consensus dated 1991[6]), bariatric surgery may be
      considered in diabetic patients, with a BMI between 30 and 39.9 Kg/m2, only after the
      recorded failure of conventional medical therapies for obesity and diabetes.

      This wait-and-see policy is due to the fact that bariatric surgery is a surgical procedure
      that is associated, depending on the procedure, with a certain rate of short and long term
      potential adverse events, and while in the short-medium term it has been shown to achieve
      significantly higher rates of remission from diabetes, when compared to medical therapy,
      there remain uncertainties about the durability of remission of diabetes and weight control
      after long follow-up periods. Essentially, therefore, the risk-benefit ratio has not allowed
      for the use of bariatric surgery as a first-line therapy for the treatment of type 2 diabetes
      in obese patients, and in particular in class 1 and 2 obesity. It can be hypothesized,
      however, that the performance of LSG at diagnosis of diabetes in obese patients can
      dramatically improve both the resolution/remission rate and the duration of
      resolution/remission from diabetes, and thus improve the protection against the development
      of vascular complications.

      In fact, growing evidence suggests that the period of time between the diagnosis of diabetes
      and bariatric surgery is a determining factor in the achievement and duration of diabetes
      remission. It has also been observed that bariatric surgery is more effective than medical
      therapy in preventing diabetes in obese patients.

      In the opinion of the authors, the early performance of LSG, also at the diagnosis of
      diabetes, could be crucial. This is hypothesized also on the basis of the well-known
      phenomenon of "glycemic legacy", according to which the greater the time elapsed between
      diabetes diagnosis and the achievement, with any form of therapy, of glycemic control
      targets, the lower the benefit in terms of protection from the development of vascular
      complications associated with diabetes [34]. It follows that blood glucose control in
      patients with newly diagnosed diabetes should be achieved through the implementation of
      appropriate treatments, including bariatric surgery, as quickly as possible after diagnosis.
      In this sense, bariatric surgery (and in particular, LSG) has been proven capable of
      promoting glycemic control in the short to medium term, in terms of the substantial and rapid
      reduction of glycated haemoglobin, (even 3 months after surgery), compared to conventional
      medical therapy in patients with longstanding diabetes (about 9 years on average). In the RCT
      conducted by Schauer et al., 3 months after sleeve gastrectomy, average HbA1c levels were
      reduced from an initial average value of 9.5% to 7%, while in the medical-therapy group they
      were reduced from an initial value of 8.9% to 7.7%,therefore significantly less effective
      than LSG. Thus irrespective of the rate of achievement and duration of eventual remission of
      diabetes (that in any case is already at present considerably higher than medical therapy in
      patients with longstanding and poorly controlled diabetes), patients undergoing sleeve
      gastrectomy (and bariatric surgery in general) could benefit from the procedure being
      performed on diagnosis of diabetes, and therefore as soon as possible, thanks to the ability
      to reach the HbA1c target level for glycemic control more easily and quickly than with
      medical therapy. This would have a proven protective effect on long-term vascular
      complications, irrespective of the duration of the glycemic control and the achievement of
      any remission on the basis of the concept of "glycemic legacy" and "metabolic memory" ,
      through the analysis of the results of the largest and most prestigious international
      randomized clinical trials on the treatment of diabetes (UKPDS, DCCT/EDIC, ACCORD and VATD
      trials).

      The phenomenon of metabolic memory refers to the fact that the UKPDS and DCCT / EDIC studies
      have demonstrated that even a transitory period of aggressive glycemic control, such as that
      attainable after bariatric surgery, is capable of inducing a beneficial "metabolic memory",
      with the effect of reducing microvascular complications over time, regardless of subsequent
      maintenance of glycemic control [32].

      Then the rationale for the use of bariatric surgery at diagnosis of type 2 diabetes mellitus
      is based not only on the hypothesis of the attainment of early and sustained glycemic control
      in obese patients, but also on a variety of scientific evidence that suggests that the
      precocity of its performance is a positive predictor of remission and of the long-term
      maintenance of diabetes remission.

      As previously mentioned, the superiority of bariatric surgery to conventional medical therapy
      in obese patients (even with BMI less than 30) with diabetes of long duration, and / or
      poorly controlled with conventional therapy, in terms of attaining glycemic control, has
      clearly been demonstrated , even if for medium-short follow-up periods [1]. When applied in
      obese patients with new onset diabetes it might therefore subvert the risk-benefit ratio that
      now prevents its use as a first-line therapy, thanks to an increase in the rate of remission
      of diabetes and its endurance, as well as a reduction of the long-term vascular complications
      of diabetes.

      In conclusion, a recent American Society of Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery (ASMBS) position
      statement noted that that class 1 obesity requires effective treatment, as it represents a
      significant health problem, and that treatment should involve the use of bariatric surgery.
      Indeed, recent randomized studies have demonstrated both the effectiveness, in terms of
      weight loss and control of comorbidity, and the safety of some bariatric surgical procedures,
      including sleeve gastrectomy, in this specific group of patients (Class 1 Obesity).

      These observations suggest that T2DM could be treated with bariatric surgery as early as
      possible, also at the time of diagnosis.

      It can be hypothesized that performing LSG at T2DM diagnosis can offer the maximum benefits
      in terms of both the attainment and duration of T2DM resolution/remission, with the potential
      to thus prevent micro and macrovascular complications without the need to take medication.
      Other positive aspects include the possibility to achieve appropriate weight loss and a
      related improvement in the quality of life. In this randomized trial LSG will be compared
      with conventional medical therapy in the treatment of T2DM at onset in obese patients with a
      BMI of between 30 and 42 Kg/m2.
    
  