
    
      Background:

      Protein is made up of building blocks called amino acids. Some amino acids, including Lysine,
      cannot be made in the body and must be obtained from diet, and these are called essential
      amino acids.

      Pyridoxine dependent deficiency (PDE) is a rare condition caused by the body's inability to
      properly breakdown lysine. This is due to a missing enzyme, α- aminoadipic semi-aldehyde
      dehydrogenase (α-AASAD) also known as antiquitin (ATQ), involved in lysine breakdown. When
      the enzyme is missing and/or not functioning properly, it increases the level of byproducts
      of lysine breakdown that may result in seizures babies and young children and affect brain
      development. As with many other similar conditions, a low lysine diet may be helpful for some
      patients, but can pose a significant burden on the patient and the families.

      More recently, animal experiments have shown that the body's ability to absorb lysine from
      the diet can be altered by adding more of another "competitive" amino acid, in this case,
      arginine. This is because lysine and arginine share the same transport system in the body.

      Therefore, the current study is designed to describe the application of 13C-lysine to explore
      the changes in lysine breakdown caused by varying (graded) amounts of arginine
      supplementation in young adult male participants.

      Study design:

      Two adult male subjects aged 19-50 y will be recruited to participate in 6 graded doses of
      arginine intakes, in addition to a test diet which will provide the lysine at normal intake
      of 110mg/kg/d. Lysine intake levels, will be determined based on subject age and body weight
      and will remain constant for the entire study period. The recommended dietary protein intake
      (DRI) will be maintained throughout the study.

      A thorough pre-study assessment will be performed and all subjects will be screened by
      questionnaire for chronic diseases, physical activity and dietary habits. Lean body mass or
      skeletal muscle mass (Bioelectrical impedance Analysis) will be measured. Subjects will be
      ensured to be free of chronic diseases.

      Arginine Test Intakes:

      Graded arginine excess intake will start at 50mg/kg/d on study day 1 followed by 100 mg/kg/d
      on study day 2 till the level reaches 300mg/kg/d on study day 6.

      The arginine test intakes will be provided in the form of protein shakes containing a stable
      isotope, and then oxidation of this isotope will be measured to determine whether arginine
      that will competitively inhibit lysine uptake.

      To measure how the the body responds to the test diet we will collect seven breath samples,
      two urine samples and one blood sample during each study day.
    
  