
    
      Background: Cocaine dependence is a public health concern worldwide, with no FDA-approved
      pharmacological treatment for this condition. Thus, there is a need for controlled clinical
      trials to evaluate potential new pharmacological treatments. Adherence to a medication regime
      is a major factor in the success of treatment. In controlled clinical trials, medication
      adherence is often monitored by measuring specific markers ingested with the medication. No
      such markers are validated for use in studies of cocaine dependence treatment.

      Objective: Evaluate the feasibility of oral acetazolamide and quinine as adherence markers in
      trials of cocaine dependence treatment by determining their pharmacodynamic and
      pharmacokinetic interactions with intravenous (IV) cocaine.

      Study Population: Up to 30 healthy cocaine users aged 18-50 years who smoked or used IV
      cocaine for at least one year and at least three times per month during the three months
      prior to screening and had a positive urine test for cocaine within the last 6 months.

      Experimental Design and Methods: Participants are admitted to a secure residential research
      unit on and undergo baseline assessments on Day -1, receive training on Day 0, and receive
      single doses of IV cocaine (25 mg) on Days 1, 5 and 10. On Days 1, 5, and 10, dried blood
      spot specimens are collected up to 3 times daily over 1.5 h. Single oral doses of
      acetazolamide (15 mg) are given on Days 2-5 and quinine (80 mg) on Days 7-10. Blood, oral
      fluid, and breath specimens are collected for up to 71 h, 70 h, and 22 h, respectively, after
      drug administration on Days 1, 4, 5, 9 and 10. Participants will wear the AutoSense device on
      Days 1, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9 and 10 for up to 12 hours each day. All voided urine is collected
      throughout the study.

      Outcome measures: Primary outcome measures include cocaine, benzoylecgonine, ecgonine
      methylester, norcocaine, acetazolamide, and quinine pharmacokinetics in plasma and urine and
      whether subjective and cardiovascular responses to IV cocaine are changed when coadministered
      with oral acetazolamide or quinine. Secondary outcome measures include cocaine
      pharmacokinetics in oral fluid and breath, plasma activity of BChE and carboxylesterase
      (enzymes which metabolize cocaine), and basal and post-cocaine administration serum
      concentrations of leptin and other appetitive peptides (e.g. ghrelin, GLP-1, insulin, PYY,
      amylin).

      Benefits: There is no direct benefit to participants, but the study is likely to yield
      generalizable knowledge about the feasibility of acetazolamide and quinine as markers of
      medication adherence in future studies of pharmacological treatment for cocaine dependence.

      Risks: <TAB>This study poses greater than minimal risk for participants because of IV cocaine
      administration.
    
  