
    
      Type of the study: Prospective Interventional Study (clinical trial)

      Intervention Model Description:

      Patients will be randomized into two groups according to the surgical procedure performed as
      follows:

        -  Group A: Deep temporal nerves.

        -  Group B: Masseteric nerve.

      Allocation and Randomization:

      Twenty-four patients will be randomly assigned to Group A or Group B (2 equal groups).

      Simple randomization will be performed before surgery by a research nurse using the
      closed-envelope technique.

      Twenty-four closed envelopes will be used, each 12 of them carries one of the 2 groups.
      Closed envelope will be randomly withdrawn the night before surgery to assign the patient to
      his specific group.

      Study Setting: Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery Department, Assuit University Hospital

      Study subjects:

      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Facial nerve paresis with upper eyelid affection.

        2. Patients are generally fit with no other disease interfere with microsurgery.

        3. Electromyography of eyelid showing fibrillations. b. Exclusion criteria:

      1. Patient with other medical or mental disease causing generalized paralysis. 2. Syndromic
      cases. 3. Patients are generally unfit or with any disease interfere with microsurgery.

      4. Electromyography of eyelid showing no fibrillations.

      Sample Size Calculation: 24 Sample size was calculated using G power program version 3.1.9.4
      (6) in order to detect a significant difference in mean of palpebral fissure height (one of
      main assessed outcomes in the study ) between two groups under the study , assumed effect
      size 0.6 based on clinical assumption ( novel study ), α error 0.3 , power 0.80, and
      allocation ratio 1: 1.

      Twenty-two patient plus 10% for dropouts to make total twenty-four (12 patient for every
      group).

      Study tools

      All patients in this study are subjected to:

      Pre-operative Assessment:

        1. Patient history.

        2. All patients will do preoperative clinical and neurophysiological assessments of mimetic
           muscle function and donor nerve status (the ipsilateral deep temporal nerve. The
           neurophysiological tests will include needle Electromyography (EMG) for recruitment of
           residual motor unit action potential. If there are no fibrillations patients will have
           another surgical procedure.

        3. The trigeminal motor component will be tested by palpating the temporalis muscle during
           chewing and via needle EMG of the temporalis muscle to verify availability as a donor
           motor nerve.

        4. Photographic documentation preoperative using standardized frontal face view and adding
           a scale to photo to measure the palpebral fissure size during three states normal eye
           opening, resting eye closure and forced eye closure using ImageJ (image processing and
           analysis in java) computer software (7).

        5. Ophthalmological assessment of the affected eye for detection of redness, ulcer, etc.

      Surgical procedure:

      Group A We will avoid the use of muscle relaxants to induce anaesthesia and employ an
      electro-stimulator to identify the deep temporal nerves and the facial nerve branches
      supplying the eyelid on the affected side.

      Exploration on the affected side a facelift-type incision will be performed, and an anterior
      subcutaneous flap is then will be lifted for several centimetres. In the inferior zygomatic
      region, the plane of elevation is deepened into the sub-SMAS plane and a composite flap
      elevated for several centimetres. Following elevation in this plane, the distal facial nerve
      branches will be identified. The distal portion of the zygomatic nerve is usually located
      midway between the oral commissure and the helical root. and was confirmed by nerve
      stimulator.

      The deep temporal fascia and temporalis muscle will be incised along the temporal fusion line
      and will be reflected from the skull to expose the divisions of the deep temporal nerves and
      the longest branch was traced and prepared for anastomosis end to end with the zygomatic
      branch after confirming the eyelid supply(8).

      Then suction drain will be put and will be removed after 24 hours. Group B The same procedure
      except tracing the masseteric nerve related to masseter muscle and anastomosis will be the
      same (9).

      Post-operative All patient will receive physiotherapy and post-operative follow up to detect
      any wound complication.

      Evaluation (After 6 months from the operation)

        1. Photo documentation: measurement of the palpebral fissure size during three states
           normal eye opening, resting eye closure , forced eye closure will be done adding eye
           closure during mastication to compare with preoperative resting eye closure measure
           using ImageJ (image processing and analysis in java) computer software(7).

        2. Donor site morbidity.

        3. Follow up Ophthalmological assessment.

      Complications:

        1. General surgical complication.

        2. General complication due to general anaesthesia.

        3. Specific complication:

             1. Delayed healing of nerve anastomosis.

             2. Affection of mastication.

             3. No postoperative improvement.

      Research outcome measures:

      a. Primary (main): Comparing the outcomes on palpebral fissure size between the deep temporal
      group and the masseteric group after 6 months from the surgery.

      a. Secondary (subsidiary):

        1. Procedure-related morbidity and mortality.

        2. Operative time and hospital stay.
    
  