
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Asthma and chronic bronchitis are among the most common chronic diseases afflicting
      middle-aged and elderly adults in the United States, respectively occurring in 4 percent and
      5 percent of the population in these age groups. While chronic bronchitis is often caused by
      cigarette smoking and asthma often occurs in nonsmokers in association with atopy, the two
      conditions may be difficult to differentiate in many middle-aged and older adults and may
      share a number of pathophysiologic features including increased airway smooth muscle tone,
      increased airway responsiveness to bronchoconstricting stimuli, and bronchial mucus
      hypersecretion. The precise mechanisms which produce the alterations of airway function are
      not clear. Such functional alterations may be caused by airway inflammation and abnormalities
      of the autonomic nervous system; however, there are little population data available
      regarding the importance of airway inflammation and disordered neural regulation in the
      pathogenesis of airway hyperresponsiveness and mucus hypersecretion. Also, little is known
      about potential interactions between airway inflammation and disordered neural regulation of
      airway function in the pathogenesis of chronic airways disease. Information on the
      relationships may offer insights into the pathophysiologic mechanisms underlying asthma and
      chronic bronchitis in adults.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study was cross-sectional and used a subgroup of the Normative Aging Study, a
      longitudinal study of aging in men established by the Veterans Administration in 1963. The
      study used data normally collected during NAS examinations and included smoking history,
      socio-economic status, anthropometry, respiratory symptoms and illnesses, and pulmonary
      function. New data were collected on: indices of inflammation as indicated by histamine,
      leukotriene, and serotonin in urine; autonomic activity as indicated by urinary catecholamine
      excretion and heart rate variation induced by deep breathing; autonomic responsiveness as
      measured by pupillary alpha-adrenergic and cholinergic responses.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  