
    
      Background: To improve service navigation, the investigators created a tool for caregivers to
      use to track their progress in accessing services called The Pediatric Developmental Passport
      (Passport). The Passport is a paper based tool that is modeled after the Ontario Immunization
      Record. It was developed using a mixed-methods Knowledge-to-Action framework that included
      participation from developmental pediatricians, pediatricians, and caregivers of children
      with ASD.

      The Passport was pilot tested through a randomized control trial (RCT), at an academic health
      centre (academic), and a community clinic (community) Greater Toronto Area. Of the 40
      families that received a new diagnosis of ASD, the proportion of families the contacted
      Applied Behaviour Analysis (ABA) services was 25% greater in the intervention (Passport)
      group than the placebo (dummy card) group. The contact rate for ABA services was also
      compared within each site. The academic site revealed no significant difference between the
      two groups. In the community site, 50% more families in the Passport group contacted ABA
      services when compared to the placebo group (p=0.019).Anecdotally, caregivers who had the
      Passport expressed appreciation and usability of the Passport as a tracking tool. In both the
      design and pilot phase of the study, caregivers identified that having the Passport available
      in an app form would facilitate its use, and enable them to use it more often and
      comprehensively.

      Through a partnership with Autism Films the Passport has been developed into a mobile
      application called My Autism Passport (MAP). The development of this mobile Application was
      funded by the Telus Fund, TVO and the Manitoba Digital Media Tax Credit. MAP is a mobile
      alternative to the paper version, and offers additional benefits such as the ability to set
      reminders, see regional developmental service agencies and other resources on a map, and
      directs the caregiver to information so that they may further their understanding about how
      to support their child.

      Similar to the Passport, the investigators now seek to evaluate the feasibility of MAP for
      use by caregivers in a real world setting. Given the success of the pilot RCT with the paper
      version of the Passport, the investigators seek to build on what the investigators learned
      through the pilot RCT using MAP. The results from this pilot RCT would be used to power a
      larger clinical trial.

      Given the recent (April 2019) changes to Autism services, it is even more important to
      understand how families will navigate this new system for services. A control group would
      help inform prospectively how families will manage this new system of care, which may be
      different from how families managed in our previous Passport study. The intervention arm will
      help the investigators evaluate the effect of MAP in real time against this baseline.

      Objectives of this pilot RCT are to evaluate if MAP: 1) increases the number of services
      families access over time and 2) decreases parental stress; 3) increases self-efficacy and 4)
      to provide data to inform sample size calculation for a full trial.

      Methods Study Design A pragmatic, pilot randomized control trial will be conducted across 5
      sites. The intervention will be use of MAP to help track services and the control group will
      receive standard of care including routine clinical follow ups.

      Participant recruitment The study team will meet with clinicians, show them the intervention
      tool (MAP) and provide them with letters of information for their practices to hand out to
      eligible families. Alternatively, for practices identified as having a high volume of
      families with ASD, the research assistant (RA) will approach families in the waiting room
      identified by clinicians who may be eligible for the study. Interested families who meet
      inclusion criteria will be invited to participate in the study, will complete consent forms
      and initial demographic and parent stress and self-efficacy questionnaires.

      Randomization Caregivers will be randomly assigned to the intervention or control group.

      Intervention Families will be given the application to upload to their mobile device and will
      be provided information on how to use the App by the research team. Once consent has been
      obtained, participants will be provided with a study identification number which they will
      use to register for MAP.

      Given that this is a pragmatic trial of a tool that tracks services, it also may be used to
      communicate service access to other providers. Therefore, caregivers will be able to discuss
      MAP and any other aspects of their follow up care with clinicians and other service
      providers. Clinicians will be informed by the RA as to which families have been given MAP to
      use.

      Control Families in the control group will continue with standard of clinical care, and
      receive any of the usual supports their clinic and region provides, including access to
      physicians, service navigators, social workers, nurses, etc.

      Data management A master-linking log matching families' last name and study ID will be kept
      in a double locked cabinet away separately from the data collection forms. The contact
      information for a member of the research team who will be able to provide technical support
      will be available on the consent form.
    
  