
    
      Postoperative pulmonary complications (PPC) are one of the major causes of postoperative
      morbidity and mortality. Mortality and morbidity are 14-30% in patients with PPC, while it is
      0.2-3% in patients without PPC. Its incidence is variable (<1% to 19%) and is more common
      than cardiac complications. Unfortunately, PPCs prolong the hospital stay significantly (up
      to 13-17 days), which means postoperative delirium, infection, and cost increase. The causes
      of PPCs are varied, and their physiopathology is well explained [3]. However, the rate of
      risk identification and scoring is not known. The synergistic effects of the patient's
      medical condition, general anesthesia, and surgery type on the respiratory system complicate
      the problem.The surgical approach, anesthesia method, and preoperative risk factors of the
      patients play an important role in the development of PPC.

      This study was conducted after the approval from Dr. Abdurrahman Yurtaslan Oncology SUAM
      Ethics Committee in Ankara, Turkey (Between November 2019 - July 2020) (Ethics Committee
      Decision No: 2019-11 / 459). After informing all the patients included in the study, verbal
      and written consent were obtained. 410 patients over 18 years of age, who were scheduled for
      general anesthesia and whose ASA physical score was 1-4, were included in the study.

      Demographic data of the patients, preoperative antibiotic prophylaxis, chronic diseases, ASA
      scores, preoperative hemoglobulin values, functional status, history of pulmonary system
      disease in the last 30 days, history of smoking and the amount of cigarette consumption,
      history of steroid use, chemotherapy and radiotherapy history, anesthesia method, surgical
      incision side (lower-upper abdominal), premedication status, intraoperative ventilation
      parameters (tidal volume, PEEP, peak pressure, fiO2 ratio), pneumoperitoneum pressure, amount
      of colloid / crystalloid product used, erythrocyte suspension and amount used, laparoscopic
      or open surgery, emergency or elective surgery, the duration of operation, and postoperative
      analgesia method (such as intravenous or epidural patient-controlled analgesia) were
      recorded. The ARISCAT risk assessment scores of the patients were also evaluated and recorded
      preoperatively.

      The patients were followed up in the postoperative care unit. The presence of postoperative
      pulmonary complications was evaluated, and the time of discharge was recorded. On the 30th
      day after discharge, patients were called and checked their status in terms of mortality.
      Postoperative pulmonary complications were defined by the development of one of the following
      new findings. The European Perioperative Clinical Outcome Definitions (EPCO) were used for
      this definition.

      These findings; Respiratory Failure, Respiratory infection, Aspiration Pneumonia, Pleural
      effusion, Pneumothorax, Atelectasis, Bronchoconstriction, Pneumonia, ARDS, Pulmonary
      Embolism, Pulmonary Edema, Unplanned emergency re-intubation, Leaving as intubated from the
      operation room.
    
  