
    
      The investigators have previously investigated fertility in patients with asthma (Lundbeck
      2011-9502), and found increased time to pregnancy (TTP) in women with asthma compared with
      non-asthmatic women (55 vs 33 months, p<0.001) and women with asthma had fewer successful
      pregnancies during fertility treatment (39.6 vs 60.4%, p=0.002). This study supported the
      clinical hunch that women with asthma have difficulties in becoming pregnant.

      In eosinophilic severe asthma with immunglobulin E (IgE) related disease, treatment with
      omalizumab reduce the number of exacerbations and stabilize the all-over score of the
      disease, using the tool called Global evaluation of treatment effectiveness (GETE). However,
      chronic hives, with or without elevated IgE can also be treated successfully with omalizumab.
      Indicating a biologic class effect, beside IgE. The treatments stabilize the eosinophilic
      disease, through the systemic and most likely the anti-inflammatory pathways, which indicate
      a promising possibility to reduce time to pregnancy (TTP) and increase pregnancy rate. In a
      small real-life study (2017), 5 patients were treated with omalizumab that had eosinophilic
      atopic asthma, was infertile and underwent in vitro fertilization (IVF). The patients
      received treatment two weeks prior to embryo implantation in their IVF cycle. Three out of
      the five women became pregnant at the following IVF treatment, supporting the systemic effect
      of omalizumab. Lastly, the two remaining patients had several treatments with omalizumab, but
      did not become pregnant. This real-life study calls for further investigation.

      By targeting systemic inflammation with biological treatment the aim is to progress from
      relieving to treating asthma and thereby increasing asthma control before and during
      pregnancy. An improved treatment strategy may increase fertility and reduce well known
      maternal and perinatal adverse pregnancy outcomes such as preeclampsia, gestational diabetes,
      low-birth weight, small for gestational age (SGA) infants, preterm and cesarean delivery.
      Fertility treatment is an advanced treatment, which is both expensive and stressful both
      psychologically and socially for the couples. Infertility is as common as 10-15% of couples
      in the reproductive age are affected. In Denmark 9 % of the annual birth cohort is born after
      fertility treatment, and among these, 30% are unexplained infertile. The prevalence of asthma
      is about 8-10 %. The true prevalence infertility among asthma patients is unknown as this
      population is largely under diagnosed and therefore probably larger then expected, but in a
      recent larger register-based study of 5000 asthmatic females, support that a significant
      number asthma patients have prolonged time to pregnancy. Furthermore, it is unexplored if a
      well-treated asthma improves fertility by increasing pregnancy rate and by lowering time to
      pregnancy.

      A randomized control trial with omalizumab and placebo, stratified for blood eosinophil
      count, is therefore needed.

      Safety issues: Pregnancy studies are not available, but omalizumab is a biologic drug with no
      former investigations showing teratogenic effect in real-life studies.

      2. Background: Asthma is one of the most common chronic diseases among women of reproductive
      age characterized by both local (in the airways) and systemic inflammation, reversible airway
      obstruction and airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR). The disease has a global prevalence of
      approximately 300 million patients . In the western society, asthma and infertility are among
      the most frequent chronic diseases in young adults Several links have been established
      between asthma and the female reproduction as uncontrolled asthma both seems to be associated
      with decrease fertility and increase adverse perinatal outcomes.

      It has recently been shown that women with asthma have prolonged time to pregnancy (TTP) and
      a tendency towards a higher number of miscarriages. Furthermore a study, looking at asthma
      patients who recently had given birth to a full born child (n=1000) and a control cohort
      (n=3000), found that TTP was longer among asthmatics.

      These findings, in infertile and asthma patients, suggest that asthmatics both have local and
      systemic inflammation probably involving the reproductive organs. This may be the cause of
      the reduced pregnancy´s success rate, as it is well known that changes in the inflammatory
      environment both systemically and locally in the endometrium can affect the fertility
      negatively. Maternal asthma has furthermore been associated with several pregnancy
      complications, as gestational hypertension, preeclampsia, gestational diabetes and small for
      gestational age. The hypothesis is, that better asthma control with biological treatment
      reduces local and systemic inflammation which may improve adverse perinatal outcomes and
      other known pregnancy complication.

      The investor group propose that targeting both the local and systemic inflammation with
      immune modifying therapy, such as biologic drugs, could improve fertility. An increase in
      rate of pregnancy as well as reduction in TTP is important for the individual women and her
      partner, as well as the society.

      3. Minor real-life study: Treatment with oral steroid have been tried numerous times, but
      have little or no effect on conception, whereas three out of five patients with asthma in IVF
      therapy, treated with omalizumab became pregnant at the following ovulation after IVF
      treatment.

      4. Material and methods

      4.1 Rationale: Asthma is the most common chronic disease among fertile females and
      infertility is an increasing and widespread problem in women with asthma. Inflammation seems
      to be a possible cause of the reduced fertility among asthma patients and is therefore the
      target of the current treatment suggestion. Studies suggest that asthmatics have an altered
      microbiota in the lungs as well as in the female reproduction organs, which could be targeted
      with biological treatment. However, no studies have examined the effect on neither pregnancy
      rate nor TTP of biologic treatment in asthma.

      4.2 Hypothesis: The investor group propose, that the highest pregnancy rate and the shortest
      TTP is seen in patients with a low degree of inflammation resulting from modifying treatment
      with biological drugs, assessed in a randomized design.

      4.3 Purpose:

        1. To compare, pregnancy rate (positive in serum-Choriogonadotropins (s-hCG)) and ongoing
           pregnancy confirmed by ultra sound in week 7 in asthma patients undergoing IVF when
           treated with either omalizumab or placebo at 3 consecutive menstrual cycles followed to
           birth or abortion.

        2. To investigate whether biological treatment with omalizumab increase both local and
           systemic inflammatory control (both in the lung and the uterus)

        3. To investigate the association between, pregnancy rate (positive s-hCG) and ongoing
           pregnancy confirmed by ultra sound and different degrees and location of asthmatic
           inflammation.

        4. To investigate the association between, pregnancy rate (positive s-hCG) and ongoing
           pregnancy confirmed by ultra sound in week 7 and changes in the microbiota in asthmatic
           patients.

      5. Study design The Investigational medicinal product (IMP) - omalizumab are manufactured and
      marketed with indication for severe asthma since 2005 and chronic spontaneous urticaria, but
      as the project will investigate infertility within female asthma patients and this is not as
      of yet an indication for the IMP the project will be run as a phase 2a study, (proof of
      concept study).

      A randomized, double blinded, parallel group, study to evaluate the difference between
      omalizumab (O) and placebo (P) on pregnancy rate in patients with atopic asthma.

      Treatment schedule: After collection of material (blood samples, sputum, secretion of the
      vagina, secretion of the rectum, microbiota) 6th day (±1 day) of the menstrual cycle, the
      patients will be randomized in either the omalizumab group or the placebo group. No
      collection of material will be done at the time of enrollment, as this will be on different
      time of the female cycles.

      The treatment is initiated with one injection with weight and serum-immunglobulin E balanced
      omalizumab or one injection placebo. After omalizumab treatment at ovulation it will again be
      collected material (blood samples, sputum, secretion of the vagina, secretion of the rectum,
      secretion of the uterus, microbiota). If no pregnancy has occurred after first IVF cycle,

      this will be repeated for 3 consecutive IVF cycles in total or until pregnancy has occurred.

      The subjects will have 1-2 week of run-in (diagnosis of asthma) with collection of
      questionnaire-based material from the time of enrollment. Pregnant subjects will be followed
      up until birth or loss of pregnancy after 3 consecutive IVF.

      Time schedule: Screening, run-in, Randomization, intervention and follow up.

      5.1 Recruitment: Questionnaire (screening-first contact): As the patients come to their first
      pre- IVF consultation, they will be given a form with 20 standardized screenings
      questionnaire regarding asthma. If the patient answers yes to one or more questions they will
      be contacted and screened for having asthma and possible inclusion in the project.

      5.3 Timeline

        1. Start of Phd: 1st March 2018

        2. First patient in: 1st September 2018

        3. Last patient in: 1st September 2019

        4. Last patient last treatment: 1st November 2019

        5. Last patients last visit: 1st September 2020 (365 days of follow-up)

        6. End of analysis: 1st December 2020

        7. End of Phd: 30st April 2021

      5.4 Asthma diagnoses Asthma is diagnosed based on either asthma symptoms and a positive
      asthma test ((Mannitol (Provocative dose 20% ≤ 635 mg), methacholine (Provocative dose 20% ≤
      8 μmol)), Eucapnic Voluntary Hyperpnea ≥ 10% on two points and reversibility (≥ 200 ml and ≥
      12%), Peak-expiratory-flow during 2 weeks with at least 20% variation and 100 mL currently or
      within the last 10 years. Or an earlier diagnosis by a doctor (5-10 years) using one of the
      above methods or increase in Forced Expiratory Ventilation (FEV1) of 200 ml and > 12 %,
      during treatment with inhaled steroid over time (> 8 weeks).

      5.5 Asthma subjects to be included in the study This study will enroll females, 18 - 40 years
      of age, inclusive. They should have stable asthma with an Asthma Control Questionnaire (ACQ)
      ≤ 1,5, a positive skin prick test or specific IgE of standard allergens. The treatment at
      time of enrollment should be Global Initiative for Asthma (GINA) guidelines, step 1 to step
      4, which is short acting beta2-agonist (SABA) with or without continuous treatment with
      inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), and lastly, additional second controller with montelukast or
      long acting beta2-agonist (LABA), if needed (GINA 1-4). In case of uncontrolled asthma (i.e
      ACQ > 1,5), inclusion should be postponed for 4 weeks, in which period increased asthma
      treatment will be prescribed and the patient can be re-screened for enrollment when ACQ ≤ 1,5
      over the last 2 weeks.

      Women to be enrolled are infertile due to tubal factor infertility or unexplained infertility
      and / or the partner has male factor infertility. Couples who are infertile due to other
      reasons (for example endometriosis and PCOS) are not included

      Participants will be randomized in two equally big groups, one receiving omalizumab and one
      receiving placebo, by a computer based program, blinded to investigator. It will be
      randomized to blocks of 10, in total 16 blocks. It will be automated random assignment of
      subject numbers to randomization numbers. These randomization numbers are linked to the
      different treatment arms, which in turn are linked to medication numbers.

      In a group of asthma patients to test an omalizumab induced reduction in number of cycles of
      fertility treatment to evaluate pregnancy rate per embryo transfer, when treated with
      omalizumab indicated by 41% pregnancy rate (omalizumab) to 19% pregnancy rate (placebo) after
      3 cycles of fertility treatment (s-hCG test after 2 weeks and ongoing pregnancy ultrasound
      after 7 weeks) and followed for 1 year. Secondary outcome is Ultrasound confirmed clinical
      pregnancies ongoing after 3 months and baby take home rate, rate of complication. With a
      p-value of 0.05 and power of 0.8, a group of 72 patients with atopic asthma should be
      included in each arm. Regulating for drop-out (20%), resulting in 90 atopic asthma patients
      in each arm.

      Stratification: Blood eosinophilic cell count with a cut off 0.3 mia/L, ensuring equal number
      of eosinophilic and non-eosinophilic asthma patients in each group. It will also be stratify
      for age, with a cut of >30 years, ensuring equal number of patients with high and low age in
      each group. There will be stratified for low sperm count, so that it will be equal number og
      women with a male partner with low sperm count in each group.
    
  