
    
      The risks and benefits of many diagnostic approaches and treatments differ for older adults
      compared to middle aged adults. When diagnostic and therapeutic strategies are misapplied to
      older adults this can lead to increased morbidity and mortality. Well-established examples
      where clinicians do not often follow best practices in the care of older adults include those
      identified by the American Geriatrics Society for the Choosing Wisely initiative: 1) testing
      and treatment for asymptomatic bacteriuria, 2) prostate specific antigen testing in older men
      without prostate cancer, and 3) overuse of insulin or oral hypoglycemics for type 2 diabetes.
      There are several hypotheses as to why clinicians fail to incorporate best evidence into
      geriatric clinical care. First, they may underestimate downstream harms of testing which
      seems easy to do (e.g., a urinalysis for a non-specific symptom) or treatment that may be
      appropriate for younger patients (e.g. intensifying insulin to achieve tight control).
      Second, clinicians may overweigh the risks of not performing the action (e.g., missing cancer
      diagnosis, failing to diagnose UTI in a patient presenting without urinary tract symptoms).
      Third, clinicians may respond to real or perceived social norms (from patients and their
      families, other clinicians or both) that set expectations to behave in specific ways. Fourth,
      force of habit may lead clinicians to act in a way similar to how they have done in the past
      even if current evidence doesn't support it. And fifth, clinicians may overuse a test or
      treatment to avoid feeling they are expressing an ageist bias toward their patients. Clinical
      decision support nudges, informed by social psychology and delivered via electronic health
      records (EHRs), are promising strategies to reduce the misuse of services in cases where
      optimal utilization may not be zero but should be well below current practice. These
      interventions seek to influence conscious and unconscious drivers of clinical decision
      making, are low cost to implement and disseminate, and can be incorporated into existing
      delivery systems. In the R21 phase of this Behavioral Economics Applications to Geriatrics
      Leveraging EHRs (BEAGLE) study, we will: select EHR delivered nudges to address 3 topics of
      potential misuse in older adults based on the main psychological drivers of overuse
      identified in interviews with high-using clinicians; develop and pilot test decision support
      tools within a health systems' EHR to understand technical feasibility, work flow fit,
      preliminary impact on clinical outcomes, and clinician acceptability; and develop and
      validate electronic clinical quality measures of potential overuse/misuse related to the care
      of older adults.
    
  