
    
      The endoscopic resection of benign colon polyps (polypectomy) plays a vital role in the
      prevention of colo-rectal cancer. While, small pedunculated polyps are removed with ease,
      large flat lesions pose a greater challenge. As a result, special techniques have been
      developed to assist in the removal of these difficult polyps.

      During conventional colonoscopy with polypectomy, the colon lumen is insufflated with air,
      which flattens polyps and thins the wall of the colon. These two factors increase the risk of
      procedural complications such as bleeding and perforation. In order to counter these
      drawbacks a technique, which involves the injection of saline into the submucosal area
      beneath the polyp, is commonly used for the resection of large flat polyps. Theoretically,
      the injection creates a "safety cushion" that reduces the risks of accidental ensnarement of
      the muscularis propria, which can lead to iatrogenic perforation and thermal injury to the
      deeper tissue layers. However, the submucosal injection technique is cumbersome in patients
      with particularly large polyps as multiple injections are often necessary, which can blur the
      line between normal and abnormal tissue.

      Water emersion colonoscopy is a well-established alternative to conventional "air"
      colonoscopy and is in fact preferred by many endoscopists. Studies have shown that using
      water instead of air decreases the discomfort of colonoscopy, measured by the amount of
      sedative and pain medication used, time to complete the colonoscopy, and recovery time, and
      increases cecal intubation rates. Interventional Endoscopy Services (IES) at CPMC has taken
      the concepts of water emersion colonoscopy one step further in order to developed a novel
      method of "underwater" EMR. This technique was inspired by the observation that the
      muscularis propria of the colon retains its native thickness (1-2 mm) and circular
      configuration during underwater EUS examination. Furthermore, water immersion "floats"
      mucosal lesions away from the deeper wall layers, eliminating the need for a "safety cushion"
      created by submucosal injection. One drawback to the underwater technique is that in the case
      of poor preps, residual feces in the colon is suspended in the water, interfering with
      visualization. Additionally, the use of water often causes soiling of the gurney as a result
      of water seepage from the rectum during the procedure, which requires additional sanitary
      attention during the procedure.
    
  