
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the survival of patients with resectable non-small cell lung cancer treated with
           surgery with or without preoperative chemotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare pre-randomization clinical and post-surgical pathological staging in patients
           treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare resectability rates in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare time to and site of relapse in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine response in patients treated with preoperative chemotherapy.

        -  Determine the adverse effects of preoperative chemotherapy in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo surgical resection no more than 4 weeks after randomization.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive one of the following chemotherapy regimens immediately after
           randomization:

             -  Regimen 1: Patients receive mitomycin IV, vinblastine IV, and cisplatin IV on day
                1.

             -  Regimen 2: Patients receive mitomycin IV, ifosfamide IV over 3 hours, and cisplatin
                IV over 1 hour on day 1.

             -  Regimen 3: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and vinorelbine IV
                over 5 -10 minutes on days 1 and 8.

             -  Regimen 4: Patients receive paclitaxel IV and carboplatin IV on day 1.

             -  Regimen 5: Patients receive gemcitabine IV on days 1 and 8 and cisplatin IV over 2
                hours on day 1.

             -  Regimen 6: Patients receive docetaxel IV and carboplatin IV on day 1. In all
                regimens, treatment repeats every 3 weeks for a total of 3 courses. Patients
                undergo surgical resection at least 4 weeks after the last course of chemotherapy.

      Quality of life is assessed at 6 and 12 months and then annually thereafter.

      Patients are followed 1 month after surgery, 6 months after randomization, every 3 months for
      2 years, and then every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 600 patients (300 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  