
    
      [Part 1 Dose-escalation cohort]

      This study ams to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of ISU104 in
      patients with advanced solid tumors.

      Primary objective To determine recommended Phase II dose (RP2D) of ISU104 based on the
      results of its safety and tolerability in patients with advanced solid tumors.

      Secondary objectives

        1. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics (PK) of ISU104 in patients with advanced solid tumors.

        2. To evaluate tumor response profile of ISU104 in patients with advanced solid tumors.

      Exploratory purpose To identify the expression of explorable multiple tumor biomarkers and to
      analyze the relationship between these biomarkers and antitumor activity.

      [Part 2 dose-expansion cohort]

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of
      ISU104 in patients with refractory/metastatic HNSCC (except for nasopharyngeal cancer), when
      administered intravenously ISU104 alone or ISU104 in combination with cetuximab.

      Primary objective To determine RP2D of ISU104 based on results of its safety and tolerability
      in patients with refractory/metastatic HNSCC (except for nasopharyngeal cancer), when
      administered intravenously ISU104 only or ISU104 in combination with cetuximab.

      Secondary objectives

        1. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of ISU104 in patients with refractory/metastatic HNSCC
           (except for nasopharyngeal cancer), when administered intravenously ISU104 only or
           ISU104 in combination with cetuximab.

        2. To evaluate the efficacy of ISU104 in patients with refractory/metastatic HNSCC (except
           for nasopharyngeal cancer), when administered intravenously ISU104 only or ISU104 in
           combination with cetuximab.

      Exploratory purpose To explore a variety of detectable tumor biomarkers and evaluate the
      relationship between these biomarkers and antitumor activity of ISU104.
    
  