
    
      At least 1000 FH patients will be recruited from 30 outpatient clinics representing the 12
      Nuts statistical Regions in Turkey proportional to the 2015 Turkey's Population distribution.
      Both HeFH and HoFH patients are eligible for enrollment. Sites specialized on cardiology,
      internal medicine, and endocrinology were invited by the Turkish Society of Cardiology. The
      primary objective of this cross-sectional study, is to detect the clinical status and
      management of the patients diagnosed with FH in Turkey. The secondary objectives are; to
      detect the pattern of clinical presentation, to know the medication use, to define the
      clinical response to LLT, to evaluate the attainment of LDL-cholesterol goals and to identify
      resistance and/or intolerance to LLT. Defining the CV risk factors and approach to these
      factors by the physicians, and comparing the attitudes in different specialty groups
      (cardiology, endocrinology and internal medicine) are also among the secondary objectives of
      the registry. Eligibility for screening was defined as having LDL-cholesterol levels > 160
      mg/dl either as on treatment or untreated values. Centers may enroll both incident and
      prevalent patients. The inclusion criteria included age > 18 years and being diagnosed as
      possible FH. The possible FH was defined as having a total score of > 2 according to Dutch
      lipid clinic network (DLCN) criteria. Patients with triglyceride levels > 400 mg/dl or
      secondary hyperlipidemia (ie, untreated hypothyroidism, nephrotic syndrome, cholestasis,
      etc..) will be excluded from the study. Two different data sets will be collected for A-HIT2.
      The physicians will complete electronic case report forms for each patient Patients will also
      complete a short survey to assess the level of disease awareness. This survey is also
      designed to give information on the patients' perceptions and knowledge on cholesterol, its
      harm, and LLT. All data will be collected in a single visit. Data verification will be based
      on the source document control of 5% sample randomly selected per center.
    
  