
    
      Objective: The objective of this study is to determine the effect of an "aggressive" blood
      glucose control (goal pre-prandial CBG <110 mg/dl) versus a "conservative" blood glucose
      control (goal pre-prandial CBG <180 mg/dl) on length of stay in hospitalized type 2 diabetic
      patients using levemir (detemir) and novolog (aspart) insulins.

      Study Site: Parkland Memorial Hospital, 5201 Harry Hines Blvd, Dallas, Texas 75235. Parkland
      Hospital is a 720 adult bed public hospital that serves as the main teaching hospital for the
      University of Texas-Southwestern Medical Center. In addition, Parkland Memorial Hospital
      possesses the University Diabetes Treatment Center, an eleven bed medical ward devoted to
      inpatient diabetes management. This study will be conducted throughout all of Parkland's
      general medical floors, including the University Diabetes Treatment Center.

      Patient Population: The population for this study includes men and women with type 2 diabetes
      admitted to the general medicine wards of Parkland Memorial Hospital.

      Study Design and Duration: This is a single-center, randomized, single blind, non-inferiority
      study design.

      Patients admitted to Parkland Hospital with type 2 diabetes will be recruited to the study
      within 24 hours of admission. Gravid patients, patients in DKA, or HHS will be excluded. All
      patients will be evaluated for inclusion and exclusion criteria. During the hospitalization,
      patients will be stratified by age and admitting diagnosis and randomized to either an
      "aggressive" blood glucose control (goal pre-prandial CBG <110 mg/dl) or a "conservative"
      blood glucose control (goal pre-prandial CBG <180 mg/dl). Subcutaneous detemir and novolog
      will be employed according to the enclosed protocol to meet the goal blood glucose level. The
      insulin will be administered by nursing staff via the FlexPen, a pre-filled pen-like insulin
      delivery device. CBGs will be obtained before breakfast, before lunch, before supper, and at
      bedtime. If a patient is NPO, then the CBGs will be obtained at the time that the patient was
      to have eaten.

      Treatment of the patient's primary admitting diagnosis including plan and procedures will be
      completely at the primary team's discretion.

      Should a patient require transfer to an intensive care unit or to a telemetry unit, then the
      patient's participation in the study will be held until discharge from said unit. While the
      patient is in an ICU or telemetry unit, the blood glucose goal and management will be
      completely decided upon by the primary team.

      The study will terminate at the end of the hospitalization.
    
  