
    
      Attention Deficit/ Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is a prevalent childhood psychiatric
      condition affecting 5-10% of children worldwide. ADHD persists into adolescence in 70-80% of
      those diagnosed in childhood. In adolescence, ADHD is associated with impairments in
      academic, social, and emotional functioning, as well as with elevated rates of psychiatric
      comorbidities, substance abuse, and antisocial behaviour.

      Medication is currently the mainstay treatment for adolescents with ADHD. Although medication
      is an efficacious treatment for core ADHD symptoms, it does not directly address the
      associated academic, social, emotional and behavioural impairments. Overcoming these would
      require skills in organization, time management, problem solving, emotional modulation,
      stress management and interpersonal rapport. While these skills are important in childhood,
      they become particularly indispensable as the child enters adolescence and is expected to
      function more autonomously. However, little is known about the efficacy of psychosocial
      treatments targeting such skills for adolescents with ADHD, and there are few psychosocial
      treatment options available to these adolescents in the community.

      The purpose of the study will be to evaluate the efficacy of a novel integrative therapy that
      uses cognitive-behavioural approaches to foster the development of these skills in
      adolescents with ADHD. Adolescents with ADHD, ages 13-17, will be randomly assigned to either
      12 sessions of manualized group cognitive behavioural and skills training therapy (CBT+S) or
      to 12 sessions of manualized supportive group therapy (SGT). The CBT+S sessions will focus on
      acquisition of skills targeting the common functional deficits of adolescents with ADHD, with
      the modules covering psychoeducation, goal attainment, organization, time management, focus
      training and distractibility reduction, impulse control, study skills, stress management,
      cognitive restructuring, anger management, social skills, and self-esteem. A coach will call
      each participant twice a week to help implement CBT+S strategies in daily life. Supportive
      group therapy (SGT) for the adolescents will focus on increasing understanding of ADHD,
      sharing experiences, and fostering a network of support. Calls from a coach will deal with
      participant-elicited issues. Parents of all adolescents will participate in parallel
      6-session support groups similar to SGT and focused on psychoeducation, sharing and support.
      Treatment effects will be evaluated after 12 weeks of treatment. Maintenance of treatment
      benefits will be evaluated after 4 and 8 months of follow up. A treatment as usual group will
      be used to control for repeated measurements.
    
  