
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of PXD101 (belinostat) when given in combination with
      azacitidine (when azacitidine is utilized at a dose range where its effects on cellular
      differentiation are known to be predominant) in patients with advanced hematologic cancers or
      other diseases.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Identify any additive or synergistic effects of this regimen on pharmacodynamic
      parameters, including apoptosis and re-expression of specific target genes.

      II. Assess any evidence of clinical activity (complete remission, partial remission,
      hematologic improvement, stable disease) of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of belinostat followed by a randomized study.

      Patients receive azacitidine subcutaneously (SC) and belinostat intravenously (IV) over 30
      minutes on days 1-5. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of belinostat until
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that
      at which 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. After the MTD is determined,
      additional patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) or acute myeloid leukemia (with
      trilineage dysplasia or arising from MDS) are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      Arm I: Patients receive azacitidine SC on days 1-5.

      Arm II: Patients receive azacitidine as in arm I and belinostat at the MTD IV over 30 minutes
      on days 1-5.

      In both arms, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. After receiving one course, patients randomized to arm I may crossover
      to receive treatment on arm II.

      For patients enrolled in the randomized portion of the study, bone marrow aspirates are
      obtained at baseline, and after course 1 for correlative studies. Samples are examined by
      gene expression analysis of p15 and p21, DNA methylation of p15INK4B, and apoptosis by RT-PCR
      and flow cytometry. Pharmacodynamic assays are also performed.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 2 years.
    
  