
    
      This is an open-label, Phase 2a pilot study of Immunicom's LW-02 column- combined with
      low-dose chemotherapy or immunotherapy in patients who have failed first-line treatment or
      employed as monotherapy in patients who have failed second-line therapy-to evaluate the
      short-term and long-term safety, tolerability and effectiveness of these approaches in
      removing sTNF-Rs and the potential for disease control in advanced, refractory NSCLC
      patients. Along with LW-02 column immunopheresis, patients enrolled in Arm 1 will receive
      combination immunotherapy with atezolizumab and patients enrolled in Arm 2 also will receive
      combination chemotherapy with paclitaxel. Patients in Arm 3 will be treated with LW-02 column
      immunopheresis alone as a third-line treatment regimen, assuming the first-line treatment
      included a platinum salt. Following study qualification, patients will be assigned to the
      appropriate treatment. All patients may receive up to 48 LW-02 column-based immunopheresis
      treatments over a 16-week (4-month) period with up to 3 treatments per week). Importantly,
      each LW-02 immunopheresis treatment should last up to 3 hours and process, approximately, 2
      times the patient's plasma volume (2PV).

      Each patient assigned to the treatment with LW-02 column-based immunopheresis will require
      central vascular access for the procedure. In general, a cuffed, tunneled dual-lumen catheter
      will be inserted into a central vein and remain in situ throughout the 16-week treatment
      phase (or longer if additional treatment is clinically indicated). The catheter will be used
      to connect the inlet and return lines of the apheresis system to the patient. Immunopheresis
      treatments will be performed using the LW-02 column used inline with a centrifugal apheresis
      system that allows for secondary plasma processing system (eg, the Terumo BCT Spectra Optia
      Apheresis System® or alternate apheresis system). Proper anticoagulation of the centrifugal
      apheresis device is generally provided by utilizing acid citrate dextrose formula A (ACD-A).

      Patients will be followed and clinically evaluated for two-years posttreatment. In Year 1,
      patients will be clinically evaluated at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months from the end-of-treatment
      (EOT) visit. In Year 2 quarterly (every 3 months) telephone contacts will be made to
      determine overall survival.
    
  