
    
      : Lateral elbow tendinopathy is a common condition among athletes and the general population.
      It can result in significant disability and time loss from work. Despite traditional
      nonsurgical treatment, symptoms often persist for more than 6 months. Second-line treatments,
      such as platelet rich plasma injections and extracorporeal shock wave therapy, have limited
      evidence and are often cost-prohibitive. There remains a need for additional cost-effective
      nonsurgical treatment for lateral elbow tendinopathy.

      Purpose: To evaluate the feasibility of subantimicrobial -dose (SD) doxycycline to improve
      outcomes of nonsurgical management of lateral elbow tendinopathy via matrix metalloproteinase
      (MMP) inhibition as well as evaluate if participants will be compliant to with prescribed
      medication and exercise treatment. Our working hypothesis is that patients with lateral elbow
      tendinopathy will be receptive to treatment with SD-doxycycline and compliant with the
      prescribed treatment.

      Methods: This study will enroll 25 otherwise healthy males and females ages 18-60 with ≥ 6
      weeks of symptomatic lateral elbow tendinopathy. Subjects will receive doxycycline 20 mg BID
      (twice a day) for 12 weeks. Usual care will also be provided with a home exercise program and
      a counterforce brace. The proportion of eligible patients who elect to participate in the
      study will be tracked as a measure of receptiveness. Biweekly logs will be collected to
      monitor for treatment side effects and track compliance. Patient reported outcomes will
      include quick Disabilities of the Arm Shoulder and Hand score (qDASH) and Patient-Rated
      Tennis Elbow Evaluation (PRTEE) at baseline, 4, 8, and 12 weeks. Ultrasound tendinopathy
      grade and grip strength will be measured at baseline and 12 weeks. Blood will be drawn to
      assess MMP activity and collagen production/connective tissue anabolism at baseline and 12
      weeks.

      Significance: This study will provide the necessary data to design a phase two-a trial of a
      safe, low-cost adjuvant treatment for a common condition treated by sports medicine and
      primary care physicians. If found to be beneficial for lateral elbow tendinopathy,
      SD-doxycycline may have utility in other types of tendinopathy as well.
    
  