
    
      Postoperative respiratory complications are the second most frequent complications after
      surgery, and a major burden in health care. Postoperative hypoxemia, which is one of the most
      meaningful factors associated with poor patient outcomes, is common after general anesthesia
      with rates as high as 30-50% in patients after abdominal surgery, even among those undergoing
      uneventful procedures.

      Risk factors for early postoperative hypoxemia, whether modifiable or not, are mainly related
      to the patient condition, the surgical procedure and the intraoperative anesthesia management
      strategy, especially the detrimental effects resulting from potential residual effects of
      anesthetic agents. There is, to date, only limited data on the incidence of postoperative
      hypoxemia resulting from excessive intraoperative opioid administration.

      The Analgesia Nociception Index (ANI) is a unit-less index ranging from 0 to 100 calculated
      from the instantaneous wavelet transform analysis of heart rate variability, which indirectly
      reflects the parasympathetic tone, with higher ANI values indicating a prominent
      parasympathetic tone. ANI is sensitive to nociception stimuli and has recently been proposed
      to evaluate the analgesia/nociception equilibrium. The few interventional studies that have
      investigated the ability of a protocol-driven intraoperative analgesia procedure to reduce
      postoperative pain have used mixed results. One recent observational study showed that
      ANI-guided remifentanil administration during vascular surgery resulted in low opioid
      consumption and low postoperative pain rates. In addition, to our knowledge, no study has
      investigated whether ANI monitoring can be used to improve postoperative outcome.
      Accordingly, to determine the impact of an ANI-guided individualized opioids administration
      on postoperative outcomes, a large multicenter randomized controlled trial is needed.
      However, before such a trial can take place, it is necessary to determine the feasibility in
      potential participating sites of successfully reducing intraoperative opioid consumption
      while reducing postoperative pain.

      The purpose of this study was to examine the feasibility of undertaking such a trial. Our
      primary hypothesis is that individualizing sufentanil administration to target ANI values
      between 50 and 70 during major abdominal surgery could reduce the intraoperative dose of
      sufentanil, as compared with standard practice.
    
  