
    
      Disseminated M. avium infection is the most common systemic bacterial infection complicating
      AIDS in the United States. The prognosis of patients with disseminated M. avium is extremely
      poor, particularly when it follows other opportunistic infections or is associated with
      anemia. Test tube studies and clinical data indicate that the best treatment program may
      include clofazimine, ethambutol, a rifamycin derivative, and ciprofloxacin. Test tube and
      animal studies indicate that amikacin is a bactericidal (bacteria destroying) drug that works
      better when used with ciprofloxacin. Its role in treatment programs is a key issue because of
      toxicity and because it must be administered parenterally (by injection or intravenously).

      Patients undergo an initial 2-week observation period (days 1 - 14) during which time
      baseline evaluations are performed and type and severity of symptoms are monitored. Eligible
      patients are randomized on day 15 to one of two treatment programs: (1) ciprofloxacin,
      clofazimine, ethambutol, and rifampin (all taken orally), or (2) the same four drugs plus
      amikacin. Only patients for whom blood cultures obtained on either day 1 or day 14/15 are
      positive by week 6 continue on study drugs. Patients receive combination therapy for 24
      weeks. Patients may have an indwelling central venous catheter in place for long-term
      administration of intravenous drug. PER 03/06/92 AMENDMENT: Newly enrolled patients who
      demonstrate a complete or partial clinical response at the end of study week 10 (8 weeks of
      drug therapy) discontinue their current regimen and begin maintenance therapy with
      azithromycin plus either ethambutol or clofazimine for an additional 24 weeks. Patients who
      do not demonstrate a response at study week 10 are discontinued from all study therapy.
      Patients enrolled on earlier versions of the protocol who have surpassed study week 16 (14
      weeks of drug therapy) continue treatment with their originally assigned regimen through
      study week 26; those who have not surpassed study week 16 are considered for inclusion in the
      maintenance phase of the study.
    
  