
    
      Femur fractures are the most common orthopedic injury for which children are hospitalized in
      the United States. Traditional spica casts, the current standard of care for diaphyseal
      femoral shaft fractures with minimal shortening in children age 0-5 years old. Although spica
      cast immobilization is standard of care for femur fractures in young children, caring for a
      child in a spica cast presents a significant socioeconomic burden on families and the
      healthcare system. Basic hygiene and transportation for a child in a spica cast requires
      burdensome adjustments for caretakers, as well as the added expenses of specialized car seats
      or transportation services. Improper spica cast care can lead to skin complications,
      additional visits for cast adjustments, or even revision casting in the operating room.

      Functional bracing plays an established role in the non-operative management of other long
      bone fractures in pediatric patients, and offers numerous advantages, including being
      lightweight, simple to apply, and conducive to hygienic skin care. A study conducted by
      Kramer et al. suggests there are both clinical and financial benefits of functional bracing
      when compared to spica casting for femur fractures, including increased patient/parent
      satisfaction and better cost effectiveness. To date, there have been no prospective trials to
      confirm these initial findings.

      While previous work by Kramer et al demonstrated the advantages of functional bracing when
      compared to traditional spica casting, the ability to generalize this to other pediatric
      practices has been limited due to the challenges of making braces in a timely fashion. The
      braces utilized by Kramer et al require a carver to create a brace with a foot plate that
      improves rotational control for femur fractures. The cost of a carver is approximately
      $125,000, and thus few orthotists have access to this piece of equipment. This limits the
      ability for many pediatric orthopaedists to incorporate functional bracing into their
      practice.

      To make this treatment option more cost effective and accessible, the investigators propose
      to generate five standardized sized braces based on measurements from prior scans that will
      be stocked at each institution and modified by the local orthoptist to fit the needs of each
      patient. This will facilitate expedited care while obtaining the same clinical and
      radiographic results as the fully customized braces. This idea has the potential to be
      extrapolated to the wider clinical community, creating a true shift in pediatric orthopaedic
      clinical practice throughout the country.

      The investigators hypothesize that functional bracing will demonstrate equivalent objective
      outcomes with respect to leg length, time to union, rate of malunion, number of radiographs,
      and number of clinic visits. The investigators also hypothesize that functional bracing will
      demonstrate superior economic costs with respect to operating room cost and work days lost
      for parents, as well as subjective outcomes with respect to Pediatric Outcome Data Collection
      Instrument, patient/parent satisfaction.
    
  