
    
      Contrast-induced acute kidney injury (CI-AKI) is a powerful predictor of unfavorable early
      and late outcome. Hydration represents the cornerstone in CI-AKI prevention1. However, at
      present there is no consensus on how hydration should be carried out. The most recommended
      hydration regimen is normal saline infusion at 1 mL/kg/h 12 hours before and 12 hours after
      CM exposure. Limitations of this hydration regimen include 1) preclusion in urgent/emergent
      settings, and 2) suboptimal efficacy in high- and very high risk patients. Indeed, in high
      and very-high risk patients the rate of CI-AKI may be still high, whereas a forced hydration
      regimen may increase the risk of pulmonary edema.

      In order to clarify how to carry out optimal hydration, 2 regimens have been recently
      proposed: 1) left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP)-guided hydration and 2) urine
      flow rate (UFR)-guided hydration. The POSEIDON trial demonstrated that the left ventricular
      end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP)-guided hydration is superior to the conventional hydration
      regimen in preventing CI-AKI. In the LVEDP-guided hydration, the fluid infusion rate was
      adjusted according to the LVEDP as follows: 5 mL/kg/hr for LVEDP <12 mmHg; 3 mL/kg/hr for
      13-18 mmHg; and 1.5 mL/kg/hr for >18 mmHg. The reported rate of pulmonary edema was 1.5%.

      Another theory for CI-AKI prophylaxis suggests to induction and maintenance of a high UFR.
      This high UFR should allow the body to rapidly eliminate contrast media, reducing contact
      time within nephron. The RenalGuard™ System (PLC Medical Systems, Inc.) in combination with
      limited (0.25 mg/kg) dose of furosemide induces an maintains a high UFR (>300 mL/h) safely by
      maintaining the intravascular blood volume and minimizing the risk of over or
      under-hydration. Furthermore, the reported rate of pulmonary edema was <1%.

      The purpose of the present study is to compare the LVEDP-guided hydration and the UFR-guided
      hydration in patients at high risk for CI-AKI.

      Following enrollment, patients will be randomly assigned to one of the following treatments:
      1) LVEDP-guided group, and 2) RenalGuard group. Enrolled patients will be stratified,
      according to the estimated LVEDP value, into high LVEDP and normal LVEDP group. LVEDP will be
      non-invasively estimated by the transmitral flow velocity to annular velocity ratio (E/E'
      index). Estimated LVEDP pressure >12 mm Hg will be considered high. Patients allocated in
      both groups will receive intravenous 0.9% sodium chloride for at least one hour prior to
      cardiac catheterization. In both groups the fluid rate will be adjusted according to the
      non-invasive LVEDP estimate as follows: 5 mL/kg/hr for LVEDP ≤12 mmHg; 3 mL/kg/hr for 13-18
      mmHg; and 1.5 mL/kg/h for >18 mmHg, as suggested in the POSEIDON trial. Invasive LVEDP
      measurement will be also estimated in all patients by placing an angled 5 or 6-French pigtail
      catheter in the mid-cavity of the left ventricle at the beginning of the procedure and before
      contrast media injection in order to confirm the non-invasive estimated value.

      The sample size was calculated to demonstrate the superiority of the RenalGuard therapy over
      the LVEDP-guided hydration regimen. The investigators expect a reduction in the primary
      composite endpoint from 9% in the LVEDP-guided group to 5% in the RenalGuard group. Using a
      two-sided Chi-square test with a significance level of 0.05, a total of at least 750
      randomized patients (350 in each arm) afforded the study 80% power. The endpoints will be
      analyzed in the global population and also in the subgroups stratified according to the LVEDP
      value.

      Serum creatinine, cystatin C, blood urea nitrogen, sodium and potassium will be measured the
      day before, 12, 24, 48 hours and 1 week after administration of the contrast agent;
      additional measurements will be performed in all cases of deterioration of baseline renal
      function. CI-AKI is defined as an increase of serum creatinine >=0.3 mg/dl at 48 hours after
      contrast media exposure.

      Patient demographic details, medical history, current medication, eGFR, risk score for
      CI-AKI, and left ventricular ejection fraction are recorded at baseline. Total hydration
      volume administered according to the prophylaxis and during the 24 and 48 hours following the
      procedure as well as the total urine volume will be recorded. The pre-procedure sCr level is
      considered as the sCr concentration before the initiation of any prophylaxis. End-point data
      and adverse events are collected during the in-hospital stay and at 1-month. Six-month and
      12-month MAE will be also collected. All adverse events are recorded in the case report form
      and the data coordinating center will be informed by facsimile within 72 hours of any events.
      Serious events and any other safety issues will be reviewed by an independent Data Monitoring
      and Safety Committee. All events will be adjudicated by a Clinical Events Committee (CEC),
      who is blinded to treatment assignment. At least 2 members of the CEC review clinical data
      and relevant documentation and determine whether end points have occurred according to the
      study definitions. In case of disagreement between reviewers, a third member of the CEC will
      adjudicate and the data will be considered by the entire committee if 2 of the 3 reviewers do
      not agree.
    
  