
    
      America is facing an epidemic of obesity among its youth. In the last seven years, there has
      been a 50% increase in the prevalence of obesity as defined by a Body Mass Index (BMI) > 30
      kg/m². For the morbidly obese adult, which is defined as having a BMI > 35 kg/m², mortality
      is increased by 152 to 279%. In a Veterans Administration study of obese 25-34 year old
      males, there was a 13-fold excess mortality rate over 7½ years.

      As in adults, risks associated with childhood and adolescent obesity include elevated blood
      pressure and cholesterol levels, predisposing these individuals to cardiovascular disease. In
      addition, a significant number of obese youth have abnormally high concentrations of insulin,
      with an attendant increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes mellitus.

      Currently, limited options are available to help such individuals. While attempts at
      lifestyle change (e.g., altering diet and activity level) may have some success in the short
      term, attempts at maintaining weight loss over the long term often fail. Furthermore, there
      are no current medications that will safely induce significant weight loss over time.

      Metformin is an oral antihyperglycemic, insulin-sensitizing agent that has been used in many
      countries for treatment of type 2 diabetes for more than 40 years. In March 1995, it was
      approved by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of adult type 2 diabetes.
      Metformin improves insulin sensitivity and reduces insulin resistance by hepatic and
      peripheral actions. It does not increase insulin secretion.

      Further, metformin decreases hepatic glucose production and results in weight loss. Compared
      to available drugs that act similarly, only metformin has weight-lowering activity, perhaps
      by increasing nitric oxide production and improving insulin sensitivity. It is also possible
      that the mild gastrointestinal side effects of metformin induce weight loss. Metformin is
      therefore often the agent of choice in obese, type 2 diabetics. In a study of non-diabetic
      obese adults, treatment with metformin resulted in decreased food intake, and decreased body
      weight and fat.

      This is a randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, multi-center clinical trial. The
      primary outcome measure that will be used to test the study hypothesis is change in BMI from
      week 0 to week 52, as well as change in BMI from week 0 to week 100. Approximately 135
      potential subjects will be screened at the participating institutions, and an expected 76
      subjects will be randomized into the study.
    
  