
    
      Frequent users of hospital services, otherwise known as hospital "high-utilizers," comprise a
      diverse patient population that pose unique challenges to the current US health care delivery
      model. The Complex High Admission Management Program (CHAMP), implemented at Northwestern
      Memorial Hospital in Chicago, IL, seeks to improve care for high-utilizer patients through
      provider continuity, intensive case management, and developing personalized care plans that
      span inpatient, outpatient, and emergency care environments.

      Preliminary evaluation of CHAMP has shown a 38% decrease in 30-day unplanned hospital
      readmissions and an 18% decrease in ED encounters over a 6-month time period, when compared
      to an equal time period pre-CHAMP.

      Patients are eligible for the program if they are readmitted to the hospital three times
      within a twelve-month period. Due to the time and resource limitations of the CHAMP team, not
      all patients meeting these criteria can be enrolled at once. Patients will thus be randomly
      selected to be enrolled in CHAMP or will receive usual care. This study plans to evaluate the
      difference in outcomes between patients enrolled in CHAMP and those receiving usual care by
      answering the following questions:

      To what extent do high-utilizer patients enrolled in CHAMP differ in their level of trust in
      providers, self-assessed coping skills, daily symptom burden, perceived functionality, and
      attitudes about the healthcare system when compared to a control group of high utilizer
      patients receiving usual care? We will assess patient responses to a series of surveys
      assessing trust, feelings of discrimination, activation, satisfaction with care, and level of
      social functioning.

      What are the healthcare utilization rates of high-utilizer patients enrolled in CHAMP
      compared to a control group of high-utilizer patients receiving usual care? We will compare
      rates of (a) hospital admission and (b) utilization (including length of stay) among
      high-utilizer patients enrolled in CHAMP as compared to high-utilizer patients not enrolled
      in the program.
    
  