
    
      Inclusion criteria will be health participants with age between 18 to 45 years. Exclusion
      criteria were a BMI higher than 31 kg/m2, hypocapnia, any musculoskeletal condition in
      lumbopelvic region, skin and lower limb pathology (i.e., fracture, surgery).

      Initially, baseline measurements will make following Whittaker et al. guidelines to measure
      thickness of the abdominal wall muscles (external oblique, EO; internal oblique, IO;
      transversus abdominis, TrA and rectus anterior, RA). All evaluations will be carry out by a
      single operator (B.M.P), who was a specialized physical therapist with 3 years of USI
      experience. A diagnostic ultrasound tool (Toshiba Aplio 500 Platinum, Toshiba American
      Medical Systems; CA, USA) with a 7 to 14-MHz-range linear transducer (18L7 PLT-1204BT type;
      40-mm footprint) will be used for B mode ultrasound imaging. Ultrasound images of the EO, IO
      and TrAb muscles will be taken with the patients in supine position, with a cross reference
      point placed between the iliac crest and the inferior border of subcostal line, and the
      midaxilary line on the right side ; RA muscle was aligned with the umbilicus; and interrecti
      distance (IRD) will be measured just under the umbilicus. The measure for the thickness
      during the rest condition will be perform by the mean of 3 repeated values for each measure
      at the end of expiration, maintaining the transducer at the same point. Muscle thickness will
      be considered as the distance between the inside caliper lines of each muscle border. IRD
      will be described as the distance between the inside caliper lines of each RA muscles.

      Once baseline measurements will be taken, the same measurements will make while the patients
      perform the exercise. This exercise specifically targets the abdominal wall muscles (EO, IO,
      TrA and RA). At the beginning, patients will be in a supine position, the lower edge of the
      StabilizerTM will be placed between the posterior superior iliac spines, aligned with the
      sacral base. Abdominal draw in maneuver (ADIM) was developed by the patients until they reach
      40 mmHg and hold steadily for 10 seconds. Prior the examination, each subject will be
      practiced the ADIM three times with an ultrasound image feedback.
    
  