
    
      Breast cancer is a leading cause of cancer mortality in women worldwide. According to
      estimates, approximately 46,000 women in the United States, and 130,000 women in the European
      Union, die due to breast cancer yearly. Early detection is of paramount importance in
      reducing mortality from this major public health burden. Screening mammography has been shown
      to reduce breast cancer mortality by 20% to 35% in women aged 40 to 69 years. Detection of
      small volume breast cancer at early stages is associated with a 10-year disease-free survival
      rate as high as 98% in patients with pT1a,bN0M0 tumors (measuring 1 cm or less, with
      disease-free axillary lymph nodes and no distant metastasis). The assumption that early
      diagnosis will lead to improved treatment outcomes has driven the search for diagnostic
      biomarkers.

      Despite this enthusiasm, a biomarker for stage I breast cancer has been elusive. The
      predictive value of mammography declines in cohorts of patients with denser breast tissue and
      smaller lesions, and recent studies have indicated that the small amount of biomarker
      molecules emanating from a breast tumor of less than 1 cm is well below the sensitivity of
      detection for current analytical methods. In addition, biomarkers in body fluids are highly
      perishable. Biomarkers break down during collection, transport and storage due to endogenous
      degradative enzymes yielding false negatives. Thus there is a significant need for new
      technologies that will a) identify and measure low abundance biomarkers (less than 1
      nanogram/mL), and b) is low cost and can be seamlessly integrated into the clinical workflow.

      Primary Objective:

      The primary goal of this study is to a) experimentally discover putative plasma markers for
      detecting early, stage I breast cancer in the setting of a suspicious mammogram and
      distinguish those cancers from benign lesions b) verify the putative markers through
      molecular profiling; and c) validate the markers by mass spectrometry.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. Determine percent accuracy of breast cancer diagnosis in the context of 3D
           mammographically (screen detected) tumors.

        2. Determine percent precision of cancer diagnosis in the context of 3D mammographically
           (screen detected) tumors.

        3. Discover additional protein markers of early stage breast cancer that distinguish these
           tumors from benign lesions identified by mammography by comparing protein markers
           between patients with invasive cancer vs. benign tumors as determined by biopsy.

        4. Additionally compare protein markers between patients with invasive cancer and
           pre-invasive neoplasms as determined by biopsy.

        5. Bank samples for future research and sequencing.
    
  