
    
      Locally advanced, stage III and IVA, resectable, squamous cell carcinomas of oral cavity are
      conventionally treated with surgery, followed by post-operative radiotherapy. Local-regional
      recurrence remains the most frequent cause of failure of this treatment. The results of
      conventional therapy are dismal with five-year survival of less than 30% and 60-80% incidence
      of local-regional failure within 3 years. There are various known histological prognostic
      factors. The local-regional control and overall survival are extremely poor in high risk
      patients with these poor prognostic factors. In an attempt to improve the outcome of this
      high risk group, various alternative treatment policies such as addition of chemotherapy to
      radiotherapy or altered fractionation schedules have been tried. But till date, there is no
      alternative treatment modality with acceptable toxicity, available for these patients.

      Aims Of Study: To demonstrate whether addition of Concurrent chemotherapy to post-operative
      adjuvant radiotherapy OR shortening of duration of post-operative radiotherapy, by
      administering 6 fractions / week instead of 5 fractions / week improves local-regional
      control and / or overall survival in high risk, locally advanced, resectable, squamous cell
      carcinoma of oral cavity.

      Eligibility criteria: Locally advanced, stage III and IVA, resectable, squamous cell
      carcinomas of oral cavity with one of the following poor prognostic factors extracapsular
      nodal extension, involvement of > 2 regional lymph nodes, margin of resection with invasive
      cancer Extensive soft tissue and / or skin infiltration requiring major reconstructive
      procedure.

      Peri-neural invasion with positive lymph node. Lympho-vascular embolisation with positive
      lymph node.

      Trial Design The eligible patients will be randomly allocated to one of the three arms

        1. Arm 1 (Control arm): Surgery followed by conventional radiotherapy

        2. Arm 2: Surgery followed by Concurrent chemo-radiotherapy

        3. Arm 3: Surgery followed by Accelerated radiotherapy

      Surgery: Surgery will be same in all three arms. Wide excision tumour with appropriate nodal
      dissection and reconstruction utilizing accepted criteria for the region involved will be
      done.

      Radiotherapy: Total dose of radiotherapy will be 56 - 60 Gy. Patients in Arms 1 and 2, five
      fractions per week for six weeks. Patients in Arm 3, six fractions a week for five weeks.

      Chemotherapy: Patients in Arm 2 will get weekly chemotherapy (Inj Cisplatin 30 mg / m2)

      Stratification: Patients will be stratified according to following factors Site:
      Gingivo-buccal complex cancers Vs Tongue and Floor of mouth cancers. T stage. N stage.
      Extra-capsular spread (Peri-nodal extension) Surgical margin Extensive soft tissue
      infiltration

      End points Primary end point: Local-regional failure. Secondary end point: Overall survival.
      Other parameters to be assessed are Treatment related toxicity Protocol compliance Overall
      treatment time Quality of life: assessment by EORTC-QLQ-C30 and EORTC-H&N-35 Sample size: 900
      pts (300 pts in each arm). Duration of accrual: 7 years. Duration of follow up: 5 years. With
      minimum follow up of 2 years. Analysis: Intent to treat analysis will be done. Interim
      analysis will be done after 450 patients (150 pts in each arm)
    
  