
    
      Screening

      The screening process involves a review of medical records by our research staff for patients
      with a diagnosis of TBI, or suspected TBI, (see inclusion/exclusion for further detail) who
      are admitted to the inpatient rehabilitation unit at the study sites.

      Recruitment

      Patient Participants: If a potential participant meets eligibility criteria based on medical
      record review, research staff will approach him/her on the inpatient rehabilitation unit to
      determine whether the patient is cognitively capable of providing consent by administering a
      measure of orientation/ emergence from PTA. If the patient is deemed oriented, the research
      staff will introduce the study using a talking points script, and if the potential
      participant is interested, provide him/her with a brochure and a consent form.

      Research staff will initiate the informed consent process if: a) the patient is deemed
      oriented per definition above, and b) the patient expresses interest in participating.
      Research staff will visit the patient on a subsequent day and re-administer the orientation
      test prior to consent if needed.

      If the patient is not deemed oriented as per the outline above, the patient is deemed not yet
      oriented and unable at that time to provide informed consent. Research staff may administer
      the orientation test multiple times to determine capacity to consent. Research staff may talk
      with a Legally Authorized Representative (LAR) if one is willing and available to attempt to
      obtain their consent if a patient is not deemed oriented prior to discharge.

      The investigators plan to enroll a total of 900 patient participants.

      Caregiver Participants:

      Caregiver participants will be those individuals who will have primary care giving
      responsibility following rehabilitation care discharge of patients with moderate to severe
      TBI. Caregivers may be recruited while the patient is in the hospital or by telephone, if not
      available during hospitalization. Research staff may enroll more than one individual as a
      caregiver following subject enrollment should a different individual assume the role of
      caregiver at a later time point.

      The investigators plan to enroll a total of 607 caregiver participants.

      Basic Demographic Information: All Potential Patient Participants

      Basic demographic information including age, sex, and race will be collected via medical
      record review without consent from all patients including those who do not enroll to
      determine differences between enrolled patients participants and those who do not enroll.

      Consent

      For patient participants, the informed consent process will take place during the
      participants inpatient rehabilitation stay with our research staff while they are inpatients.

      Potential participants will be fully informed of all risks and benefits prior to giving their
      written informed consent and prior to enrollment in the study. Participants may take time to
      think about participating and render a decision in a subsequent visit. Potential participants
      will be asked to repeat back understanding of this material as necessary.

      Research staff will also review a HIPAA authorization form with the participant that permits
      research staff to collect data from his/her medical records regarding injury and medical
      history.

      Caregiver Participants: Caregiver participants may be initially recruited by telephone or in
      person. Caregivers will provide written consent if enrolled in person.

      All participants approached for possible enrollment in this study will be clearly informed
      that if they choose not to participate in this project, they and/or their loved one will
      still be able to receive any of the routine medical and rehabilitation services available to
      them. They will be informed that their participation is voluntary and that they may withdraw
      their consent and discontinue participation in the study at any time. Any new information
      developed during the course of the study that might affect a participant's understanding of
      the research and willingness to continue to participate will be brought to their attention by
      study staff.

      Baseline Assessment

      Contact Information Sheet Research staff will collect the following information from both
      caregiver and patient participants: (1) contact information; (2) best way to reach an
      individual if they have more than one line; best times/days to reach participant; and (3)
      names and contact information of people staff are allowed to contact if participant is lost
      to follow-up or otherwise cannot be contacted (i.e. collateral contacts).

      Baseline Information: Demographic and injury related data will be collected from the
      electronic medical record, and additional demographic and clinical history will be collected
      in interview format. A cognitive assessment focused on memory, concentration, and problem
      solving will be given. These data will be entered in de-identified form into the NDSC
      centralized database by research staff.

      Discharge Information: Research staff will collect information from a patient participant's
      medical record regarding the presence/absence of recommended and/or scheduled appointments to
      different medical disciplines/services. Specific information regarding the
      recommended/scheduled appointments (e.g. name, phone number, email address, date of scheduled
      appointment, etc.) of patient participants randomized to the rehabilitation transition phase
      (RTP) group will be stored locally in a database used by the TBI care managers for
      referential purposes.

      The investigators will collect information regarding the nature of the caregiver's
      relationship to the patient participant, as well as basic demographic information. These data
      will be entered in de-identified form into the NDSC centralized database by research staff.

      Randomization/ Post-Discharge Transition Phase

      After the patient participant has been discharged, s/he will be randomly assigned 1:1 into
      one of two study arms: Rehabilitation Discharge Plan (RDP) group or the Rehabilitation
      Transition Plan (RTP) group.

      The investigators will stratify randomization on study site and discharge destination
      (another facility vs. home/ community). Once randomization occurs, their random assignment
      will be communicated to the TBI Care Manager (TCM). The TCM will then send out a letter to
      the patient participant and caregiver (if applicable).

      RTP Process Variables

      Individual elements of the RTP will be measured as they are administered to each patient/
      caregiver or other recipient in the form of a treatment note as captured in a secure
      database, incorporating documentation elements used in the field. Measures will include the
      clock time devoted to each contact, the recipient of each contact, total number of
      attempts/contacts, the type of need or issue discussed, and actions planned and implemented.

      Follow Up Data Collection

      3, 6, 9 and 12 Months Post Hospital Discharge: Patient Participant The 3, 6, 9 and 12 month
      post-hospital discharge questionnaire will take approximately 45-60 minutes to complete, and
      will be completed by phone or in person. This questionnaire includes both the primary and
      secondary outcomes described below.
    
  