
    
      Patients will be male or female aged 18 years and older who present to the emergency room
      (ER) < 6 hours from onset of AMI symptoms. The AMI must be confirmed by a 12-lead
      electrocardiogram (ECG) and documented in at least 2 leads. Each potential patient must be a
      candidate for primary PCI and not have thrombolytic therapy planned. To be eligible, patients
      must not have a prior history of ST-segment elevation MI.

      Patients will be randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to 1 of 3 treatment groups: A, B, and C. Group A
      will receive MCC-135 4.5 mg/kg/48 hours; Group B will receive MCC-135 9.0 mg/kg/48 hours; and
      Group C will receive placebo/48 hours. Three hundred thirty patients with a TIMI flow grade
      of 0/1 are required to complete the study. Because patients will be enrolled and will receive
      study medication prior to assessment of TIMI flow, it is expected that at least 414 patients
      may need to be randomized in order to obtain the required 330 qualified patients. All
      randomized patients will receive 48 hours of study medication, with ongoing assessments
      during this period, and will have follow-up assessments on Days 3, 4, 5, 30, and 180 as
      described below, regardless of preoperative TIMI flow grade.

      Following initial physical examination, vital signs, establishment of a separate and
      dedicated IV access, baseline blood sampling, and confirmation of all study eligibility
      requirements, patients will be randomized and begin receiving study drug as an adjunct to
      standard therapy. Patients will begin study drug infusion as soon as possible, but < 6 hours
      following onset of AMI symptoms (i.e., symptoms of myocardial ischemia). Examples of ischemic
      symptoms include chest, arm, and/or jaw pain, shortness of breath, nausea, diaphoresis, or
      other symptoms that the investigator considers to be of ischemic origin. A negative result
      from a urine pregnancy test must be obtained for females of childbearing potential prior to
      the start of study drug infusion.
    
  