
    
      The brain is a major target for circulating gonadal steroids and the change in hormone levels
      after menopause is likely to have implications for cognitive functioning. A number of
      clinical and preclinical studies have linked gonadal steroids and cognition (e.g.1,2) and it
      has been hypothesized that menopause has detrimental effects on cognition that are over and
      above the expected effects of normal aging. While menopause results in reproductive
      senescence, most of the symptoms of menopause are neurological3. However, evidence for
      changes in brain functioning after menopause is equivocal. Some studies found that cognitive
      performance after menopause decreased in domains such as memory, attention, problem solving,
      and motor skills from pre-menopausal levels (e.g.1,4,5). As many as 60% of women reported
      undesirable memory changes at mid-life6. Other studies have not found changes in cognition
      after menopause (e.g.7-9) and not all women experience negative effects of menopause on
      cognition10. However, women have a higher risk of dementia compared to men11 and many
      hypotheses identify the sex differences in gonadal steroids and the hormone change at
      menopause as related to risk for Alzheimer's disease (AD) and/or dementia. The challenge in
      understanding the role of estrogen loss on the risk for AD is the long lag time between the
      hormonal changes at menopause and the clinical manifestations of AD. Thus, identifying how
      the hormone changes after menopause are related to AD risk will alter the risk calculus for
      postmenopausal women in the future. In addition, the neurobiological processes underlying how
      the change in the hormonal environment at menopause influences brain functioning, what
      factors are responsible for individual differences in cognition after menopause, and what
      menopause-related symptoms are associated with risk for dementia are not well understood.

      One mechanism hypothesized to be responsible for cognitive changes post menopause is the
      effect of decreased estradiol on the functioning of neurotransmitter systems that support
      cognition. The importance of the estrogen-cholinergic system interaction for cognition has
      been demonstrated across a number of model systems from rats12 to non-human primates13 to
      humans14. The investigators have shown that estrogen's interaction with the cholinergic
      system is important for cognitive functioning in postmenopausal women14-16. What has not not
      yet shown is how change in cholinergic system functioning as a result of menopause is related
      to menopausal signs/symptoms that influence cognition as well as AD biomarkers like amyloid,
      tau, and neurodegeneration. These are important relationships to understand and may lead to
      individual risk profiles that can be observed earlier in the aging process while treatment
      and prevention strategies may be effective.

      This project will investigate the role of cholinergic system in cognitive functioning in
      women after menopause. We have been examining the interaction of the neurotransmitter
      acetylcholine with hormones after menopause for a number of years14-16. In these studies with
      intensive repeated measures designs where the sample sizes were relatively small, findings
      generally showed no benefit of estrogen therapy alone for cognition in normal women post
      menopause. However, if the investigators induced a temporary impairment in the cholinergic
      system, the beneficial effect of estradiol became manifest15 and this was more prominent in
      younger postmenopausal women aged 50-60 compared to older women aged 70-8014. Furthermore,
      these studies showed significant heterogeneity of individual responses with roughly 50% of
      women showing either compensatory or impaired responses suggesting individual differences in
      risk profile (see preliminary data). What has not yet demonstrated is how the sensitivity of
      the cholinergic system to temporary blockade is related to menopause symptoms and known AD
      biomarkers that are associated with increased risk for AD development or frank dementia.

      The investigators propose that cholinergic antagonist drugs can be used to expose the effects
      of menopause on cognitive functioning. Decreased cognitive performance during a temporary
      cholinergic blockade "lesion" may be an indicator of susceptibility to the negative effects
      of hormone withdrawal on the brain and risk for age-related cognitive impairment and/or
      dementia. The study proposed here will be the first to link cholinergic sensitivity to
      biomarkers of neurodegeneration and AD pathology. Specifically, the study will investigate
      working memory performance and brain activation during a cholinergic antagonist challenge
      compared to placebo and examine how factors associated with menopause like gonadal steroids,
      autonomic symptoms, mood, and sleep as well as known biomarkers associated with Alzheimer's
      disease (e.g. age, subjective cognitive complaints, hippocampal and basal forebrain volume,
      beta amyloid, and tau load) combine to predict which women are likely to experience cognitive
      impairment during the cholinergic challenge procedure.

      The results from this study will further the understanding of the neurotransmitter-based
      mechanisms responsible for cognitive changes after menopause and how these may predict late
      life cognitive dysfunction. After an examination of the neurobiology underlying the cognitive
      change at menopause, future studies can develop strategies to mitigate pathological processes
      that are enhanced by the menopausal hormone change.
    
  