
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and tolerability of temozolomide (TMZ) in combination with
      metformin (metformin hydrochloride) (MFRMN) and/or mefloquine (MFLOQ) and/or memantine
      (memantine hydrochloride) (MEMTN) in patients receiving adjuvant therapy after completing
      external beam radiotherapy (XRT) in combination with chemotherapy for newly diagnosed
      glioblastoma multiforme (GBM).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the median progression free survival (PFS); 6, 12, and 18 month PFS; and
      median overall survival (OS) in patients treated with temozolomide and a combination of
      metformin and/or mefloquine and/or memantine.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 8 different
      treatment arms.

      ARM 1: Patients receive temozolomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-5.

      ARM 2: Patients receive temozolomide PO as in Arm 1 and memantine hydrochloride PO twice
      daily (BID).

      ARM 3: Patients receive temozolomide PO as in Arm 1 and 30 mg mefloquine PO QD on days 1-3 of
      week 1 and then days 2, 4, and 6 every other week.

      ARM 4: Patients receive temozolomide PO as in Arm 1 and metformin hydrochloride PO BID.

      ARM 5: Patients receive temozolomide PO and memantine hydrochloride PO BID as in Arm 2, and
      mefloquine PO QD as in Arm 3.

      ARM 6: Patients receive temozolomide PO and memantine hydrochloride PO BID as in Arm 2, and
      metformin hydrochloride PO BID as in Arm 4.

      ARM 7: Patients receive temozolomide PO as in Arm 1, mefloquine PO QD as in Arm 3, and
      metformin hydrochloride PO BID as in Arm 4.

      ARM 8: Patients receive temozolomide PO and memantine hydrochloride PO BID as in Arm 2,
      metformin hydrochloride PO BID as in Arm 4, and mefloquine PO QD as in Arm 3.

      In all arms, courses repeat every 28 days for up to 24 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.
    
  