
    
      People who are prescribed self-administered medications frequently take less than half the
      doses. Poor adherence to medication regimens is associated with worsening of disease, death
      and increased health care costs in the United States. The few studies conducted in the
      emergency department (ED) setting suggest that between 7 to 45 percent of patients do not
      fill their prescription; one study conducted in Canada reported that 45% of ED patients did
      not follow their prescribed regimen. One strategy that may improve medication adherence among
      ED patients is a better information exchange between the patient, provider and the health
      care system. This study will use a randomized controlled trial to test the effect that two
      alternative ways of delivering information prescriptions (IRxs) have on medication adherence
      and treatment outcomes of ED patients.

      ED patients treated and released with a prescribed medication(s) from three hospitals serving
      different patient populations in the Baltimore metropolitan area over a 9 month period will
      be included in the study. Research assistants will consent eligible patients, interview them
      prior to ED discharge and randomize subjects to one of four study groups: (1) usual care
      (medication prescription and instructions provided at discharge); (2) practical assistance
      which consists of giving information to help subject obtain medicine (i.e. programs that
      offer drugs more cheaply, pharmacy hours of operation, etc)(3) an IRx that includes a
      MedlinePlus referral plus written information from MedlinePlus customized to the subject's
      health problem and prescribed medication; or (4) an IRx that consists of practical assistance
      and MedlinePlus referral plus customized written information from MedlinePlus plus access to
      information services provided by a medical librarian, herein referred to as a clinical
      informationist or informationist. Subjects will be contacted by telephone one week post ED
      visit and queried about medication use and patient outcomes (self-reported health,
      satisfaction with ED visit, and ED revisits or hospitalizations) and use of Internet to
      access health information. Medication instructions and ED discharge diagnosis data will be
      extracted from subjects' electronic medical record and use of informationist services
      documented. Medication adherence rates and patient outcomes will be compared among study
      groups. Self-reported use of MedlinePlus will also be compared to electronic data for all
      subjects. Self-reported medication and ED revisits/hospitalizations will be compared to
      pharmacy claims and utilization data for subjects covered by Medicaid.
    
  