
    
      Treatment details:

      Surgery(Standard/routine care) All patients would have undergone radical surgery in the form
      of a cysto-prostatectomy and pelvic nodal dissection as part of their standard care. Patients
      would also have a urinary diversion (Ileostomy) or a continent neo bladder.

      Chemotherapy All patients following cysto-prostatectomy will receive upto 4 cycles of
      adjuvant chemotherapy if medically fit for the same. Those patients who received neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy, will receive additional chemotherapy cycle after surgery to a total of 4 cycles
      if found suitable. The chemotherapy regimen, doses and schedule will be as per standard
      institutional practice using Platinum based chemotherapy. No concomitant chemotherapy with
      radiotherapy is recommended.

      Radiation therapy:

      All patients will be treated with conformal radiotherapy technique with intensity modulated
      radiotherapy with or without image guidance. The radiotherapy will start within maximum of 8
      weeks from the date of surgery if adjuvant chemotherapy has not been planned. If adjuvant
      chemo planned the patients will receive radiotherapy within 4 weeks of the last chemo cycle.

      Dose Prescription:

      50.4Gray (Gy) in 28fractions (1.8Gy/#) will be prescribed for the nodal PTV. In case of R1
      and/or R2 resection dose to the pelvic nodes and tumour bed may be increased to 54-56Gy in 28
      fractions depending on the constraints achieved during planning.

      Clinical assessment:

        1. Toxicity will be assessed by

             1. Weekly physician assessment during RT with scoring of toxicity.

             2. RTOG toxicity criteria at baseline, 6-8 weeks post RT and at 3 monthly thereafter
                for 2 years and 6 monthly thereafter for 5 years.

             3. QOL will be assessed at baseline and 3-6 monthly thereafter

        2. Disease evaluation The first follow up all patients will be done at 6-8 week to assess
           toxicity. Clinical evaluation of the disease will be done at each follow up visits by
           clinical examination. CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis will be done 6 monthly from
           second visit onwards up to 2 years and 12 monthly thereafter or whenever clinically
           indicated as decided by the physician.
    
  