
    
      Late-Onset Pompe Disease(LOPD) is an inherited disorder caused by lack of or defect in the
      enzyme acid alpha-glucosidase (GAA). GAA enzyme deficiency causes glycogen to build up and
      damage cells throughout the body, especially in the heart and muscles. In LOPD, subtle and
      overt disease-specific features may go unrecognized in childhood without vigilant clinical
      examination and assessments with appropriate functional tests. In our clinical experience,
      children with the "late-onset" GAA variant may present much earlier in life and adult
      patients with LOPD consistently report a much earlier symptom onset and a significant
      diagnostic delay. These patients have shown improvement after initiation of ERT but have
      motor impairments adversely affecting their quality of life and growth from early childhood.
      Therefore, earlier diagnosis and initiation of ERT is crucial in these patients. Instituting
      ERT at an ideal time may prevent/reduce these irreversible musculoskeletal impairments and
      lead to a better quality of life and less disease burden as these children age.

      Our team of Pompe disease experts will perform detailed clinical evaluations, physical
      therapy evaluations, cardiac assessments, speech and swallow evaluations, biochemical tests,
      sleep questionnaire, and hearing assessments on these patients. These assessments will allow
      use to capture and describe the earlier clinical phenotype in these patients and provide
      insights into the early signs and symptoms of LOPD.This study will provide and evidence-based
      approach to clinical management of newborns with LOPD to primary care physicians and
      geneticists, leading to improves patient outcomes.

      The investigators will enroll 40 infants at Duke that has screened for LOPD. This study
      involves minimal risk to the patient and offers a potential benefit of improved disease
      management. The initial visit will be as soon as possible after a confirmed LOPD diagnosis
      and follow up visits will be at 6 and 12 months. The investigators will continue to gather
      clinical information on patients and monitor clinical status beyond assessment at three time
      points.

      The study has three goals:

        1. To study and record disease specific clinical symptoms in newborns and infants with
           Pompe disease without cardiomyopathy (disease of the heart muscle) identified through
           newborn screening (NBS)

        2. To devise an approach to characterize early musculoskeletal (muscles and joints)
           involvement in subjects with the "late-onset" GAA variant identified by NBS

        3. To determine criteria to start preventative therapies including enzyme replacement
           therapy (ERT) in patients with clinical features of Pompe disease identified via NBS
    
  