
    
      The investigators will use passive repetitive tactile stimulation over a period of 3 months,
      one hour a day for five days a week, with vertical, horizontal and oblique lines generated
      randomly by a tactile stimulator. Our aim is (a) to study if repetitive tactile stimulation
      can create cross-modality and improve recognition and localization of patterns in blind
      people, (b) to evaluate the impact of this training on brain activity the investigators
      performed high-density scalp EEG recording during the initial stimulation session and in the
      last one. And (c) measure the functional connectivity of the brain with resting state MRI pre
      and post training. The resting state MRI protocol consist on one run of T1WI and three bold
      runs (TE=30ms,TR=3000ms, flip angle 90ยบ,voxel size 3mm, 124 time points, 0 gap).

      Cross-modality sensory stimulation may offer a good opportunity to improve recognition,
      localization and navigation in blind people. Although the neural substrate of this
      multimodality integration is not fully understood yet. Some areas of the brain, mainly the
      lateral occipital cortex, are specialized for visual object recognition and they can be
      activated by tactile stimuli. This activation of the visual cortex might lead to visual-like
      perception, regardless of the sensory input modality.

      In the blind the high demand required by object recognition appears to recruit also ventral
      and dorsal occipital areas. Blindness modifies neocortical processing of non-visual tasks,
      including frontoparietal and visual regions during tactile stimulation. It is also known that
      people with blindness proficient in the use of a visuo-tactile sensory substitution device
      that presents visual images as patterns of electric stimuli to the subject's tongue, like
      Bach-y-Rita and Ptito said, show occipital cortex activation in an orientation-discrimination
      task.

      As far as the investigators know there are no studies aimed at understanding the relationship
      between activation of lateral occipital cortex and the ability to recognize objects presented
      to the hand along time. In particular, the investigators tested if repetitive passive tactile
      stimulation leads to activation of visual areas and recognition of spatial patterns in people
      with blindness.
    
  