
    
      Introduction:

      Patients readmission to PICU is a major point of concern for physician because, although
      being a rare event, it has been strongly associated to more morbidity and death. Patients
      monitoring once they have left the PICU is drastically modified and small connected devices
      could be an option to early identify patients at risk of PICU readmission. Such devices have
      been manufactured for the monitoring of adults but they do not exist for children.

      Main objective:

      Assess the accuracy of VTPatch versus standard of care (Philips monitoring system) for the
      continuous monitoring of oxygen saturation (SpO2) in PICU patients.

      Secondary objectives:

      Assess the accuracy of VTPatch monitoring for 3 additional physiologic parameters (heart rate
      (HR), respiratory rate (RR) and temperature). Exploratory assessment of blood pressure (BP)
      monitoring, ECG signal and movement capture.

      Design:

      Prospective validation study of VTPatch device for the monitoring of 4 physiologic parameters
      and exploratory assessment of three additional parameters.

      Methods:

      The study will be performed in two successive phases:

        -  Run-in phase: testing the device on four children to assess the feasibility of the
           protocol.

        -  Main study: validation phase of the device on 10 children per age groups to assess its
           accuracy. The patients of the run-in phase will be included in the main study if no
           modification of the protocol is required.

           5 physiologic parameters (HR, SpO2, RR, temperature and BP) and ECG will be
           prospectively recorded during a 24 hours period with VTPatch and the regular monitoring
           system implemented in the unit High-resolution database that will be the Gold standard
           for evaluation.

      Participating center: 1 center (St. Justine's Hospital).

      Perspectives: This validation step of the collected data is necessary to validate that
      VTPatch is suitable for pediatric patient monitoring.
    
  