
    
      All children have the right to play; the right to play is enshrined in Article 31 of the UN
      Convention on the Rights of the Child. Play is the fundamental way that children enjoy their
      childhood. It is essential to their quality of life as children.

      Play permits children to engage and interact with the world around them. This exploration
      supports the development of their social and cognitive skills needed for learning. Research
      has described play as the most important 'work' a child engages him or herself in. Children
      with developmental disabilities often have difficulties establishing peer relations.
      Impairments in social competence can have adverse effects on play and can result in negative
      behaviors that are detrimental to forming relationships. As a result, the purpose of this
      research study is to determine if an intervention playgroup will increase playfulness and
      social participation for children ages 18 months to five years. The current research will
      also measure parental confidence in its attempt to understand the full effect of playgroups
      on the family unit.

      Playgroups have the potential to encourage parents, caregivers, and their children to play
      and have fun together safely. Playgroups offer a stimulating environment that facilitates a
      child's developmental needs and encourages parents to develop stable support networks.
      According to research, to enhance participation for children with disabilities, play must be
      involved in something or with someone, must offer a sense of inclusion, must have choice or
      control in the activity, and must be working towards a goal or enhancing the child's quality
      of life.

      Early intervention involves establishing developmentally appropriate play as an outcome or
      means to achieve goals. Playgroups have the added benefit of allowing the opportunity to
      coach caregivers on parenting, creating social networks, forging friendships, and seeking
      community connectedness. Practitioners who use a family centered approach see significant
      improvements in both occupational performance and parent confidence . Carryover of skills
      from the playgroup and into the home will be accomplished through the interaction between
      dyads. Findings from the National Early Intervention Longitudinal Study (NEILS) showed that
      98% of families participating in early intervention felt competent in caring for their
      children's basic needs and 90% reported that early intervention services had improved their
      ability to help their children develop and learn.

      Playfulness is defined as the way in which the child approaches any activity or task.
      Arguably, playfulness can be considered more important to defining play than the play
      activity itself. There is a strong correlation between playfulness and coping strategies a
      child will use later in life. Play positively affects cognition and problem-solving, thereby
      increasing their coping abilities. Through play, a child develops strategies of managing and
      exploring a world of rich interactions.

      Currently, there are limited studies describing the effectiveness of playgroups on a child's
      playfulness and social participation. Countries such as England and Australia have both local
      and national playgroup associations with established procedures for organizing and running a
      group headed by a team of professional coordinators. However, in the US, playgroups are
      sparse, less formal, and receive little to no support from national or state associations.
      There is a need for future research to explore the benefits of playgroups within the local
      community to remedy the lack of support in the US and provide an adequate play environment to
      children of any developmental background.

      Major Research questions:

      Will children ages 15 months to five years demonstrate increased playfulness and social
      participation after participating in playgroup? Will the caregiver of a child ages 18 months
      to five years report increased confidence in community outings with their child?

      Hypothesis:

      Children that participate in playgroups will show increased playfulness and social
      participation. Their primary caregiver will report increased confidence in community outings
      with their child.
    
  