
    
      1. Background - Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common cardiac arrhythmia post cardiac
           surgery. Estimates suggest that rates of patients experiencing post-operative atrial
           fibrillation (POAF) after cardiac surgery exceeds 30%. Atrial fibrillation has multiple
           effects on the cardiopulmonary hemodynamics. Rapid irregular ventricular rate results in
           decreased coronary flow diminishing the ability to preserve myocardial oxygen demand
           leading to ischemia. Atrial contraction provides 15-20% of LV filling in normal cardiac
           physiology and loss of synchronized atrial contraction in addition to decreased
           diastolic filling time may lead to decreased cardiac. This may lead to hypotension and
           diminished end organ perfusion requiring additional vasoactive support. Currently
           amiodarone is utilized as the pharmacological agent of choice for POAF in cardiac
           surgery, typical rate control agents are contraindicated due to need of vasoactive
           requirements. However direct effects of IV amiodarone include vasodilation and
           hypotension typically requiring escalating doses of vasoactive medications, which
           subsequently prolong stay in the CVICU (cardiovascular Intensive Care Unit), increase
           exposure to vasopressors and potentially mechanical ventilation. Vernakalant is a Von
           Williams Class III novel anti-arrhythmic agent with primary activity on atrial tissue
           with limited activity on ventricular myocardium. Primary mechanism of action is blocking
           early activating K+ atrial channels and frequency-dependent atrial Na+ channels which
           prolongs atrial refractory periods and decreasing atrial conduction without promoting
           ventricular arrhythmia. There have been many trials that proven efficacy in converting
           AF in patients with atrial fibrillation and in the post cardiac surgery patients,
           however this has never been compared to standard of care Amiodarone.

        2. Research Questions and objectives: We hypothesize administration of vernakalant compared
           to amiodarone will have a higher rate of cardioversion to sinus rhythm at 90 min in
           post-operative sustained atrial fibrillation. This will reduce duration of vasoactive
           medications, days in ICU and mortality.

        3. Methods: Patients will be recruited from the CVICU 24 hours after admission to CIVCU
           based on inclusion and exclusion criteria. Patients identified with new presentation
           atrial fibrillation with a sustained duration of greater than 30 minutes will be
           considered for the study. Patients will be randomized to Amiodarone versus Vernakalant
           using a computerized process. Patients randomized to an amiodarone arm will receive
           150mg IV bolus and an amiodarone infusion of 1mg/hr x 6 hours followed by 0.5mg/hr x 12
           hours. Patients randomized to Vernakalant will receive a bolus of 3mg/kg over 10 minutes
           and an observation period of 15 minutes, if the patient is still in AF, they will
           receive an additional 2.0mg/kg bolus of Vernakalant. Infusions will be discontinued if
           QT interval becomes >550ms, heart rate less than 45 bpm lasting >30 seconds with
           symptoms or <40bpm lasting >30 seconds with or without symptoms, ventricular tachycardia
           or development of heart block. At 90 minutes rate of conversion to sinus rhythm will be
           documented. Secondary outcomes including time to AF conversion, recurrence of atrial
           fibrillation will be documented along with safety events over 48h. Duration of
           vasoactive medications, days in ICU, time to initiation of beta blockers, mortality,
           Left Ventricular (LV) function and economics of ICU still will be followed. Patients
           will be excluded if they return to the OR.
    
  