
    
      Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) remains a leading morbidity of the extremely preterm infant,
      and prolonged mechanical ventilation is associated with increased risk for BPD. Dexamethasone
      has been used previously to facilitate extubation and decrease the incidence of BPD; however,
      due to adverse effects on neurodevelopmental outcomes, the use of this drug has decreased.
      One cohort study suggests that hydrocortisone (HC) may facilitate extubation. HC has thus far
      not been associated with adverse neurodevelopmental outcomes in either cohort studies or
      randomized controlled trials. A recent meta-analysis of postnatal corticosteroid therapy
      begun after the first week of life suggested that "late therapy may reduce neonatal mortality
      without significantly increasing the risk of adverse long-term neurodevelopmental outcomes,"
      although the methodological quality of some of the follow-up was acknowledged to be limited.

      This is a randomized controlled trial to study the efficacy and safety of a 10-day tapering
      course of hydrocortisone treatment for infants <30 weeks estimated gestational age at birth
      who remain intubated at 14 - 28 days postnatal age. Based on previous Network data these
      criteria define a population with a risk of death or BPD at 36 weeks postmenstrual age of
      approximately 65 - 75%. The primary outcome for this study will incorporate both (1) survival
      without moderate to severe BPD by Network physiologic definition and (2) survival without
      moderate or severe NDI at 18 - 22 months corrected age. Therefore, the results of this study
      will be reported only when follow-up data are available unless (1) the trial is stopped early
      by the DSMC because of strong evidence of benefit or harm, or (2) at the time all subjects
      have completed treatment the DCC finds a substantial survival benefit favoring hydrocortisone
      (p<0.001). Individual study assignment will remain masked until the follow-up is completed.
      Secondary outcomes will include short term measures such as respiratory morbidities and
      growth at 36 weeks postmenstrual age and long term measures including growth and other
      outcomes at 22 - 26 months corrected age.

      Secondary studies include:

      1)Effect of Hydrocortisone on the Cardiac mass of Premature Intubated Infants - will
      determine left ventricular mass index at 36 weeks postmenstrual age (or prior to
      discharge/transfer if after 34 weeks) in infants enrolled in the hydrocortisone for BPD RCT,
      and compare HC-treated infants to placebo-treated infants. It will similarly assess and
      compare the incidence of pulmonary hypertension in these patients.

      Extended follow-up: Subjects will be seen for a follow-up visit at 5-6 years corrected age to
      assess functional developmental and respiratory outcomes at early school age. In a subset of
      five Neonatal Research Network Clinical Centers, impulse oscillometry (IOS), which is the
      optimal direct measure of lung capacity and function, will be performed to validate the
      6-minute walk test and International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood (ISAAC)
      questionnaire as functional measures of pulmonary status. Also at these five Centers, the six
      minute walk test, ISAAAC questionnaire, and IOS will be administered as part of (1) the
      Healthy Lungs sub-study, which will recruit 120 TOP 5 study participants who had minimal lung
      disease when they were infants to define normative ranges in healthy, preterm-born children,
      and (2) the Healthy Lungs Two sub-study, which will recruit 120 healthy, term-born children
      without history of lung disease to characterize functional and mechanical respiratory
      outcomes at 5-7 years of age.
    
  