
    
      Population: Individuals (n = 80) diagnosed with BAD-II who are experiencing an acute
      depressive episode will be recruited from the Mood and Anxiety Clinic at Providence Care
      Hospital (PCH) in Kingston, Ontario, Canada. Inclusion criteria include being between 18 and
      55 years of age at the start of the study, a confirmed diagnosis of BAD-II according to
      Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Health Disorders, 5th Edition (DSM-5), a
      Montgomery Åsberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) score between 7 and 34, competence to
      consent and participate, the ability to speak and read English, and having consistent and
      reliable access to the internet. Exclusion criteria include experiencing a current acute
      hypomanic/manic episode, acute psychosis, severe alcohol or substance use disorder, and
      active suicidal and/or homicidal ideation. Additionally, if an individual is currently
      receiving or has received CBT in the past year they will be excluded from the study. To
      confirm eligibility, participants will undergo a complete assessment from a clinician where
      the diagnosis will be confirmed using the DSM-5 and a Mini-International National Interview
      (MINI) version 7.0.2. Eligible participants will be randomly allocated into either the e-CBT
      plus treatment as usual (TAU) (n = 40) or the control group (TAU exclusively) (n = 40).
      Participants in the control group will be offered the e-CBT program after the first 12 weeks
      of the study if they are interested.

      Procedure: Upon completion of the initial assessment, if eligible for the study, participants
      from the e-CBT group will be enrolled in the e-CBT program. All e-CBT sessions will be
      administered through OPTT and will consist of approximately 30 slides per week. The content
      and format of each weekly online session will be designed to mirror in-person CBT for the
      treatment of BAD-II. Participants will complete the module and submit the assigned homework
      to their clinician through OPTT where the clinician will be able to provide personalized
      feedback. These pre-designed engaging and multimedia modules will be able to streamline the
      therapy process, helping care providers save time on repeating similar materials to all
      patients and focusing on delivering personalized feedback to each patient. The slides will
      highlight a different topic each week and include general information, an overview of skills,
      and homework that is to be completed within that week. All weekly sessions have an estimated
      completion time of 50 minutes. During the 12 weeks, both groups will continue with their TAU.
      To ensure the quality and consistency of care, care pathways will be fully assigned
      beforehand, and a clinician will be trained to follow the standard care pathways. Through the
      training, the clinician will learn the aim and content of each therapeutic session and will
      be provided with sample homework submissions and modules to better understand how to
      structure feedback.
    
  