
    
      Robust data indicate that stimulant medications reduce ADHD symptoms and impairment, but it
      is unclear whether their efficacy generalizes across the ADHD subtypes. Although
      predominately inattentive type (PIT) is the most prevalent ADHD subtype in U.S.
      population-based studies, few studies have specifically examined response to stimulants in
      this subtype. Instead, medication guidelines for PIT have largely been extrapolated from
      studies enrolling all or mostly ADHD-combined type (CT). Thus, this application seeks to
      improve understanding of stimulant medication response and its predictors in children with
      PIT. We will evaluate participants' response to methylphenidate (MPH), the most widely
      prescribed stimulant, via a prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover trial
      with 3 dose conditions. Our first specific aim is to examine MPH medication and dose response
      in children with PIT (n=120) and CT (n=45) to test the hypotheses that participants with PIT
      have a diminished MPH response and derive less benefit from higher doses compared to those
      with CT. Since only one prior study has examined genetic predictors of MPH response
      variability within PIT-only samples, our second specific aim (exploratory) is to determine
      the potential role of genetic polymorphisms (e.g., those in DAT1, DRD4, NET, ADRA2A, COMT,
      SNAP25, CES1, GRM7, LPHN3) on MPH response in children with PIT (n=120), examining both
      symptom change with MPH and MPH dose response curves. If we identify significant differences
      in MPH response between the subtypes, our findings may guide clinical practice by suggesting
      more effective medication strategies (such as different dosing schedules) for children with
      PIT. In addition, this study may yield pharmacogenetic findings that, in the future, could
      enable physicians to tailor individual treatment plans for children with PIT, ameliorating
      the current prolonged and expensive practice of prescribing by trial and error.
    
  