
    
      Fifty subjects of scapular dyskinesis will be classified and recruited from overhead players
      (baseball, basketball, tennis, volleyball, and so on) at high schools and through local
      Internet media. All participants and their legal guardians will provide written informed
      assent and consent, respectively, and the study will be approved by the Ethics Committee
      Institutional Review Board. Since intervention may be specific to pattern of scapular
      dyskinesis, pattern of scapular dyskinesis in control group will match the pattern of
      scapular dyskinesis in the intervention group. Twenty-five subjects per group is based on a
      minimal revenant difference of a self-reported functional questionnaire between intervention
      and control (Struyf et al., 2013; Andersen et al., 2014). Participants will be recognized as
      elite players in their age categories. Subjects will be excluded if they have a history of
      shoulder pain or injury. Players will supply their player characteristics, including years of
      sports practice, weekly sports and conditioning exposure and type of sports. Players'
      standing height, sitting height, and body mass will be measured and used with the chronologic
      age to estimate their biological age according to the assessments of skeletal age, dental
      age, and secondary sex characteristics (Baxter et al., 2005). A clinical trial with a blinded
      assessor will be conducted. The subject takes a form (with a letter A or B) indicating
      allocation to either groups (scapula-focused approach versus control) from a closed envelop.
      For the scapula-approached group, pattern of scapular dyskinesis will be assessed. Then
      subjects in B control group will meet pattern-matched criteria related to pattern assessment
      of scapula-focused group. More subjects may be recruited for the control group to meet
      pattern-matched criteria of scapula-approached group. A list with subject numbers and the
      group allocation that results from this matched-control procedure will be stored in a sealed
      envelope. Only the therapist has direct access to the allocation list. In this way, subjects
      are allocated to either intervention or control group comprised of 25 subjects in each group.
      Both groups will be treated by the same therapist.
    
  