
    
      -  Primary Objective: To compare the effect of 6 months healthy physical activity on blood
           pressure in female school children (9-13 yrs) with those who have routine physical
           activity

        -  Secondary objective: To compare the effect of 6 months of healthy physical activity on
           body mass index and maths scores with those who have routine physical activity

        -  Study Design: It would be a non-randomized experimental study (community intervention
           trial). It is designed to test the effectiveness of exercise on reducing blood pressure
           and the effect on BMI and maths scores

        -  Setting: The study would be conducted in 4 public sector schools in Karachi.

        -  Study Population: The study population would be selected from 4 local public sector
           schools near our hospital, The Aga Khan University Hospital. Two schools would have
           intervention and 2 schools would serve as controls. Both groups would have a base line
           screening for the outcome variables and then at 6 months

        -  Intervention: The intervention is 30 minutes of healthy physical activity; 4-times/week
           would be carried out for a period of 6 months. This would be carried out by certified
           physical trainers who are experts in training children in aerobic exercise. Intervention
           group will have half an hour session on exercise motivation and its benefits. The
           routine activity group will have a similar session at baseline.

        -  Sampling technique: convenience sampling

        -  Sample Size : A sample size of 126 (63 in each arm) achieves 80% power to detect a
           difference of 4.3 mm in systolic blood pressure between the null hypothesis mean of
           110.3 and an alternative hypothesis mean of 105.7 with an estimated standard deviation
           of 9.7 and with significance level (alpha) of 0.05 using one sided one sample t test.
           Assuming that there could be a 10% dropout rate we plan to take a total sample size of
           140 students. We multiplied the total sample size by 2 to account for the design effect
           between clusters (schools) and achieved a total sample size of 280 that is 140 in each
           arm.

        -  Dependent variables or outcome variables: Primary outcome measure would be the blood
           pressure. Secondary outcome measures would be body composition including weight, BMI,
           central obesity, and maths score. Independent variable would be demographics (age,
           school class) and the intervention of healthy physical activity and measurement of food
           intake frequency
    
  