
    
      Trial design:

      2-arm parallel randomized clinical trial.

      Participants, eligibility criteria and settings:

      Consecutive patients seeking orthodontic treatment at the Section of Orthodontics, School of
      Dentistry, Aarhus University, previously selected to be suitable for full fixed appliance
      with metallic brackets in the Postgraduate clinic, according to treatment needs.

      The following inclusion criteria will be applied: minimum 4 permanent teeth (except molars)
      to be bonded in each of the 4 quadrants (thus extraction or non-extraction cases) and with
      all teeth fully erupted.

      Exclusion criteria: presence of active caries, fluorosis or hypoplasia of enamel,
      restorations or fractures of the surfaces to be bonded, abnormalities in crown morphology of
      teeth to be bonded. Subject with major rotations impeding proper bracket positioning will
      also be excluded.

      The patients will be informed about the study orally and in a written form. Consent from
      patients or parents (if the patient is adolescent) will be obtained before the bonding
      procedure.

      Sample size:

      According to the literature, failure of brackets is varying from 3 to 30% [9, 10].
      Calculation of sample size for determination of equivalence of 2 proportions (expected
      proportion of failures in control group: 25% - expected proportion of failures in test group:
      25% - maximum permitted difference: 10%) resulted in a sample size of 232 brackets per group,
      for a p=0.05 and a power of 80%. This corresponds to 29 patients (232/8). A sample size of 40
      patients will be used in order to account for potential drop-outs.

      Randomization:

      Subjects will be randomly allocated into one of two groups with a different split mouth
      set-up (Table). Randomization with a 1:1 allocation using random block size of 4 will be
      applied, following a sequence generated online (randomization.com). Allocation to groups will
      take place before laboratory ordering. Allocation concealment will be ensured by using sealed
      envelopes.

      Intervention-Protocol:

      Treatment will be performed by postgraduate students (hereinafter referred to as "dentist")
      in the Postgraduate clinic at the Section of Orthodontics (School of Dentistry, Aarhus
      University). All patients will have metallic brackets bonded from 2nd premolar to 2nd
      premolar.

        1. Impression and laboratory procedure:

             1. Alginate impression;

             2. Laboratory work : impression will be poured and plaster model will be scanned
                creating digital models of the malocclusion of the patient;

             3. The digital model will be imported in the software . Here the dentist will
                digitally place the brackets on the teeth of the two quadrants selected for
                indirect bonding according to randomization (Group 1 or Group 2);

             4. Laboratory work : two individual bonding trays (one per quadrant) made of a
                rigid-elastic plastic material will be produced by CAD-CAM, following the brackets
                positioning information as predefined by the dentist. The actualbrackets will thus
                be engaged in the bonding trays. The trays hosting the brackets will be delivered
                to the clinic, ready to be used by the dentist.

        2. Bonding procedures:

           A cheek retractor will be placed. The buccal surface of all teeth from premolar to
           premolar will be pumiced, then acid-etched with 37% phosphoric acid (30s), rinsed and
           dried. The two quadrants allocated to indirect bonding will be bonded first. Bonding of
           the two remaining quadrant using the direct bonding method will be done in second
           instance.

             1. Indirect bonding method:

                The trays will be tried in the mouth. If they can be inserted at once, this will be
                preferred. If insertion in one piece is not possible, the tray will be fractioned
                in 2 or more pieces. The etched enamel surface of the teeth in the two quadrants
                selected for indirect bonding will be prepared with adhesive . The base of all
                brackets engaged in the first tray will be covered with a thin layer of light cure
                composite for bonding. This tray with the brackets will subsequently be placed on
                the teeth. The dentist will remove the excess of composite and then light cure for
                10 seconds per bracket with a polymerization light . After light-curing, the tray
                will be cut with a carbide bur and will be removed from the mouth of patient. This
                operation will be repeated for the second tray.

             2. Direct bonding method:

           The etched enamel surface of the teeth in the two quadrants selected for direct bonding
           will be prepared with adhesive and brackets will be positioned one-by-one by the
           dentist, using bracket tweezers and height gauges, after coating the bracket base with
           light cure composite. The dentist will remove the excess of composite and then
           light-cure for 10 seconds per bracket with a polymerization light.

           The time for bonding with each method will be recorded (in seconds) with a timer.

           After bonding all quadrants, in case of presence of premature contacts on the brackets,
           the bite will be raised with bite blocks.

           Wires will be engaged and potential immediate debondings will be recorded. If
           extractions are part of the treatment plan, these extractions will be postponed after
           bonding.

           All patients will be informed about hygiene and diet recommendations.

        3. Follow-up during orthodontic treatment:

             1. Bracket bonding failure (type of tooth and type of failure - i.e. at the
                bracket-composite or at the composite-enamel interface -) will be recorded at every
                orthodontic visit (every 4 to 6 weeks), until debonding at the end of treatment
                (approximately 18-36 months later);

             2. Six to twelve months after bonding as well as at the end of treatment, bracket
                position accuracy will be evaluated on digital models produced by intraoral
                scanning;

             3. In accordance with the standard orthodontic treatment protocol in the Postgraduate
                clinic at the Section of Orthodontics, a panoramic radiograph will be taken 6 to 12
                months after bonding as well as at the end of treatment in order to assess the
                influence of brackets placement on the position of the teeth and roots;

             4. Finally, the number of brackets rebonded as well as the number of finishing bends,
                which are needed because of unsatisfactory bracket positioning, will be recorded at
                every orthodontic visit (every 4 to 6 weeks), until end of treatment.

        4. Follow-up after treatment:

      Patients will be recalled 2 and 5 years after the end of treatment. Treatment stability will
      be assessed on digital models produced by intraoral scanning.

      Statistical analysis:

      Collected data will be anonymized and analyzed in a blinded way. All analyses will be
      conducted using SPPS statistic software.

      Information regarding sex, age and malocclusion (e.g. Angle classification) will be analyzed
      with descriptive statistics.

      Paired t-tests will be used to compare bonding time between the two methods, after checking
      for normality.

      The log-rank test will be used to compare the Kaplan Meier survival curves of the two
      methods. A test of proportion will be applied to compare the failures at different time
      points between bonding methods.

      Accuracy will be evaluated by scoring bracket positioning both on digital models and
      panoramic radiographs for every tooth, at all time-points. Kappa statistics will be used to
      compare the scores.

      Descriptive statistics will be used to describe long term stability.
    
  