
    
      In critically ill surgical patients, delirium is extremely common and is associated with
      longer hospital length of stay, mortality, cost, and long term cognitive impairment.
      Benzodiazepine usage is common in anesthetic practice, and ICU literature demonstrates that
      limiting post-operative benzodiazepines decreases the incidence of delirium. However, the
      avoidance of preoperative and intraoperative benzodiazepines during cardiac surgery has not
      been studied in terms of its effect on delirium. The goal of the study is establish whether
      benzodiazepines should be used as part of standard of care or be eliminated by comparing the
      incidence of delirium in cardiac surgical patients when randomized to a group that receives
      benzodiazepines versus a group that does not receive benzodiazepines.

      Potential subjects will be identified and recruited the day before surgery by primary
      investigators. Patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting or single valve procedures
      that consent to participate will be enrolled in the study. These patients may be consented
      during the pre-operative period. Patients will be informed that whether they enroll in the
      study or not, they will be receiving standard clinical care. Only subjects meeting all
      inclusion criteria and requirements for continuation in the study will be consented.

      Patient will be randomized by age (age is a predictor of delirium) to 3 groups:

        -  >80 years of age;

        -  70-80 years of age;

        -  < 70 years of age.

      Within these 3 groups, patients will be randomized to receive benzodiazepines during cardiac
      surgery or not. The anesthesiologist in the operating room will not be blinded to the group;
      however, the intensive care physician evaluating for delirium will be blinded to the
      treatment groups.

      Benzodiazepine group:

        1. Premedication 0.02mg/kg-0.1mg/kg of midazolam;

        2. Maintenance 0.8 minimum alveolar concentration of inhaled anesthetic (MAC) and
           10-30mcg/kg of fentanyl;

        3. Postoperative 10-100mcg/kg/min of propofol

      Non-benzodiazepine group:

        1. Premedication 0-50mg of propofol and/or 0-250mcg of fentanyl;

        2. Maintenance 0.8 minimum alveolar concentration of inhaled anesthetic (MAC) and
           10-30mcg/kg of fentanyl;

        3. Postoperative 10-100mcg/kg/min of propofol

      Delirium can now be reliably diagnosed by non-psychiatrists in critically ill patients in
      less than 2 minutes through the use of validated monitoring instruments such as the Confusion
      Assessment Method for the ICU (CAM-ICU).
    
  