
    
      Background: The standard treatment for low rectal cancer (LRC) involving the anal sphincter
      involves combined, pre-operative chemotherapy and radiotherapy (CRT) followed by surgery.
      Surgery involves removal of the rectum and anus and creation of a permanent colostomy and has
      significant long term effects on bowel and sexual function and body image. Because of the
      high morbidity of surgery, there has been increasing interest in non-operative management
      (NOM) for LRC. The NOM approach involves deferral of surgery and active surveillance of all
      patients with LRC who have achieved a complete clinical response (i.e., have no residual
      tumour) following completion CRT which occurs in approximately 30% of patients. To date,
      while there have been a few, prospective single institution studies that have shown
      favourable results with NOM, this approach has not been adopted into clinical practice due to
      concerns from physicians about the safety of NOM based on the limited evidence available.

      Objectives: Therefore, the objective of this study is to conduct a pan-Canadian Phase II
      trial to assess the safety of NOM for LRC.

      Methods: All patients with LRC requiring surgery and a permanent colostomy being treated at
      the participating centres will be assessed for complete clinical response (cCR) eight to ten
      weeks following the completion of CRT by the treating surgeon. For the study, a cCR will be
      defined as (i) no palpable tumour on digital rectal exam, (ii) no residual tumour defined as
      white-yellow, flat scar on endoscopy, (iii) no residual tumour on MRI, (iv) no suspicious
      mesorectal or extramesorectal lymph nodes on MRI and (v) normal CEA level. Patients who meet
      all of these criteria for cCR will be invited to participate in the study. Patients who
      consent to participate in the study will undergo active surveillance that will include DRE,
      endoscopy and pelvic MRI every 3, 6, 9, 12, 18 and 24 months; CEA levels every 3, 6, 9, 12,
      15, 18, 21, 24 months and CT chest/abdomen and pelvis every 6, 12, 18 and 24 months. The
      primary outcome for the study will be the rate of local re-growth 2 years following the
      completion of CRT. Local re-growth will be defined as failure to meet the cCR criteria at any
      time point. NOM will be considered safe, if the rate of local re-growth is less than 30% two
      years after the completion of CRT. The secondary outcomes for the study will be the rate of
      distant recurrence, disease free and overall survival at 2 years.

      Significance: The results of this study will be highly clinically relevant since it is
      expected that NOM for LRC will be safe and will have significant potential to change clinical
      practice in Canada and North America since approximately 30% of patients with LRC would be
      able to safely avoid surgery and a permanent colostomy and have improved bowel and sexual
      function and body image. Furthermore, widespread adoption of NOM has the potential to
      increase health care capacity and decrease treatment costs by reducing the number of
      surgeries, hospital admissions and costs associated with both surgery and long term surgical
      morbidity.
    
  