
    
      Sample size: Based on the previous studies, on CIMT in hemiparetic CP children using QUEST
      scores,

        -  Anticipated increase in total QUEST scores at 2 months in the mCIMT group:

           10 + 5(mean + SD)

        -  Anticipated increase in total QUEST scores at 2 months in the mCIMT+ VRT group:

           15 + 5(mean + SD)

        -  Alpha error= 5%

        -  Power= 80%

        -  Calculated sample size : 23 children in each group

        -  Considering loss due to attrition of roughly 25%,investigators would enroll 30 children
           in each of the two groups.

        -  At least 10 children in each group will be analyzed with baseline and follow up fMRI and
           DTI. These children in each group will be selected through systematic sampling method.

      Method:

        -  Block randomization in 1:1 ratio with variable block size will be done using computer
           generated random numbers. These will be generated by the person not involved in the
           trial. Subjects will be randomized to

             -  mCIMT + VRT

             -  mCIMT alone

        -  Each random number will be kept in an opaque sealed envelope and will be opened only at
           the time of enrollment of the study subjects.Principal investigator will then enroll the
           participants, and will assign the participants to interventions. After obtaining
           informed consent from parents, and assent from the children participating in the
           trial(whenever possible), of hemiparetic cerebral palsy, subjects will be enrolled in
           the study as per the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Details for each patient will be
           recorded in a structured proforma

      The total study duration will be 3 months, of which 2 months of supervised intervention will
      be given.Home based therapy will be continued all through the 3 months of intervention in
      both the groups.

        -  Functional assessment of the upper limbs will be done using QUEST/Nine Hole Peg Board
           Test/ Hand Held Dynamometer and quality of life by cerebral palsy quality of
           life(CP-QOL)- child scale. Baseline fMRI(Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging) and
           DTI(Diffusion Tensor Imaging) Brain will be performed up to one week before starting
           intervention.

        -  Baseline fMRI and DTI will be done in at least 10 children of each group, selected by
           systematic sampling method within each group.

        -  mCIMT+ VRT program will be initiated within one week of baseline assessment, at the
           institute(Department of PMR). There will be 12 visits over the duration of intervention
           for supervised sessions, in each group. It would be twice weekly for 4 weeks followed by
           once a week for next 4 weeks. Parents will be advised regarding the therapy to be
           provided at home on these visits. Compliance log will be provided to them at the first
           visit

        -  Compliance log will be checked on each subsequent visit; reinforcement will be provided;
           video records of one session per week of each item of mCIMT done at home will also be
           reviewed. Those following regimen for <70 % of the total time recommended for mCIMT each
           day for at least 21 out of 28 days will be considered to be poorly compliant. Those
           following regimen for >80% of the total time recommended for mCIMT each day for at least
           21 out of 28 days will be considered to have compliance. Those following the regimen for
           80-90% of the total time recommended for mCIMT each day for at least 21 out of 28 days
           will be considered to have fair compliance.Those following the regimen for >90% of the
           total time recommended for mCIMT each day for at least 21 out of 28 days will be
           considered to have good compliance.[All children(both with good and poor compliance),
           will be included in the intention to treat analysis]

      CIMT(Control group and intervention group) :

      • Sling will be applied to the unaffected arm, as a restraint (sling will be provided free of
      cost). mCIMT will be performed for 2 hours per session during the scheduled visits(in the
      control group) and 2 hours every day at home(by both the groups). Functional activities will
      be carried out by the affected, unrestrained arm under supervision. Repetitive activities and
      shaping will be practiced. mCIMT will be provided by trained occupational therapist, first
      investigator and with the caregiver's participation and would be tailor made to each patient.
      At each visit, the methodology followed at home will be reviewed (log books with/without
      video records). Reinforcement will be provided at each visit regarding subsequent therapy to
      be done at home.

      VRT(Intervention group only):

        -  VRT software and device is developed in collaboration with IIT Delhi using Kinect
           system. Kinect- motion sensor and computer set up is required. VRT (CIMT in a virtual
           environment)will be provided for 2 hours at every visit(twice weekly for first 4 weeks,
           once a week for next 4 weeks). VRT will be provided only during scheduled visits with
           the same principle as mCIMT. Functional activities like repetition of the tasks and
           shaping will be performed with the affected hand using VRT and CIMT while the unaffected
           arm is restrained. At home, 2 hours of modified CIMT will be given daily, as for the
           control group. At each visit, the methodology of CIMT followed at home is reviewed (log
           books with/without video records). Reinforcement will be provided at each visit
           regarding subsequent therapy to be done at home

        -  FMRI and DTI will be done within 1 week of completion of 08 weeks of intervention in all
           those children who have had a baseline fMRI/DTI.

        -  After 8 weeks of intervention, children will be followed up again at the end of 12 weeks
           from the baseline. They will be asked to continue mCIMT daily for 2 hours at home and
           maintain the daily logs during this period. At this visit, all clinical assessments will
           be repeated

        -  Outcome assessors will be blinded to the study subject's group allocation.

        -  Data will be recorded in a pre-designed proforma and managed in an excel spread
           sheet.All the entries will be checked for any possible key board errors. Statistical
           analysis will be done using Stata 14.0 statistical software.

        -  Intention to treat analysis and per protocol analysis will be done

        -  Categorical variables will be summarized by frequency (%) and test of proportions will
           be used to compare the proportions between the two groups. Quantitative variables will
           be assessed for approximate normal distribution and these will be denoted as mean+SD or
           median (Interquartile range/min-max), as appropriate.Student's t test/ Wilcoxon rank sum
           test will be used to compare the mean value between the two groups at the end of the
           intervention and at the end of 3 months. In case of any imbalance at the baseline,
           analysis of covariance(ANCOVA) will be used to compute adjusted mean of the outcome
           variables bet the two groups and the corresponding effect size(95%CI).In this study p
           value <0.05 will be considered statistically significant.
    
  