
    
      Desmoid tumor (aggressive fibromatosis) is a mesenchymal neoplasm associated with mutations,
      resulting in -catenin-mediated transcriptional activation. It is composed of a clonal
      proliferation of mesenchymal, fibroblast-like cells occurred sporadic or as a part of
      familial adenomatosis polyposis. This tumor has high local recurrence rate after complete
      excision (~40%). Therefore, although lacking metastatic capability, patients experience
      repeated recurrence with attendant severe morbidity. Various systemic therapy using NSAID,
      cytotoxic agent (doxorubicin and vinblastine), biologic agents (tamoxifen, low-dose
      interferon), and tyrosine kinase inhibitors (imatinib) are recommended with modest activity.
      Among them, imatinib has shown promising activity and approved as standard treatment for
      desmoid tumor. However, still there is modest response (10-15% responses) and further
      combination strategy is warranted to improve antitumor efficacy.

      The transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) family of cytokines has 33 members in humans,
      including TGF-β isoforms, activins, bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs), and growth and
      differentiation factors (GDFs). These factors regulate growth, survival, differentiation and
      migration of cells, and have important roles during embryonal development and in the control
      of adult tissue homeostasis. During carcinogenesis, TGF-β has a dual role; initially it
      suppresses tumorigenesis by inducing growth arrest and promoting apoptosis, however, in
      advanced cancers, where TGF-β often is overexpressed. In addition, TCGA (the cancer genome
      atlas) pan-cancer also demonstrated high expression of TGF-β responsive signature in desmoid
      tumor. Regarding the combination, TEW-7197 (vactosertib), a TGF-β inhibitor and imatinib
      demonstrated synergistic effect in vitro and xenograft model. Compared to imatinib alone,
      administration of imatinib plus vactosertib to mice significantly delayed disease relapse and
      prolonged survival. Collectively, these results indicate that vactosertib may be a promising
      candidate for a new therapeutic strategy.

      Based on the background, TGF-β inhibition as a potential therapeutic target for desmoid tumor
      and convey significant implications for the clinical development. Therefore, investigator
      will conduct the phase II trial of vactosertib in combined with imatinib in desmoid tumor.
    
  