
    
      The investigators will screen and randomize hospitalized patients at the cereneo Schweiz AG -
      center for neurology & rehabilitation.

      The participant will be informed that his/her medical records may be examined by authorized
      individuals other than their treating physician.

      All participants for the study will be provided a participant information sheet and a consent
      form describing the study and providing enough information for participant to make an
      informed decision about their participation in the study. Patients will be given at least one
      day to make their decision. The formal consent of a participant, using the approved consent
      form, will be obtained before the participant is submitted to any study procedure.

      The process from the admission to an in-patient clinic to home discharge will follow the
      routine procedures at the cereneo clinic.

      During the clinical stay, non-modifiable (e.g. age, gender) and modifiable risk factors (e.g.
      blood values, blood pressure, diabetes) for stroke are assessed by an interdisciplinary team
      of health care providers . For present risk factors, causes among behavioral and psychosocial
      factors are investigated and possible behavioral changes are estimated.

      The clinical team provides information and education during in-clinic consultations.

      This study will pay particular attention to the counselling sessions related to exercising
      and dieting.

      In terms of dieting a nutrition specialist helps patients create a personal plan to meet
      their needs. Food and nutritional care quality is assessed weekly and scored, so as to
      improve health institution efficacy in patient assistance. In-depth nutrition assessments may
      include evaluation of anthropometric, biochemical, and clinical data; evaluation of energy
      and nutrient intake at home or in the hospital; evaluation of access to food at home;
      calculation or measurement of energy and nutrient needs; and assessment of educational
      demand. All of this is done within the context of the patient's history of the present
      illness and treatments received. Within this phase, patients may be prescribed with special
      diets that are modified in macro- or micronutrients, consistency, nutrient or energy
      supplementation using liquid dietary supplements, vitamin and mineral supplements, enteral or
      parenteral nutrition support, or nutrition counselling.

      In terms of exercising, movement therapists are assessing the patient's performance weekly
      and discuss possibilities for self-training homework exercises, considering the patient's
      health status and short-term therapy goals. Therapy exercises might be described on paper or
      video-taped for further independent training. Recommended activities might be conducted
      independently or with the help of the care team between therapy sessions.

      Prior to discharge, a session between the medical team and the patient and his/her relatives
      (or main caregiver) is organized. Within such sessions, individual advices with respect to
      behavioral changes at home are discussed.

      Individual goals including, but not limited to, exercising and dieting are discussed and set.
      General educational material including general guidelines in alcohol and tobacco
      consummation, overall activity, and general dietary recommendations are typically printed on
      paper and handed over to the patient.

      After clinic discharge, it is understood that the in-patient clinic is no longer the main
      responsible for the patient maintaining a healthy lifestyle.

      In this study, the investigators will provide (within the context of this study) additional
      medical support or tele-service, at no cost to the participants.

      The Investigators will provide follow-ups video-calls and visits at predetermined timepoints,
      at no cost to the participants.

      Two different service approaches will be investigated. One approach consists of a
      'Traditional' approach, in which the healthcare provider (cereneo clinic) relies on
      traditional tools to provide a service (use of Electronic Medical Records, prescription of
      diet and exercising given on a piece of paper/or by in-person debriefing, phone calls, etc.).
      The second approach, 'Technology-supported', consists on the same approach, but with the aid
      of new technological tools (e.g. video-conference, exercise prescription and meal planner
      programs, activity tracking, etc.) to provide a better service to the patient.
    
  