
    
      Anxiety disorders are among the most common mental disorders in children and adolescents, and
      they are associated with short- and long-term impairment in social, academic, familial, and
      psychological functioning. The children of parents with anxiety disorders are more likely to
      develop anxiety disorders themselves, because of genetic factors and the atmosphere in which
      they are raised. Previous research indicates that the risk of anxiety disorders among
      children can be reduced through preventive therapeutic interventions. In children with
      anxiety disorders whose parents also have anxiety disorders, therapy that includes their
      family is more successful than therapy focused only on the child. This study will test the
      effectiveness of a preventive, family-based therapy for children whose parents have anxiety
      disorders.

      Participation in this study will last 1 year. First, interested participants will be asked to
      perform a screening assessment. This will include providing information about the symptoms,
      behaviors, and functioning of parent and child participants; filling out questionnaires; and
      videotaping the child and parent participants interacting. If, after the screening,
      participants are selected to continue with the study, they will be randomly assigned to
      receive either information monitoring or family-based cognitive behavioral therapy. Child and
      parent participants assigned to information monitoring will receive a booklet with
      information on coping with anxiety. Child and parent participants assigned to family-based
      cognitive behavioral therapy will meet with a study clinician for eight, weekly, 1-hour
      intervention visits, during which participants will learn skills to reduce anxiety. After
      completing the weekly visits, participants in this group will also receive three monthly
      booster sessions, in which coping skills will be reviewed. In addition to the screening
      visit, all participants will undergo identical assessments at three more time periods: 9
      weeks, 6 months, and 12 months after entering the study. All participants will also receive
      monthly phone calls throughout the study to monitor the children's anxiety symptoms.
    
  