
    
      Background/Scientific Basis:

      Hypoglycaemia is the most common acute complication of diabetes and can limit therapeutic
      efforts to improve glycaemic control. It is a potential side effect of the drugs used to
      treat diabetes, particularly with the use of exogenous insulin or insulin secretagogues, such
      as sulfonylurea (SU) treatment. As many people are prescribed these agents, hypoglycaemia is
      frequent in clinical practice, particularly as treatment targets have become more stringent.
      Several studies have demonstrated that insulin-induced hypoglycaemia causes prolongation of
      corrected QT (QTc) interal (Chugh et al), which is associated with ventricular arrhythmias
      and sudden death, perhaps as a result of hypokalaemia and an increase in serum
      catecholamines. Cardiac effects of hypoglycaemia are usually associated with type 1 diabetes
      and insulin therapy. Hypoglycaemia in type 2 diabetes (T2DM) on oral agents has not, until
      recently, been considered to be as serious. Recently, hypoglycaemia in T2Dm has come in into
      focus since the salutary results of the ACCORD, ADVANCE and VADT trails, each of which
      implicated hypoglycaemia as a cause for increased death. The majority of excess deaths in the
      intensive treatment group of ACCORD were classified as sudden cardiac death. There is now a
      growing body of evidence that hypoglycaemia is a pro-arrhythmic event via QT prolongation and
      particularly in the context of myocardial ischemia which reduces the tolerance of myocardial
      tissue for the further pro-arrhythmic action of hypoglycaemia.

      It is notable that hypoglycaemia occurs commonly in those using SU. For example in the UK
      Hypoglycaemia Study (UK Hypoglycaemia Study Group) , 7% of individuals treated with SUs had
      at least one episode of severe (requiring external assistance) hypoglycaemia and the
      proportion reporting at least one mild (symptomatic, self-treated) episode was 39%, a rate
      comparable to insulin treatment. Furthermore, the SU receptor functions as the regulatory
      subunit of the adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-sensitive potassium (KATP) channel. KATP channels
      are widely expressed in the heart and vascular smooth muscle cells. There have been long-held
      concerns that SU effects on these channels may affect ischaemic preconditioning (Cleveland et
      al), a protective mechanism in the myocardium. This may represent an additive deleterious
      impact specific to SUs in a hypoglycaemic setting.

      Despite these theoretical concerns associated with SU treatment the pro-arrhythmic effects of
      SU induced hypoglycaemia have not previously been easy to study in ambulatory patients. Now
      the dual ambulatory technologies of CGMS (Maia et al) and ambulatory ECG (Holter) monitoring
      provide an opportunity to examine this potential association under real life conditions. Even
      in the absence of absolute QT prolongation, there is evidence that beat-to-beat QT
      variability is also a risk marker for sudden death and ventricular arrhythmia (Piccirillo et
      al). Additionally, glucose variability may also have an impact on cardiac tissue. Habituation
      to chronic hyperglycaemia could lead to a situation where a sudden decrease to plasma glucose
      leads to changes in QT interval, even when the glucose falls within the normal range
      ("relative hypoglycaemia").

      A pilot study in our institution of 14 individuals on insulin (3 with T1DM and 11 with T2DM)
      showed statistically significant prolongation of QTc during periods of hypoglycaemia. The
      mean difference in QTc during hypos was 7.8ms (p<0.05). An inverse relationship between the
      magnitude of increase in QTs during hypoglycaemia and baseline QTc was found. The limitations
      of the pilot study are that it was restricted to those subjects treated with insulin and that
      relative hypoglycaemia and QT variability were not analysed.

      Hypothesis:

      Sulfonylurea induced hypoglycaemia and/or fluctuations in glucose are pro-arrhythmic by
      prolonging the QTc interval and/or increasing beat-to-beat QTc variability. It is expected
      that the QT interval will be significantly longer during the hypoglycemic periods compared to
      the non-hypoglycemic periods in patients in T2DM treated with SU.

      Aims:

      To examine the association of hypoglycaemia and glucose fluctuations on QT-interval and QT
      variability in patients with type 2 diabetes treated with SU. Patients will be studied using
      simultaneous Continuous Glucose Monitoring (CGM) and ambulatory ECG monitoring (Holter).

      Potential Significance:

      The information gained from this study has the potential to improve our understanding of the
      relationship between hypoglycaemia and cardiac arrhythmia in patients with diabetes.

      Recruitment Process:

      Patients with type 2 diabetes attending the Diabetes Centre, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital who
      fulfils the entry criteria will be approached to participate in this study. They will be
      approached either when they attend the Diabetes Centre for treatment, or by means of a
      telephone call. The requirements of the study will be discussed with each potential
      participant and they will be given a copy of the Participant Information Sheet and Consent
      Form to take home and read. The proposed number of participants for this study is
      approximately 30 individuals.

      Research Interventions:

        1. Blood Collection

        2. Continuous Glucose Monitoring

        3. Home Blood Glucose Monitoring

        4. Holter Monitor

      Risk and Side Effects:

      We do not anticipate any adverse events associated with study participation. However, there
      may be some mild discomfort and/or bruising at the site of blood collection, or insertion of
      the glucose sensor for CGM, or skin irritation from the ECG adhesive tapes required for
      Holter monitoring.
    
  