
    
      Design:

      A parallel cluster randomised controlled trial will be conducted in rural central Tanzania in
      9 intervention and 9 control villages. A simple randomisation with a 1:1 allocation using a
      list of random numbers generated in Microsoft Excel 2007 will be used to randomise villages
      to either control or intervention group. Generation of allocation sequence and randomisation
      of clusters will be done by a statistician blinded to study groups and not participating in
      the research.

      Recruitment and collection of baseline information:

      After cluster randomisation, sub-village leaders will identify all infants aged 6 months and
      their parents in a systematic door-to-door survey. Parents will be invited to a meeting where
      the nature and purpose of the trial and eligibility criteria will be explained. Thereafter,
      their infants will be screened for eligibility.

      Parents and infants who meet the inclusion criteria, agree to participate in the trial and
      give a written informed consent will have their infants recruited. Baseline information of
      recruited infants and their parents (i.e. household's, parents' and infant's characteristics)
      will be collected using a structured questionnaire. Structured interviews with village and
      sub-village leaders will also be conducted to collect village information (i.e. population,
      health facility, water supply, schools, livelihoods, resources, economic opportunities).

      Intervention:

      The control group will receive routine health education offered monthly by health staff at
      health facilities. Routine health education is a standard government health service for
      children below the age of five years. It is offered to mothers during growth monitoring and
      immunisation contacts. The sessions usually take 10-15 minutes and focus on general health
      issues including child feeding, prevention of diseases such as malaria and importance of
      immunisations. The intervention group will receive a nutrition education package in addition
      to the routine health education. With the nutrition education package, mothers and caregivers
      will receive 3 sessions of education and counselling on optimal infant and young child
      feeding and health, when a child is aged 6, 9 and 12 months. Nutrition counsellors will
      receive training at baseline and the session will be repeated after 6 months. After training,
      the nutrition counsellors will conduct monthly home visits to counsel and support mothers and
      their families. Supervisory visits will be conducted by the research team after every 2
      months to assess counsellors' work. Separate sensitisation meetings with families and health
      staff responsible for child health will be conducted at baseline and meeting will be repeated
      after 6 months.

      Data collection:

      Data collection forms (structured questionnaires, observation checklists, etc.) have been
      pre-tested in a neighbouring district and standardised. Interviewers will administer the
      surveys in national language, Kiswahili. After data collection, all filled forms will be
      manually checked for completeness and consistency. To enhance blinding, precise objectives of
      the study and village allocation to trial will not be disclosed to data collectors; nutrition
      counsellors will not be responsible for data collection; and data collection schedule will be
      randomised.

      Impact evaluation data: In the intervention group, data on primary and secondary outcomes
      will be collected at baseline and ages 9, 12 and 15 months. In the control group, the same
      variables will be collected at baseline, and ages 12 and 15 months.

      Process evaluation data: A process evaluation will document the intervention implementation
      process so as to 1) assess whether the intervention activities are implemented as planned
      (i.e. fidelity), 2) evaluate the extent to which the intervention reaches the intended
      mothers and their families (i.e. reach), 3) determine the degree to which targeted mothers
      are exposed to intervention components and extent to which they use intervention resources
      (i.e. exposure or dose received), and 4) describe the setting (i.e. contextual factors,
      facilitators, barriers, contamination) into which the intervention is being implemented that
      may have an influence on intervention effectiveness. In control villages, process evaluation
      will identify and describe actions, events and context which may reveal new interventions,
      evidence of contamination or other factors external to the intervention. Process evaluation
      data will be collected two months after baseline (when infants are 8 months-old) and at the
      end of intervention (when infants are 15 months-old). Structured and semi-structured
      interviews, review of records (e.g. training and education attendance sheet, activity logs,
      training test scores, etc) and structured observations will be carried out with mothers,
      nutrition counsellors, health workers and village leaders.

      Monitoring:

      The research team will visit intervention villages every 2 weeks in the first 2 months of
      intervention, and thereafter visits will be made at 2-months interval. Researchers will log
      and report all activities related to the delivery and quality of training, education,
      supervision and sensitisation meetings using monitoring tools (e.g. forms, logs, observation
      checklists, supervisory reports). Nutrition counsellors will document home visits in
      workbooks. Actions or events external to the intervention which happen in the intervention
      villages will be documented in event forms and semi-structured interviews.

      Data analysis:

      Data will be entered in Epi-data version 3.1 and consistency analysed by range checks of data
      values. Data will be analysed using STATA release 12.0 (STATA Corporation, Texas, 2007).
      Frequency distributions will be run to identify outliers. Impact evaluation data will be
      compared between intervention and control villages using hierarchical or multi-level models
      and presented at the cluster and individual levels. The methods will provide adjustment for
      potential covariates and confounders at the cluster and individual levels. Data will be
      analysed by intention to treat. The process evaluation data will use both inductive and
      deductive approaches to analyse qualitative data using NVivo 10 for Windows (QSR
      International, Australia).
    
  