
    
      Context: Although multiple factors influence school functioning, executive function (EF)
      deficits have been found to be a key predictor of academic achievement. EF is a higher order
      cognitive ability associated with persistent goal-directed behavior. Organization, time
      management, and planning (OTMP) skills are aspects of EF that are particularly associated
      with children's academic performance. Organizational demands increase over the course of
      early schooling and are relatively high by 3rd through 5th grade. Poor OTMP skills during
      this period adversely impact academic functioning. In the late elementary school grades, as
      students are expected to become more organized, some students have difficulty learning these
      skills in spite of classroom supports provided by teachers, placing them at increased risk
      for academic failure.

      Objectives: The purpose of this Goal 3 efficacy study is to conduct an evaluation of the
      Organizational Skills Training Program - School version (OST-S), a fully developed
      intervention for students in general education. The proposed study builds upon research
      demonstrating the efficacy of a clinic-based version of the OST intervention (OST-C) in
      remediating OTMP skills deficits and improving academic functioning for 3rd, 4th and 5th
      graders with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and a recent pilot research
      demonstrating the feasibility and potential effectiveness of OST-S provided by end users
      ("school partners") for 3rd through 5th graders. It also builds upon research training school
      staff to implement evidence-based interventions with high fidelity.

      Study Design: This is a cluster-randomized trial with a treatment as usual (TAU) control
      group.

      Setting/Participants: Schools are located in Pennsylvania and New Jersey and include 20 urban
      and suburban schools serving a diverse population. Students (3rd to 5th grade) who are
      struggling the most with OTMP deficits and whose academic performance is negatively impacted
      by their OTMP deficits will be referred to the study team by their general education
      teachers.

      Study Interventions and Measures: OST-S is a small group skills training intervention, with
      parents and teachers supporting children's use of new skills. The program manual includes
      strategies for training and coaching school staff, referred to as school partners, to
      effectively implement OST-S and guidelines to modify the program for implementation in
      diverse schools with diverse students. Each student session includes: (a) homework review to
      assess completion of between-session skills implementation; (b) skill-building activities,
      which include the use of modeling, shaping, guided practice, and reinforcement for organized
      behavior; and (c) activities to promote generalization of skills. Sessions address four
      organizational challenges: (a) tracking assignments, (b) managing materials, (c) managing
      time, and (d) planning for long term assignments.

      Investigators will measure the following: intervention fidelity, stakeholder engagement,
      student OTMP skills, student academic self-efficacy, student academic outcomes, student
      characteristics, feasibility, usability, and acceptability of OST-S. In addition,
      Investigators will track the interventions that are offered as treatment-as-usual in TAU
      schools. A cost analysis related to the implementation of OST-S will also be completed.
    
  