
    
      As a result of the current military operations in Afghanistan (Operation Enduring Freedom;
      OEF) and Iraq (Operation Iraqi Freedom; OIF), the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is
      providing health care for increasing numbers of veterans who have experienced mild traumatic
      brain injury (MTBI) or concussion, many of whom complain of cognitive impairment. MTBI is the
      most common combat-related injury and can occur with or without direct impact, obvious
      external injuries, or loss of consciousness. Currently, cognitive rehabilitation for MTBI
      typically includes training in compensatory strategies that help patients develop internal
      strategies (e.g., visual imagery) and utilize external aides (e.g., memory notebooks,
      calendars/organizers, timers) to compensate for cognitive deficits. Initial data from our
      unfunded cognitive rehabilitation pilot study are encouraging and indicate post-treatment
      improvement on multiple outcome measures. However, to date, no published studies have
      evaluated the efficacy of specific cognitive rehabilitation interventions with OEF/OIF
      veterans who have experienced combat-related MTBI. The primary objective of this study,
      therefore, is to evaluate the efficacy of a manualized, 10-week, Compensatory Strategy
      Training (CST) intervention for OEF/OIF veterans with cognitive disorder resulting from the
      aftereffects of combat-related mild traumatic brain injury. The specific goals are: 1) to
      determine the efficacy of cognitive rehabilitation group treatment; and 2) to determine the
      treatment factors and patient characteristics that are associated with improved functional
      outcomes. The overall goal is to develop an evidence-based, manualized, group treatment that
      can be readily implemented in VHA treatment settings. The study design makes use of the
      convergent availability of resources available at the four participating VAs in Portland
      Oregon, Puget Sound Washington, San Diego California, and Boise Idaho. The study will recruit
      a total of 280 OEF/OIF veterans enrolled for medical services at these VAs. In a randomized
      controlled trial, we will compare two groups: eligible participants will be randomly assigned
      to either the Cognitive Strategy Training (CST) group or Usual Care (UC) group. Participants
      in the CST group will receive the CST intervention during their participation in the study,
      which will consist of weekly 120-minute group sessions for 10 weeks as guided by the CST
      Treatment Manual. UC participants will continue to receive usual care (i.e., their regular
      medical, psychiatric, and psychotherapeutic care; no CST intervention) during their
      participation, but will be offered CST after the end of the study. Both groups will undergo
      assessments at baseline, 5 weeks (midway through CST),10 weeks (immediately following the end
      of CST), and 15 weeks (5 weeks after CST is completed). These assessments will include a
      brief cognitive assessment battery and a battery of questionnaires and paper-pencil tests
      designed to assess current psychological and cognitive symptom severity, utility of
      compensatory strategies, self-efficacy, adaptive functioning, ability to reliably manage
      personal affairs, substance use, quality of life, and treatment satisfaction ratings. During
      their study participation, all participants will continue to receive their regular medical,
      psychiatric, and psychotherapeutic care.
    
  