
    
      Overall design This is a randomized controlled trial with 1:1 randomization to study or
      control group.

      Treatment/intervention plan and rationale AF patients awaiting to have a planned catheter
      ablation procedure as their treatment will be eligible for this study. If they participate,
      there is a 1:1 randomization to study or control group.

      The study group will have their catheter ablation procedure with utilization of esophageal
      protection using the cooling tubing device (Attune Medical, Chicago IL). The cooling is
      controlled by the procedural doctor, with temperatures set in the range of patient safety
      (for example, cooling at 4 degrees). This device is already in use clinically albeit in a
      different clinical setting. The device is currently used an intensive care setting to provide
      whole body cooling. It is designed to be inserted into the esophagus. The temperature control
      does not allow temperatures to go into the extremes, so preserving patient safety.

      The control group will have their catheter ablation procedure using standard esophageal
      protection methods, which is an esophageal temperature probe, to measure for any temperature
      changes during application of ablation energy. If measured esophageal temperatures reach
      beyond 38 degrees then ablation is halted in that area.

      Follow up endoscopy assessment After the ablation procedure, a follow up upper GI endoscopy
      test will be performed to review for any ablation-related thermal injury, by a group of
      endoscopists who are 'blinded' to the randomization of the participant. The follow up
      endoscopy test will be confirmed with the participant and the timing of this follow up test
      is within 1 week of their catheter ablation procedure.

      Clinic follow up The clinic follow up will remain exactly the same as standard care but at
      the first clinic (this is 12 weeks or 3 months from the ablation procedure) we will review or
      ask about any lingering gastro-esophageal symptoms and record this in a basic questionnaire
      (the GerdQ questionnaire will be used).
    
  