
    
      Nasal lavage is a relatively simple way to measure the degree of upper airway inflammation.
      It is useful in research because it is noninvasive, relatively discomfort-free, and simple to
      perform. Yet there is no standardized method for collecting upper airway cells. The
      definition of nasal lavage can differ widely between research groups. The method, and its
      pooled modification, chosen for this trial are based on the commonly used Naclerio technique.

      Upper airway inflammation is linked to a broad spectrum of disease: nasal polyposis, seasonal
      and perennial allergic rhinitis, vasomotor or non-allergic rhinitis, and sinusitis. Assessing
      the degree of upper airway inflammation through objective measures has obvious clinical and
      research benefits. For example, nasal polyps contain a large number of activated eosinophils
      - about 20% of the constituents of nasal polyp tissue. Allergic rhinitis is also associated
      with elevated inflammatory cell counts - eosinophils, basophils, mast cells, lymphocytes and
      their mediators. The impact of treatment on nasal inflammation is a key factor in the
      evaluation of new nasal polyp or allergic rhinitis therapies. Therefore it is imperative that
      nasal inflammation measurements be evaluated for reliability.

      As nasal inflammation is present in a variety of diseases, a cross section of subjects will
      be enrolled in this trial. Nasal lavages will be performed on nasal polyp subjects, perennial
      allergic rhinitis subjects, and normal subjects. This project will assess the repeatability
      of a single sample lavage in comparison to the repeatability of a modified version, i.e. a
      lavage sample conducted three times, 15 minutes apart, and then pooled, or combined. We
      expect to find the highest eosinophil counts in patients with nasal polyposis, intermediate
      levels in patients with perennial allergic rhinitis and low levels in normal subjects, based
      on previous work.

      This project will be a single-centre, randomized trial involving three sets of seven subjects
      - polyp subjects, perennial allergic rhinitis subjects, and normals. All subjects will be
      blinded to the assessment of outcome measurements.

      The study will be comprised of four clinic appointments. Appointments will be scheduled seven
      to 10 days apart. All subjects will be randomly assigned their lavage sampling group at their
      baseline visit. Group one will consist of a single sample lavage at visit one, a multiple
      sample lavage at visit two, a single sample lavage at visit three, and a multiple sample
      lavage a visit four. Group two will be the reverse order.
    
  