
    
      Clinical follow-up of Anti-Carbamylated Antibody Status in Rheumatoid Arthritis patients at
      6, 12 and 18 months.

      Concept

      Patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) with positive antibodies against carbamylated
      proteins (anti-CarP) have a more severe clinical course.

      Background

      The immune based pathophysiology of RA is one of the most studied. We already know that the
      citrullinated peptide antigen inducing antibody formation and subsequent anti-cyclic
      citrullinated peptide (anti-CCP) antibodies. In some patients can explain the clinical
      manifestations. However it is also apparent that some groups of patients with rheumatoid
      arthritis who do not have anti-CCP antibodies. It is possible then the presence of a variety
      of antigens exposed during the disease, and perhaps different clinical presentations
      associated with each.

      The use of anti-CCP antibodies has been included in the classification criteria of RA
      developed by the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) in 2010 and generated the presence of
      two sub-groups of patients with RA, the positive and negative for anti-CCP. It is very
      important to study the presence of anti-CCP antibodies in RA population because it influences
      the clinical behavior and response to treatment. In very early or undifferentiated arthritis,
      the presence of anti-CCP antibodies can predict the presence of erosions in the course of the
      disease. On the other hand, patients with negative anti-CCP antibodies tend to have better
      responses to treatment with methotrexate.

      Initially it was thought that the obvious pathophysiological link between RA and
      citrullinated peptides leading to formation of antibodies was the apparent cause of the
      clinical manifestations, but soon it was demonstrated that there were groups of patients with
      clinical manifestations of RA that did not had anti-CCP antibodies so its genesis was not
      explained by citrullination. Then it is possible a diversity of antigens exposed during the
      illness and perhaps different clinical presentations associated with each one or its
      combinations. So actually, some studies are attempting to show other possible antigens
      involved in RA and one of them uses homocitrulline as an antigenic basis to RA
      pathophysiology. The carbamylation or homocitrullination is a posttranslational modification
      of proteins that occurs when the amino acid lysine reacts with cyanate in a
      non-enzyme-mediated process generating homocitrulline. Mydel, Bokarewa and cols. demonstrated
      that immunization of mice with homocitrulline- and citrulline-containing peptides leads to
      development of erosive arthritis following intra-articular injection of
      homocitrulline-containing peptides and proposed that homocitrulline induced activation of T
      cells is a key mechanism in the pathogenesis of autoimmune arthritis as it serves as an
      initial triggering event for neo-epitope recognition of citrulline containing peptides.
      Recently It has been shown that rheumatoid arthritis patients has homocitrullinated proteins
      in his joints which can trigger an inflammatory response with formation of antibodies against
      homocitrulline.

      Shi et al. showed in a study of 571 RA patients and 350 healthy subjects the following
      statements:

        -  The anti-carbamylated peptide (Anti-CarP) antibodies are different from Anti-CCP
           antibodies and they do not cross-react.

        -  The Anti-CarP antibodies are present in sera of patients with RA.

        -  Anti-CarP antibodies are found in sera of patients without anti-CCP.

        -  The Anti-CarP antibodies are associated with increased progression to radiographic
           damage.

      Thus, autoantibodies recognizing anti-CarP are a promising new serological marker for anti
      CCP antibodies negative RA and are associated with a more severe clinical course.

      Hypothesis

      Patients with RA with positive antibodies against anti-CarP have a more severe clinical
      course and elevated cardiovascular risk.

      Design

      It is a parallel study for clinical follow-up , observational.

      Description of Subject Population(s)

        -  Patients older than 18 years old, both gender, with RA diagnosis according to ACR
           European Leage Against Rheumatism (EULAR) 2010 classification that accepted and signed
           informed consent that were seen at the Rheumatology Clinic in Hospital Universitario
           "Dr. José Eleuterio González", Monterrey, NL. México.

        -  Exclusion: Chronic kidney disease and pregnant patients Assessment Tools and Procedures

        -  DAS-28 ESR

        -  Lipid profile Length of Study in Months

        -  18 Primary Endpoints

        -  Clinical activity measured by DAS28-ESR in patients with RA according to antibodies
           against anti-CarP status at 6, 12 and 18 months Secondary Endpoints

        -  Number and accumulative dose of Disease Modifying Anti-Rheumatic Drugs (DMARD) according
           to antibodies against anti-CarP status at 6, 12 and 18 months

        -  Cardiovascular risk according to antibodies against anti-CarP status at 6, 12 and 18
           months Clinical Information

        -  Total number of subjects 262

        -  Number of subjects for each treatment arm 131

        -  Study Duration Per Patient (in Months) 18

      Primary Objective

      The primary objective of this study in adult subject with RA is as follows:

      1. To explore the clinical differences in activity indexes (DAS28-ESR) at 6, 12 and 18 months
      of follow up according the anti-CarP antibody status

      Study Secondary Objective(s)

      One secondary objective is as follows:

        -  To investigate the remission rate (DAS28-ESR) according the anti-CarP antibody status

        -  Other secondary objectives are as follows:

        -  To compare the percentage of subjects with DAS28-ESR Low Disease Activity (LDA) at 6, 12
           and 18 months according the anti-CarP antibody status

        -  To compare the accumulative dose of prednisone between groups according the anti-CarP
           antibody status

        -  To compare the number and doses of DMARD´s used to treat RA between groups according the
           ant CarP antibody status

      Study Design

        -  Prospective, Non-Randomized, Open Label

        -  Inception Cohort Study

      Study Primary Efficacy Endpoints

      The primary efficacy endpoitns is as follows:

        -  The percentage of subjects who meet DAS28-ESR < 2.6 at 6, 12 and 18 months in the Anti
           CarP positive antibody arm compared Anti CarP negative antibody arm

      Study Secondary Efficacy Endpoints

      The secondary efficacy endpoints are as follows:

        -  Percentage of subjects with DAS28-ESR LDA at 6, 12 and 18 months at 6, 12 and 18 months
           in the Anti CarP positive antibody arm compared Anti CarP negative antibody arm

        -  Median of the accumulative dose of prednisone at 18 months at 6, 12 and 18 months in the
           Anti CarP positive antibody arm compared Anti CarP negative antibody arm

        -  Mean of the number and doses of DMARD´s used to treat RA at enrollment at 6, 12 and 18
           months in the Anti CarP positive antibody arm compared Anti CarP negative antibody arm

        -  Cardiovascular risk according to anti-CarP antibody status

      Study Sample Size Calculation

      A total of 262 subjects will be followed in this study. According the pilot study it was
      found a 12 month remission rate in the Anti CarP positive antibody of 33% arm compared Anti
      CarP negative antibody arm of 50%, with a difference of 17% in remission rate at 12 month
      follow-up. One hundred and thirty-three patients are needed per group. A 2 group continuity
      corrected chi square test with a 2-sided significance level (alpha) of 0.05 was used to
      compare sample size and a 0.2 (beta) to power.

      Study Statistical Methods

      Descriptive statistic for categorical and numerical variables will be used. Categorical
      variables will be expressed in frequency and percentage; comparisons will be done by chi
      square test. Numerical variables, after normality test we will describe them as mean and
      median with standard deviation (SD) and interquartile range (IQR) as corresponds,
      respectively.

      For the primary end point, chi square test the percentage of DAS28-ESR remission by group
      will be compared.

      For the secondary end points we will compared by t test or Mann Whitnney U the mean o median
      of the accumulative dose of prednisone and number of DMARD used.
    
  