
    
      Elderly patients who undergo anesthesia and non-cardiac surgery are subject to deterioration
      of brain function including the development of postoperative delirium (PD) and postoperative
      cognitive dysfunction (POCD). These disorders cause disability, distress for both patients
      and their families, are associated with other medical complications and account for
      significant additional health care costs. We currently use relatively primitive approaches to
      preventing and treating PD and POCD. The proposed is a pilot study for an NIH grant which was
      recently submitted. This is a randomized controlled trial of perioperative dexmedetomidine to
      prevent PD and, potentially, POCD. Fifty patients will be enrolled at Mount Sinai with two
      different surgeries, either hip replacement or vascular bypass. The patients undergoing hip
      replacement will receive dexmedetomidine until discharge from the PACU. Vascular surgery
      patients who are transferred from the PACU to a monitored step-sown unit will continue
      dexmedetomidine for 24 hours.Participants will be screened for Mild Cognitive Impairment
      (MCI), and undergo preoperative cognitive testing. Unlike the parent trial, we will test for
      but will not select for patients with MCI. Participants will be randomized to either
      dexmedetomidine or placebo which will be started prior to surgery and continued for 24 hours
      postoperatively. Follow up studies will include surveillance for delirium while in the
      hospital and cognitive testing at 3 months following surgery.

      Dexmedetomidine is a drug used for sedation in critically ill patients that provides some
      pain relief and controls the bodies response to stress. The sedation produced by
      dexmedetomidine appears more similar to natural sleep than any other drug used for anesthesia
      and postoperative sedation. Data suggesting that dexmedetomidine can prevent delirium
      following cardiac surgery and the developing understanding of the causes of PD and POCD
      suggest that dexmedetomidine will be particularly effective.
    
  