
    
      Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) accounts for 2-3% of all adult malignancies worldwide,
      representing the seventh most common cancer in men and the ninth in women. The annual
      incidence is more than 337 000 cases and around 140 000 persons die every year. Half of
      patients with RCC are going to develop metastases, either with synchronous metastatic sites
      (25%) or during the follow up (25%).

      Papillary renal cell carcinoma (PRCC) represents 10-15% of RCC and is characterized by a
      cytogenetic profile distinct from other types of renal cancer. Histologically, PRCC could be
      separated in 2 distinct subtypes: type 1 and type 2.

      Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a potent induction factor, playing a central
      role in angiogenesis and vascular permeability of tumor tissues. It binds to three specific
      receptors: VEGFR-1, VEGFR-2 and VEGFR-3, which are thus implicated in pathologic
      angiogenesis, tumor growth and metastatic progression of cancer. Patients with papillary
      histology demonstrated high expression of VEGF and VEGFR-2, making VEGF-targeted therapy an
      attractive therapeutic option.

      Recently, several studies have been developed to assess VEGF targeted therapy in patients
      with PRCC, mostly with sunitinib and with poor results (median progression-free survival
      (PFS) around 6 months).

      Axitinib is a potent, selective second-generation inhibitor of all three VEGF receptors. By
      inhibiting VEGF-mediated endothelial cell proliferation and survival, axitinib inhibits
      angiogenesis and tumor growth.

      In phase II trials, axitinib has shown anti-tumor activity with well-tolerated clinical
      safety profile in patients with advanced solid tumors, including RCC.

      Axitinib has been approved for the second-line treatment of advanced RCC on the basis of the
      pivotal randomized phase III AXIS trial results. 723 patients were enrolled and randomly
      assigned to receive axitinib or sorafenib. The median PFS assessed by independent review
      committee was 6.7 months with axitinib compared to 4.7 months with sorafenib (hazard ratio
      0.665; 95% CI 0.544-0.812; one-sided p<0.0001).

      In all studies, the safety analysis showed a good tolerance of axitinib. The most common
      adverse reactions (occurring in >20% of treated subjects) were diarrhea, hypertension,
      fatigue, decreased appetite, nausea, dysphonia and hand-foot skin reaction. Dose
      discontinuations were reported in 4% of patients with axitinib vs. 8% with sorafenib.

      Little clinical data regarding the efficacy of recently developed VEGF targeted therapies in
      first-line treatment of PRCC is available. To date, there is no standard treatment, and
      evaluation of efficacy of the new targeted agents is clearly needed.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of axitinib in first-line
      treatment of patients with papillary renal cell carcinoma.

      Axitinib inhibits angiogenesis and vascular permeability in tumor tissues, leading to
      inhibition of tumor growth.

      Axitinib has shown antitumor activity in patients with RCC in phase II and III clinical
      trials.

      VEGF inhibitors are currently used in PRCC treatment, with disappointing results. Axitinib is
      more potent and selective against the VEGFR family compared with sorafenib and sunitinib in
      biochemical assays, and could have a similar efficacy with lesser toxicities, therefore may
      provide a clinical benefit in patients with PRCC.
    
  