
    
      In the early 1960s, a group of clinicians asserted that myopia could be reduced and possibly
      corrected by fitting specially designed contact lenses to induce corneal flattening and
      thereby reduce the refractive power of the eye. This technique, known as orthokeratology,
      required that the lenses be fitted and then changed progressively until vision becomes normal
      or nearly normal. Advocates of orthokeratology claimed that corneal changes could be induced
      in a predictable fashion, were often permanent, and occurred without causing any adverse
      effects to the cornea. Data on orthokeratology were generally limited, poorly documented, and
      did not address the issues of control or failure.

      The Berkeley Orthokeratology Study was a single center randomized, concurrently controlled,
      masked clinical trial. Corneal and visual changes in an orthokeratology treatment group were
      monitored and compared with those observed in a control group whose members wore contact
      lenses fitted in a standard clinical manner. Visual and ocular characteristics were monitored
      for 1.5 years.

      Eighty subjects were studied-40 in an orthokeratology group and 40 in a control group fitted
      with conventional hard contact lenses. The hard lenses chosen for this study were made of
      either polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) or a PMMA-silicone combination (Polycon). All subjects
      were initially fitted with PMMA lenses.

      The initial treatment and control lenses were selected according to protocol guidelines and
      then adjusted to achieve an "optimal fit" based on lens position, movement, and alignment as
      assessed by fluorescein study. At the outset, the treatment and control lenses differed in
      that the treatment lenses were on the average thicker and flatter and had a larger diameter.

      Following the dispensing visit, subjects progressed through three study phases. In the
      adaption phase (Phase A), subjects were examined weekly until they were adapted to 12 to 14
      hours of daily contact lens wear. The postadaptive phase (Phase B) consisted of monthly
      followup examinations for 1 year. The final phase (Phase C) consisted of a lens withdrawal
      segment and a postwearing segment.
    
  