
    
      Childhood obesity is recognized as a major public health epidemic in Canada with over 31.5%
      of all 5- to 17-year-olds being overweight or obese. The etiology of this increase in
      childhood obesity can be attributed to trends in children's diets that include increasing
      access to foods high in fats, added sugars, and eating outside the home with routine exposure
      to large portions of energy-dense, nutrient-poor foods. Menu labelling and point-of-purchase
      nutrition information is a promising potential cost effective public health strategy and
      utilized in the adult population. In this study, the investigators plan to evaluate the
      impact of a combination of labelling techniques including attractive characters, descriptive
      food names and traffic light system on food choices made by children and their parents in an
      inpatient hospital setting at the Hospital for Sick Children. The investigators will assess
      patient ordering and consumption patterns before and after the introduction of a revised
      educational Meal Train menu. A crossover randomized control trial design will be employed to
      identify changes in fruit and vegetable intake, healthy ("green light") option intake, number
      of sweetened beverages and energy-dense nutrient-poor ("red light") foods chosen as well as
      the number of children that meet the Canadian Food Guide (CFG) daily serving recommendations.
      As a secondary analysis, the investigators will be collecting participant's age, sex and
      weight-for-age z-score (as defined by the World Health Organization guidelines) to
      investigate any potential relationships between these variables and food ordering patterns
      before and after introduction of the proposed educational menu. A questionnaire will also be
      distributed to assess parent and child perceptions of the revised Meal Train menu. The
      investigators hypothesize patient ordering and consumption patterns before and after the
      introduction of a revised educational Meal Train menu will promote healthier food selections.
      While this type of intervention has been studied in hypothetical restaurants and cafeteria
      setting, this will be the first study conducted in a hospital setting with pediatric
      inpatients and their parents.
    
  