
    
      The development of APNs in Hong Kong is in line with nursing development internationally.
      Since 2001, the Hospital Authority has appointed about 530 nurses as APNs, in whom about 50
      are in mental health practice. Five of these psychiatric APNs function independently and
      interdependently with other health care team members to excel to health educators and care
      coordinators with fulfilments in health assessment, education and care coordination for
      clients with noticeable mental health problems, being referred to psychiatric outpatient
      service. A structured one-to-one psycho-education program has been developed and trial run to
      provide early psychiatric and psychosocial intervention and support to the clients who have
      been triaged by the psychiatric nurses in two outpatient clinics in the Kowloon East Cluster
      as categorised as those who present noticeable mental symptoms but low risks of self-harm or
      violence. These clients are arranged to have their first psychiatrist consultation in the
      clinic within two to eight weeks following triage. Prior to the consultation appointment,
      they are referred to the psychiatric APN in the nurse-led clinic for providing further
      psychosocial health assessment and early intervention and psychological support. As estimated
      by the clinic staff, there are 60% of the clients (i.e. 60 cases per month) triaged and
      classified as such category in the two outpatient clinics.

      This study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of the one-to-one, nurse-led psycho-education
      program provided by the psychiatric APN for those newly referred clients with mental health
      problems on improving their mental and emotional conditions, quality of life, and
      satisfaction with service, and on reducing their rates of hospitalization and default
      follow-up in two psychiatric outpatient clinics (OPD) in Kowloon East region of Hong Kong.

      Objectives of the study

        1. To investigate the effects of the nurse-led psycho-education program for newly referred
           clients with mental health problems triaged as Category 2 on improving their mental
           state, anxiety state, insight and treatment attitude, self-efficacy in life situations,
           general health, and utilisation of and satisfaction with mental health care services
           provided over a period of 12 months follow-up; and

        2. To investigate the effects of the nurse-led psycho-education program on reducing the
           clients' rate of hospitalization and default follow-up in the psychiatric OPD over the
           12-month follow-up.

      [Note: Those are not eligible to participate in this trial will be assessed by an Advanced
      Practice Nurse to join the randomised controlled trial with repeated measures, parallel-group
      (2-arm) design will be carried out at one psychiatric clinic. This pilot trial aims to
      evaluate the effects between the treatment group (i.e., a problem-solving based self-learning
      program, SPBB) and routine outpatient service (control group) for 116 randomly selected
      family caregivers of outpatients with recent-onset psychosis over a 6-month follow-up. The
      study outcomes include the caregivers' burden of care, caregiving experiences, and
      problem-solving abilities, and the patients' mental state, functioning, and
      re-hospitalization rates. They will be measured at recruitment, one week, and 6 months
      following the interventions. Objectives of the study are: 1. To investigate the effects of
      the SPBB program for family caregivers of recent onset psychosis on improving their
      caregivers' burden of care, caregiving experiences, and problem-solving abilities, and the
      patients' mental state, and functioning over a period of 6 months follow-up; and 2. To
      investigate the effects of the SPBB program on reducing the clients' rate of hospitalization
      and default follow-ups in the psychiatric outpatient clinic over the 6-month follow-up.
    
  