
    
      Indication: Patients discharged from the Intensive Cardiac Care Unit or the Internal Medicine
      Department following acute coronary syndrome (ACS) events such as unstable angina or acute
      myocardial infarction who will be prescribed a statin for the first time for preventing
      further coronary episodes.

      Drug(s) and Dose/Regimen: Regular or aggressive Simvastatin therapy (dose will be adjusted
      according to LDL and Total Cholesterol levels). Treatment period 6 months.

      Objectives: To determine whether using SMS technology can improve compliance and hence
      clinical outcomes in patients with long-term lipid lowering therapy.

      Primary outcome: number of patients who achieve target LDL goals. Secondary outcomes:
      reductions of total cholesterol, LDL, LDL/HDL and CRP; increase of HDL; Readmissions due to
      ACS.

      Study Background/Rationale/Purpose: Long-term lipid lowering therapy is the cornerstone of
      preventing recurrent cardiac events in patients that have experienced such episodes. Numerous
      studies have demonstrated the efficacy of statins in the treatment of hyperlipidemia and
      reduction of total mortality, vascular mortality and coronary adverse events1.

      One of the main concerns affecting the success of long-term chronic drug treatments is
      patients' compliance and adherence to the prescribed regimen. Till date there is no gold
      standard system that will assure complete patient compliance.

      It has been suggested to explore the possibility of using short messages service (SMS)
      technology to improve patients' compliance 2-18. Such technology may be effective in
      targeting this problem; however, no controlled trials have been conducted to validate this
      method in long-term lipid lowering treatments. Furthermore, Israel is one of the leading
      countries in terms of expansion of the mobile phone services market, making SMS a feasible
      and effective form of communication with patients.
    
  