
    
      With the advent of more sensitive molecular techniques, biomarkers of kidney transplant
      rejection have been proposed that are potentially much more sensitive, specific and rapidly
      testable than conventional predictors of graft function such as GFR or tissue biopsies. Some
      of the early biomarkers during this evolution were the Cytotoxic T-cell (CTL) transcripts
      like perforin, granzyme B and fas ligand 11-13 for acute rejection. In the case of CAN/IFTA
      and CKD the molecular mechanisms and testable biomarkers also remain unclear. A few studies
      have reported the involvement of TGF-beta, extracellular matrix proteins like fibronectin and
      thrombopondin and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteins (TIMPs) as being upregulated in
      patients with Chronic Allograft Nephropathy (CAN/IFTA). Most of these studies were done in
      kidney transplant biopsies and the challenge of testing their expression and correlation in
      PBL as a minimally invasive tool was only addressed in a few studies. Another limitation of
      these first studies was the lack of the power to profile genes globally. To this end the
      advent of DNA microarrays has brought about a quantum leap in the ability to profile
      thousands of genes simultaneously. Thus far, microarray analysis has been reported in kidney
      transplant studies implicating gene signatures for acute rejection in transplant biopsies as
      well as for the first time by us in peripheral blood. To our knowledge only two studies have
      tried to profile CAN/IFTA in peripheral blood. A recent study attempted to validate three
      genes that were derived from a microarray analysis of kidney biopsies using RT-qPCR. All
      three genes were significantly differentially expressed in urine but not in PBL. Another
      study using microarrays showed that among a panel of 49 peripheral blood genes that were
      purported to distinguish "operational tolerance" in kidney rejection, 33 genes could also
      distinguish "chronic rejection" with 86% specificity.

      Most of the studies in the literature, including our own, as well as our more recent
      unpublished peripheral blood gene expression studies of AR and CAN/IFTA reveal clear
      molecular signatures for both these forms of transplant outcomes. In sum, these data
      establish a first proof of concept that peripheral blood gene expression profiling can be
      used to develop markers of kidney allograft rejection and chronic kidney injury.
    
  