
    
      Background:

      Patients with refractory and/or recurrent neuroblastoma have poor prognosis despite complex
      multimodal therapy; therefore, novel curative approaches are needed. The investigators are
      attempting to use T cells obtained directly from the patient, which can be genetically
      modified to express a 4th generation GD2-specific chimeric antigen receptor (4SCAR-GD2). The
      chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) molecules enable the T cells to recognize and kill
      neuroblastoma through the recognition of a surface antigen, GD2, which is expressed at high
      levels in neuroblastoma but not at significant levels on normal tissues. This study will
      evaluate the side effects and the best dose of a novel 4th generation anti-GD2 CAR T cells to
      refractory and/or recurrent neuroblastoma.

      Objectives:

      1. Primary: To determine the safety and feasibility of administration of 4SCAR-GD2 T cells to
      children with neuroblastoma following a cyclophosphamide/fludarabine preparative regimen.

      2. Secondary:

        1. To determine if the administration of 4SCAR-GD2 T cells can establish an antitumor
           effects in children with neuroblastoma who receive preparative regimen.

        2. To describe the toxicity of administration of anti-GD2 CAR T cells in children with or
           without high-burden disease.

        3. To evaluate the incidence and the treatment effect of cytokine release syndrome (CRS).

        4. To determine the expansion and functional persistence of 4SCAR-GD2 T cells in the
           peripheral blood of patients and the correlation with antitumor effects.

      Eligibility:

      Patients 1-14 years of age, at least 10 kg, with neuroblastoma that has recurred after or not
      responded to standard therapy and is deemed incurable by standard therapy.

      Design:

        -  Participants will be screened through physical exam and medical history. Blood and urine
           samples will be collected. Imaging studies or bone marrow aspirates may be performed.

        -  Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) will be obtained by apheresis, and T cells
           will be activated and modified to express the 4SCAR-GD2 gene.

        -  On Day -7, PBMC will be activated and enriched for T cells, which will be followed by
           4SCAR-GD2 lentiviral transduction. The total culture time is approximately 5-10 days.

        -  Participants will receive a preparative conditioning regimen comprising
           cyclophosphamide/fludarabine to prepare their immune system to accept the modified CAR T
           cells. The preparative regimen is consisted of fludarabine 25 mg/m(2) on days -4, -3 and
           -2 and cyclophosphamide 300 mg/m(2) on day-4, -3 and -2.

        -  Participants will receive an infusion of the modified 4SCAR-GD2 T cells and closely
           followed up for treatment related responses.

        -  Participants will have frequent follow-up visits to monitor the outcome of the
           treatment.
    
  