
    
      Migraine afflicts greater than 28 million adults in the United States. Acute treatments, such
      as almotriptan malate, target the symptoms of a migraine attack. Preventive treatments, such
      as topiramate, primarily target the generation of attacks and may decrease use of acute
      treatments. Preventive treatments, by a process of neurostabilization, may result in an
      additive effect on almotriptan malate to improve acute treatment intervention response during
      a migraine attack. This is a randomized, double blind, parallel group multicenter study that
      will enroll patients 18-65 years old with a history of 3-12 migraine headaches each month for
      the past 3 months. The total study duration will be approximately 32 weeks. The study is
      divided into 4 phases as follows: A Screening Phase that lasts one month; An Open Label Phase
      where all patients will be treated with topiramate gradually dosed to 100mg a day lasting 6
      weeks; A Double Blind Phase lasting 19 weeks at which time patients will be randomized to
      stay on topiramate 100mg per day or switch to placebo topiramate (50:50 chance) and a
      Taper/Exit Phase lasting 2 weeks. Almotriptan malate will be used for all migraine headaches
      during the study as needed. The study hypothesis is that the combination of almotriptan
      malate and topiramate will have a better clinical response than the combination of
      almotriptan malate and placebo topiramate. Migraine pain information will be collected from
      each patient with the use of a Personal Digital Assistant (PDA or Palm Pilot) throughout the
      study for each migraine attack. Commercial Topiramate will be gradually increased to
      100mg/day in approximately 4-6 weeks. You will then be randomized to either Topiramate or
      Placebo, dosed at 100mg a day, for the remainder of the study (18 weeks). AXERT 12.5mg may be
      taken to treat migraine headaches during the study.
    
  