
    
      The Study Drug:

      Doxercalciferol is designed to "copy the actions" of Vitamin D without causing blood levels
      of calcium to be too high.

      Study Drug Dose Level:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will begin receiving
      doxercalciferol. The dose you will receive will be based on how many participants have been
      enrolled before you, and on the safety data that is available. You will remain on the same
      dose level throughout this study. There will be up to 9 participants enrolled in each group
      of the same dose. The first group of participants enrolled on this study will be given small
      doses of doxercalciferol. If no intolerable side effects are experienced, the next group of
      participants will be enrolled at a higher dose level. This process will continue until
      researchers find the highest tolerable dose of doxercalciferol, among the 5 dose levels being
      tested, that can be given without intolerable side effects occurring.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will begin the first "cycle"
      of the study drug. Each cycle of chemotherapy will last 28 days.

      Doxercalciferol will be taken by mouth every day for 28 days.

      Study Visits:

      Every week during Cycle 1, you will have a physical exam, and urine will be collected for
      routine tests.

      Two (2) times every week while you are on study, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for
      routine tests.

      During Cycles 2 and beyond, you will have the following tests and procedures performed:

        -  Urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  ECG and ECHO will be repeated again only if your doctor feels it is necessary.

        -  You may also have a computed tomography (CT) scan and/or magnetic resonance imaging
           (MRI) to check the status of the disease.

      Length of Study:

      You may remain on this study for up to 12 cycles.You will be taken off this study if the
      disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur. The study doctor may stop you from
      taking part in this study at any time if he/she believes it is in your best interest or if
      you do not follow the study rules.

      You can stop participating in this study at any time. Tell the study doctor if you are
      thinking about leaving the study so that any risks can be reviewed by your study doctor and
      so that follow-up care and testing can be discussed. The study doctor will tell you how to
      stop safely.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      Once you are off-study, you will have an end-of-study visit. At this visit, the following
      tests and procedures will be performed.

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (around 2 teaspoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  You may also have a CT scan and/or MRI to check the status of the disease.

      Long-Term Follow-Up:

      After the end-of-study visit, you will have a study visit every month for the first year and
      then once a year for 10 years. At these visits, you will have a physical exam.

      You may also have CT scans and/or MRIs every 8 weeks for the 1st 6 months, every 3 months for
      the next year, then every 6 months for 1 1/2 years, and then at least 1 time a year after
      that. This will be done to check the status of your disease.

      Researchers would like to keep track of your medical condition and some general health
      information about you through yearly follow-up visits, letters, and/or phone contact, for up
      to 10 years. More information (such as other treatments and/or disease response) will be
      collected if follow-up studies show changes in the disease or in your overall health.

      If the disease has gotten worse, researchers will keep track of which parts of your body are
      involved. Researchers will also collect information about any other cancers or major organ
      problems you might have developed. Keeping in touch with you and checking on your condition
      will help researchers look at the long-term effects of the study.

      This is an investigational study. Doxercalciferol is FDA approved and commercially available
      for reducing high levels of a hormone in patients undergoing chronic renal dialysis. Its use
      in this study, for this disease, is investigational.

      Up to 24 patients will take part in the study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  