
    
      Insulin degludec (IDeg), an ultra-long-acting basal insulin, is increasingly used to treat
      patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D). IDeg has a half-life of 25 hours and duration of action
      exceeding 42 hours in patients with T1D and as a result does not require as stringent a
      dosing schedule as other basal insulins. However, steady state concentration of IDeg is not
      reached until 2 to 3 doses are administered daily, and this may result in greater glycemic
      variability in the 24 to 72 hours following the initiation of therapy with IDeg.

      Our hypothesis is that among patients who transition from insulin glargine to IDeg, those who
      use a bridging dose of insulin glargine will not have a significant change, on average, in
      time spent in target glycemic range during the transition period, whereas, those
      transitioning directly to IDeg will have a significant change in this parameter. We further
      hypothesize that those using the bridging dose of insulin glargine will have less
      hypoglycemia, less hyperglycemia and need fewer correction boluses than the direct-conversion
      patients during the transition period.

      Though IDeg is being increasingly used in clinical practice, there are no guidelines on what
      is the best way to transition patients from other long-acting insulins, such as glargine, to
      IDeg. The package insert recommends 1:1 dose conversion from other basal insulins to IDeg,
      but this does not account for the time taken by IDeg to achieve steady state (typically 48-72
      hours). There is no guidance on what to do in those 48-72 hours. Given the time taken for
      IDeg to achieve steady state, the period of transition from one insulin to another, can
      result in significant glycemic variation in the 24-72 hours after the first dose. We want to
      study how best to avoid or minimize this and the option of using a small dose of their
      original long-acting insulin has anecdotal evidence of success in our practice.
    
  