
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the impact of the use of umbilical cord blood as a source of hematopoietic
           stem cells for children with life-threatening oncologic, hematologic, or
           genetic/metabolic disorders in need of a stem cell transplant.

        -  Compare the incidence of graft-versus-host disease in patients receiving cord blood
           transplants in this study with historical data for unrelated donor stem cell
           transplants.

        -  Compare the incidence of engraftment in patients receiving cord blood transplants in
           this study with historical data for unrelated donor stem cell transplants.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Preparative therapy: Patients are treated on 1 of 4 preparative therapy regimens.

             -  Regimen A: Patients undergo total body irradiation (TBI) two times daily on days -7
                to -4. Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on days -3 and -2
                and anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG) IV over at least 6 hours on days -3 to -1.

             -  Regimen B (patients who do not receive TBI): Patients receive oral busulfan 4 times
                daily on days -8 to -5, and ATG IV over at least 6 hours and melphalan IV over
                15-20 minutes on days -4 to -2.

             -  Regimen C (patients with Fanconi's anemia and related disorders): Patients undergo
                TBI on day -6. Patients receive ATG IV over at least 6 hours and methylprednisolone
                IV on days -5 to -1 and fludarabine IV over 30 minutes and cyclophosphamide IV over
                30-60 minutes on days -5 to -2.

             -  Regimen D: Patients receive oral or IV busulfan 4 times daily on days -9 to -5, ATG
                IV over at least 6 hours on days -5 to -3, and cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60
                minutes on days -5 to -2.

        -  Cord blood transplant: All patients undergo umbilical cord blood transplantation on day
           0.

        -  Graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis: Patients receive oral or IV cyclosporine twice
           daily beginning on day -1. Patients also receive methylprednisolone IV twice daily
           beginning on day 5 and continuing until at least day 28.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 25 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  