
    
      The study will enroll 100 high risk tribe members and 20 low stroke risk tribe members. Each
      of these will be further studied for their atherosclerotic load by ultrasound measurements at
      the carotid bifurcation for presence of plaque as well as its stability or instability during
      pulsation. Enrolled participants will also receive assessment of biomarkers for stroke risk,
      including stroke-related vascular cognitive decline, an early and modifiable marker of TIA
      risk and serum analysis for glucose, cholesterol, microRNA and key proteins felt to be
      biomarkers of stroke.

      The high risk participants will be divided into two groups, stratified by gender, age,
      history of cerebrovascular events, and the presence or absence of atherosclerosis in their
      carotid bifurcation including equal numbers of participants that in spite of high risk, have
      not yet deposited plaque.

        -  One group will receive advice about standard therapy and information concerning risk
           factor guidelines to improve health awareness.

        -  The other group will receive the same plus intensive initiation of the American Heart
           Association Guidelines for Management of Risk Factors with at least quarterly individual
           face-to-face coaching meetings on lifestyle change and adherence to treatment.

      At the end of 2-year follow-up, all groups will be reassessed for adherence to the program,
      atherosclerotic plaque progression or regression and its stability, serum biomarker response
      to therapy interventions, successful risk factor modification, vascular cognitive decline and
      incidence of stroke and TIA. Intention to treat analysis will estimate the efficacy of health
      coaching and will use G-estimation to correct for issues of non-compliance and
      discontinuation. Groups will be compared for change in both risk factors and outcomes.

      Vascular cognitive decline is an important symptom of cerebrovascular disease which may
      precede a physical stroke with devastating results. Extensive preliminary data show that the
      frequency of this is surprisingly common in high risk patients and may predispose patients to
      later dementia. Vascular cognitive decline is a risk factor for stroke, but also is
      modifiable. A prior small study showed that intervention could stop the rate of decline. The
      study will see if this predicts participants at greatest risk for stroke that would improve
      with an intensive intervention program.
    
  