
    
      Preliminary study data have indicated a possible increased cardiovascular disease risk in
      patients exposed to nicotine replacement therapy compared with controls (i.e. non-nicotine
      replacement therapy exposed patients) of a magnitude that could not reasonably be accounted
      for by differences in the cardiovascular risk profile of the two patient groups. Further
      in-depth studies in this area are warranted.

      This retrospective study will compare the cardiovascular disease event risk in a group of
      smokers undertaking pharmacologically unaided smoking cessation attempts with the event rate
      in a group of smokers attempting smoking cessation assisted by pharmacological interventions
      (any of nicotine replacement therapy, bupropion or varenicline) in a representative UK
      primary care population.

      There are three main types of pharmacological interventions currently available for smoking
      cessation, each of which has demonstrated efficacy when used in conjunction with behavioural
      support: nicotine replacement therapy, bupropion, and varenicline. Other medications,
      especially nortryptiline and clonidine, are considered to be effective adjunct therapy in
      smoking cessation, but they remain second-line options at this time.

      Nicotine replacement therapy has been available since the 1980s and bupropion since 2000.
      Either approach to cessation doubles the chance of achieving abstinence when compared with
      unsupported quit attempts. After being granted its European licence in 2006, varenicline
      joined the pharmacological smoking cessation armamentarium. It is the first drug developed
      specifically for the treatment of tobacco dependence that contains no nicotine, and it
      triples smokers' chances of quitting compared with unsupported quit attempts.

      As the fore-runner, nicotine replacement therapy is the longest-standing of the existing
      pharmacological smoking cessation interventions currently available. It aims to alleviate
      nicotine withdrawal symptoms by substituting the nicotine attained through tobacco smoking
      via alternative means (e.g. nasal sprays, inhalers, gum and tablets, transdermal patches).
      The various nicotine replacement therapy products available have differing durations of
      action and allow patients to tailor their nicotine intake according to their particular
      needs.For example, patches can be used to substitute for background nicotine and gums or
      tablets can be used to help satisfy urges.
    
  