
    
      PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES The primary objective of this study is to prospectively evaluate the
      effect of metoclopramide in ED patients with minor head injury. The primary hypothesis is
      that the administration of intravenous metoclopramide will be effective in relieving the
      symptoms of acute post traumatic headache in ED patients with minor head injury.

      The secondary hypothesis is that the administration of intravenous metoclopramide will also
      be effective in reducing the incidence of chronic post-concussive syndrome in ED patients
      with minor head injury. The research question is "Does the administration of intravenous
      metoclopramide at a dose of 10 or 20 mg to adult ED patients experiencing headache following
      a minor head injury result in a significant decrease in pain severity as measured on a 10cm
      visual analogue scale, as compared to placebo?"

      RESEARCH METHODOLOGY This is a prospective, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled
      trial.

      Only patients who meet the following inclusion criteria will be recruited:

        1. History of blunt head trauma within preceding 24 hours

        2. Immediate and transient post traumatic impairment of neurological functions such as
           alteration of consciousness, amnesia, disorientation, or disturbance of vision or
           equilibrium.

        3. Onset of headache within one hour of trauma.

        4. Significant intra-cranial injury excluded by CT scan or clinical assessment.

      Exclusion criteria will include age less than or equal to 16 years, known or suspected
      pregnancy, known hypersensitivity or intolerance to metoclopramide, inability to give
      informed consent, known gastrointestinal hemorrhage, perforation or obstruction, known
      seizure disorder, known pheochromocytoma, concurrent significant CNS depression due to drugs
      or alcohol, or concurrent treatment for psychiatric illness.

      Patients will be randomized and asked to grade their headache pain severity on a 10-cm
      non-hatched visual analog scale (VAS) before the administration of the study drugs. They will
      then receive either 10 mg (2ml) of metoclopramide or 2 ml of saline placebo. After 15 minutes
      they will again complete the VAS. If their headache is not satisfactorily relieved they will
      be offered a second dose of study drug and the VAS will be completed again 30 minutes later.
      Patients will be contacted 1, 4 and 8 weeks later in order to complete a telephone
      questionnaire to assess for PCS symptoms.

      The primary comparison will be between the proportion of patients achieving significant pain
      relief in each of the two study arms and a difference of 20% of greater in these proportions
      will be considered clinically significant. A t-test of two proportions will be used and p
      less than or equal to 0.05 will be considered statistically significant. Secondary outcomes
      will be evaluated for hypothesis generating purposes using appropriate parametric and
      non-parametric statistics with corrections for multiple comparisons as needed.
    
  