
    
      Procedures will be performed at the Surgery Laser Clinic at the Beckman Laser Institute at
      the University of California, Irvine.

      At an initial visit, a brief history and physical will be performed.

      The history will include: 1) previous treatment to my PWS; 2) current medications; 3) history
      of light sensitivity; 4) risk of pregnancy and use of birth control in a female of
      child-bearing age.

      The physical will include: 1) measurement and evaluation of PWS; 2) measurement of blood
      pressure, blood cell count, general chemistries (including liver function tests) and ANA,
      which might indicate an increased sensitivity to light.

      On the day of treatment, the same brief physical and history will be repeated. A urine
      pregnancy test will be performed on females of child-bearing age.

      Four circular test sites of PWS will be selected. One test site will receive no treatment.
      The second test sites will be treated with the pulsed dye laser at standard setting and
      protective eyeglasses to shield the eyes during the laser treatment.

      For two additional test spots, the photodynamic therapy (PDT) verteporfin will be
      administered intravenously over a 10-minute period. After receiving the verteporfin, the skin
      and eyes will be sensitive to light for the next 5 days. The light sensitive protection
      precautions will be instructed.

      Optical Doppler Tomography unit (ODT) measurements, similar to shining a flash light to PWS
      and measuring the light response, which provide information about how blood is flowing
      through the PWS.

      Photographs and light measurements will be taken during follow-up visits on day 1, day 3, and
      1, 2, 4, 8 and 12 weeks after the study treatment. At these visits blood may also be drawn to
      check for blood substances that promote blood vessel formation.

      At the end of the study, blood tests will be drawn to assess cell count and general
      chemistries.
    
  