
    
      Hot flushes and night sweats are common menopausal symptoms. Around 75% of menopausal women
      experience hot flushes and 10-20% of all postmenopausal women find these hot flushes very
      stressful. Some menopausal women also experience other symptoms such as emotional
      vulnerability, sleeping problems, fatigue, joint pain, cognitive changes, vaginal dryness and
      loss of sexual desire.

      On average women experience the menopause in the beginning of the early fifties. Menopausal
      symptoms are commonly experienced in 4-5 years and for some women even longer. Besides
      individual differences within a homogenous population the experience of menopausal symptoms
      also differs among different cultures and ethnic groups.

      Hormone therapy (HT) has in many years been an effective treatment for menopausal symptoms.
      However, research has shown that long-term HT increases the risk of breast cancer and
      thromboembolic disorders. Other medications such as antidepressants or antiepileptics have
      been tried but are normally not recommended. Relaxation, exercise and use of different herbs
      have also been suggested but currently no convincing results. Hence, alternative effective
      treatments with few side effects are desired.

      Acupuncture has in several studies shown an effect on menopausal hot flushes. However due to
      different study design, acupuncture style and outcome measures it is difficult to compare
      these studies. Moreover, many of these studies have been criticized for methodological errors
      and flaws e.g. poor design, lack of follow up, small sample size, inadequate control group,
      not standardized acupuncture points, problems with drop outs and blinding of the
      participants. Consequently, further research and more well-designed randomized controlled
      trials (RCTs) are needed.

      It is estimated that approximately one-third of the general practitioners in Denmark on a
      regular basis are using acupuncture as part of their treatment of patients. A study from 2013
      showed that about 20 % of the Danish hospital departments, distributed among 40% of the
      Danish hospitals, offered complementary and alternative medicine (CAM). Almost 70% of these
      treatments were acupuncture. Experience from this project could potentially kick start a
      research tradition of acupuncture, and lead to an expansion of an "evidence-based" use of
      acupuncture in the Danish health-care system.

      HYPOTHESIS Treatment with acupuncture can reduce menopausal symptoms; in particular hot
      flushes.

      AIM To determine and evaluate the efficacy of acupuncture on menopausal symptoms.

      METHOD The study is designed as a randomized controlled trial and reporting will follow the
      STRICTA method which is an official extension of CONSORT statement.

      RECRUITMENT AND SETTING Study subjects will primarily be recruited through general
      practitioners, the Danish Society for Evidence based Acupuncture (DSEA) and groups for
      menopausal women on social media.

      The trial will take place in Danish primary care medical clinics.
    
  