
    
      Objectives The investigators hypothesize that developing an individualized and dynamic
      exercise intervention (iMETX) that accounts for factors of the built environment will be
      feasible for breast cancer patients following primary treatment. This pilot study will assess
      the feasibility and provide preliminary estimates of effectiveness of the environmental
      intervention for increasing the energy expenditure and energetic capacity of breast cancer
      patients. The investigators will also explore patient feedback with this intervention and
      changes in levels of fatigue and quality of life. Experience and data from this initial pilot
      study will be used to refine the intervention and design subsequent studies to test its
      effectiveness.

      Primary objective Evaluate the feasibility of an individualized, dynamic, environmental
      physical activity intervention for early stage breast cancer patients following primary
      treatment.

      Secondary objectives

        1. Determine a preliminary estimate of effect size of the environmental intervention on
           energetic capacity (power envelope) as measured by Power Protocol-B

        2. Determine a preliminary estimate of effect size of the environmental intervention on
           average daily EE as measured by a wearable hybrid GPS/accelerometer physical activity
           monitor

        3. Determine the effect of the environment intervention on the physical parameters of BMI
           and lean body mass

        4. Determine the effect of the environmental intervention on patient reported fatigue and
           quality of life

        5. Determine the persistence of changes in average daily EE after the intervention is
           complete (i.e., when individual movement tasks are no longer suggested).

        6. Obtain formal and informal patient feedback throughout and after the intervention to
           assess satisfaction and perceptions of feasibility

        7. Assess safety

      Exploratory objectives Blood samples will be collected prior to and following the
      intervention and banked for future correlative studies, including the following: inflammatory
      cytokines (high sensitivity C reactive protein and interleukin 6), adipokines (adiponectin
      and leptin), sex hormones (estradiol, estrone, testosterone, and sex hormone binding
      globulin), and telomere length. In addition the invstigators will explore correlations of
      built and social environment characteristics and psychosocial characteristics with
      pre-intervention and changes in energy expenditure.
    
  