
    
      Functional imaging of brain networks associated with pain processing is of vital importance
      to aid developing new pain-relief therapy and to better understand the mechanisms of brain
      function. The pain response in the brain is a complex process, which involves multiple
      cortical brain regions, such as primary and secondary somatosensory cortices, anterior
      cingulate cortex, and insular cortex . Recent advancement in neuroimaging techniques suggests
      the possibility to map the brain structure and networks that involve pain processing.
      Electroencephalography (EEG) is a noninvasive monitoring technique, which is widely used to
      probe neurological disorders with high temporal resolution. Few attempts have been made to
      use EEG to map the active brain regions in pain patients. Functional MRI (fMRI) measures the
      hemodynamic brain response and could image the active brain regions with high spatial
      resolution. Studies have shown that fMRI is a useful tool to delineate the brain regions
      associated with pain processing. Recent studies from simultaneous EEG and fMRI recording have
      suggested that the EEG response to the pain may be correlated with the fMRI response, and
      both EEG and fMRI could be used to image the brain pain processing regions, such as the
      primary somatosensory cortex and anterior cingulate cortex.

      The aim of this research is to develop and evaluate a functional neuroimaging approach using
      EEG, fMRI and EEG-fMRI, in pain study. EEG, fMRI, or simultaneous EEG-fMRI will be collected
      in healthy subjects who receive external thermal stimulation inducing pain. The painful
      stimuli will be delivered at different intensity levels and the subject pain rating will be
      collected. The imaging technique combines the EEG signal with high temporal resolution and
      the fMRI signal with high spatial resolution to obtain a spatiotemporal imaging of the brain
      electrophysiological and hemodynamic activity in response to different levels of pain. Cross
      validation between this method and subject pain score will be used to quantitatively and
      qualitatively evaluate the technique. The successful completion of the current protocol will
      help establish an important imaging technology accessing pain level in an objective way.
    
  