
    
      The hereditary spastic paraplegias (HSP) are a group of more than 80 neurodegenerative
      diseases that lead to progressive neurological decline. Collectively, the HSPs present the
      most common cause of inherited spasticity and associated disability. Bi-allelic
      loss-of-function variants in genes that encode subunits of the adaptor protein complex 4
      (AP-4) lead to prototypical yet poorly understood forms of complex HSP in children, called
      AP-4-associated HSP (or AP-4-HSP). This includes four different conditions: SPG47, SPG50,
      SPG51, and SPG52. The molecular mechanism in all four conditions is a loss-of-function of the
      AP-4; hence they are thought to share a similar clinical phenotype.

      Published reports consist of small case series only and there has been no effort to
      systemically delineate the spectrum of the disease or its progression. The investigators aim
      to delineate the core clinical, imaging, and molecular features of AP-4-HSP across the age
      spectrum. This registry and natural history study will facilitate an early diagnosis, enables
      counseling and anticipatory guidance of affected families and will help define clinically
      meaningful endpoints for future interventional trials. Samples will be collected for the
      purpose of molecular and cellular investigation that will help identify biomarkers and novel
      targets for therapy. The samples and clinical information will be housed in the Translational
      Neuroscience Center and an AP-4-HSP REDcap database, respectively; both located in Boston
      Children's Hospital (BCH), but will be available to investigators around the world after
      approval.

      The objectives of this protocol are to (1) To systematically document the clinical
      presentation and natural history of AP-4-associated HSP and (2) To facilitate early
      diagnosis, enable counseling and anticipatory guidance of affected families and help define
      clinically meaningful endpoints for future interventional traits.

      Specifically, the aims are to:

        1. Create a registry to perform an initial cross sectional analysis of clinical, imaging
           and molecular data to establish the disease spectrum.

        2. Create a repository of biological samples and collection of longitudinal clinical data
           that helps establish the natural history of AP-4-HSP.

        3. Create a registry that allows for re- identification and re-contact of participants by
           appropriate investigators.
    
  