
    
      Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a unique head and neck cancer characterized by an extremely
      unbalanced global distribution. The highest incidence is observed in endemic regions, such as
      southern China and Southeast Asia, with an age-standardized rate of 3.0 per 100,000 in China
      to 0.4 per 100,000 in Caucasian populations. The fast progress of modern imaging and the
      application of intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) has improved the local control rate
      significantly. Distant metastasis has become the major cause of treatment failure.

      The 2018 National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guideline recommends concurrent
      chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) ± induction chemotherapy (IC)/adjuvant chemotherapy (AC) as the
      standard treatment for stage II-IVa disease (category 2A). While it is worth noting that
      there is extensive heterogeneity among patients with NPC, and even among patients with the
      same disease stage, the risk of relapse varies. More importantly, patients can have differing
      sensitivity to RT and chemotherapy. The abovementioned reasons result in over-treatment in
      some patients with relatively low relapse risk; intensive treatments lead to unnecessary
      toxicities, and greatly affect quality of life (QoL). On the other hand, the current
      treatment strategy may be not optimal for patients with high relapse risk or who are not
      sensitive to traditional chemoradiotherapy. Therefore, there is an urgent need for
      identifying and applying promising biomarkers, real-time monitoring of patient responses to
      treatment, predicting relapse risk, and guiding real-time treatment adaptation for
      individualized therapy.

      The investigators aim to investigate whether incorporating on-treatment EBV DNA surveillance
      for monitoring tumor responses to treatment and for guiding individuliased treatment
      adaptation can improve prognosis in nasopharyngeal carcinoma patient . For patients with
      detectable EBV DNA after one cycle of IC, which then drops to undetectable levels during the
      following IC cycles (intermediate responders/intermediate relapse risk), the investigators
      aim to investigate whether additional adjuvant metronomic capecitabine would benefit this
      subgroup. For patients with detectable EBV DNA after three cycles of IC or with EBV DNA
      bounce during the induction phase (insensitive to IC/high relapse risk), the investigators
      aim to investigate whether concurrent administration of anti-PD-1 therapy during the
      following treatment phases (including concurrent phase and adjuvant phase) can benefit this
      subgroup.
    
  