
    
      Impaired or delayed reactive postural responses pose a potential threat to falls while
      walking resulting in slips or trips in older and neurologically impaired individuals.
      Therefore, increase in understanding of postural responses to unexpected external
      perturbation in older adults and people with neurological diseases will lead to development
      of new therapeutic approaches for fall prevention in this population. The overall objective
      of this is to investigate the dynamic stability during slip and trip-like experiences by
      evaluating the efficiency of recovery responses, retention and fall-risk reduction to slips
      or trips induced during normal walking in healthy older adults. Participants will be
      community dwelling ambulatory older adults between the age range of 60 to 90 years. Subjects
      will be screened for the inclusion criteria. Subjects who qualify will go through clinical
      balance assessment and dynamic stability training. The older adults will be divided into any
      of the four groups -1) overground slip only training, 2) overground trip only training, 3)
      overground combined slip + trip training, or 4) control (single slip + single trip). For both
      overground slip/trip, all subjects' normal walking pattern and their recovery responses to
      slip/trip will be recorded with a motion tracking system (including videotaping) while they
      walk across an instrumented area along a straight path in the lab. A slip will be induced
      after a subject steps on a low-friction platform. A trip will be induced by introducing an
      obstacle device while the subject is walking, which consists of a hinged aluminum plate. At
      12 months post-training session, the follow-up stability test will consist only of one slip
      and trip induced on the training side and contralateral side. Incidence of falls and physical
      activity will be monitored between training and re-test sessions through falls and activity
      monitoring-questionnaire to describe details of the falls.
    
  