
    
      The study included consecutive patients older than 18 years who had low anterior resection of
      the rectum and anastomosis performed by double-stapler technique, for rectal cancer located
      within 10 cm from the anal verge. All patients had undergone pelvic magnetic resonance
      imaging. Nutrition screening was performed in all patients. If patients had undergone
      neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (CHRT), restaging was performed within 6 weeks of CHRT
      completion, and surgery was performed 10 weeks after CHRT completion. For the surgical
      procedure, low anterior resection (LAR) was performed by experienced surgeons who perform
      more than 50 rectal procedures per year and have sufficient expertise in minimally invasive
      surgery. Oral bowel preparation was used preoperatively and antibiotics were administered
      according to protocol.

        1. Surgical technique

           The procedure milestones (descending colon blood perfusion, tension-free anastomosis,
           safely performed stapled anastomosis and reinforcement, and safely performed mucosal
           flap) were defined. Simultaneous checkpoints to control milestones were identified and
           methodology of their documentation (video, photography) were defined. The purpose was to
           achieve demonstrable control over the individual steps during the surgical procedure.

           1.1 Abdominal phase

           Laparoscopic procedures were performed in the Lloyd-Davis position, using the 4-ports
           technique. During the abdominal phase, dissection was guided by a medio-lateral
           approach. A high tie of the a. mesenterica inferior (AMI) was performed in all patients.
           Dissection was performed medio-laterally and down to the pelvic floor according to the
           principles of total mesorectal excision (TME). The rectum was transected using an
           endostapler after lavage with Betadine solution (Egis Pharmaceuticals, PLS, Budapest,
           Hungary). Furthermore, the splenic flexure was fully mobilized using a combination of
           medio-lateral and lateral approaches. In most cases, the inferior mesenteric vein was
           divided.

           The marginal artery was dissected and the character of arterial blood flow was carefully
           evaluated; pulsatile arterial blood flow was considered as sign of adequate colon
           perfusion (Checkpoint 1).

           A specimen of tumor was pulled through the minilaparotomy and resected. The descending
           colon was divided at the level of the distal part and the colonic mucosa was again
           evaluated with respect to blood perfusion; a light red or pink colored mucosa and fresh
           light red capillary bleeding were considered as signs of good colonic mucosa perfusion
           (Checkpoint 2). The colon needed to lie freely in the sacrum excavation and no tension
           was allowed on the mesenterial site. This was confirmed by lifting the colon ventrally
           from the sacrum at the promontory level after anastomosis construction (Checkpoint 3).
           The anastomosis was performed end-to-end using a double-stapler technique, strictly
           between the descending colon and rectum in a tension-free manner. A pelvic drain was
           left in place till the third postoperative day.

           1.2 Trans-anal phase

           As part of the trans-anal phase, a Lone Star retractor (Cooper Surgical, Inc. USA) and a
           plastic single use anoscope were applied. An initial, careful inspection and manual
           check of the stapler anastomosis integrity, the blood supply to the colonic mucosa, and
           signs of a tension-free anastomosis were performed (Checkpoint 4). The mucosal flap was
           subsequently created using individual polydiaxone (PDS) II 5/0 sutures (polydiaxonone,
           Ethicon, Johnson&Johnson, USA): individual stitches were placed on each quadrant; and
           then another four stitches were applied in between. It is important to note that the
           condition of the mucosal flap upon creation were signs of a floppy, prolapsing colonic
           wall into the anastomosis. Finally, a sponge soaked (Endo-SPONGE, B. Braun, Germany)
           with povidone-iodine (Betadine, Egis Pharmaceuticals, Budapest, Hungary) was introduced
           into the anastomosis. The trans-anal sponge drain was removed 24 hrs postoperatively.

           1.3 Fecal diversion

           The decision on diversion was based on intraoperative checkpoint adherence: when
           Checkpoint 6 and 7 were not fulfilled, an ileostomy was created.

        2. Follow up

      The data regarding the type of procedure, type of anastomosis, stapler diameter, the number
      of stapler cartridges used, dissection of the mesenteric blood vessels, and complete
      histopathology were collected prospectively. C-reactive protein (CRP) levels were assessed on
      the third and fifth day after surgery.0 Patients were followed up for 3 months, and
      postoperative endoscopy was performed before discharge, usually on postoperative day 7, 1
      month after surgery, and 3 months after surgery.
    
  