
    
      Sunitinib is an orally available inhibitor of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGFR),
      platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), cytokine receptor (c-KIT), and receptor tyrosine
      kinase (FLT-3) activity. Sunitinib is proven effective as single agent in several solid tumor
      types and is approved for use in advanced renal cell cancer (RCC) and imatinib-resistant or
      -intolerant gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs). However, in a large percentage of
      patients (30 and 50%), dose reductions are required because of multiple grade 2 toxicities or
      due to grade 3 or 4 toxicities. Therefore, the currently used dosing schedule is not optimal.

      Recently, a dose-efficacy relation was established for sunitinib treatment. This large
      meta-analysis of pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic data from studies performed in mRCC
      patients, GIST patients and patients with solid tumors, clearly showed a relationship between
      sunitinib exposure and efficacy and tolerability. Both time to progression (TTP) and overall
      survival (OS) were significantly better for mRCC patients with high area under the curve
      (AUC) compared to low AUC. This was not only observed for sunitinib exposure but also for its
      active metabolite SU12662. In addition, there was a significant relationship between exposure
      and probability of partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) in mRCC patients
      (p=0.00001), indicating that a dose intensity in patients should be as high as possible.
      Target plasma concentrations of sunitinib plus metabolite (N-desethyl sunitinib) are in the
      range of 50 to 100 ng/mL, as deduced from pharmacokinetic (PK) / pharmacodynamic (PD)
      preclinical data. Since the dose-efficacy relation for sunitinib treatment is solely
      established in a retrospective (meta-) analysis from patients treated in several studies, we
      propose to perform a prospective feasibility study in 30 patients with PK guided dosing of
      sunitinib. If PK guided once-daily continuous sunitinib dosing is feasible, a RCT in mRCC
      patients will be performed comparing PK guided dosing with a standard sunitinib dosing
      schedule.
    
  