
    
      Patients with antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA) associated vasculitis (AAV) have
      inflammation in the small blood vessels leading to involvement in different body areas, e.g.,
      the kidneys, lungs and skin. Untreated, the risk of death is over 80%; with current
      treatment, patients often suffer from ongoing disease activity, damage or treatment side
      effects which have a negative impact on quality of life. Because patients with AAV can have a
      wide range of disease features, the investigators hypothesise that general patient reported
      outcome (PROs) measurements, may not be specific enough to describe the full impact on
      quality of life.

      The main objective of this project is to start from patients' experiences to develop a
      disease specific PRO for patients with AAV. Patients diagnosed with AAV will be recruited
      through clinics or inpatients at the Oxford University Hospitals (OUH) National Health
      Service (NHS) Trust, or, if the patients have previously consented to be contacted about
      future studies, through the Diagnostic and Classification of Vasculitis (DCVAS) or The
      Characterisation and Determinants of Quality of Life in ANCA Associated Vasculitis (VasQoL)
      study databases. After informed consent is obtained, individual patient interviews will be
      conducted; these will last for approximately one hour and will be recorded and transcribed.
      Themes will be independently extracted and amalgamated by the researchers. Approximately 25
      patients with different types of ANCAassociated vasculitis and varying disease duration will
      be interviewed until saturation, i.e., no new substantive themes emerge. These themes will
      then evolve into individual candidate questionnaire items. Candidate items will be piloted on
      approximately 25 different patients with AAV using questionnaires and interviews, until no
      further comments arise, to produce a final set of candidate questionnaire items. The duration
      of the study 1.5 years.
    
  