
    
      This is a prospective clinical validation study of a novel in-vitro diagnostic (IVD) assay
      that will enroll 830 pediatric patients. The study will be conducted in two stages: In stage
      A 50 patients will be enrolled with the aim of verifying proper protocol execution including
      proper collection of patient samples, accurate data retrieval and precise etiology
      determination. In stage B 780 patients will be enrolled with the aim of blinded validation of
      the host-response based diagnostics using a fresh independent cohort of patients. Patients
      enrolling into the study will be managed according to the current standard of care (GCP) and
      per standard institutional procedures. Participation in this study requires the collection of
      an additional blood sample and a nasal swab sampling.

      The investigated assay requires the measurement of three host-related, blood-based, protein
      biomarkers that are being integrated using a logistic regression formula into a single score.
      Based on this score, each patient is classified into one of three categories: (i) bacterial
      immune response (i.e., pure bacterial infections and mixed bacterial and viral co-infection),
      (ii) viral immune response, and (iii) marginal immune response (inconclusive or
      non-infectious). It is estimated that 10-20% of the infected patients will have a marginal
      immune response. A composite reference standard will be used in order to determine the
      diagnosis of each patient. Specifically, all the clinical, radiological, microbiological and
      laboratory data of each patient, will be recorded in a dedicated eCRF. Based on this data,
      the diagnosis of each patient will be determined by a panel of three independent
      pediatricians. Each pediatrician will be blinded to the diagnosis of his peers and to the
      assay results. In the current study, unanimous agreement between the experts ("consensus
      agreement") will be considered as the true diagnosis for the purpose of computing the assay
      performance.
    
  