
    
      The project is a multi-centric, double-blind and parallel two-armed randomised controlled
      trial divided into two stages:

      Stage 1:

      A total of 720 recruited mothers across India and Nepal will be randomly allocated to 2 equal
      groups (360 each). The patients, recruiters, developmental therapists, the laboratory and the
      data analyst will be blinded to the randomization code for the duration of the trial. To
      ensure blinding and allocation concealment, maternal supplements will be numbered
      sequentially outside the trial sites by a neutral party using the randomization code supplied
      by an offsite statistician. Group 1 (Intervention) will receive 250μg of vitamin B12
      supplementation delivered daily to the mother from 12-weeks' gestation up to 6-months
      post-partum. Group 2 (Control) will receive 50μg of vitamin B12 supplementation delivered
      daily to the mother from 12-weeks' gestation up to 6- months post-partum. The mother's
      profile will be recorded, including information on: age, height, weight, ethnicity,
      education, socioeconomic status, maternal dietary assessment and intake of any supplements.
      Mother's blood levels for vitamin B12 status and other deficiencies will also be recorded.

      Within 48 hours enrolment women will be contacted as a part of follow-up. Relevant elements
      of the clinical records including maternal weight, blood pressure, foetal growth and position
      and reports of any screening tests for congenital infections/ chromosomal anomalies will be
      recorded. Any acquired morbidity (including gestational diabetes, pregnancy induced
      hypertension, and hypothyroidism) during the period from the last visit will be noted. Any
      drugs or medicines started by the mother will be recorded. Both study sites will promote
      exclusive breastfeeding by preparing the mothers for breastfeeding in the antenatal period
      using structured counselling sessions led by an obstetrician or a specified health educator.

      Stage 2:

      The birth and post-delivery course of the new-born during hospital stay will be assessed by
      the medical officer and/or paediatrician for any morbidity potentially influencing
      neurodevelopment, such as growth retardation, congenital anomalies, seizures, neurological
      problems, hypoglycemia, hypothermia, hearing deficits, vision and heart disease.

      After discharge, all neonates will be routinely followed with preventive and vaccination care
      as per standard protocols. As part of routine care, all new-borns will be screened for
      metabolic disorders at 7-14 days.

      During routine visits, anthropometric measurements including weight, length and head
      circumference will be recorded and signs of micronutrient deficiency (especially anaemia and
      rickets) will be noted. The child care teams at both sites will encourage the initiation and
      establishment of exclusive breastfeeding while minimizing the use of formula feeds by
      providing support and counselling during hospital stay. Maternal and infant tolerance for the
      supplementation including any gastrointestinal symptoms will be recorded at each visit.
      Supplementation of the mother in both groups will be stopped at 6 months after childbirth. At
      9 months, the neurodevelopmental, complementary feeding practices and home environment will
      be assessed and infant vitamin B12 status will be determined.

      Data will be checked and encrypted after removing any "patient identifiable information".
      These data will be sent with the group coding sheet to a statistician blinded to intervention
      or control grouping. Data will be analysed using the neurodevelopmental scores at 9 months as
      the primary efficacy outcome variable. Biochemical prevalence of B12 deficiency in mothers
      during the first and third trimesters and infants after 9 months of birth will be analysed as
      the secondary outcome variables. Although no safety issues are expected, infant linear growth
      and incidence of adverse events will be the mainly safety outcomes. Data on maternal
      tolerance of B12 supplementation will also be collected. All primary analyses will be
      conducted on an intention to treat basis.
    
  