
    
      Objective: By the time an individual develops motor symptoms or signs of Parkinson disease
      (PD) the degeneration of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons that produces the movement
      disorder is already advanced. It is important to identify individuals in whom the
      pathogenetic process is in a preclinical or prodromal phase. Such individuals would be the
      best candidates for disease modification clinical trials. PD is characterized by the loss of
      neurons that use catecholamines as the neurotransmitters, both in the brain and heart. This
      study is designed to test whether, among people with multiple PD risk factors (at least 3 of
      the following: family history of PD or genetic risk, olfactory dysfunction, dream enactment
      behavior, orthostatic hypotension), those with biomarkers of central or myocardial
      catecholaminergic neurodegeneration are diagnosed with motor symptoms and signs of PD within
      7.5 years of follow-up, whereas those with the same risk factors but without biomarkers of
      catecholaminergic neurodegeneration in either the brain or heart are not diagnosed with motor
      symptoms and signs of PD during follow-up. Results so far from this study have shown that low
      cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC, the main neuronal
      metabolite of the catecholamine dopamine) and of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylanine (DOPA, the
      precursor of the catecholamines), low myocardial concentrations of 18F-dopamine-derived
      radioactivity (an index of deficiency of the catecholamine norepinephrine), and low
      putamen/occipital cortex ratios of 18F-DOPA-derived radioactivity (an index of putamen
      dopamine deficiency) distinguish at-risk participants who are diagnosed with motor symptoms
      and signs of PD within 3 years of followup. The study is being continued to follow
      participants with initial biomarkers data who have not yet been diagnosed with PD. In the
      follow-up phase we plan on answering the following questions: (1) What proportion of at-risk
      subjects with negative biomarkers at the time of initial testing develop symptoms of PD
      during 7.5 years of follow-up? (2) What proportion of at-risk subjects with 1 or 2 positive
      biomarkers at the time of initial testing develop the motor symptoms and signs of PD during
      7.5 years of follow-up? (3) In at-risk subjects who convert from negative to positive
      biomarkers during follow-up, what proportion develop the motor symptoms and signs of PD
      during the remaining period until 7.5 years of follow-up

      Study Population: The subjects are individuals who may be at risk for developing PD, because
      of (a) genetic risk-i.e., a family history of PD or genotypic abnormalities known to be
      associated statistically with PD; (b) olfactory dysfunction-i.e., decreased ability to
      distinguish among odors; (c) symptomatic rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder
      (RBD); or (d) orthostatic hypotension. A total of 200 at-risk subjects undergo
      catecholaminergic biomarker testing by (18)F-DOPA brain and (18)F-dopamine cardiac scanning.
      At-risk subjects with positive biomarkers are compared to at-risk subjects without positive
      biomarkers, in terms of development of PD during follow-up. Up to 20 control subjects are
      included, to add to a database of normal values for catecholaminergic biomarkers. As of May
      2015, accrual was completed, and participants who already have been characterized in terms of
      risk factors and biomarkers are in the follow-up phase of the study.

      Design: The study includes four phases-recruitment, screening, laboratory biomarkers testing,
      and follow-up. Recruitment is by advertisement and a web site questionnaire of self-reported
      risk. A screening examination is done at the NIH Clinical Center, to confirm risk status.
      Based on the screening examination results, subjects undergo inpatient clinical laboratory
      testing, to identify central and peripheral catecholaminergic denervation. Since May 2015,
      the study has been in the follow-up phase, during which subjects are being re-tested as
      inpatients approximately every 18 months for a total of up to 5 re-evaluations (90 months, or
      7.5 years), to detect the onset of the characteristic movement disorder in PD and follow the
      status of putamen and myocardial catecholaminergic innervation

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome measure is a clinical dDiagnosis of PD by a Board-certified neurologist
      who is blinded to risk factor status and the results of catecholaminergic biomarkers testing;
      or else completing 7.5 years of follow-up without a diagnosis of PD. If PD diagnosed, time to
      diagnosis. Secondary outcome measures are the results of UPDRS; F-DOPA brain scanning,
      Fdopamine cardiac scanning; CSF and plasma neurochemicals; neuropsychological rating scales;
      autonomic function testing, retrospective CSF proteomics; retrospective DNA analyses
    
  