
    
      Nowadays, depression has become one of the serious mental diseases that affect human's life.
      With the acceleration of life pace and social pressure, the incidence of depression is
      increasing year-on-year. According to the statistics of the WHO, by 2017, there were more
      than 300 million people suffering from depression, accounting for 4.4% of the global
      population. Depression is highly related to suicide, which is an important reason for
      suicidal intention and attempt. It has been demonstrated that the incidence of suicide
      associated with major depression was as high as 15%. The main characteristic of depression is
      significant and lasting depression, which is caused by the decrease of monoamine transmitters
      (including dopamine, 5-HT, et al.) related to mood. In the past, antidepressants mainly
      relied on increasing or reducing the metabolism of transmitters, but these drugs usually took
      weeks or even months to take effect, and although the symptoms of depression were relieved
      within weeks after the start of treatment, they were still not ideal in the long term.
      Therefore, the drug treatment of depression is not optimistic.

      Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), as the first biological therapy introduced into psychiatry,
      has been improving with the progress of technology and equipment. More studies show that ECT
      is a safe and effective treatment, and the treatment of severe depression is the first choice
      in some cases. However, cognitive dysfunction, relapse tendency and related safety after ECT
      need further study.

      Short acting sedatives and muscle relaxants before ECT can minimize the fear and muscle pain
      caused by ECT induced seizures. Previous sedatives used include propofol, mesaclopidol,
      thiopental and ketamine. Ketamine can be used for ECT anesthesia in patients with depression
      because of its good epileptic characteristics and prevention of cognitive dysfunction after
      ECT. More evidences reveal ketamine has strong antidepressant effect and reduces suicide of
      patients with treatment-resistant depression or mania. The low dose of ketamine can take
      effect within one hour, produce rapid antidepressant effect, and can play a role in more than
      70% of patients with refractory depression. In addition, even a single intravenous injection
      of ketamine can effectively reduce the symptoms of depression within 24-72 hours, and may
      have synergistic antidepressant effect when combined with ECT. Although ketamine is
      considered to have a significant antidepressant effect in patients with depression, its
      application in mental disorders remains to be further explored because it may aggravate
      mental symptoms. However, some studies also found that ketamine did not significantly improve
      the effect of ECT on depression compared with other anesthetics.

      Esketamine is the isomer of ketamine, which mainly acts on NMDA receptor of glutamate and its
      affinity to the receptor is 3-4 times that of ketamine, therefore it has stronger effect.
      Evidence suggests that esketamine can regulate NMDA receptor, increase the release of various
      neurotransmitters, improve the depression of patients, and repair the damaged neurons to
      improve the neuronal connections in the brain. As an anesthetic, the potency of esketamine is
      two times higher than ketamine, three times higher than R-ketamine, and its drug metabolism
      time is shorter, and the related side effects are also significantly reduced. Conseuqently,
      it has been widely used as an anesthetic in some countries. The efficacy and safety of
      esketamine nasal spray as a rapid and effective antidepressant in the treatment of patients
      with refractory depression have been confirmed. However the effect of intravenous esketamine
      as an anesthetic in ECT anesthesia on patients who are depressed remains unknown. The aim of
      this study is to evaluate the short-term effect and safety of esketamine as a adjunctive
      anesthetic in routine ECT anesthesia for patients with depression.
    
  