
    
      Study design: The entrance criteria specify adult diabetic patients (18-65 years) with
      chronic (>6 weeks) non-healing wounds(>2cm2) identified by study clinicians and counselled by
      aid of a Participant Information sheet (PIS). Having considered the PIS for >24hrs, patients
      who wish to participate will provide signed formal consent and will be entered into the
      trial. Relevant demographic and clinical data will be recorded with baseline microbiology,
      blood tests and classification of wound and pain score. Wounds will be graded according to
      the Texas classification and photographed. Pain score at entry will be measured by modified
      McGill questionnaire and graded from 0(no pain) to 5(severe pain). Study patients will be
      randomly assigned to receive either in-use product or electrolysed water according to
      predetermined statistical protocol and will be given a code for continued identification. The
      patient's notes will be tagged with study and code information, with copies sent to the
      patient's GP.

      The wound will be inspected, debrided, cleaned and irrigated twice a week using electrolysed
      water or in-use product (Prontosan™). In-patients may receive more frequent application (e.g.
      daily) depending upon wound status. This will be performed by ward nurses for in-patients and
      for outpatients by podiatrists in the Diabetic clinic. Patients will be assessed by
      podiatrists weekly (<=20wks) or until an agreed end-point is reached; research assessments
      will coincide with routine outpatient clinic attendance or in-patient review to minimise
      patient inconvenience.

      Release of electrolysed water will be coordinated by the research scientist. Supplies will be
      decanted into identical containers in order to blind staff as to product identity. The
      bottles will be labelled 'A' or 'B. Patients randomised to receive study or in-use irrigant
      will continue with the same product, to which they were initially assigned.

      If a patient develops an infection, then they will receive clinical review and
      microbiological screening. These patients will continue with trial irrigants but will be
      offered appropriate antibiotics according to laboratory data. They will be encouraged to
      complete the trial but their data will be analysed separately on final analysis.

      Patients with underlying terminal disease will be excluded from this trial along with
      patients with severe co-morbidities, e.g. morbidly obese; uncontrolled diabetes (HbA1c > 97
      mmol/mol); gangrene; chronic leg oedema/venous disease; end-stage renal disease; untreatable
      ischaemic heart disease; HIV; etc. Patients with ongoing infection at trial entry will be
      treated and then reassessed. Any previous documented allergy to either Prontosan™ or
      electrolysed water will also necessitate exclusion. Any adverse effects thought to be due to
      either irrigant will prompt study withdrawal and investigation. If there is doubt over the
      continuation of the correctly assigned irrigant for a specific patient, then that patient's
      data will be labelled as such and noted for the final analysis. This will also be the case
      and/or if there are lapses of more than 4 treatment sessions during therapy. All data will be
      retained for the final project report.

      The primary composite end-points are: complete healing; >50% healing of initial lesion;
      and/or avoidance of surgical intervention including amputation. Secondary endpoints are:
      surgical debridement including amputation; antibiotic consumption; and patient death. Each
      patient lesion will be photographed at the agreed end-point.
    
  