
    
      Executive summary: The efficacy of the current standard rehabilitation treatments for complex
      regional pain syndrome (CRPS), a painful syndrome mostly occurring after musculoskeletal
      trauma, is suboptimal. For instance, the first line of treatment in rehabilitation,
      progressive motor imagery (GMI), only induces a 50% improvement in symptoms. Although such
      improvement is interesting, further solutions should be sought to enhance clinical outcomes.
      It is thus essential to explore new options of therapy. A potential solution to enhance
      clinical outcomes would be to add an electrotherapeutic procedure, such as transcranial
      direct current stimulation (tDCS). Given the positive results previously obtained in patients
      with neuropathic pain, we hypothesize that tDCS will induce functional and structural
      reorganization in the cortex and lead to better pain relief. The cortical reorganization
      frequently observed in CRPS patients mainly involves a shrinkage of cortical map of the
      affected limb on primary and secondary somatosensory cortex. Interestingly, therapies that
      aim to reverse the cortical reorganization are often associated with a decrease in pain.
      Therefore, combining GMI and tDCS could lead to added pain relief compared to traditional GMI
      treatments alone. Furthermore, neuroimaging before and after the procedures could help us
      explain if and how this is achieved. Objectives: Thus, the primary objective of this research
      is to study the therapeutic efficacy of tDCS in the treatment of CRPS type 1 in addition to
      the current best evidence-based rehabilitation treatment, GMI. The second objective is to
      study, through MRI/fMRI, how brain structures and functions are changed following tDCS and
      GMI treatments, and whether these changes correlate to clinical changes.

      Methodology: To achieve the first objective, we will recruit adults diagnosed with CRPS type
      1 via established collaborations with different physicians from our university affiliated
      hospital. Participants will be randomly allocated into one of the two treatment groups A)
      experimental group, which will receive the GMI and tDCS stimulation; B) control group, which
      will receive GMI and sham [placebo] tDCS stimulation. GMI treatment is composed of a
      three-phase protocol, each lasting two weeks. The GMI treatments will be performed using
      software and well-established procedures (www.noigroup.com). For its part, the tDCS will be
      applied for 5 consecutive days during the first 2 weeks of phase 1 and once a week during the
      4 other weeks. The anodic (positive) stimulation over the motor cortex (M1) contralateral of
      the affected limb is sought to modulate cortical excitability and promote pain inhibition and
      cortical reorganization. Sample size estimates (β:80%,α 5%) show that 15 subjects/group will
      be necessary.

      Anticipated results and impact of the proposed project: This project will allow us to
      investigate the therapeutic efficacy of an innovative approach to the treatment of CRPS,
      primarily for the purpose of enhancing the clinical outcomes of GMI. In the event of positive
      results, we will be able to further examine the therapeutic benefits of this modality in a
      larger clientele and even in other populations (i.e., patients with chronic low back pain).
      In addition, our results may contribute to the creation of a clinical practice guide, since
      there currently is insufficient evidence-based data to establish guidelines regarding the
      non-pharmacological treatment of CRPS. Finally, MRI/fMRI analysis will help us to capture the
      phenomenon of tDCS-driven cortical reorganization.
    
  