
    
      There are preliminary clinical and preclinical data suggesting that patients suffering from
      non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, treated with metformin, have improved local tumor
      control. The reduction in oxygen consumption of tumor cells and thus a relative reduction in
      the tumor's hypoxia may be responsible for this.

      Non-small cell lung cancer is the most frequent solid tumor in many Western countries and the
      number one cause of cancer-related death. Even though the introduction of concurrent
      chemoradiotherapy has improved local tumor control and thus overall survival, 5-year overall
      survival is still as low as 14%. Furthermore, many patients are not eligible to undergo
      concurrent treatment thus reducing their chances to defeat this disease. Additionally,
      concurrent chemoradiotherapy is associated with increased toxicity compared to sequential
      treatment. Therefore, alternative additives improving the effect of radiotherapy without
      increasing toxicity to an unbearable level are searched for. One possible pharmaceutical is
      metformin; many patients have been using it in the past without evident increased toxicity,
      it is cheap, and widely available.

      Thus, the aim of this study is to test the hypothesis that metformin increases overall
      survival without enhancing treatment-related toxicity. For this means, in three cohorts of
      patients suffering from advanced stage non-small cell lung cancer and all undergoing
      concurrent radiochemotherapy: 1. Patients with diabetes mellitus treated with metformin only;
      2. Patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus not treated with metformin; 3. The
      remaining patients serving as controls. Using Kaplan-Meier statistics as well as uni- and
      multivariate analysis, the overall survival and toxicity of these cohorts will be compared.
      Other potentially confounding factors will be tested as secondary endpoints.
    
  