
    
      After obtaining the research ethics committee approval, 50 patients, undergoing elective
      surgery for hip replacement will be included. The informed consent must be signed prior to
      randomization. After arriving to the operation theatre, the patients informed consent and
      inclusion and exclusion criteria will be reviewed. Afterwards, the patients will be
      randomized in one of two groups. Prior to the anaesthesia induction, blood for the
      thrombocyte function test, coagulation tests and thrombelastometry wil be drawn via a metal
      cannula. A large bore peripheral venous cannula (G18 or more) will be introduced. In case of
      a ASA status of III and higher based on cardiovascular morbidity an arterial catheter via the
      radial artery for invasive blood pressure monitoring will be introduced. Urinary catheter
      will be introduced to monitor intraoperative diuresis. A continuous crystalloid infusion n a
      dose of 5 ml/kg/hour will be administered for basal fluid substitution. The volume
      replacement using blinded gelatine/crystalloid solution will be performed via fluid challenge
      (repeated 250 ml fluid boluses during a 5 minute interval) to hemodynamic targets (increase
      in blood pressure, decrease in heart rate), in case of a decrease of MAP to 65 mm Hg (16) or
      to 70 mmHg in preexisting hypertension. The hemodynamic variables before and after fluid
      challenge will be exactly recorded. In case the patient hemodynamics does dot respond to a
      fluid challenge, or in case of a drop of blood pressure to less than 55 mmHg, a bolus of 5-10
      mg of ephedrine (repeatedly) will be administered. Further recorded variables will be: blood
      loss (suctioning, sponges), diuresis, number of transfusions administered. Repetitive
      hemoglobin concentration tests using the HemoCue 201+ device will be performed and an
      intraoperative blood transfusion trigger of 90 g/l of hemoglobin concentration will be used,
      100 g/l in case of a patient with chronic cardiovascular or respiratory disease (5). After
      reaching the blood loss of 1000 ml, blood samples will be drawn for laboratory hemoglobin
      concentration and coagulation testing. The trigger for platelet transfusion will be a
      thrombocyte count of less than 50000 x 109, or sings of platelet dysfunction on
      thrombelastometry. Tranexamic acid will be administered in case of signs of fibrinolysis on
      thrombelastometry or in case of life threatening bleeding. At the end of surgery, a second
      blood sample for platelet function test, thrombelastometry, full blood count and standard
      coagulation tests will be drawn. The amount of blinded study infusion, continuous crystalloid
      solution, transfusions and ephedrine administered, diuresis and blood loss will be recorded.
      Blood urea and creatinine, diuresis, coagulations and full blood count will be recorded
      postoperatively. Hospital and ICU length of stay, hospital and 90-day mortality will be
      followed.
    
  