
    
      This proposed pilot study aims to describe the use of an intervention, developed by Positive
      Exposure, for adolescents and young adults who may be challenged by the stigma associated
      with craniofacial differences. This non-profit organization uses professional photo-shoots
      and video interviews to explore the psychosocial experiences of people living with genetic
      conditions. The combined use of professional photo-shoots and video interviews is an
      innovative way to address issues such as self-esteem, body image and feelings of social
      awkwardness and anxiety that has never been systematically explored with individuals who have
      craniofacial differences. According to the experiences of individuals with albinism, Proteus
      syndrome, and Marfan syndrome, interacting with Positive Exposure has resulted in enhanced
      feelings about oneself as an attractive, capable person. This study will ascertain how
      individuals with craniofacial differences think and feel about being photographed and videoed
      and what specific benefits the Positive Exposure intervention may have had for them. This
      study uses a mixed methods design coupling qualitative analysis with quantitative measures of
      perceived social stigma, self-esteem, and hope. Data will be gathered through two written
      personal reflections, one completed before research volunteers participate in a professional
      photo shoot and video-interview and the second completed after the experience. The
      qualitative data will be subject to content analysis and the quantitative data will be scored
      to describe perceived effects of the intervention and to document differences in outcome
      measures. This pilot study will not be powered to achieve statistical significance but rather
      will generate descriptive data suggesting whether using these measures in larger populations
      may feasibly capture desired outcomes. This pilot study will provide the foundation for
      future research exploring the use of photo-shoots and video-interviews as an intervention in
      a variety of populations with genetic differences, powered to answer specific hypotheses.
    
  