
    
      Little is known about effective strategies to reduce inequalities in non-communicable
      diseases (NCDs) and their underlying behaviors. McGill et al did a systematic review of the
      socioeconomic inequalities in promoting healthy eating. They found that upstream
      interventions with policy changes on price (fiscal measures such as taxes, subsidies, or
      economic incentives) reduced socioeconomic inequalities compared to downstream interventions
      such as cooking lessons, tailored nutritional education/counseling or nutrition education in
      the school curriculum appear likely to widen inequalities.

      Douglas County's average income is $44,023 (compared to the median annual income of $60,336
      across the entire United States) and the 5th poorest county in the state. 17% of the
      population is in poverty, higher than the national average of 13.4%.

      The Complete Health Improvement Program (CHIP) is a premier lifestyle intervention that has
      been offered for more than 25 years and has been shown in over 25 peer-reviewed publications
      to benefit chronic disease. The Complete Health Improvement Program (CHIP) is a premier
      lifestyle intervention that has been offered for more than 25 years and has been shown in
      over 25 peer-reviewed publications to benefit chronic disease. CHIP was initially offered in
      Douglas County 5 years ago and found to benefit participants but there were concerns that it
      was widening inequalities due to the cost of the class. A similar program named Total Health
      Improvement Program (THIP) was designed and offered to the community for free through the
      partnership of a non-profit organization called UC-VEG.

      The purpose of this study is to determine the effectiveness of the 13-week community-based
      nutrition education THIP program to assist participants with the adoption of a plant-based
      diet, increase physical activity and increase positive psychology. Research has shown
      plant-based diets to be safe and effective for weight management or reduction, cholesterol
      management, hypertension and diabetes management, and overall health and longevity. The
      primary objectives are to assess the effectiveness of the program in improving physical and
      emotional well-being and to assess if there are differences in outcomes based on a
      participant's socioeconomic status.
    
  