
    
      Cardiovascular diseases are the first mortality cause in Occidental countries. They would be
      the cause of 31% of the overall mortality in those countries.

      Some risk factors are strongly related to the apparition of a cardiovascular disease,
      including smoking, high cholesterol levels, hypertension, diabetes, age, high BMI or familial
      early cardiovascular disease and/or hypercholesterolemia.

      Multiple studies have already shown that major non-cardiac surgery can lead to cardiovascular
      complications in 3% of the patients regardless of their cardiovascular risk profile and major
      adverse cardiovascular events are a significant source of post-operative morbidity in
      approximately 11% among those patient3,4,6,7. Complications can also lead to a prolongated
      hospitalization for patients undergoing major non-cardiac surgery8,9.The peri- and
      post-operative cardiovascular complications depend on patient-related risk factors.

      Surgery and anesthesia can provoke hemodynamic instability and stimulation of the sympathetic
      nervous system. Surgery and the ensuing inflammation can also induce bleeding and or
      thrombosis. These factors as top of some post-operative factors such as tissular hypoxemia,
      can result in cardiovascular complications.

      An assessment of the medical cardiac history of the patients is performed before any
      surgery3. Developing a tool to predict post-operative cardiovascular complication could
      influence peri-operative measures by stratifying the population at risk.

      It is known that cardiovascular diseases are preceded by a dysfunction of the vascular
      endothelium leading to a loss of the antithrombogenic, anti-proliferative and vasorelaxant
      functions.

      A key mediator of vascular homeostasis and endothelial integrity is the nitric oxide (NO)
      produced by the endothelial NO synthetase (eNOS). UCLouvain has developed a patented
      technique using a paramagnetic electronic resonance spectrometry (EPR) able to quantify a
      paramagnetic component, nitrosylated hemoglobin (HbNO) of the erythrocytes drawn from venous
      blood. This HbNO has been correlated to the traditional cardiac risk factors.

      Quantifying the HbNO could predict, prior to any major non-cardiac surgery, an eventual
      peri-operative cardiovascular complication. Preoperative HbNO would as such be a useful
      marker of cardiovascular complications. Necessary perioperative measures can therefore be
      taken in order to decrease this risk. This assessment would be associated to the preoperative
      anesthesia visit (EPI : évaluation péri-interventionnelle) form reporting previous
      cardiovascular events and risk factors.
    
  