
    
      Bronchiectasis is a chronic disorder of the major bronchi and bronchioles characterized by
      permanent dilation, microbial infection, a persistent inflammatory response with the release
      of immune mediators and microbial toxins leading to destruction. The origin of bronchiectasis
      varies, but the presence of microbial infection and a persistent inflammatory response is
      typical of the disease. The chronic nature of the infection and the associated considerable
      morbidity provides the rationale for using aerosolized antibiotics for the treatment of
      bronchiectasis patients.

      This is a multi-national Phase 2 study of safety and tolerability of 28 days of daily dosing
      with two dose levels (280 mg and 560 mg) of Arikayce™ versus placebo in subjects with
      bronchiectasis and chronic Pseudomonas infection. Study subjects will be randomized to
      receive either study drug or placebo by inhalation via a PARI eFlow® nebulizer. Each subject
      will complete 28 days of daily dosing. All study subjects will be followed for microbiologic
      activity for 14 days after completion of treatment and for safety for 28 days post completion
      of study treatment.

      The total study duration will be 56 days, with the screening visit occurring within the
      preceding 14 days prior to study day 1. At Day 1 (baseline), subjects will be evaluated at
      pre-dose and during the first 4-5 hours post-dose. Subjects will return at Week 2 (day 14)
      after start of treatment and at the end of Week 4 (Day 28) treatment period to determine
      safety and efficacy of Arikayce™. Subjects will be followed up on study Days 42 and 56 (about
      2 and 4 weeks after end of treatment) for safety determination. After completion of this
      study, subjects will be followed up for an additional 6 months via phone contacts and records
      review, if hospitalized or treated for pulmonary exacerbation (under the extension protocol).

      Clinical laboratory parameters, audiology testing, clinical adverse events and pulmonary
      function will be evaluated for all study subjects in order to determine the qualitative and
      quantitative safety and tolerability of Arikayce™ compared to placebo. Serum, urine and
      sputum specimens will be collected at periodic intervals to assess pharmacokinetics (PK) in
      subjects who consent for the PK portion of the study. Additionally, sputum samples will be
      collected to determine changes in bacterial density. Total Pulmonary Symptom Severity Score
      (PSSS) will be assessed, and respiratory quality of life will be evaluated by using the St.
      George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ). Arikace™,Arikayce™, Liposomal Amikacin for
      Inhalation (LAI), and Amikacin Liposome Inhalation Suspension (ALIS) may be used
      interchangeably throughout this study and the other studies evaluating amikacin liposome
      inhalation suspension.
    
  