
    
      Cigarette smoking poses a serious but preventable health risk. The negative health effects of
      smoking are well-known, but the prevalence of cigarette smoking remains high in the United
      States, particularly among younger people, people of lower socioeconomic status, and minority
      groups. Nicotine replacement therapy, commonly known as the nicotine patch, has been proven
      to be an effective treatment for reducing nicotine use. The nicotine patch provides a
      measured dose of nicotine through the skin. By gradually lowering nicotine doses over a
      period of time, individuals experience fewer nicotine cravings; the ultimate goal is to stop
      using nicotine. Bupropion, a medication commonly used to treat depression, is also used as a
      smoking cessation tool. It helps to control nicotine cravings. The majority of studies on the
      nicotine patch and bupropion have been performed on older, white, middle-class individuals;
      more research is needed to confirm the benefit of these treatments in younger, low-income,
      and minority populations. While both the nicotine patch and bupropion appear to be
      individually effective as smoking cessation aids, little is known on the possible
      effectiveness of combining the two treatments. Because of the high relapse rates in
      low-income and minority individuals, the combination of the nicotine patch with bupropion may
      be particularly effective at reducing relapse rates in these individuals. The purpose of this
      study is to evaluate the effectiveness of the nicotine patch and bupropion at reducing
      smoking rates in younger, low-income, and minority individuals.

      This 1-year study will enroll younger, low-income, and minority individuals who smoke.
      Participants will be randomly assigned to one of the following three groups: 1) nicotine
      patch plus placebo sustained-release bupropion; 2) placebo nicotine patch plus
      sustained-release bupropion; or 3) nicotine patch plus sustained-release bupropion. At study
      entry, participants will complete standardized psychological questionnaires to assess
      depression levels and will undergo a physical exam and blood testing. Study visits will take
      place at Weeks 5 and 11, Month 6, and Year 1. At each visit, questionnaires will be
      completed, and smoking cessation rates will be assessed by self-report and verified by saliva
      and exhaled carbon monoxide testing. In addition, all participants will take part in a
      standardized behavioral smoking cessation program.
    
  