
    
      Background

      It is well established that women with previous GDM are characterized by several metabolic
      abnormalities i.e. insulin resistance, beta-cell dysfunction and increased risk of later
      Diabetes Mellitus (DM). Furthermore, GDM is a heterogeneous condition covering both women
      with a strong genetic disposition to type 2 DM, women in the early stages of autoimmune DM
      and rare cases of monogenetic DM. These latent disorders of glucose metabolism are damasked
      by the metabolic stress of pregnancy.

      Aims

        1. To study predictors of DM and pre-DM after GDM: a) At the time of pregnancy: age, blood
           pressure, pre-pregnancy Body Mass Index (BMI), b) 3 months post partum: indices of
           insulin sensitivity and beta-cell function, lipid profile, GAD-autoantibodies, HbA1c

        2. To study lifestyle factors 7-8 years after GDM pregnancy in relation to current diabetes
           status

      Materials and methods

      During 2011-2017 women with previous GDM and a control group are invited to a long-term
      follow-up. Data collection is performed 7-8 years after pregnancy. GDM subjects (n~150),
      controls (n~50):

        1. Anthropometrics: weight, height, waist circumference, blood pressure and length

        2. Analyses: p-glucose, s-insulin at 0, 30 and 120 minutes during a 2-h 75 g OGTT. Fasting:
           total cholesterol, HDL, LDL triglycerides, GAD- autoantibodies, Hba1C, Urine
           albumin/creatinine ratio.

        3. Questionnaires: Information on lifestyle and health status

      Data available around pregnancy

      Pregnancy data from hospital journals (GDM subjects and controls):

      Examinations 3 months post-partum (GDM subjects only):

      Clinical examination, 2-h 75 g OGTT with measurements of p-glucose and s- insulin at 0, 30
      and 120 minutes, fasting total cholesterol, HDL, LDL and triglycerides, HbA1c and GAD-
      autoantibodies.

      Perspectives

      Our current population is unique as clinical, metabolic and autoimmune markers were
      determined prospectively a few months after GDM pregnancy and at follow-up. Hopefully, the
      results will enable us to target preventive actions in women with previous GDM and improve
      our understanding of pathophysiologic mechanisms in pre-diabetic conditions.
    
  