
    
      1. Study design: The study subjects were couples of obstetric inpatients who would receive
           termination of pregnancy. Both groups were assessed by the obstetrician in the
           outpatient clinic who must be admitted to the hospital to terminate the pregnancy. After
           receiving consent, a pre-test is performed in the clinic. The pre-test included
           questionnaires (basic attribute, State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) - the State
           Anxiety Scale (S-Anxiety), Perinatal Grief Scale (PGS), Beck Depression Inventory).
           After complete pre-teat, study nurse will provide the experimental group a QR Code to
           enter the cloud system (Hama Star e-book network platform), enable the couples to read
           the content at home; the control group receives traditional oral instructions. When the
           experimental group entered the delivery room, the researcher used the Hama Star e-book
           network platform to play the content of the termination of pregnancy e-book education
           model, and discussed the content with them; the control group receives regular
           traditional education model, with booklet and oral instructions, the intervention is
           about 20-25 minutes. The experimental group is able to use e-books as needed during
           induction, hospitalization, and after discharge. Two post-tests are conducted for
           follow-up. Both groups write the first post-test questionnaire (State-Trait Anxiety
           Inventory (STAI) - the State Anxiety Scale (S-Anxiety), Perinatal Grief Scale (PGS),
           Beck Depression Inventory) 60 minutes after education. Then, complete the second
           post-test questionnaire at the next appointment a month after.

        2. Randomization Process: This study used a two-group pre- and post-test mode in
           experimental design, and random allocation to assign subjects into experimental and
           control groups. Participants were randomly allocated to the experimental or control
           group in a 1:1 ratio using the network randomization tool (www.randomizer.org/).

        3. Sample size calculation:G-power version 3.1 was used to calculate the required sample
           size for the study. Set power 0.8, α = 0.05, based on the effectiveness (effect 0.30),
           the number of samples required for each group in this study is 32, because the tracking
           period is up to half a year, with a loss rate 50%, the two groups need a total of 96
           participants.
    
  