
    
      Pentalogy of Cantrell is a very rare disorder in which patients have a combination of severe
      defects of the middle of the chest including the sternum (breastbone), diaphragm (muscle
      which separates the chest from the abdomen), heart, and abdominal wall. The defects can
      affect both males and females and is apparent at birth or shortly after.

      This study will collect blood, urine, and other tissue samples from 50 patients study-wide
      with Pentalogy of Cantrell and other inherited diseases that involve mutations in non-muscle
      genes. Mutations in non-muscle genes have been shown to result in human defects involving
      blood platelets, kidney, hearing and sight. The major objective of this protocol is to study
      a variety of blood, tissue and urine samples by looking at protein, DNA, and RNA in those
      collected samples.

      Enrollment in this study is entirely voluntary and the subject can elect to withdraw from the
      study at any time. Each subject will receive an oral and written explanation of this study
      and the purpose, procedures, and risks of this study in language that is comprehensible. The
      Investigator will be available to answer any questions the subject may have regarding the
      study. If the subject is a minor, the parent who signs the consent for the minor must be the
      legally recognized parent or guardian. Where deemed appropriate, the child will also be
      included in all discussions about the trial and a minor's assent will be obtained. The parent
      or guardian will sign on the designated line on the informed consent attesting to the fact
      that the child had given assent. If the minor child refuses to provide assent, then
      participation in the study will not occur. Informed consent will be obtained by the
      Investigator or designee, and a copy of the signed consent document will be given to the
      subject and placed in the subject's medical record. Subjects may withdraw permission of use
      of blood/tissue/urine specimens at any time.

      Tissue and/or blood and/or urine samples from participating institutions that have identified
      cases of Pentalogy of Cantrell and/or related syndromes will be collected. These samples will
      be sent to the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) for analysis and kept for a
      period of 5 years, unless the subject withdraws permission during that period. Standard
      methods will be used to collect the blood, tissue, and/or urine samples. For example, blood
      samples will be obtained from routine blood drawing and tissue may be obtained from
      previously obtained tissue secondary to surgery.

      Samples that are sent to the NHLBI for analysis will have identifiers on them, so if new
      information is discovered, the research subject may be contacted. All samples will be stored
      in a locked storage facility to maximize patient confidentiality.

      Anticipated Adverse Events are listed in the protocol and consent. Unanticipated Adverse
      Events will be reported to the appropriate institutions. All serious adverse events will be
      reported by the Investigator verbally and in writing to the Clinical Director and the NHLBI
      IRB within the time frame set by the protocol. The nature of this study does not warrant a
      DSMB, therefore the principal Investigator, Dr. Robert Adelstein will provide oversight of
      the safety and data analysis of the conduct of this study.

      The benefit of this study is discovery of the disease and the mutation that causes the
      disease, therefore yielding generalizable knowledge regarding the disorder.
    
  