
    
      Open heart surgery requires the use of a CPB circuit. As blood flows across the artificial
      surfaces of the CPB circuit, platelets are consumed (1). The investigators recently completed
      a prospective observational trial of neonates undergoing cardiac surgery requiring CPB. In
      this trial the investigators demonstrated a dramatic decrease in platelet count from baseline
      to intraoperatively. The platelet count rebounded with transfusion and normalized by the time
      of admission to the cardiac intensive care unit (CICU). Despite prophylactic transfusion of
      blood products to all patients, 41% experienced excessive postoperative bleeding (defined in
      terms of chest tube output and need for reoperation).

      Further investigation by Dr. Debra Newman in her lab at the Blood Research Institute
      delineated the platelet defect associated with CPB in the neonates more clearly. Dr. Newman
      found a significant decrease in the platelet responsiveness to thrombin receptor activating
      protein (TRAP), thromboxane A2 analog (U46619), and collagen-related peptide (CRP). Further
      analysis revealed that the effect of CPB on platelet responsiveness to TRAP and U46619 is
      likely dependent on its effect on platelet count, whereas CPB affects platelet responsiveness
      to CRP independently of platelet count.

      In children, postoperative blood loss and transfusion of blood products has been shown to
      contribute significantly to the morbidity and mortality of surgeries that require CPB (2, 3).
      In addition to the need for blood product replacement, the activation of platelets
      contributes to the intense inflammatory reaction seen in surgeries requiring CPB (4).
      Patients with a less intense inflammatory response post-operatively generally do better with
      less morbidity (5).

      The oxygenator membrane surface of the CPB pump is a large contributor to the surface area of
      CPB circuit. As a major contributor to the surface area of the circuit and the location of
      the gas interface, the oxygenator is a significant contributor to the hemostatic and
      inflammatory stimulus of CPB. Advances in oxygenator technology have modified the surface to
      prevent interaction with the blood, but no artificial surface has been found to be as inert
      as the natural endothelium of the vasculature (5).

      A major mechanism by which endothelial surfaces inhibit activation of platelets is by
      producing nitric oxide (6). Nitric oxide is lipophilic and traverses cellular membranes where
      it acts on intracellular signaling pathways in platelets to prevent platelet activation and
      aggregation (7). The artificial surface of the CPB pump does not produce nitric oxide and
      hence is devoid of this potent inhibitor of platelet activation.

      In multiple experimental ex-vivo models of CPB, the addition of nitric oxide to the sweep gas
      of the oxygenator resulted in preserved platelet counts, preserved platelet function, and
      decreased markers of platelet activation (8-11).

      Multiple clinical trials of nitric oxide administration during CPB have shown positive
      results. Chung et al. showed in a group of 41 adults undergoing coronary artery surgery
      requiring CPB that the addition of nitric oxide to the oxygenator resulted in a preservation
      of platelet numbers, a decrease in markers of platelet activation, and less post-operative
      blood loss (12). Checchia et al. investigated the effect of nitric oxide in a group of
      sixteen infants undergoing repair of tetralogy of Fallot and found the patients treated with
      nitric oxide had an improvement in clinical outcomes of length of stay in the intensive care
      unit and number of hours requiring mechanical ventilation (13). James et al. showed a 50%
      decrease in the incidence of low cardiac output syndrome in a randomized trial of 198
      children. The effect was most profound in the younger children and those undergoing the most
      complex repairs (14). These patients are also the ones demonstrated to have the most intense
      inflammatory reaction postoperatively (15).

      Despite these promising studies, several questions remain. The mechanism of platelet
      preservation has not been delineated. The collaboration between clinicians at Children's
      Hospital of Wisconsin and Dr. Newman at the Blood Center of Wisconsin has been established
      and has experience in investigating the effects of CPB on platelets in infants. This
      collaboration is poised to help define the mechanism of nitric oxide in preserving platelet
      function during CPB in infants. All studies to date have been single center and underpowered
      to investigate clinical outcomes of interest such as mortality and length of hospital stay.
      Dr. Niebler has begun to assemble a multi-center study team. Local data is necessary to help
      guide the power calculation in determining the sample size for this larger study and to
      demonstrate the capabilities of the local institution in leading a trial of this magnitude.
    
  