
    
      1. Purpose and objective: The investigators propose an online intervention to increase
           colorectal cancer screening among men and women ages 50 to 75 who have never been
           screened for this disease. The intervention consists of giving study participants
           information about their estimated risk of getting colorectal cancer followed by either a
           message emphasizing the benefits of getting screened (i.e., gain frame messages) or the
           disadvantages of not getting screened (loss frame messages). Before conducting the
           online intervention, the investigators will conduct a pilot study to validate the gain
           and loss frame messages.

        2. Study activities and population group: The pilot study activities involve recruiting 20
           participants, screening for eligibility and conducting informed consent over the phone,
           randomizing them to receive either gain or loss frame messages, and instructing them to
           complete a survey with questions covering comprehension and framing manipulation checks.
           Data entry and survey activities will all be conducted through a secure REDCap project.

           Main study activities involve a pilot conducted by GfK involving 40 participants, 20
           randomized to gain and 20 to the loss conditions, completing an online baseline survey
           and a post-intervention online survey. In addition, participants are to review: 1)
           educational materials on colorectal cancer and colorectal cancer screening, 2) review
           and respond to questions about their estimated risk of getting colorectal cancer, and 3)
           review and respond to questions about gain- or loss-framed messages. After the pilot,
           the full study will begin. Study activities will be the same as in the pilot, with the
           addition of a six month post-intervention online survey.

        3. Data analyses and risk/safety issues: Analyses will include descriptive statistics and
           use of linear and logistic regression analyses. Every effort will be made to ensure the
           confidentiality of the information collected. During the pilot study, the only PHI
           recorded is an email address for the purposes of conducting the online surveys, a
           physical address so that the study team can send a copy of the consent form, and
           information for payment. Demographic information and email address will be recorded
           during phone screening and entered into a secure REDCap database after the participant
           has given informed consent, and an internal record ID will be generated for the
           participant in REDCap that will be used to identify them throughout the study. Physical
           address and payment information will be recorded after informed consent. All paper data
           will be destroyed as soon as possible.

      In the main study run by GfK, all data received by the key personnel from Gfk will be
      de-identified per GfK policy. There are no foreseeable physical risks; although some
      participants in the main study may be surprised by their risk estimate and react negatively
      (e.g., experience some anxiety) if the estimate is very high.
    
  