
    
      The existence, diagnosis and treatment of short esophagus is one of the controversies of the
      past within esophageal surgery which has recently re-emerged. This entity was described in
      detail by radiologists in the 60's. Many surgeons confirmed its existence in the operating
      room, describing the clinical, anatomical and surgical patterns along with the modalities of
      surgical treatment of shortened esophagus following progressive fibrosis and retraction of
      the esophageal wall consequent to severe long standing gastro-esophageal reflux disease
      (GERD). Contrarily other surgeons denied its existence claiming that the gastro-esophageal
      (GEJ) junction can be reduced into the abdomen without tension in virtually all patients and
      that the esophagus is, in fact, not shortened. In the case series of open antireflux surgery,
      the percentage of dedicated procedures aimed to treat the condition of non-reducibility of
      the GEJ below the diaphragm is highly variable.

      In the present era of minimally invasive antireflux surgery, short esophagus again seems to
      originate controversy and open debate. Many thousands of laparoscopic standard antireflux
      operations have been performed in the world and numerous articles report satisfactory short
      and medium-term functional results in over 90% of cases, although in these experiences the
      need for a tailored approach has not emerged. However, in the last years, many reports on the
      diagnosis and laparoscopic management of shortened esophagus in GERD surgery have been
      published.

      The perception of "excessive tension" of the fundoplication at the operating table is highly
      subjective.

      During the process of progressive shortening of the esophagus, the portion of the fundus
      attracted above the diaphragm may take the appearance of a funnel hardly distinguishable from
      a thickened oesophagus. Therefore the gastric fundus may be erroneously wrapped around the
      herniated stomach.

      Through laparoscopic surgery, by cranially distending the diaphragmatic hiatus the
      pneumoperitoneum may by artefact increase the length of the intra-abdominal esophagus, and
      the impossibility to manually palpate and feel the tension applied to the esophagus to bring
      the GEJ below the diaphragm may make it difficult to recognize a condition of shortened
      esophagus, more so if the experience of the surgeon is not adequate. The different methods
      adopted by surgeons in assessing the length and the elasticity of the esophagus and the
      position of the esophago-gastric junction with respect to the hiatus is the cause of the
      disagreement. The missed diagnosis of short esophagus and the consequent inadequacy of
      treatment is one of the major causes of failure of antireflux surgery.

      As the number of antireflux operations, mainly laparoscopic, performed per year has
      remarkably increased, the issue of the so-called short esophagus is today one of the major
      points in the management of antireflux surgery, which deserves reappraisal and definitive
      clarification.

      The daily clinical practice of surgeons dedicated to therapy of esophageal diseases could
      take advantage of the definition of frequency, preoperative predictors, intraoperative
      management and post operative outcomes of cases of foreshortened esophagus in order to offer
      the patient affected by GERD, the elements necessary for a conscious choice of therapy and to
      plan the best performance of the surgical procedure.

      Aim of this study is: to define the percentage of cases among the total of antireflux
      procedures performed for type II-IV hiatus hernia, in which, after standard isolation of the
      GEJ and eventual dissection of the mediastinal esophagus at least two centimetres of
      esophagus can not be replaced without any applied tension below the apex of the diaphragmatic
      hiatus; and to record the intra-operative, postoperative outcome of procedures adopted for
      the surgical treatment of type II-IV hiatus hernia.
    
  