
    
      Background:

        -  Pgp is a 170 kDa plasma membrane glycoprotein that functions as a non-specific
           energy-dependent drug efflux pump. Pgp is expressed in a variety of normal human
           tissues, such as renal proximal tubules, capillary endothelial cells that comprise the
           blood-brain barrier, epithelial cells lining the bile canaliculi, bone marrow stem
           cells, and peripherial blood mononuclear cells.

        -  Pgp over-expression in tumor cells results in a multidrug resistance phenotype by
           preventing the intracellular accumulation of a variety of chemotherapeutic agents,
           including anthracyclines, taxanes, vinca alkyloids, and epipodophyllotoxins. Inhibition
           of Pgp may partially reverse multidrug resistance by increasing intracellular drug
           accumulation in tumor cells.

        -  Tariquidar (XR9576) is a specific Pgp inhibitor that blocks Pgp function for up to 24
           hours after a single dose without significant toxicity in animals and humans.

        -  In adults, tariquidar in combination with doxorubicin, paxlitaxel, or vinorelbine is
           well tolerated, and only minor alterations in the clearance and drug exposure (area
           under the concentration time curve, AUC) of the anticancer drugs have been observed.

      Objectives:

        -  Study the tolerance and toxicity profile of tariquidar at three dose levels in
           combination with one of three anticancer drugs (doxorubicin, docetaxel, vinorelbine) in
           pediatric patients with refractory solid tumors including brain tumors.

        -  Define the maximum tolerated dose of tariquidar in children if dose-limiting toxicity is
           observed at doses less than or equal to 2 mg/kg.

        -  Study the pharmacokinetics of tariquidar alone and in combination with doxorubicin,
           docetaxel or vinorelbine in pediatric patients.

        -  Study the pharmacodynamics (effect on Pgp function) of tariquidar ex vivo in peripheral
           blood mononuclear cells (CD56+) with a rhodamine uptake assay and in vivo in tissues and
           tumor by (99m) Tc-sestamibi scan.

        -  Study alterations in the acute toxicity and pharmacokinetic profile of doxorubicin,
           vinorelbine or docetaxel when administered in combination with tariquidar.

        -  When possible, assess Pgp expression in tumor specimens by immunohistochemistry and
           compare immunohistochemisty results with in vivo Pgp functional studies (99m)
           Tc-sestamibi scan).

      Eligibility:

      -Children and adolescents (greater than or equal to 2 years and less than or equal to 18
      years of age) with histologically confirmed relapsed or refractory solid tumors that are
      measureable or evaluable.

      Design:

        -  Tariquidar will be administered alone and in combination with doxorubicin, vinorelbine,
           or doctaxel. Tariquidar dose levels will be 1, 1.5, and 2 mg/kg. Intrapatient dose
           escalation of tariquidar is permitted.

        -  Detailed pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies are performed in cycle 1.

        -  The trial follows a standard phase 1 design with 3 to 6 patients per dose level. At the
           recommedmed dose of tariquidar, 6 patients will be enrolled with each cytotoxic agent.
           Up to 36 patients will be entered on this trial.
    
  