
    
      Background: A hip fracture is often a catastrophic event that is a significant threat to an
      individual's mobility, independence and ability to live in the community. Projections
      indicate that the incidence of hip fracture will increase nearly four-fold by 2041 in Canada.
      The course and outcomes of hip fracture patients are often complicated by the presence of
      dementia and delirium, referred to as cognitive impairment (CI), which limits access to
      in-patient rehabilitation. In response to this concern, members of our team developed an
      in-patient rehabilitation model of care for patients with hip fractures, with specific
      components of the model targeting patients with CI (PCRM-CI). The pre-clinical and phase I
      testing of the model has been completed, and preliminary evidence exists that patients with
      and without CI can regain their mobility and function and return to previous living
      arrangement at discharge from rehabilitation. This proposed 3 year study focuses on phase II,
      that is, to compare the PCRM-CI with usual rehabilitation care and to gain a better
      understanding of factors influencing implementation of the model. Decision-making partners
      for this proposal have identified service gaps within their local health region related to
      rehabilitation care of patients with hip fractures and are committed to sustaining the model
      beyond this study. This proposed research addresses the mandate of the current funding
      opportunity by improving the mobility of cognitively impaired elders, and by enhancing the
      capacity of research users to apply research evidence in decisions on models of care that can
      contribute to improved mobility for aging older Canadians.

      Research Objectives: Primary Objective: To determine whether, compared to usual care, an
      inpatient rehabilitation model of care targeting community dwelling individuals with hip
      fracture and CI (dementia and/or delirium) results in improved mobility at the time of
      discharge from inpatient rehabilitation.

      Secondary Objectives: 1) To determine if the use of the PCRM-CI for persons with hip fracture
      and CI will result in: i) improved mobility at 6 months post-surgery; ii) greater improvement
      in physical functioning at the time of discharge from inpatient rehabilitation and at 6
      months post-surgery; iii) a higher proportion of patients with hip fracture returning to
      their previous living situation in the community at discharge and at 6 months post-surgery.
      2) To determine whether the PCRM-CI results in similar improvements in mobility at discharge
      and 6 months post-surgery for patients with and without CI. 3) To evaluate whether the
      PCRM-CI improves health care providers' (HCPs) attitudes, knowledge, satisfaction and stress.
      4) To examine the processes by which the PCRM-CI is implemented.

      Design: A non-equivalent pre-post design will be used to evaluate the PCRM-CI as compared to
      usual care. All community dwelling (retirement or home) patients following a hip fracture
      will be eligible to participate. Two facilities will be involved in the study as multi site
      sampling increases robustness by allowing for comparison and contrast between sites. Study
      accrual will take about 16 months to complete recruitment and data collection of 70 hip
      fracture patients in the usual care cohort and 70 patients in the PCRM-CI cohort, based on
      sample size and attrition estimation from phase I. The investigators will recruit 60 HCPs and
      their unit managers in the study.

      Methods: Baseline data will be collected within 3 days of admission to rehabilitation.
      Follow-up occurs within 3 days of discharge from rehabilitation and 6 months post-surgery.
      Patient evaluations will include mobility (mobility and locomotion items of FIMM), physical
      function (motor-FIM), and living arrangement (collaterals' informants reply). Other variables
      influencing outcomes that will be collected from the patient include: sex, co-morbidities,
      age, patients' level of education, social support (live alone, with spouse, or with other),
      pre fracture status (OARS), and pre-cognitive status (IQCODE). During the patients' stay in
      rehabilitation, data on dementia (MMSE), delirium screening (CAM) and severity (Delirium
      Index) will be collected. Lastly, focus groups with HCPs and semi-structured interviews with
      unit managers will be conducted, and the investigators will collect additional data through
      intervention logs, and field notes to examine factors influencing the model implementation.

      Significance: With the aging of the population, this research will contribute to meeting the
      emerging health needs of Canadians by improving the provision of services for elders with CI.
    
  