
    
      Primary Objective:

      Low back pain is a frequent cause of disability and a common reason for outpatient care in
      veterans. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the lower back often reveals abnormalities,
      which may be used to justify expensive and invasive therapy, such as surgery. Yet the link
      between MRI abnormalities and the risk of developing clinically significant back pain is far
      from clear. This longitudinal study will determine the prevalence and incidence of MRI
      abnormalities among veterans and determine the extent to which specific MRI abnormalities
      predict future development of back pain. The results should help clinicians use MR imaging
      more efficiently, and they may ultimately help reduce the frequency of unnecessary back
      surgery.

      Study Abstract:

      Low back pain is the second most common symptomatic reason for physician visits in the U.S.
      resulting in over $24 billion annually in direct health care costs. A survey of primary care
      patients a the Seattle VA revealed that more than one-quarter experienced back pain severe
      enough to require a visit to a health care practitioner. Imaging plays a vital role in the
      valuation of patients with back pain. However, a causal relationship between imaging
      abnormalities and back pain has yet to be clearly established. Abnormalities of the lumbar
      spine on magnetic resonance (MR) imaging are common and increase with age to the point that
      they are nearly ubiquitous over the age of 50. Despite this, imaging abnormalities are often
      used to justify various therapies for low back pain, including expensive and invasive
      therapy, such as surgery. Prior studies have examined the prevalence of imaging
      abnormalities, but no study has investigate either the degree of risk that imaging
      abnormalities impart for the development of low back pain or the incidence of imaging
      abnormalities. The goal is to examine the natural history of magnetic resonance imaging of
      the lumbar spine in asymptomatic subjects. We want to determine the relationship of imaging
      abnormalities to the development of low back pain by comparing patients with normal imaging
      to those with abnormal imaging
    
  