
    
      Surgical specialties commonly using laparoscopic techniques like gynecology and general
      surgery have extensively compared the various available techniques of port insertion (1).
      There is very little known regarding the safest entry technique for the initial port in
      laparoscopic renal surgery. Results from other surgical specialties cannot simply be
      extrapolated to this type of laparoscopic surgery due to difference in entry site and patient
      position with renal surgery. Hence, this randomised controlled trial will be performed in a
      urological unit with two laparoscopic renal surgeons to compare two commonly used techniques
      of initial trocar insertion: the closed method and the open method.

      Background Since its introduction in 1991 by Clayman, laparoscopic renal surgery has become
      very popular and is widely used for both benign and malignant renal operations such as
      radical, simple and partial nephrectomies, pyeloplasties, nephro-ureterectomies (2). The
      overall reported major and minor complication rate of laparoscopic renal surgery is 9.5% and
      1.9% respectively (2). Initial entry by trocar insertion is the most hazardous part of the
      laparoscopic procedure. Opinion regarding the safest entry technique is divided. The two most
      commonly used techniques of port entry include open and closed (3). An open technique, as
      first described by Hasson, involves the peritoneum being cut down, followed by the insertion
      of a blunt trocar under direct visualisation, gas insufflation, and insertion of the
      laparoscope. One of the closed technique involves the insertion of a Veress needle (a needle
      equipped with a spring-loaded obturator) into the peritoneal cavity, followed by gas
      insufflation (act of blowing) and insertion of a trocar (a sharp, pointed instrument with a
      cannula used to enter the body cavity). Finally the laparoscope is passed through the trocar
      once the obturator is removed. Previous meta-analyses in laparoscopic surgery from
      gynaecological and general surgical operations have not been able to support one technique
      over the other due to insufficient evidence.to our knowledge (3), there are no randomised
      controlled trials comparing these two techniques in laparoscopic renal surgery. During
      laparoscopic renal surgery, the patient is placed in a lateral flank position with the table
      flexed. The initial port of entry can be either at the umbilicus or lateral to it. This
      position is unique to urological surgery and hence can have different implications to the
      initial trocar insertion technique.

      The objective is to compare the open method (Hasson) and closed method (Veress) of
      laparoscopic port site entry in renal surgery
    
  