
    
      ADDIA study is dedicated to the proof-of-performance (PoP) of blood biomarkers for diagnosis
      of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and will recruit approximately 800 subjects (400 AD and 400
      non-AD).

      CONTEXT OF USE:

      To quantify the performance of ADDIA' blood biomarkers for AD diagnosis (yes/no).

      Since the main objective of this study is to establish the performance of ADDIA' blood
      cell-based biomarkers β-amyloid (Aβ) and protein kinase C (PKC) and corresponding assays and
      to seek approval as In-Vitro Diagnosis (IVD) test(s) specific for diagnosis of AD, and to
      validate the newly identified metabolomics and RNA signatures and selected protein biomarker
      candidates, samples will be used from:

        -  the patients recruited in the AD group and patients recruited in the non-AD
           neurodegenerative disorders (NAD) group who are accurately diagnosed during the
           pre-screening period, including by using three types of diagnostic methods: clinical
           neuropsychological scores, neuroimaging (at least volumetric structural MRI) and
           retrospective cerebrospinal (CSF) data: Aβ, total-Tau and p-tau biomarkers.
           Alternatively to absence of retrospective CSF data, retrospective Aβ PET /Tau PET scans
           can be used if compatible to diagnosis of respective diseases.

        -  the subjects recruited in the control group have no objective memory loss, normal
           results on neuropsychology tests, and normal neuroimaging findings for their age, as
           well as normal Aβ PET scan Tau PET scan and normal CSF Aβ, total-Tau and p-Tau
           concentration if retrospectively available.

      For further validation of ADDIA' biomarkers, an integrative tool combining ADDIA' blood
      biomarkers with cognitive scores and/or, neuroimaging (and/or retrospective CSF biomarker
      data) will be used. The impact of polymorphisms associated with AD, such as APOE e4 (known to
      be as risk factor of AD) on ADDIA' blood biomarkers will also be studied.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Objective 1: Validate the ADDIA biomarker candidates: two blood cell-based biomarkers
      measured by flow cytometry using Amoneta Diagnostics' proprietary probes specific to
      beta-Amyloid (Aβ) peptide and protein kinase C (PKC).

      ADDIA' blood cell-based Aβ and/or PKC biomarkers will also be combined via an integrative
      tool with clinical neuropsychological scores (MMSE, MoCA, FCSRT) and/or neuroimaging (at
      least volumetric MRI) scores for diagnosis and/or differential diagnosis. The impact on these
      ADDIA biomarkers of genotyping in particular polymorphisms known to be associated with AD
      (e.g. APOE e4, e2 alleles) will also be tested. In addition, the levels of ADDIA' blood
      cell-based Aβ and/or PKC biomarkers will be correlated to the levels of CSF biomarkers Aβ and
      tau or phospho-tau (or Aβ PET and TAU PET levels).

      Objective 2: ADDIA clinical PoP study will also validate additional new biomarker candidates
      (identified previously and/or under analytical validation in the ADKIT study and
      chronobiological studies) for AD diagnosis in peripheral body fluids; in particular, studies
      on a set of proteins (using immuno-detection methods), metabolomics/lipidomics signatures
      (using e.g. LC-HRMS method) and miRNA signature (using e.g. qPCR, HTG-NGS methods) are
      planned. These new biomarkers may be used if needed to further enhance the accuracy of ADDIA'
      blood-based Aβ and PKC biomarker test for diagnosis or differential diagnosis.

      STUDY DESIGN

      ADDIA clinical study is a multi-centre, non-interventional, prospective, proof-of-performance
      group study without a clinical follow-up. About 800 well characterized subjects will be
      enrolled into 3 groups in 2:1:1 ratio, namely Alzheimer's disease, non-AD neurodegenerative
      diseases and controls (healthy as compared to their age). The number of subjects is divided
      into 3 groups as following:

        -  400 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD),

        -  200 patients with non-Alzheimer's neurodegenerative diseases (NAD),

        -  200 controls (CC).

      All groups will be age-matched and mean age similar in the three groups.

      ADDIA clinical study needs to recruit well characterized subjects in each group, therefore a
      pre-screening or a diagnostic workup of the subjects needs to be performed by the clinical
      centres before the start of the clinical study (during Visit 0). In ADDIA clinical study,
      only one visit (Visit 1) is required for the subjects without any follow-up, in which the
      subjects will be recruited and sampling of blood and urine will be done in the same Visit 1.
      The following data sets will be collected:

        1. Data set 1 and samples available from visit 0 collected in the e-CRF after informed
           consent signature:

           • Data from all subjects of the three groups include neuropsychological scores (MMSE,
           MoCA, FCSRT scores), neuroimaging (at least structural MRI volumetric scores, and other
           neuroimaging as needed for diagnosis) and laboratory data (haematology, biochemistry)
           related to pre-screening and diagnosis. CSF samples obtained retrospectively by clinical
           centres are needed if available.

        2. Data set 2 and samples from Visit 1 include in all three groups clinical MMSE, FCSRT,
           MoCA tests (MMSE and MoCA tests to be redone on Visit 1 if older than 3 months) and
           laboratory data (haematology, biochemistry), and blood and urine (and saliva and tear as
           optional) collected during Visit 1 (clinical centres). The clinical centres equipped
           with flow cytometry can perform experiments on ADDIA blood cell-based biomarkers
           utilizing Amoneta' proprietary Aβ and PKC probes.

      Data set 3 will be obtained at the end of ADDIA clinical study (Amoneta Diagnostics/Firalis)
      and will comprise data on the performance of ADDIA biomarkers as described in details in
      objectives 1, 2.

      SUBJECT RECRUITMENT AND SAMPLING

      The subjects who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria prior to the inclusion in the
      study (as checked by the clinical centres during Visit 0) will be enrolled in the ADDIA study
      after the informed consent signatures. Sampling will be performed for the following body
      fluids during Visit 1: blood (11 tubes, 2.5, 4 or 5 mL each) and urine (1 tube, 5 mL) from
      all subjects. Saliva (1 tube, 4 mL) and tear (2 tubes, 0.15 mL each) samples are optional.

      Eleven tubes of blood and spot urine will be collected from each subject that has fasted for
      > 12 hours. The samples will be used as follows:

        -  2 (two) tubes will be used at the participating clinical centres for routine lab tests,
           haematology and biochemistry.

        -  9 (nine) tubes will be sent to Amoneta facilities in the following format:

        -  3 (three) fresh whole blood samples (3 Li-heparin tubes), 1 tube will be sent in the
           morning immediately after sampling to the flow cytometry laboratory (Amoneta
           laboratories or another laboratory chosen by Amoneta which can be a laboratory of the
           clinical centre if equipped with flow cytometry platform) to quantify the performance of
           ADDIA assays based on blood cell-based biomarkers Aβ and PKC for AD diagnosis and 2
           tubes will be used to fix or prepare cells that will be later analysed by flow cytometry
           at Amoneta laboratories.

        -  6 (six) fresh blood samples will be prepared on-site to obtain serum (dry tube), plasma
           (EDTA and Li-Heparin tubes), PAXgene and PAXRNA samples and PBMC (Li-Heparin tube)
           samples, which will be aliquoted and stored immediately at -80°C at the clinical centres
           before being shipped at -80°C later on Amoneta/Firalis central laboratory for testing:
           genotyping and gene, RNA expression (2 blood tubes), protein expression and
           metabolomics/lipidomics (1 Li-Heparin and 1 EDTA tubes of plasma, 1 dry tube of serum,
           and 1 Li-Heparin tube of PBMCs) during the ADDIA program and for validating the emerging
           biomarkers and for replication studies during or after the ADDIA program (as may be
           requested by regulatory authorities for IVD product approval).

        -  Urine samples (and saliva, tear samples as optional) will be aliquoted and frozen
           immediately at -80°C at the clinical centres and shipped at -80°C to Amoneta/Firalis
           central laboratory for testing in selected assays based on results that will be obtained
           on blood samples.

      ENDPOINTS

        -  Performance evaluation of the ADDIA blood biomarkers Aβ and PKC (IVD) kit by AD
           diagnosis in the form of binary outcome (Yes/No) after quantification of sensitivity &
           specificity of these biomarkers. This will be also achieved by using the integrative
           tool enabling comparison of ADDIA blood-based biomarkers Aβ and PKC to and combination
           with standard clinical diagnosis tests: cognitive scores, neuroimaging scores (and CSF
           Biomarkers if possible).

        -  Performance evaluation of the ADDIA' additional new biomarkers (RNA signature,
           metabolomics signature and/or other peripheral biomarkers) for AD diagnosis in the form
           of binary outcome (Yes/No) after quantification of sensitivity & specificity of these
           biomarkers.

      STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS

      Primary consideration (for the evaluation of the diagnostic performance) will be the
      comparisons between the following groups:

        -  AD (Mild AD + Moderate-to-severe AD) versus healthy controls, and/or

        -  Mild AD versus healthy controls, and/or

        -  Moderate-to-severe AD versus healthy controls, and/or

        -  AD versus healthy controls+NAD groups.

      Secondary considerations (for the evaluation of the differential diagnostic performance) will
      be the comparisons between the following groups:

        -  AD (Mild AD + Moderate-to-severe AD) versus NAD and/or

        -  Mild AD versus NAD and/or

        -  Moderate-to-severe AD versus NAD and/or

        -  Mild AD versus Moderate-to-severe AD Tertiary considerations will explore potential
           differences between NAD versus healthy controls and the subgroups of NAD (FTD, LBD, PDD,
           PSP, CBD) two by two as well as versus healthy controls and AD.
    
  