
    
      The project aims at to compare the effectiveness on suicide re-attempt rate reduction at
      2-years follow-up of add-on PEPSUI psychoeducational program versus relaxation program in
      patients having attempted suicide in the past year

      Secondary, the project aims to compare between add-on psychoeducational program and
      relaxation:

        -  Interrupted or aborted suicide attempt rate reduction during the follow-up

        -  Severity and intensity of suicide ideation: at post-treatment, and at 6, 12, 18 and 24
           months after the intervention (and the evolution between pre and each post-intervention
           point)

        -  Intensity of suicidal intent: at post-treatment, and at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after
           the intervention (and the evolution between pre and each post-intervention point)

        -  Adherence to treatment and perceived utility of mental health services: at
           post-treatment, and at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after the intervention (and the evolution
           between pre and each post-intervention point)

        -  Levels of depression, anxiety, psychological pain and hopelessness: at post-treatment,
           and at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after the intervention (and the evolution between pre and
           each post-intervention point)

        -  Global functioning and quality of life: at post-treatment, and at 6, 12, 18 and 24
           months after the intervention (and the evolution between pre and each post-intervention
           point)

        -  Subjective social support: at post-treatment, and at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after the
           intervention (and the evolution between pre and each post-intervention point)

        -  The need to emergency psychiatric consultation and psychiatric hospitalisation for
           suicidal ideation: at post-treatment, and at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after the
           intervention (and the evolution between pre and each post-intervention point)

        -  Acceptance, contact with present moment and meaning in life: at post-treatment, and at
           6, 12, 18 and 24 months after the intervention (and the evolution between pre and each
           post-intervention point)

        -  Satisfaction and adherence to the intervention: at post-treatment (likert scale).

           500 patients suffering from current suicidal behavior disorder (according to the
           Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5) will be recruited, i.e.
           having attempted to suicide in the past year. Eligible patients will be randomized in
           one of the two arms: add-on psychoeducation or add-on relaxation (computer-generated
           randomisation in a 1 :1 ratio).

      Sociodemographic data, psychiatric diagnoses using Mini-International Neuropsychiatric
      Interview (M.I.N.I.) and pharmacological treatment will be also recorded.

      An independent researcher not involved in the study will perform the allocation. Each patient
      will be evaluated at baseline (pre intervention V1) and followed-up during 24 months after
      treatment completion, with 5 visits: post intervention (V2) 6 months (V3), 12 months (V4), 18
      months (V5) and 24 months (V6) after the intervention. Blind trained evaluators will assess
      patients. Patients will be told to avoid saying their group of allocation to the evaluator.
    
  