
    
      Ensuring universal access to electricity is essential for global development. In the health
      sector, lack of reliable light and electricity is a major challenge for health workers when
      conducting deliveries at night. However, there is very little evidence of the impact of
      improving access to reliable electrification at maternity facilities on the quality of
      maternity care they provide.

      This stepped wedge cluster-randomized trial will evaluate the impact of a reliable light and
      electricity source - the "Solar Suitcase" - on outcomes of availability and brightness of
      light, the quality of maternal care provided, and health worker satisfaction. The study will
      take place in rural health facilities conducting deliveries in Uganda. The eligible
      facilities have either no connection to electricity or a modern light source or have reported
      to have very unreliable light (blackouts occur frequently).

      The intervention is a "Solar Suitcase", provided by the non-governmental organization "We
      Care Solar". The Solar Suitcases are complete solar electric systems that provide essential
      lighting and power for charging phones and small medical devices. Data collection will
      include direct observation of deliveries during daytime and nighttime hours, as well as
      interviews with facility staff. The intervention will be implemented in about 30 facilities
      in a step process, whereby at each 'step', half of the facilities (selected randomly) will
      receive the intervention.

      Data will be collected at three time points: a baseline period in which no facilities have
      received the intervention, a midline period in which the first group of facilities has
      received the intervention but the other half has not, and an endline period in which all
      facilities have received the intervention.

      In addition, facility-level data will be collected at three time points over a 9-month period
      after the completion of the endline. This data will be used to monitor delivery and ANC
      volumes at facilities.
    
  