
    
      Rationale:

      Gastrointestinal angiodysplasias are an important cause of difficult to manage bleeding,
      especially in older patients. Angiodysplasias are technical challenging to manage endoscopic.
      Some patients are blood transfusion or iron infusion dependent due to rebleedings despite
      endoscopic intervention. In clinical practice we face difficulties in these patients as there
      is no known effective alternative treatment. In small cohort studies octreotide appears to
      decrease the bleeding episodes in those patients, but the evidence is still to weak to
      integrate this treatment modality in daily practice.

      Objective:

      To assess the efficacy of octreotide in decreasing the need for blood transfusions or iron
      infusion in patients with refractory anaemia due to gastrointestinal bleedings of
      angiodysplasias despite endoscopic intervention.

      Study design:

      Multicenter, randomized, open-label intervention study.

      Study population:

      62 patients, older than 45 years, with refractory anaemia due to bleeding of angiodysplasias
      without any other possible source of bleeding, who are blood transfusion or iron infusion
      dependent despite endoscopic intervention and oral iron supplementation.

      Intervention:

      Patients will be randomized (1:1) into two groups. The intervention group receives Octreotide
      40 mg (Sandostatin LAR) once every four weeks for 48 weeks. The control group receives
      standard of care. The last follow-up visit is in week 60.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      The primary outcome is the percentual decrease in blood and iron requirements between the
      year prior to inclusion and the treatment period of one year. The percentual decrease will be
      compared between the intervention and control arm.

      Important secondary outcomes are the percent change in the number of rebleeds from baseline
      to endpoint and the percentage of adverse events. An intention-to-treat analysis will be
      performed of the outcomes.
    
  