
    
      pelvic cancer is a broad term encompassing malignant tumors of the bladder, prostate, cervix,
      endometrium, ovaries, and uterus, among others. Pain associated with pelvic cancer is one of
      the most debilitating symptoms experienced by affected patients. Multiple studies demonstrate
      that the prevalence of pain in patients with pelvic cancer is >50%, and can be upwards of 60%
      to 70% in patients with advanced or metastatic disease . Cancer patients with extension of
      tumor into the pelvis may experience severe pain. Oral or parenteral opioids may not only
      fail to provide relief, but may cause excessive sedation and other side effects. More
      invasive approaches may thus be needed to control pain and improve the quality of life. Since
      pelvic cancer pain is visceral in most cases, this could be achieved with percutaneous
      chemical neurolytic block of the superior hypogastric plexus . The superior hypogastric
      plexus is located at the anterior aspect of the L5 and S1 vertebrae, and traverses the disk
      between these levels. It is an extension of the aortic plexus below the aortic bifurcation,
      and contains almost exclusively sympathetic ﬁbers and visceral afferents . Afferent pain
      ﬁbers innervating pelvic organs travel with sympathetic nerves, trunks, ganglia, and rami;
      thus, interrupting the sympathetic chain at this level can be used to treat pelvic cancer
      pain. Several studies examined the use of superior hypogastric plexus block in the treatment
      of pelvic cancer pain. Although the authors reported a mean reduction in pain of 70%, neither
      the follow-up period nor the proportion with a successful prognostic block were noted.
      Radiofrequency utilizes a high-frequency alternating current that is passed from the needle
      electrode into the surrounding tissue, resulting in frictional heating and necrosis. Due to
      the accuracy of lesions produced by radiofrequency ablation, there has been growing interest
      in the use of this technique for neurolysis of nerves as it offers the potential of accurate
      nerve destruction ablation, with a predictable and controlled ablative lesion. Another
      advantage of radiofrequency ablation is that it has an immediate effect unlike alcohol and
      phenol, which may take up to 1 week or 10 days to achieve neurolysis .
    
  