
    
      Astigmatism is a common vision condition that causes blurred vision. Astigmatism is an error
      of refraction in which incident parallel rays can't be focused to a single point .It could be
      corneal or lenticular astigmatism or both . Regarding Corneal astigmatism it is due to
      difference in the corneal curvature in the different meridian of both the anterior and
      posterior surface .

      The are 2 methods of studing corneal curvature :

        -  Corneal topography which depend on placcido disc to study anterior corneal surface .

        -  Corneal tomography is more precise in detecting anterior and posterior corneal curvature
           depending on Scheimpflug principle which uses a rotating Scheimpflug camera .

      Pentacam is a device which depend on Scheimpflug technique .

      The importance of studing the posterior corneal curvature includes :

      • The posterior corneal curvature is a more sensitive indicator of early keratoconus
      detection especially posterior corneal elevation.

      Previously, The change in the posterior corneal surface plays a more subtle role than the
      anterior corneal surface in optical performance because of the smaller difference in
      refractive indices between the cornea and aqueous, and it has been thought that the magnitude
      of PCA in the normal population is clinically negligible.

      Posterior corneal astigmatism (PCA) is important for better predictability of toric
      intraocular lens calculation to avoid under- or overestimation of toricity in intraocular
      lens (IOL) power calculations.

      But recently it has been demonstrated how neglecting PCA will lead to overcorrection of
      astigmatism in eyes with with-the-rule astigmatism (WTR) and undercorrection in eyes with
      against-the-rule astigmatism (ATR).(3) In our study we aim to Determine the contribution of
      posterior corneal astigmatism to total corneal astigmatism and the error in estimating total
      corneal astigmatism from anterior corneal measurements only using Scheimpflug analyzer
      (Pentacam ).

      Our patients will undergo Scheimpflug imaging using pentacam .

      From the corneal parameters displayed in pentacam we can calculate :

        -  Anterior corneal astigmatism by substracting Ksteep -Kflat on the front surface

        -  Posterior corneal astigmatism by substracting Ksteep-Kflat on the back surface.

        -  Total corneal astigmatism is calculated by addition of anterior and posterior corneal
           astigmatism using vector analysis by using ASSORT vector calculator.*

        -  The percentage of contribution of posterior corneal astigmatism to magnitude of Total
           corneal astigmatism is then calculated .

      ASSORT vector calculator:

      Is a total planning and outcomes analysis software for astigmatism using Alpins method
      ,cheltman ,Victoria ,Australia .
    
  