
    
      Obesity has adverse effects on breast cancer survival and recurrence, and this may be
      mediated via the insulin resistance that is associated with obesity. This is a matter of
      exceptional concern for African-American (AA) breast cancer survivors since a greater
      proportion of AAs than European Americans (EA) are obese, insulin-resistant and diabetic.
      This proposal seeks to test the effects of weight loss intervention in obese and overweight
      AA breast cancer survivors (body mass index 25-40 kg/m2, stage I, II, or IIIA cancer, free of
      recurrence). Subjects (n=100) will be randomized across 3 arms: 1) control; 2)
      individualized, dietitian-led counseling; and 3) dietitian-led counseling combined with peer
      counseling using telephone counseling by trained peers who are AA breast cancer survivors
      successful at weight control. Psychosocial factors that can affect the extent of weight loss
      achieved will be assessed, including individual, home and community-level factors. Some of
      these factors may change when weight loss is achieved and will be assessed both before and
      after intervention. Genetic polymorphisms that have been shown to be associated with
      increased body weight, insulin resistance, lipid metabolism, and oxidative stress will be
      determined and related to both baseline and post-intervention anthropometric and biologic
      measures. This should further help elucidate inter-individual differences in response to
      weight loss intervention. The possible beneficial effects of weight loss on the health risks
      associated with obesity will be evaluated with measures of insulin resistance, insulin-like
      growth factor and lipid levels in blood samples, as well as with blood pressure and
      anthropometric measures. The effects of weight loss on these measures have been studied in
      other obese and overweight populations, but there is little data in breast cancer survivors.
      Finally, we will attempt to determine if beneficial effects of weight loss can be detected in
      the breast, since this should be related to subsequent breast cancer risk. The breast
      contralateral to surgery will be subjected to ductal lavage at baseline, 12 and 24 months.
      The investigators will examine the effects of weight change on markers of oxidative stress in
      the breast nipple aspirate fluid that is obtained as part of the lavage procedure. Levels of
      lipid peroxidation are very high in this fluid and have been related to both nuclear atypia
      and breast cancer risk. The nuclear morphology of epithelial cells obtained by ductal lavage
      therefore will be quantified as well. Weight loss in obese and overweight AA breast cancer
      survivors should improve both psychosocial function and biological indicators of health
      risks.
    
  