
    
      The American Society of Anesthesiologists recommends acetaminophen, NSAIDS, or COX-2
      inhibitors as part of a multimodal pain management strategy to limit opioid usage (1). As the
      surgical patient population becomes more complex with comorbidities ranging from obesity,
      obstructive sleep apnea , and asthma becoming more common, the medical community continues to
      search for efficacious analgesics with a high safety profile. While non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs play an important role in multi-modal analgesia, their use is limited
      based on concerns for platelet inhibition, asthma exacerbation, and renal artery perfusion in
      patients of advanced age or reduced creatinine clearance.

      Acetaminophen has proven to be an important analgesic in the perioperative setting. It is
      frequently combined with opiates to allow for synergism, or it can be used as a sole
      analgesic to provide up to 4 hours of relief for moderate pain. While acetaminophen's main
      role as a multimodal analgesic regimen has been in tablet form as an opioid/acetaminophen
      combination in the post- anesthesia care unit (PACU), acetaminophen has emerged as an
      important perioperative analgesic due to FDA approval of an intravenous (IV) formulation
      (Ofirmev®) in the United States in 2010. While the new intravenous formulation was approved
      based upon its postoperative effectiveness and safety, there is also an interest in its
      preoperative use. [12, 13] The benefit IV acetaminophen claims over the oral modality is a
      70% higher blood concentration than a single similar dose (1 gram) of oral acetaminophen and
      a rapid onset with peak blood concentration within 15 minutes of infusion while similar oral
      doses may take 90 minutes to reach peak plasma concentrations. Many studies have compared the
      IV formulation of acetaminophen (Ofirmev®) with the oral formulation at the same dose of 1
      gram. However, this does not take into account the difference in pharmacokinetics of oral and
      intravenous formulations. A 15-minute constant infusion of 1 gram acetaminophen resulted in
      an average plasma concentration of 25.02 μg/ml at the end of the infusion with subsequent
      decline to approximately 11 μg/ml at 1 hour and 7 μg/ml at 3 hour after the start of
      infusion. Pain scores were lowest at one hour but remained significantly low for at least
      three hours. [FDA med review] Moreover, the pharmacokinetics of the immediate release oral
      formulation of acetaminophen are well-known. The absorption half life for acetaminophen in
      healthy subjects ranges from 0.06-0.7 hours (8). The relative bioavailability ranges from 85%
      to 98%. Moreover, it has a low first pass metabolism with a hepatic extraction ratio of 0.11
      to 0.37 (9). After oral administration of 1 gram acetaminophen in the immediate release
      formulation (IR), peak concentrations of acetaminophen in adults ranged from 7.7 to 17.6
      μg/mL within 1 hour.

      Although the therapeutic range for acetaminophen is not well established, plasma
      concentrations of 10-20 mcg/ml are associated with antipyretic activity, and previous work
      has assumed that antipyretic and analgesic doses will be similar. (3-4). However, another
      study developed two compartmental pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic models to relate plasma
      concentration to pain score relationship in children who received oral acetaminophen 30
      minutes before outpatient tonsillectomy. The model demonstrated only a one point decrease in
      pain score when the concentration increased from 10 μg/mL to 20 μg/mL and a steep loss of
      pain protection when the concentration fell below 6 - 7 μg/mL. Therefore, this study
      indicates a saturation of the analgesic effect of acetaminophen at a threshold plasma
      concentration of as low as 7 μg/mL.

      The basis for our proposal stems from a recent study by J Van Der Westhuizen, et al. They set
      out to determine if the traditional one gram unit dose reached adequate serum concentrations
      of greater than 10 mcg/ml. They compared 1 gram each of intravenous (IV) and oral
      acetaminophen to see if one or both achieved therapeutic plasma concentrations
      peri-operatively and for how long. This study questioned the use of oral acetaminophen at 1
      gram because if it was not achieving therapeutic concentrations, the patients were not
      getting optimal care (5). From this study, they were able to extrapolate oral doses of 20
      mg/kg that would achieve a maximum concentration of 19 mcg/ml (which is the median maximum
      concentration achieved by IV acetaminophen). The study concluded that for subjects over 75
      kg, an effective IV equivalent oral acetaminophen dose would be 1.5 grams or even 2 grams if
      the subject exceeded 100 kg (5). This study further recommended a follow up study to evaluate
      these higher doses of oral acetaminophen as it relates to pain scores and rescue medications
      postoperatively compared to the IV dose of 1 gram. The current unit dose of oral
      acetaminophen is 1 gram every 6 hours. However, many studies have evaluated the effects of
      higher doses of oral acetaminophen as well (10, 11). One study supported the use of 5-6 grams
      of acetaminophen in a 24- hour period in order to reduce requirements for postoperative
      morphine. requirements (6). Another study measured serum and CSF concentrations one hour
      after administration of 500 mg, 1 gm, 1.5 gm, or 2 gm of oral acetaminophen (7).

      In summary, the investigator's hypothesis is that while a similar dose is less effective, a
      1.5 gram dose of oral acetaminophen (as determined by the extrapolation of maximum serum
      concentrations from the Van Der Westhuizen, et al. study (5)) may be as effective as 1.0 gram
      of IV acetaminophen in reducing postoperative pain scores and total opioid consumption, thus
      resulting in lower cost to the patient and provider.

      II. Specific Aims:

      The investigator's aim is to compare the effects of a 1.5 gram oral acetaminophen to 1 gram
      IV acetaminophen when given preoperatively to patients undergoing arthroscopic rotator cuff
      repair by a single surgeon at a single facility. The primary outcomes will evaluate total
      opioid consumption in the post anesthesia care unit PACU and nominal pain scores. The
      investigators theorize that 1.5 grams of oral acetaminophen will be as efficacious as 1 gram
      IV acetaminophen resulting in lower costs to the patient and provider.
    
  