
    
      Globally, nearly 3 billion people rely on solid fuels for cooking and heating, the vast
      majority in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). The resulting household air pollution
      (HAP) is the third leading risk factor in the 2010 global burden of disease, accounting for
      an estimated 4.3 million deaths annually, largely among women and young children. Previous
      interventions have provided cleaner biomass-based cookstoves, but have failed to reduce
      exposure to levels that produce meaningful health improvements. There have been no
      large-scale field trials with liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cookstoves, likely the cleanest
      scalable intervention.

      The aim of this study is to conduct a randomized controlled trial of LPG stove and fuel
      distribution in 3,200 households in four LMICs (India, Guatemala, Peru, and Rwanda) to
      deliver rigorous evidence regarding potential health benefits across the lifespan. Each
      intervention site will recruit 800 pregnant women (aged 18-34 years, 9 - <20 weeks
      gestation), and will randomly assign half their households to receive LPG stoves and an
      18-month supply of LPG. Control households are anticipated to continue to cook primarily with
      solid biomass fuels, and will receive compensation based on a uniform set of trial-wide
      principles, customized to each site based on formative research. The mother will be followed
      along with her child until the child is 1 year old. In households with a second, non-pregnant
      older adult woman (aged 40 to <80 years) the researchers will also enroll and follow her
      during the 18-month follow-up period in order to assess cardiopulmonary, metabolic, and
      cancer outcomes. To optimize intervention use, the researchers will implement behavior change
      strategies. This study will assess cookstove use, conduct repeated personal exposure
      assessments to HAP (PM2.5, black carbon, carbon monoxide), and collect dried blood spots and
      urinary samples for biomarker analysis and biospecimen storage on all participants at
      multiple time points. The primary outcomes are low birth weight, severe pneumonia incidence,
      and stunting of the child, and blood pressure in the older adult woman. Secondary outcomes
      include preterm birth and development in the child, maternal blood pressure during pregnancy,
      and endothelial function, respiratory impairment, atherosclerosis, carcinogenic metabolites,
      and quality of life in the older adult woman.

      This study will address the following specific aims: (1) using an intent-to-treat analysis,
      determine the effect of a randomized LPG stove and fuel intervention on health in four
      diverse LMIC populations using a common protocol; (2) determine the exposure-response
      relationships for HAP and health outcomes; and (3) determine relationships between LPG
      intervention and both targeted and exploratory biomarkers of exposure/health effects.

      This study will provide evidence, including costs and implementation strategies, to inform
      national and global policies on scaling up LPG stoves among vulnerable populations.
      Ultimately, this will facilitate deeper policy-level discussions as well as identify
      requirements for initiating and sustaining HAP interventions globally.
    
  