
    
      Scientific Background: Brain metastases (BM) represent a significant healthcare problem. It
      is estimated that 20% to 40% of patients with cancer will develop metastatic cancer to the
      brain during the course of their illness 1. The most common primary sites are lung, melanoma,
      renal, breast and colorectal cancer 2. Options for patients with brain metastases had been
      limited to whole brain radiotherapy (WBRT) or supportive care alone, and systemic
      chemotherapy was often discontinued. Historically, the best possible supportive care or
      whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT) were the standard of care 1 aiming at temporary symptom
      relief. For WBRT, efficacy in symptom relief but also in prolongation of the median survival
      time by 3-6 months is well documented. To date, microsurgical approaches and SRS, both proved
      to be safe and efficient, offer alternative treatment options that potentially meet these
      concerns 6,7. After proving its efficacy in achieving local tumor control in the treated
      volume, SRS was used as a stand-alone treatment option in patients with oligometastases (one
      to four metastases) in the brain. There is a rapidly expanding recent body of literature on
      outcomes of single-fraction SRS or hypofractionated SRS targeting the resection cavity after
      surgical resection of BM. Several retrospective series assessed the efficacy and safety of
      postoperative SRS to the resection cavity 9 aiming at an enhanced local tumor control but
      also at avoidance of the neurotoxic late effects of WBRT. WBRT followed by SRS of the tumor
      bed leads to 1-year local control rates of 70-93 %, which is comparable to results after
      surgery followed by WBRT. Median survival was 12-18 months with a 1-year incidence of new
      metastases in the brain of 45-60 %.

      Trial Objectives: This protocol is primarily aimed at evaluating the safety and toxicity
      profile of SRS following neurosurgical resection and compares it to that of WBRT as the
      established standard of care. Secondary, the local effect of radiation therapy in patients
      with brain metastases will be assessed by measuring time to local and loco-regional
      recurrence, local and loco-regional PFS and overall survival at 12 months after treatment.

      Patients´Selection: Patients with the diagnosis of brain metastases from solid tumors that
      have undergone neurosurgical resection of one brain metastasis will be evaluated and screened
      for the protocol. All patients fulfilling the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be
      informed about the study and included into the study if they declare informed consent.
      Registration for the study must be performed before the start of RT.

      Trial Design: The trial will be performed as a single-center two-armed prospective randomized
      Phase II study. Patients will be randomized into an experimental arm and a control arm. All
      patients will receive post-operative contrast-enhanced cranial MRI imaging and imaging will
      be assessed by a radiologist. All available MRI sequences, including SPACE will be taken into
      consideration for the definition of treatment target lesions. Patients for whom the
      post-operative MRI reveals more than 10 suspect intracranial lesions (all sequences taken
      into account) will not be included in the trial.
    
  