
    
      The Caribbean has among the highest HIV prevalence in the world. Regionally, the majority of
      HIV/AIDS cases are located on the island of Hispaniola, comprised of the Dominican Republic
      (DR) and Haiti. Due to a large international response and widespread availability of
      antiretroviral therapy (ART), in recent years the incidence of HIV in the DR has declined and
      prevalence hovers around 1% in the general population. The effective and long-term management
      of this condition depends on infected individuals being able to acquire ART and apply the
      learned information and self-management skills that lead to optimal adherence.

      HIV-related disparities exist in developing countries, such as the DR, where minority groups
      and/or those with low socioeconomic status experience higher disease burdens and worse health
      outcomes than those with higher socioeconomic status. These disparities may be exacerbated
      when individuals are unable to understand the health information, as low health literacy has
      been associated with worse health outcomes, less use of healthcare services, poorer knowledge
      of illness, and worse self-management. The effective management of HIV requires patients to
      acquire, comprehend, and use large amounts of complex information, including how to manage
      variations in health status, medications and their side effects, nutrition and exercise
      needs, and healthy coping. Health care providers can help patients understand pertinent
      health information by offering it in targeted, culturally-, language-, and
      literacy-appropriate ways.

      One such strategy is to use infographics to assist communication through visual
      representations of information. Participatory design of infographics supports presentation of
      information in a culturally appropriate and visually appealing format which can improve
      information understanding, health behaviors, attention span, and ability to recall
      information. It is critical to develop and test methods to improve the way health information
      is delivered to patients in these clinical contexts so patients, including those with low
      health literacy, can acquire and comprehend the information needed to improve self-management
      behavior and treatment outcomes.

      Preliminary studies showed many persons living with HIV (PLWH) attending Clínica de Familia
      La Romana do not fully comprehend and use the health information they receive through current
      modalities. In response, culturally relevant, evidence-based infographics to improve
      information delivery during clinical visits were developed with a participatory design
      methodology (manuscript under review). The next phase of this study is to rigorously assess
      if using these infographics is a feasible, acceptable, and efficacious method to enhance
      HIV-related clinician-patient communication and lead to improved patient outcomes.
      Additionally, a thorough exploration into the cultural factors of patient-provider
      communication in the Dominican Republic that can influence infographic use for
      clinician-patient communication in a clinical setting is warranted.
    
  