
    
      Diagnosis:

        1. Full history data will be collected, including personal, medical and previous dental
           data

        2. Clinical examination using mirror and probe to assess the inclusion criteria.

        3. Radiographic examination using preoperative digital periapical radiograph to assess the
           inclusion criteria.

        4. Preoperative photograph will be taken.

      Operative procedure:

      Experimental group:

        1. Injection of local anesthesia and rubber dam isolation.

        2. caries and roof of the pulp chamber will be removed by a fissure diamond bur (Diatech,
           Heerbrug, Switzerland) and high-speed handpiece with coolant.

        3. The pulps will be amputated to the orifice level using a long-shank diamond round bur.

        4. Haemostasis will be achieved by gentle placement of a saline-moistened cotton pellet
           over amputated pulps for 5-10 min.

        5. Calcium silicate-based BiodentineTM (Septodont Ltd., Saint Maur des Fausse´s, France)
           will be mixed according to the manufacturer's instructions, radicular pulp will be
           covered by the material using a wet cotton pellet.

        6. A self-cure glass ionomer (GC; GC Corporation, Tokyo, Japan) will be placed over the
           pulpotomy agent as a final restoration.

        7. Immediate post-operative radiograph and photograph will be taken.

      Control group:

      The same procedures will be carried out as the experimental group, but the pulp stumps will
      be covered with fast-setting mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA) ENDOCEM MTA (Maruchi, Wonju,
      Korea) and will be prepared according to the manufacturer's instructions. A 3-mm-thick layer
      of MTA will be placed over the amputated pulps and will be gently adapted to the dentinal
      walls using a wet cotton pellet. A self-cure glass ionomer (GC; GC Corporation, Tokyo, Japan)
      will be placed over the pulpotomy agent as a final restoration.

      Postoperative care:

      Instructions to avoid lip and cheek biting in addition to oral hygiene measures.

      Follow up:

      Assess the outcomes clinically and radiographically at (baseline, 6, 12 and 18 months).
    
  