
    
      Although its incidence has declined, gastric cancer remains one of the most common causes of
      cancer morbidity and mortality worldwide.Since the stage of gastric cancer at the time of
      detection correlates with prognosis, secondary prevention is important. Screening of
      asymptomatic individuals for gastric cancer has been shown to increase the detection of early
      gastric cancer (EGC), which has a 5-year overall survival (OS) rate exceeding 90%.

      Gastric carcinogenesis is a multi-factorial process that includes environmental,
      socioeconomic, and lifestyle factors. Many of risk factors, including dietary factors,
      chronic atrophic gastritis, intestinal metaplasia, and H. pylori infection, alcohol
      consumption, and aspirin have been investigated. Although the specific correlation between
      serum cholesterol and gastric cancer is not fully understood, inverse relationships have been
      observed between serum total cholesterol (TC) levels and cancer, and recent analyses of
      randomized controlled trials showed significant inverse associations between high density
      lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) and low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and the risk
      of incident cancers. Lower lipoprotein cholesterol in cancer patients may be due to the
      enhanced activity of the lipoprotein cholesterol receptor pathway and to the increased demand
      for cholesterol during tumor development and lymphatic spread. Some suggested that the
      preexisting tumor might have resulted in low serum cholesterol, which is called "preclinical
      cancer effect" or "unsuspected sickness". In another study, LDL-C has been reported to affect
      host immune system cells.

      In our previous study, investigators found that serum HDL-C and LDL-C levels were associated
      with the risk, resectability, and prognosis of gastric cancer. There are several cohort
      studies reported that low serum cholesterol levels are associated with incident cancer,
      including gastric cancer. However, most studies regarding the serum cholesterol and gastric
      cancer investigated gastrectomized patients, and showed the association between low serum
      cholesterol levels and lymph node metastasis or submucosal invasion. Furthermore, there are
      only few studies evaluated the association between LDL-C of apolipoproteins and gastric
      cancer. Therefore investigators conducted nested case-control study to investigate the
      association between serum cholesterol levels including TC, HDL-C, LDL-C, triglyceride (TG),
      apolipoproteins and gastric neoplasm. In addition, further analyses were performed to
      evaluate the possible role of the serum cholesterol as a predictor for the differentiation
      and prognosis of gastric neoplasm.
    
  