
    
      Even though Brazil has made major efforts to improve children's access to early childhood
      care and education, most of Brazil's (as well as other countries') early childhood
      programming focuses on care and early learning including early literacy and numeracy.
      Relatively little attention is currently given to the development of the non-academic
      self-regulation and executive function skills that have been shown to be critical for
      children's schooling as well as later life outcomes. The main idea of this project is to
      adapt Brain Games - an evidence-based, scalable intervention package developed for the US -
      to the Brazilian context, and to assess its impact on children's self-regulation and
      executive functioning skills through a randomized controlled trial.

      The Brain Games package consists of a series of games and exercises designed for young
      children in classroom settings. Brain Games are a new, "kernelized" approach to intervention,
      with simple and discrete stand-alone activities that can be easily integrated into routine
      operations at crèches with a limited amount of training and supervision of center staff.

      The proposed project embodies the principle of Integrated Innovation; the main scientific
      innovation is the development and validation of a new, kernelized executive functioning
      intervention package for Brazil. The intervention package will be designed for, and
      implemented through the public early childhood care section; from a social perspective, the
      main innovation is to increase the quality of care socially disadvantaged children obtained
      in public child care. From a business perspective, the intervention itself is sustainable and
      scalable, as its main elements have already been developed in the US, training is minimal,
      and material costs are low. Furthermore, the intervention consists of games that are easy and
      fun to play for children, and can be easily added to the existing curriculum. If the trial is
      successful, the intervention package could and likely would be rolled out at larger scale.
    
  