
    
      This study will evaluate the biological effectiveness and safety of the HerpV vaccine in
      combination with adjuvant QS-21. The Safety and tolerability of HerpV plus QS-21 will also be
      evaluated by collecting number and severity of adverse events throughout the study.

      Biological effectiveness will be evaluated by comparing the viral shedding rate during the
      treatment period as compared to the baseline period of the study.

      Subjects will undergo a baseline/ screening period. This is a 45 day period when the subject
      collects a swab of the genital area each day. . In case of a recurrence, subjects will be
      required to collect two swabs a day. If the subject collects at least 80% of the swabbing
      samples and meets all eligibility criteria they may enroll in the study.

      Subjects who meet all inclusion and no exclusion criteria will be enrolled and randomized in
      Study Period 1 (treatment period). In order to assure the trial enrolls a good representation
      of women and men, a prespecified cap on women will be set at 50 (approximately 67% of the
      total enrolled population.)

      Study Period 1 consists of three treatments and a 45 day swabbing period after the last
      treatment. The subject will collect swabs of the genital region each day for 45 days.

      Subjects who successfully complete Study Period 1 will proceed to Study Period 2. They will
      receive a booster injection of study drug or placebo according to their orginal randomization
      assignment. The subjects will again enter a 45 day swabbing period, collecting swabs of the
      genital area each day for 45 days.

      To evaluate immunologic response subjects will be required to have blood drawn at various
      time points through out the study.

      Subjects will be required to suspend suppressive antiviral therapy for the duration of the
      study (up to week 48).

      For one week before and during each 45 day swabbing period subjects will also be required to
      suspend episodic antiviral therapy.
    
  