
    
      Infections due to Staphylococci including MRSA are the predominant nosocomially acquired
      complication in the intensive care unit. The increasing incidence of MRSA colonization and
      infection among ICU patients has been attributed to many factors including increased
      admission of patients already colonized with MRSA to the ICU, poor compliance with
      handwashing and barrier precautions, delayed identification of MRSA colonized patients, and
      understaffing. Measures that have proven to limit horizontal transmission between patients
      and staff and staff to patients include strict attention to barrier precautions and
      handwashing. Unfortunately both of these strategies require levels of compliance that are
      often not achieved.

      Nosocomial blood stream infections are a leading source of morbidity and mortality among
      intensive care unit patients. Several modifiable factors have been shown to increase the risk
      of bloodstream infections. These include lapses in the use of strict sterile technique in the
      insertion of central venous catheters and improper site preparation. New CDC guidelines on
      the prevention of catheter related bloodstream infections recommend that the preferential use
      of chlorhexidine containing skin disinfectants be used for site preparation prior to
      insertion. The use of chlorhexidine reduces residual skin organisms as well as inhibits their
      rebound growth and has been demonstrated to reduce catheter-associated bloodstream infections
      in comparison to other skin disinfectant products such as povidone-iodine.

      As a result of guidelines promoting the use of chlorhexidine, a number of intensive care
      units have implemented quality improvement projects examining the potential role of
      chlorhexidine based bathing of intensive care unit patients in reducing nosocomial
      transmission of multiresisitant organisms such as MRSA and vancomycin-resistant enterocooci
      (VRE). The goal of the currently proposed study is to analyse existing data from
      participating intensive care units that have adopted the use of chlorhexidine antisepsis to
      determine the impact of chlorhexidine on bacterial colonization and nosocomial infections
      Participating hospitals who have completed quality improvement projects that included the use
      of chlorhexidine in bathing of ICU patients will submit de-identified data on nosocomial
      bacteremias and MRSA and VRE colonization during defined time periods where chlorhexidine
      bathing was used in comparison to time periods where regular bathing procedures were
      utilized.
    
  