
    
      The study consists of two parts: the screening period and the treatment follow-up period.

        1. Screening period (day 0): patients were screened according to the inclusion and
           exclusion criteria, and informed consent was completed.

        2. Treatment follow-up period (day 1-day 90)： Day 1： （1）all patients in the group received
           diet and exercise education；（2）Collect patients' basic data (name, sex, age, height,
           weight, waist circumference, hip circumference, etc.), detect plasma FBG and HbA1c (sent
           to the central laboratory for testing)；（3）Initial treatment： On the basis of the
           original oral medicine, the patient will initial basic insulin. The initial dose of
           basic insulin is 0.2U/kg/d.

      Day 2-Day 89:

        1. Community patient group：The community doctor adjusts the dosage of insulin daily
           according to the patient's FBG: the dose is titrated by increments of 0.07U/kg daily
           until the fasting blood glucose （FBG）≤7 mmol / L, and if the FBG≤ 3.9mmol/L, the
           0.07U/kg is reduced. Inpatient group：Endocrinologists in the in-patient department use
           the same basic insulin dose adjustment regimen to treat patients.

        2. It can be discontinued when the basic insulin is reduced to 8U and the fasting blood
           glucose reaches the standard for 3 days.

      Day 90：Patients were re-examined the plasma FBG and HbA1c (sent to the central laboratory for
      testing), and community doctors filled in the treatment experience questionnaire.

      Follow-up requirements: Patients use the complimentary blood glucose meter to monitor FPG
      every day, 2 hours postprandial blood glucose and night blood glucose are optional, and blood
      sugar is measured at any time if there are symptoms of hypoglycemia. The community doctor
      adjusted the insulin dose according to the blood glucose level every day, and the patients
      were followed up by telephone every week to collect the use of hypoglycemia, diet, exercise
      and other hypoglycemic drugs, and record the time when the FPG reached the standard, the
      total amount of insulin glargine, hypoglycemia and so on.
    
  