
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Part 1

        -  Determine the willingness of healthy participants to enroll in a genetic and
           environmental risk assessment for colorectal cancer.

        -  Determine the impact of decision counseling on knowledge and attitudes about genetic and
           environmental risk assessment (GERA) and colorectal cancer screening in these
           participants.

        -  Determine participants' understanding of GERA.

        -  Determine participants' response to GERA results.

      Part 2

        -  Determine awareness of, and interest in, diet and genetic assessment for colorectal
           cancer among healthy participants at average risk for colorectal cancer who have not
           undergone regular colon cancer screening.

        -  Determine participants' level of knowledge of this assessment.

        -  Determine participants' rate of acceptance into this study.

      OUTLINE: This is a 2-part pilot study.

        -  Part 1: Participants complete a baseline questionnaire on attitudes, beliefs, and
           knowledge about colorectal cancer (CRC), CRC screening, and diet and genetic testing for
           colorectal cancer risk. Two-four weeks later, participants are educated about CRC
           screening options and undergo genetic and environmental risk assessment (GERA) decision
           counseling about the methylene tetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene and dietary
           folate intake. Participants who decide to undergo GERA undergo blood testing for MTHFR
           polymorphisms and folate levels. Participants whose blood tests indicate low folate
           levels are further counseled about dietary folate intake.

        -  Part 2: Participants complete a questionnaire on attitudes, beliefs, and knowledge about
           CRC, CRC screening, and diet and genetic testing for colorectal cancer risk.

      Participants in part 1 are followed at 1 week, 1 month, and then at 6 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 110 participants (60 for part 1 and 50 for part 2) will be
      accrued for this study.
    
  