
    
      Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) is a cognitive impairment that usually occurs with the normal
      cognitive decline with age and does not significantly affect daily function. MCI is diagnosed
      by the presence of one or more cognitive deficits that occur without meeting the diagnostic
      criteria of dementia. MCI is regarded as an intermediate stage between normal cognition and
      dementia. Also known as the early stage of dementia. Although 6 main cognitive domains could
      potentially be affected (learning and memory, social functioning, language, visuospatial
      function, complex attention, or executive functioning), the term "mild cognitive impairment"
      generally refers to a decline in the ability to learn new information or recall stored
      information. While the current dementia criteria require that cognitive functions be impaired
      to prevent an individual from continuing his/her daily life independently, MCI is the stage
      where there is no significant problem in the daily life of the individual before this stage.
      Risk factors include male sex, presence of the apolipoprotein E allele, family history of
      cognitive impairment, and the presence of vascular risk factors such as hypertension,
      hyperlipidemia, coronary artery disease, and stroke.

      Training of cognitive functions with physiotherapy can be effective in improving various
      aspects of objective cognitive functioning (memory performance, executive functioning,
      processing speed, attention, fluid intelligence, and subjective cognitive performance). It
      has been reported that there is a slowdown or decrease in cognitive status through training.
      In the literature, there were no studies comparing single and dual-task training effects in
      patients with mild cognitive impairment. Therefore, the aim of this study is to compare the
      effects of single and dual-task training on the processing speed, cognitive functions,
      walking speed, dual-task performance and balance functions in individuals with mild cognitive
      impairment.

      Participants who are between the ages of 65-85, who has Montreal Cognitive Assessment score
      between 13-26, the Quick Mild Cognitive Impairment Screen score between 48-67, Instrumental
      Activities of Daily Living Scale score ≥6/8, who says yes to "Do you have a memory problem?",
      who can walk independently without using any walking aids and who are likely to be MCI as a
      result of the tests will be referred to the neurologist and those whose diagnosis is
      confirmed will be included in this study. Participants who have any musculoskeletal disorders
      that may cause balance and gait disorders, central or peripheral neurological diseases (eg.
      stroke, Parkinson's disease or polyneuropathies), using psychiatric drugs that may affect
      psychiatric disease and / or cognitive performance, daltonism diagnosed and who attending any
      exercise program will not be included in this study.

      All the participants will be measured with Choice Stepping Reaction Time (CSRT) Test, Stroop
      Test, backward counting, verbal fluency, 10 meters walking test (10MWT), 10MWT with backward
      counting and verbal fluency for dual tasking, Fullerton Advanced Balance (FAB) Scale and D+R
      Balance Application. The measurements will be made at the beginning of the treatment (0 week)
      and at the end of the treatment (8 weeks).

      The choice stepping reaction time (CSRT) task has been better to discriminate between fallers
      and non-fallers than other sensorimotor and balance measures and to predict falls in older
      people, mediated through physiologic and cognitive pathways.

      The single task group includes balance gaining and cognitive training. In the dual-task group
      includes CSRT Mat training.

      The single task group will have 30-40 minutes of single-task training for 3 sessions per week
      for 8 weeks. The dual-task group will have CSRT Mat training for 30-40 minutes of dual-task
      training for 3 sessions per week for 8 weeks.
    
  