
    
      Premature infants weighing less than 1500 grams (3.3 lbs) represent approximately 1.3% of
      liveborn infants, yet comprise at least 25% of all children who are subsequently diagnosed
      with CP. Antepartum exposure to magnesium (Mg) may prevent or ameliorate early brain injury
      (intracranial hemorrhage and cystic periventricular leukomalacia), as well as long-term
      adverse neurodevelopmental outcomes (CP and mental retardation) in very low birthweight
      (VLBW) preterm infants. In preliminary studies, short- and long-term neuroprotection were
      associated with initial serum Mg levels above 3.0 mEq/L. This study will determine whether
      early abnormal neurosonographic findings and long-term adverse neurodevelopmental outcomes in
      VLBW premature infants are influenced by different levels of serum Mg achieved during the
      first week of life.

      Infants will be randomized to either "standard" Mg therapy or "high" Mg therapy. Standard Mg
      therapy consists of no supplemental Mg for the first 3 days of life followed by intravenous
      magnesium sulfate (MgSO4) aimed at attaining serum Mg levels in the normal range of 1.2-2.3
      mEq/L. High Mg therapy consists of using intravenous MgSO4 to maintain higher (nonharmful)
      serum Mg levels between 3.5-5.5 mEq/L for the first 3 days of life and between 2.5-3.5 mEq/L
      for the next 4 days. The high Mg infants will subsequently have their serum Mg levels
      maintained at 2.4+0.3 mEq/L using oral magnesium gluconate for the remainder of their
      neonatal hospitalization.

      Infants will be evaluated for early brain injury with head ultrasound studies 12 to 24 hours
      after birth, at 2 to 3 day intervals while ventilator support is required, and at weekly
      intervals until discharge. The infants will subsequently be assessed in the high-risk
      follow-up clinic for a minimum of 24 months (corrected for degree of prematurity). At 24
      months of age, they will be evaluated by a pediatric neurologist for the presence of cerebral
      palsy. They will be tested serially for problems in early cognition (mental, language, and
      perceptual ability), as well as fine and gross motor skills.
    
  