
    
      Study Setting: Ain shams University maternity Hospitals, Cairo, Egypt. Study Period: 4 months
      from 1st December 2019 to 1st April 2020. Sampling Method: Random sample Sample Size: 60
      patients Study Design A total of (60) full term pregnant women (completed 37 weeks) will be
      recruited for the study will undergo elective cesarean section. Written informed consent will
      be obtained from all patients before randomization. Randomization will be done with the help
      of a computer generated list of numbers. Patients will be divided randomly and equally into
      three groups (20) Patients each. The first group patients will be assigned to magnesium
      sulphate group (M), the second group of patients will be assigned to dexamethasone group (D)
      and the third group will be assigned to placebo group (C). Group assignment, preparation and
      administration of drugs will be performed by a junior anesthetist who is neither involved nor
      interested by any means in the study. Blind grouping will be kept to all including the
      patients themselves, until the completion of study.

      Preoperative Anesthetic Assessment All patients will be subjected to a thorough medical
      history, physical examination with thorough airway assessment, laboratory investigations
      (fasting blood sugar, kidney, liver function tests, serum electrolytes, coagulation profile,
      and electrocardiogram) preoperatively. They will be also counseled about the anesthetic
      management and potential complications of both surgery and anesthesia, and the explanations
      of numerical pain analogue scale (NAS) from 0-10. All these data will be documented.

      Anesthetic Protocol All participants will be admitted to operating theatre (OR) induction
      area where patient identification is confirmed and an 18-gauge intravenous cannula will be
      inserted to all Participants. Participants in group (M) will receive 50 mg/kg MgSO4 in 100 ml
      isotonic saline intravenous (I.V) over 20 minutes prior to induction of general anesthesia by
      30 minutes, participants in group (D) will receive 2 mg Dexamethasone in 100 ml isotonic
      saline IV while participants in group (C) will receive 100 ml isotonic saline IV (placebo) by
      the same route and over the same duration as control.

      General anesthesia will be induced with intravenous propofol 2.0 mg/kg, succinyl choline 1.0
      mg/Kg then they will be intubated orally which is fixed after confirmation of its place by
      capnography and auscultation. Anesthesia will be maintained by 2% sevoflurane in 100% oxygen
      then atracurium 0.1 mg/kg will be given for maintenance of muscle relaxation. After delivery
      of the fetus and placenta, 2 mg midazolam, 1 µg/kg fentanyl and 10 IU oxytocin (in 500 ml
      ringer solution) will be administrated. Immediately after completion of surgery, each patient
      will receive ultrasound guided bilateral ultrasound guided TAP blocks. After that muscle
      relaxant will be antagonized by 40 µg/kg neostigmine and 20 µg/kg atropine, then awake
      extubation will be done and the patients will be transferred to the recovery unit. All
      patients will be monitored all through the surgery by standard monitors including,
      electrocardiogram, the pulse oximeter, non-invasive blood pressure, and capnography.

      TAP Block Technique Using an 18 G Tuohy needle (80 mm Smiths medical Portex®) and the layers
      of the abdominal wall will be identified guided by superficial high-frequency 45 mm linear
      array ultrasound probe (13 MHz) as described by McDonnell and colleagues.(1) Twenty
      millilitre of 0.25% bupivacaine will be injected slowly after careful aspiration to ensure no
      vascular injury has occurred. Successful injection will produce an echo-lucent space between
      the muscle layers (internal oblique and transversus abdominis). All TAP blocks will be
      performed by the same anesthetist.

      Postoperative Analgesic Regimen It will start immediately on arrival to the recovery unit
      where all patients will receive 1 gm of Acetaminophen IV. After that all patients will
      continue on acetaminophen 1 gm/6 h IV and 5 mg Nalbuphine IV will be given if breakthrough
      pain develops during the first day postoperative.

      Patients Assessment Patients will be transferred to Post-anesthesia care unit PACU and upon
      arrival to PACU, a pulse oximeter and Non-invasive blood pressure (NIBP) monitors will be
      attached to the patients. Discharge criteria from PACU will be stable vital signs, pain score
      less than or equal to 2, no nausea or vomiting, calm and alert patient.
    
  