
    
      TITLE EVALUATION OF TOLERANCE AND ACCEPTABILITY OF AYMES LONDON STUDY OBJECTIVES

        -  To evaluate tolerance and acceptability of AYMES LONDON in patients requiring
           supplementary oral nutritional support compared with currently available alternatives.

        -  To obtain data to support an ACBS submissions for AYMES LONDON (to allow for
           prescription in the community at NHS expense).

      STUDY DESIGN Interventional study. STUDY POPULATION 20 patients established on an oral
      nutritional supplement (ONS), requiring nutritional supplementation of at least 300kcal/day.
      Patients residing in community settings (e.g. own home, care home or community hospital)
      STUDY PRODUCTS AYMES LONDON Patients' current oral nutritional supplements STUDY GROUPS This
      is an observational study where the patient will act as their own control, there will be just
      one study group containing all patients STUDY OUTLINE Baseline: After recruitment patients
      will remain on their current oral nutritional supplement for 3 days, during which time
      baseline tolerance data will be recorded (number and consistency of bowel movements, daily,
      volume of ONS taken, any episodes of nausea, vomiting, burping, abdominal pain, bloating or
      diarrhoea). A three-day food diary will be kept to record total oral intake. Patients will
      also have anthropometric measurements carried out during this period (weight, height, body
      mass index (BMI)).

      Intervention Period : Patients will then be changed onto an equivalent prescription of AYMES
      LONDON for a period of 9 days. Tolerance data will be recorded daily but the first 2 days on
      AYMES LONDON will be considered a 'transitional' period and data from these days will not be
      analysed. A further 3-day food diary will be kept during the intervention period. Weight of
      the patient will be recorded at the end of the period on AYMES LONDON, and an acceptability
      questionnaire will be completed.

      Comparisons will be made between baseline and the end of each phase of the study using
      appropriate analysis methods.
    
  