
    
      Patients and methods

      Eligible participants were 22 adult patients treated for chronic periodontitis and
      participating in a supportive periodontal therapy program at the Department of Periodontology
      of the Dental Clinic of the Islamic Azad University, Dental Branch of Tehran were included in
      the current study; Recruitment of participants started November 2013 and ended September
      2014. The study met the criteria of the Helsinki Declaration of1975, revised in 2008. The
      survey plan was reviewed and sanctioned, approved by the ethics commission of the
      Institutional Ethical Committee and Review Board of the Deputy of Research, School of
      Dentistry. All subjects received the oral and written explanation of the intent of the survey
      and signed an informed consent after receiving detailed information about the purpose, the
      benefits, and the possible risks associated with the trial. Individuals satisfying the
      following entry criteria were recruited:

        -  Diagnosed suffering from initial (early) to moderate chronic periodontitis;

        -  Adult patients, more than 28 years old with at least 20 remaining teeth and at least
           three teeth in each quadrant;

        -  The presence of at least two residual sites with a probing pocket depth (PPD≥4 mm in two
           opposite quadrants, which showed bleeding upon probing, radiographically comparable
           amount of periodontal breakdown and good matching in tooth type, also clinical and
           minimal radiographic signs of initial (early) to moderate (clinical attachment level of
           1 to 3mm.

      Exclusion criteria:

      Periodontal treatment (non-surgical) the previous six months Systemic diseases;
      Hypersensitive to Ibuprofen; Systemic antibiotic or anti-inflammatory drugs within the three
      months preceding the beginning of the study; Pregnant or nursing females; Smoking; No acute
      periodontal conditions, such as necrotizing periodontal diseases or periodontal abscesses.
      Mouth rinses during the entire period of the study orthodontic treatments, Use of removable
      dentures, Extensive dental restorations.

      Clinical measurements

      The following clinical outcome variables were recorded at baseline, within 7 days to 3 months
      at the selected teeth, at six sites per tooth, by means of a periodontal probe (William's®
      probe, Hu-Friedy, USA) by two calibrated blinded examiners:

        -  Plaque index (PI) using a Silness & Loe index (18).

        -  Bleeding on probing (BOP), through the visual inspection 30 s after probing, (Score 0:
           No bleeding after probing. Score 1: A single discrete bleeding point appears after
           probing) (19).

        -  Probing pocket depth (PPD) in millimeters, measured from the gingival margin to the
           deepest stop of the periodontal pocket at the standardized force.

        -  Clinical attachment level (CAL), calculated by adding PPD at each site.

      Examiner calibration and reproducibility were ensured by duplicating measurements of four
      periodontitis patients, not included in the study, with a one-day interval, prior to the
      start of the survey. Repetitive measurements were within a 1mm difference in 91.5 % of the
      recordings.

      Study design and interventions the study was a randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel,
      split-mouth designed 3-months clinical trial.

      Treatment phase I: instruction on oral hygiene procedures after having entered the study, all
      patients received the following procedures:

        -  Individualized oral hygiene instructions together with the provision of a new
           toothbrush, dental floss, and a fluoridated dentifrice.

        -  Full-mouth periodontal examination ultrasonic instruments and supragingival professional
           prophylaxis using.

      Treatment phase II: After patient selection; using blocked randomization with a block size of
      4 and an allocation ratio of 1:1 Block randomization was chosen to prevent too much
      variability in the number of patients randomized and ensure a reasonably steady flow of
      patients to each treatment group, Allocation cover was ensured by using container and
      labeling that did not reveal the content of the trial drug packages who was blind to the
      therapist and the clinical examiner. Also, the test and placebo mouthwashes had a similar
      color. Patients were randomly assigned to either the A or B group, while mandibular arches
      are each divided into two parts (left and right sections);about 60 sites in both groups;
      individuals received scaling and root planing on the first visit in accordance with the
      one-stage full-mouth debridement protocol (scaled by means of an ultrasonic device) +
      professional cleaning; The therapeutic endpoint was defined as a clean root surface without
      visible or clinically detectable remnants of biofilm or calculus, since two weeks, the
      mouthwashes were applied into the periodontal pockets with PD ≥4 mm using a syringe with a
      blunt cannula; and After isolating and drying the selected sites, the assigned ibuprofen
      mouthwash 2% formulation (made by Islamic Azad university pharmaceutical sciences branch) was
      subgingivally applied using a needle with a blunt tip and a lateral opening for avoiding any
      trauma to the tissues. Follow-up visits were scheduled after 0, 7, 14 days, within three
      months. At these visits, the following clinical outcome variables were recorded at baseline
      and within seven days to three months at the selected teeth by William's periodontal probe;
      at six sites per tooth. Oral hygiene was reinforced at each visit, but no further treatment
      was provided. Within any visit, patients were provided with a full-mouth professional
      prophylaxis. At every visit, the occurrence of any undesirable side effects or adverse events
      that could be related to the treatment was recorded, including changing of both teeth and
      oral mucosa.

      Statistical analyses the sample size is calculated using the following formula: α=00.05 and
      the power (1-β) =80%. For the variability (σ = SD), the value of 0.5 mm was used, considering
      PPD change from baseline to three months as the main outcome variable, with a desired
      difference of 1.8 mm. On the basis of these data, the number of enrolled patients to conduct
      this study was calculated as 12 patients per arm. However, considering the possibility of
      having a certain amount of drop outpatients (10%), the total number of requests patients was
      14 per treatment group. Statistical methods only the data from the selected sites were
      processed, but the patient was considered the statistical unit. The obtained clinical outcome
      variables were calculated by the patient, and then by treatment group. For the evaluation of
      the intragroup changes between baseline and 7, 14, within three months the ANOVA test was
      used (once the normality of the distribution was proven). Statistical significance was
      defined as P <0.001. All data were analyzed using a software program (SPSS 19).
    
  