
    
      This is an observational study of adults with and without seasonal allergic rhinitis (AR).
      Fifty volunteers; 40 with a history of seasonal allergic rhinitis and 10 without a history of
      allergic rhinitis will be recruited for this study. After screening for eligibility and
      undergoing informed consent a focused medical history, medication review, and physical exam
      by the study physician will be performed. An allergic rhinitis questionnaire will be
      completed by the participant. This will be followed by allergy skin prick testing to a panel
      of common aeroallergens, collection of NELF samples, a nasal swab and venipuncture. For the
      non-allergic participants, this will conclude participation in the study. Participants with
      seasonal allergic rhinitis who completed the first study visit outside of the participant's
      typical allergy season will return for the second study visit during allergy season, and vice
      versa for participants presenting for the first study visit during allergy season. For
      example, a participant with a history of symptomatic allergic rhinitis triggered by tree
      pollen would attend one study visit during tree pollen season (March-May) and a second study
      visit outside of allergy season while asymptomatic, a least one month from the first study
      visit. Participants who suffer from grass pollen allergies would attend the "in-season" study
      visit during the months of June-August, and participants suffering from weed pollen allergies
      would attend the "in-season" study visit during the months of September-November.
      Participants who suffer from allergic rhinitis symptoms related to trees and weeds, but not
      grass, would attend the "in-season" visit either during March-May or during
      September-November. For those same participants, the "off-season" visit would occur either
      during June-August or during December-February.

      For each outcome measure, measurements obtained from allergic rhinitics during allergy season
      and measurements obtained outside of allergy season will be compared. Measurements from
      samples taken from allergic rhinitics during and outside of allergy season will also be
      compared with non-allergic sample measurements.
    
  