
    
      Introduction Alopecia is also known as hair loss, and it occurs due to aging, nutritional or
      hormonal imbalance, or immune system etiology. It affects both males and females of different
      ages and races. Hair may fall out in clumps, break off leaving short stubs, or become thinner
      over time. The alopecia can be of a scarring or non-scarring nature. The most common form of
      hair loss is non-scarring, or noncicatricial, alopecia. In this case, the damage is not
      permanent, and although hair loss cannot be cured, it can be treated. Hair loss is usually
      not a sign of an underlying medical disorder. However, hair loss may affect self-esteem and
      cause anxiety affecting the quality of life. Scarring, or cicatricial, alopecia is a rare
      disorder that destroys the hair follicle and replaces it with scar tissue, resulting in
      permanent hair loss.

      Causes

      There are many genes that contribute to hair loss, so it can be hereditary. There are also
      other causes, including:

        -  Thyroid disorders

        -  Pregnancy

        -  Anemia

        -  Autoimmune diseases like polycystic ovarian syndrome

        -  Skin conditions like Psoriasis and seborrheic dermatitis

      Treatment Options Topical Minoxidil (Rogaine) and anti-inflammatory medications, such as
      topical and intra-lesional steroids, are used for alopecia. It is a solution that is applied
      directly to the scalp to stimulate the hair follicle. It slows hair loss, and some people
      grow new hair. Hair loss returns when the medication is stopped.

      Finasteride is a prescription medicine that interferes with the production of a highly active
      form of testosterone that is linked to baldness. It slows hair loss. It works slightly better
      than minoxidil. Hair loss returns when you stop using the medicine. This prescription
      medication is also sometimes given to women who have been through menopause. Its role in
      female pattern hair loss is controversial, with both success and failure reported to occur.

      Dutasteride is similar to finasteride, but may be more effective.

      Hair transplants are also an option, though they are invasive and expensive. It consists of
      removing tiny plugs of hair from areas where the hair is continuing to grow and placing them
      in areas that are balding. This can cause minor scarring and possibly infection.

      New Therapy Fractional photothermolysis was originally designed as a form of laser therapy to
      treat wrinkles and scars. Although the link between laser treatment and hair growth is not
      clear and the exact mechanism still unknown, there is evidence to support that laser
      irradiation holds potential for the induction of hair follicles in subjects with alopecia.
      Laser therapy has been reported to increase hair growth and activate hair follicles. The
      lasers rejuvenate skin, and hair follicles are a part of skin, along with nails, so through
      the rejuvenation of skin, these things also get rejuvenated. Clinical examples of
      photo-induced hair growth include the paradoxical hair growth after laser hair removal, and
      hair growth after some level of wound healing by lasers has been performed. Several studies
      have been performed, analyzing the effectiveness of laser treatment of different settings,
      and researchers have observed an increase in hair numbers and density on the treatment side
      of the head. Improvements were most notable when the laser settings followed a low energy and
      high density protocol. A review of the literature demonstrates that more research needs to be
      done on this topic, but fractional photothermolysis may be a new, effective way to treat
      different types of hair loss. The types of lasers the investigators plan to use include
      Fraxel restore and Sciton Halo, a fractional hybrid laser that combines fractional erbium
      ablative lasers with a fractional non-ablative laser. The use of the fractional
      photothermolysis Fraxel laser and Sciton Halo laser have been approved by the FDA for
      treatment of the hands, face, and body. Fraxel received aesthetic clearance in November 2003.

      These lasers do not meet the definition of a significant risk device because the
      investigators do not believe that they present a potential for serious risk to the health,
      safety, or welfare of a subject. Side effects that have been reported from use with these
      lasers include redness and tenderness in the area that it was applied, and these side effects
      don't last more than a couple days. These lasers do not impair human health.
    
  