
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of lenalidomide when added to dose-adjusted
      (DA)-etoposide, prednisone, vincristine sulfate, doxorubicin hydrochloride, cyclophosphamide,
      rituximab (EPOCH-R) (hereby termed "DA-EPOCH-RR") in patients with double hit lymphoma (DHL)
      lymphomas. (Phase I) II. To determine the 1- and 2-year progression free survival (PFS) of
      DA-EPOCH-RR in patients with DHL lymphomas. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Overall response rate, complete response, and duration of response. II. Quality of life
      (QOL) measures using standardized scales. III. Toxicity assessment using version 4.0 of the
      National Cancer Institute (NCI)-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)
      criteria.

      IV. Overall survival (OS) at 1 and 2 years.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of lenalidomide followed by a phase II
      study.

      INDUCTION PHASE: Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) daily on days 1-14. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      DA-EPOCH-R: Patients receive etoposide intravenously (IV) continuously on days 1-4,
      prednisone PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-5, vincristine sulfate IV continuously on days 1-4,
      doxorubicin hydrochloride IV continuously on days 1-4, cyclophosphamide IV over 15 minutes on
      day 5, and rituximab IV over 4 hours on day 1 (per institutional guidelines). Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      CONSOLIDATION PHASE: Patients who are transplantation (hematopoietic stem cell transplant
      [HSCT])-eligible receive BCNU, etoposide, cytarabine, and melphalan (BEAM)-conditioning
      regimen followed by autologous (auto)-HSCT or HSCT at the discretion of the treating
      physician. Patients who do not undergo HSCT in first remission receive lenalidomide
      maintenance for 12 months.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for every 3 months for 1 year,
      every 4 months for 1 year, and then periodically for 1 year.
    
  