
    
      The protocol is approved by the Institutional Review Board at Gülhane Military Medical
      Academy Haydarpaşa Training Hospital (Istanbul, Turkey) and written informed consent will be
      obtained from each patient. Sixty adult patients scheduled to undergo elective upper
      extremity bone fractures using autogenous bone grafts will be enrolled in this prospective,
      randomized, double-blind study. Patients were eligible for participation if they were greater
      than 18 yr of age, they weighed more than 40 kg, they were American Society of
      Anesthesiologists physical status I or II, and they could operate a patient-controlled
      analgesia (PCA) device and had no allergies to morphine.

      All surgical procedures will be performed using a partial thickness posterior iliac crest
      bone graft harvested through a lateral oblique incision just cephalad to the crest.
      Anesthesia was induced with 2 mg/kg propofol and 5 mg/kg fentanyl and maintained with
      sevoflurane in 50% oxygen in air. After the graft was harvested and hemostasis will be
      achieved, patients will be randomly assigned to one of three treatment groups using a
      computer- generated random number table. Group 1 (control group) was given 10 ml normal
      saline (NS) infiltrated into the harvest site, and 1 ml NS was administered intramuscularly.
      Group 2 (intramuscular morphine) was given 10 ml NS infiltrated into the harvest site and 5
      mg morphine (1 ml) intramuscularly. Group 3 (donor site morphine) was given 5 mg morphine (10
      ml) infiltrated into the harvest site and 1 ml NS intramuscularly. All intramuscular
      injections were administered in the deltoid muscle at the same time as harvest site
      infiltration. The study medications were prepared by the pharmacy and administered by the
      surgeon and anesthesiologist, who were blinded to their contents. In the recovery room,
      patients were connected to a PCA pump (Abbott PCA Plus, Abbott Laboratories, North Chicago,
      IL) containing 1 mg/ml morphine. The initial settings were an incremental dose of 1.5 ml, a
      lockout interval of 8 min, and a 4-h limit of 30 ml. The incremental dose was increased to
      2.0 ml and the 4-h limit was increased to 45 ml if analgesia was inadequate after 1 h. If
      analgesia was inadequate after an additional hour, the incremental dose was further increased
      to 2.5 ml. Patients were asked to quantify their pain from both the donor and the upper
      extremity surgery incision sites on a verbal analog pain scale of 0-10, with 0 representing
      no pain and 10 the worst imaginable pain. Pain assessments were made by a blinded research
      nurse observer 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, and 24 h after completion of surgery. In addition, PCA
      morphine use was recorded at these six time intervals. Analgesic duration was defined as the
      time from local administration of study drug to the first requirement of PCA morphine. At 1m,
      3 m and 6 m yr after surgery, patients will be interviewed by telephone by a blinded
      investigator, and a detailed questionnaire similar to that reported in a previous study on
      donor site pain will be completed. The presence and subjective characteristics of any
      residual donor site pain, including its quality, severity, and frequency, as well as
      provoking factors and treatment received, will be recorded.
    
  