
    
      Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) is thought to result from an autoimmune destruction of
      insulin producing beta-cells found within the pancreatic islets of Langerhans. In addition to
      the autoimmune process however, many studies have shown that hyperglycemia is also toxic to
      islets. Interventional studies have shown, for instance, that either tight glycemia control
      or immunosuppression can preserve C-peptide production. We hypothesize that patients who are
      immunosuppressed and euglycemic will display evidence that their native pancreas has
      recovered beta-cell function. We have asked whether pancreas transplant recipients, due to
      the immunosuppression required to prevent allograft loss, and the improved glycemia control
      resulting from the transplanted pancreas, might display some recovery of their native
      pancreatic islet function. Our preliminary data suggest that patients without C-peptide
      production prior to receiving an islet transplant appear to recover some endogenous
      pancreatic insulin secretion after islet transplantation. We will study whole pancreas
      transplant recipients, specifically those with grafts functioning for at least 5 years. We
      will test for native pancreas insulin production by infusing arginine into a peripheral vein,
      then selectively/simultaneously sampling blood for C-peptide levels from the hepatic veins
      and the vein draining the pancreatic allograft . Unlike our previous study of islet
      transplant recipients, a study that required portal vein cannulation, this study will require
      only hepatic and iliac vein cannulations, both much easier to accomplish, and associated with
      much less risk to the patient. Samples obtained from these sites will be tested for C-peptide
      levels. In addition, if we find evidence of native pancreas insulin production, we will look
      at a variety of clinical variables to see if any correlate with recovery of function.
    
  