
    
      Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is characterized by primary impairment in social competence.
      Effects of current psychosocial interventions often fail to maintain or generalize and few
      employ rigorous experimental methods. Our treatment, SENSE Theatre®, combines several
      well-documented, effective behavioral strategies, such as the inclusion of trained peer
      models, theatre play techniques involving predictable (i.e., scripted) and flexible
      (improvised) role-play, and repeated performance of newly learned skills resulting in greater
      automaticity of behavior. Recent findings from a randomized control trial (RCT) show
      immediate between-group effects and evidence of target engagement on the hypothesized
      mechanism of action, memory for faces, which was evaluated by neuropsychological and
      event-related potential (ERP) measures. Moreover, the RCT demonstrated treatment effects on
      social communication skills that generalized to home and community settings. Finally,
      maintained treatment effects were observed on communication symptoms. The proposed project
      will extend these findings and provide a stronger test of efficacy using an RCT of SENSE
      Theatre with a sample of approximately 40 adult participants with ASD (18 to 35 years)
      randomized to experimental (EXP; N = 20) and a wait list control group (WLC; N = 20) in two
      separate cohorts. The RCT will assess target engagement of memory for faces and functional
      change in social interaction with peers using examiners blind to study treatment group
      assignment. The significance and size of treatment effects on these cognitive and behavioral
      outcomes will be measured using ANOVA and linear mixed models. Thus, the overarching aim of
      the study is to determine whether detected changes in face memory and social interaction are
      due to the SENSE Theatre® treatment and the extent to which these changes generalize and
      maintain. If predicted results occur, it will provide strong empirical support for a
      community-based treatment that has generalized effects on a set of core deficits that
      otherwise have life-long consequences for adults with ASD.
    
  