
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Research demonstrates that men and women with lower extremity peripheral arterial disease
      (PAD) have poorer functioning than men and women without PAD. Preliminary data also indicate
      that more severe PAD at baseline, as measured by the ankle brachial index (ABI), is
      associated with a greater incidence of functional loss. However, the pathophysiologic
      mechanisms in the lower extremities responsible for PAD-related functional impairment and
      functional loss are not well defined.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study cohort will consist of 790 individuals identified from three Chicago-area medical
      centers, of whom 500 will have PAD. Participants will undergo a baseline and two annual
      follow-up visits. Pathophysiologic findings in the lower extremities refer to reduced muscle
      mass, reduced muscle quality, and reduced peripheral sensory and motor function. Quality of
      muscle tissue is defined as the ratio of muscle force to muscle mass. Muscle mass will be
      measured with Computed Tomography (CT). Peripheral nerve function will be determined using
      surface electroneurography (ENG). Lower extremity functional measures will consist of
      measures pertinent to functioning during daily living and include six minute walk distance,
      seven-day physical activity level (assessed by accelerometer), walking speed, balance tests,
      and lower extremity muscle power.

      The cross-sectional study will test the hypotheses that a) chronic lower extremity arterial
      ischemia is associated with specific pathophysiologic findings in lower extremity muscle and
      nerve and that b) these ischemia-related pathophysiologic findings are associated with lower
      extremity functional limitation.The longitudinal study will test the hypotheses that a)
      greater baseline lower extremity arterial ischemia as measured by ABI is associated with
      greater progression of pathophysiologic findings over two year follow-up and that b) greater
      ischemia-related pathophysiologic findings in the legs at baseline is associated with greater
      functional decline over two year follow up. Results will be used to develop interventions
      designed to improve lower extremity functioning and prevent functional decline in persons
      with PAD.
    
  