
    
      Methods / materials The chosen study design is a randomized Three arms controlled trial. The
      study will be conducted at the Cardiology Clinic at Danderyd Hospital in Stockholm. One
      hundred and thirty two individuals will be included and randomized to the intervention group
      (yoga), Music relaxation group or control group (usual follow-up). Inclusion criteria are the
      diagnosis of PAF and experience of symptomatic atrial fibrillation verified by ECG in the
      last six months. Exclusion criteria are language difficulties, multi-diagnosis and/or
      cognitive dysfunction (eg, diagnoses of mental illness, dementia) who are judged not to be
      able to perform yoga. Individuals with persistent or permanent atrial fibrillation are also
      excluded.

      The subjects in the intervention group will practice yoga in groups for one hour once a week
      for 12 weeks in the hospital, with the guidance of a trained yoga instructor. They will
      receive written instructions on yoga exercises and a CD record to perform the yoga program at
      home. Added to that, the standard treatment i.e. drugs, cardioversion or ablation. The music
      relaxation group will listen to Music in half an hour in a group at the hospital.The control
      group receives usual care.

      Participants are followed for three months and the evaluation is done at baseline and after
      three months. During these visits quality of life will be measured with two surveys, as well
      as variables such as blood pressure, heart rate, biological markers (CRP , BNP) , and ECG and
      24-hour ECG . Primary endpoint: quality of life. In order to obtain a five -point difference
      in the quality of life, 132 subjects are required to achieve a power of 80 percent (p-value
      0.05), including a loss rate of 20 percent. The calculation is based on the results of
      Substudy I. Analytical methods that will be used are: multivariate analyzes eg logistic
      regression, MANOVA, etc. and univariate analyzes.
    
  