
    
      The study's multifaceted approach will address the gap between current and optimal
      vaccination rates via patient-, provider- and system-level interventions intended to target
      local barriers.

      Patient-level outreach consisting of education and access information about influenza and
      pneumococcal vaccines will be delivered through Interactive Voice Recognition (IVR) calls and
      electronic patient portal messages. The study will have two patient-level outreach cycles.
      These outreach cycles will address the 2014-2015 flu season (Cycle 1) and the 2015-2016 flu
      season (Cycle 2).

      A non-blinded randomized controlled trial design will be utilized during Cycle 1. A total of
      20,000 e-portal users and 10,000 non e-portal users who are identified in the Reliant Medical
      Group (RMG) Electronic Health Record (EHR) as not being up to date on their influenza
      vaccines will be randomized. E-portal users will be randomized to receive: (1) E-portal
      message with Interactive Voice Recognition (IVR) call; (2) E-portal message with no IVR call;
      (3) No e-portal message with IVR call; or (4) No e-portal message with no IVR call. Non
      e-portal users will be randomized to receive either (1) IVR call or (2) no IVR call.

      In Outreach Cycle 2, investigators will implement a broader outreach effort in which
      vaccination messages are sent to all e-portal users and IVR messages are sent to 15,000
      patients who did not receive vaccinations in the 2014-2015 influenza season. The 15,000
      patients receiving IVR calls will be randomly selected.

      In an attempt to improve the effectiveness of the intervention in Cycle 2, we will
      incorporate more detailed information (dates/times/locations on all RMG flu clinics) into
      both the IVR and e-portal messages. The rate at which e-portal messages can be distributed by
      RMG will limit the number that can be sent out before the scheduled flu clinics. Patients
      will therefore be randomly assigned to one of two groups: (A) half of the e-portal users will
      be sent early messages (approx. 19,000 patients anticipated), while (B) the other half of the
      e-portal users will not receive early messages. Those in the early message group will receive
      a message containing flu clinic location, dates, and times. Those in the non-early
      intervention group will be sent a simplified e-portal message in November 2015 (if they have
      not already been vaccinated for the 2015-2016 influenza season).

      The study team plans to conduct qualitative interviews with 20 patients as well as 10
      providers and staff in order to tailor intervention components during Cycle 1.

      Provider-level components will include targeted and recurring educational materials for
      providers and their staff regarding the indications, risks and benefits of influenza and
      pneumococcal vaccination, and suggesting strategies for overcoming local barriers to
      vaccination. Beginning in year 2, providers will also receive individualized report cards
      providing feedback on their immunization rates.

      System-level components will include both the capability to capture patient reported
      vaccinations and automatic updating of EHR vaccination records with pneumococcal and
      influenza immunizations given at local hospitals and skilled nursing facilities. These
      system-level components will reduce inappropriate alerts and improve provider confidence in
      patient records.

      The key objectives are:

        1. To improve rates of influenza and pneumococcal vaccination in eligible patient
           populations via:

             1. Patient-level outreach targeted at unvaccinated patients;

             2. Provider- and staff-level educational interventions and system support.

        2. To improve the capture of vaccinations administered to Reliant Medical Group (RMG)
           patients in the community, hospitals and nursing facilities via system-level electronic
           Health Information Exchange (HIE)
    
  