
    
      To determine if the use of augmentation with PMMA in the treatment of fragility
      intertrochanteric hip fractures improves radiologic and clinical outcomes in osteoporotic
      patients, investigators aim to conduct a multicentered, randomized, single-blinded clinical
      trial.

      All patients aged 65 years or older arriving to the emergency department of two level-1
      trauma centers in Bogotá, Colombia; Hospital Universitario Fundación Santa Fe de Bogotá and
      Hospital Infantil Universitario de San José, after sustaining a fragility intertrochanteric
      hip fracture that requires open reduction and internal fixation (ORIF) will be included.
      These patients must be willing to accept a 1-year follow-up and are required to sign an
      informed consent agreeing to their participation in the study. For the sample calculation a
      two-tailed analysis with an alpha-level of significance of 0.05, a power of 80% (β = 0.2) was
      performed. A total of 35 patients per group plus a 30% increase to control for loss of
      follow-up was calculated. This gives a total of 90 patients; 45 patients per group.

      Patients meeting inclusion and exclusion criteria will be recruited by convenience sampling
      as they arrive to the emergency department.

      Once included in the study, patients will be stratified by age into two groups: patients aged
      between 65-85 years and patients over 85 years. Then, by using a block randomization, the
      intervention (augmentation) will be randomly allocated in order to divide the sample
      population into an intervention group (ORIF + augmentation with PMMA) and a control group
      (ORIF without augmentation). Randomization will be carried out by the program "Sealed
      Envelope" (https://www.sealedenvelope.com) that generates a list with codes (each code
      representing one patient) and randomly assigns them to either the intervention or the control
      group. This list will be in custody of a research assistant who will not have any contact
      with patients during the trial's duration and will be in charge of writing the allocation of
      each code into a sealed, opaque envelope. Each envelope will be given to the surgeon during
      the procedure at the precise moment where augmentation is needed, revealing whether or not
      augmentation should be performed. Medical care will be based on Orthogeriatric Programs and
      surgeries will be performed by orthopaedic surgeons with a clinical fellowship in Orthopaedic
      Trauma. Patients will be blinded to treatment and will be seen on follow-up visits 15 days,
      one month, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months after the procedure.

      The primary outcome will be the change in TAD measurement 1 year after the surgical
      procedure. The functional differences between both groups will be measured as secondary
      outcomes. Outcomes (primary and secondary) will be measured during follow-up visits one
      month, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months after the procedure.

      Results will be analyzed using STATA ® Data Analysis and Statistical Software, version 13.1.
      The sample's demographic and baseline characteristics will be described using descriptive
      statistics. Continuous variables will be reported as arithmetic means while categorical
      variables will be reported as absolute values of frequencies and distribution. For the
      inferential analysis of the results, a Shapiro Wilk W-Test will be used to determine
      normality distribution of values. If normality assumptions are met, the change in TAD
      measurement will be analyzed with a student t-test. If not, its non-parametric analogue
      (Mann-Whitney U-test) will be used. For all other categorical variables, a X2 or Fisher's
      exact test will be used.
    
  