
    
      Worldwide, the gastrointestinal (GI) tract is the organ system with the highest cancer
      incidence (20.5% of all new cases) and annual mortality (22% = 1.81 Mio). Early endoscopic
      detection and resection has led to improved survival rates for colorectal and gastric cancer,
      especially for gastric cancer in Japan, where more than 70% are now detected as early gastric
      cancer. Subepithelial lesions (SELs) of the GI tract are tumors that originate from the
      muscularis mucosa, submucosa, or muscularis propria. The term subepithelial lesion is
      preferred to the term submucosal tumor, which should be reserved for those that originate
      from the submucosal layer. SELs are most commonly found in the stomach, as often as 1 in
      every 300 endoscopies. The majority of these tumors are benign, with fewer than 15% found to
      be malignant at presentation.

      Subepithelial lesions (SEL) are incidentally observed in the stomach of about 0.3% of
      middle-aged men and women; half of these are neoplastic. The incidence of subepithelial
      tumors (SET) of gastrointestinal (GI) origin has risen twofold to fivefold within the past 30
      years.

      According to the Korea EUS Study Group (unpublished data), the prevalence of gastric SETs,
      detected routine esophagogastroduodenoscopy, in Korea is 3.1%.

      The etiology of most SMTs cannot easily be determined by endoscopy. Subepithelial lesions are
      those located beneath the epithelium and originate from any layer of the gastrointestinal
      wall. EUS is the best imaging modality to assess gastrointestinal subepithelial lesions and
      can be used for EUS guided tissue sampling, in addition to diagnostic imaging of the nodule.
      It helps to distinguish extrinsic lesions from intramural ones based on the originating
      layer, echogenicity and tissue acquisition to reach an accurate diagnosis. In clinical
      practice, cytological and immunocytochemical results determine the final diagnosis. EUS is
      superior to other imaging modalities (CT, magnetic resonance imaging) in characterizing small
      (<2 cm) lesions.

      NCCN guideline on GISTs recommends resection of all symptomatic lesions, any lesions that are
      ≥2 cm, or lesions that have high risk features under EUS. Annual surveillance is recommended
      for low risk GISTs. Neuroendocrine tumours (NET) , meanwhile, has higher malignant
      potentials. Some investigators advocate resecting all visible lesions. The minimal approach
      should be to resect tumors ≥1 cm in diameter. NET require surveillance similar if not more
      stringent than GIST.

      Endoscopic mucosal forceps biopsy is the standard procedures for establishing diagnoses in
      patients with GI tumors. However, the false negative rate of endoscopic mucosal forceps
      biopsy can be as high as 50%. Possible reasons for this false negative rate include
      infiltrative and stenotic diseases as well as lesions in submucosal locations, such as
      lymphoma.

      Because of their subepithelial location, biopsies with endoscopic forceps often fail to
      provide diagnostic tissues. Thus, further imaging and sampling techniques (often with EUS)
      often are used to characterize these lesions especially in large lesions.

      Study objectives:

        1. Primary Objectives:

           Estimating the prevalence and types of sub-epithelial lesions among patients undergoing
           EGDs in Egypt.

        2. Secondary objectives:

      Determining the real predominance of sub-epithelial lesions considering sex and age
      differences.

      Investigating the geographic distribution in relation to the diagnosis of the lesions.

      Detecting the commonest sites for the sub-epithelial lesions. Recording the symptomology
      related to each type.
    
  