
    
      Telehealth-delivered PR has been shown to be as effective as standard PR (patients go to an
      outpatient setting) at improving quality of life, and patients' exercise capacity. However,
      this has not been studied in the Latino and African-American population and it is not known
      how effective telehealth PR will be among this population.

      For this study, the investigators hope to see if they can help COPD Latino and
      African-American patients with access to this needed resource through telehealth PR. They
      will compare standard PR and telehealth PR to determine if telehealth results in better
      outcomes for patients with moderate to severe COPD who were recently discharged from the
      hospital for COPD. The primary outcome the investigators will assess will be change in
      re-hospitalization rates. The secondary outcomes will include: change in quality of life,
      preparation to make decisions about clinical care, improved functional capacity, decreased
      dyspnea, anxiety, and depression.

      The study will involve randomly assigning participants to make sure that they are just as
      likely to be in one group as the other to receive either: 1) referral for
      telehealth-delivered PR, or 2) referral to standard (outpatient) PR. Both PR programs consist
      of exercise and education twice a week for 8 weeks. The investigators will give the patients
      surveys to complete before they start the program and at the end of the program, to see if PR
      had any effect on the outcomes that are being measured. Patients will also be asked to
      participate in a qualitative interview and focus group to learn about the barriers they
      encountered even after receiving a referral to PR. These qualitative interviews will be
      conducted among a sample of participants representing those who withdrew, were
      lost-to-follow-up, completed PR and decided to only complete the surveys (i.e. not
      participate in PR).The investigators will enroll about 276 patients - with 138 patients in
      each group (telehealth PR or standard PR), so they can compare outcomes to see if telehealth
      PR was more, less, or equally effective as standard PR.
    
  